“Black history is happening now and it’s everything to me, which is why I’m applying to the Shows & Editorial, Black History & Culture Fellowship,” she writes.

She told HuffPost via email that she got the idea to make a website because she knew “it would be the best way to showcase my technical skills, creativity and passion for Black history and culture in a way my resume wouldn’t.”

“I didn’t want to make a basic cover letter because I wanted the team to be able to actually see my relevant projects and the campaigns I’d been a part of within the Black community. Since August, I’ve been curating and sharing playlists on Instagram and Twitter, so I figured if I was going to apply for a position like this, it’d only make sense to post it on social media as well,” she said.

Bain also said her original tweet didn’t go viral until after she got the job at Spotify.

“Instagram was more helpful for me getting noticed. I created an Instagram highlight on my page to follow my journey from application to interview to getting hired and now going viral.”As he was presenting me with the gift he seemed nervous. He said, “Babe, I thought finding you a highlighter would be easy but I went everywhere and could not find the Fenty.” I assured him that I would likely love whatever he purchased. I then pulled out the brush and thought it was something he decided to grab me in addition to what I asked for. I then pulled out the Sharpie highlighters and thought, OMG! At the time, I didn’t say anything because he told me that he had gone to a few drug stores. The next day, I told him and we both laughed ourselves to tears.Streamline recommends “Moonrise Kingdom” as the movie you should watch on Hulu this week. The service adds this on Sept. 16.

“Moonrise Kingdom” stars two unknown child actors ― Kara Hayward and Jared Gilman ― along with a notable cast of adults that includes Tilda Swinton, Edward Norton, Bill Murray, Frances McDormand and Bruce Willis. Wes Anderson directed this and co-wrote the screenplay with Roman Coppola.

The two children run away and try to make a life for themselves together ― a very twee life. Then the adults start looking for them ― in a very twee way.

Although the Anderson aesthetic is kind of out right now during this more hardened, ultra-cynical Donald Trump era, I still love this movie. I think you’ll find much to enjoy whether you’re revisiting it or watching for the first time.Trump’s tweet in support of Lahren came just days after the weekend brunch incident and shortly after she spoke out about it on “Fox & Friends.” But as many pointed out on Twitter, he never sent a tweet in support of James Shaw, the hero who stopped the Waffle House shooter. Four people were killed and several others injured in the attack in Tennessee last month, including Shaw, who grabbed the gun’s barrel, disarmed the shooter and chased him out of the restaurant ― an act credited with saving lives.