Tom and Abby will be lounging in his-and-her recliners forever and ever.

Tom Jackson, a beloved contestant on Netflix’s “Queer Eye” revival, announced on Twitter Wednesday that he and ex-wife Abby Parr married each other again.

The couple told Us Weekly that they eloped on March 27 and had a private ceremony at Chapel at the Park in Gatlinburg, Tennessee.

During this intimate affair, the couple lit a unity candle, had a small wedding cake and did some smooching in the woods.

Jackson, who appeared on the first episode of the show’s reboot, stole fans’ hearts with his unwavering devotion to his ex, saying on camera: “I love Abby more than anything. I want to spend the rest of my life with her.”

After Jackson received his makeover, he took Abby on a date to a classic car show and showed off his recently revamped digs, which included his-and-her recliners.

By the end of the episode, it seemed like the star-crossed lovers were rekindling their old flame. Fans were delighted when Jackson announced in March that the two were engaged.As Amnesty International’s Pakistan researcher Rabia Mehmood told Al Jazeera, passage of the bill shows progress, but executing it will be key.

“This bill makes Pakistan one of the few countries in the world to recognize the self-perceived gender identity of transgender individuals,” Mehmood said. “The country’s transgender community has very high hopes from this bill. Its implementation is therefore crucial to ensure they can live their lives with dignity and respect.”On Thursday, Democrats on the House Intelligence Committee released the 3,000 Facebook ads that Russia paid to run on the platform from 2015 through 2017, including those that were posted during the 2016 elections.

According to a House analysis, the advertisements came from the Internet Research Agency, a Kremlin-backed troll farm that Democrats say spreads misinformation and amplifies partisanship among Americans.

In addition to the ads, which the IRA paid Facebook around $100,000 to run, the group published 80,000 other posts on the site, organically reaching an estimated 126 million Americans.

House analysts noted the ads fit within a well-defined set of categories, all of which touch on the most divisive political topics of our time. The posts played both sides of the debate on subjects like immigration, gun control, political candidates and veteran affairs.

The ads would also simultaneously bolster certain communities’ online presence on one hand, while encouraging detractors to attack that same community on the other. They targeted divisions along racial and religious lines, in addition to LGBTQ issues.

“The main goal of the Russian propaganda and misinformation effort is to divide America by using our institutions, like free speech and social media, against us,” Facebook’s vice president of ads, Rob Goldman, said in February. “It has stoked fear and hatred amongst Americans. It is working incredibly well. We are quite divided as a nation.”

The full 7.9 gigabytes of ads can be downloaded here, via the Democrats’ House Intelligence Committee website.

Check out a small sample of the ads below: