Jennifer Garner visits "The Ellen DeGeneres Show." The Ellen Show

File this under something we never knew we needed: A music video about motherhood starring Jennifer Garner.

The “Love, Simon” actress, tapped to co-host the Mother’s Day episode of “The Ellen DeGeneres Show” on Thursday, delivered and then some. As a mother of three, Garner is a font of parenting advice, so why not put it in song?

In a short clip played on the show, Garner strums a guitar while lip-syncing about the glory of motherhood. Then, mid-music video, the song quickly switches genres, and Garner picks up the mic to rap about the less-than-flattering parts of delivering a baby.

“Imagine squeezing something out the size of a watermelon,” she says. “How much pain is that? There’ll be a lot of swelling.”

“Whether you go for a doctor or a doula it will take weeks to heal your hoohaa.”

Garner, who co-parents children Violet, 12, Seraphina, 9, and Samuel, 6, with ex-husband Ben Affleck, also told the story of when she first learned she was pregnant.

The “Alias” alum revealed she immediately knew that she was expecting and took a test, but the result was “so faint” that she consulted a doctor, who told her she was absolutely not pregnant. Turns out, her maternal instinct was right.

“I was like, ‘Yeah, I am. I’m telling you I am,’” she recalled. “So Violet’s 12, and I don’t use that doctor anymore, but I have her, so I won!”

Garner ended the segment with words of wisdom for any parent with a baby on the way.Former Vice President Dick Cheney is standing by the torture programs he helped launch. David Becker / Reuters

Former Vice President Dick Cheney on Thursday expressed strong support for restarting the torture interrogation program he helped launch in the wake of 9/11.

In an appearance on Fox Business to discuss Gina Haspel’s confirmation hearing to become CIA director, Cheney said he “wholeheartedly” supports the so-called enhanced interrogation program, which includes torture techniques such as waterboarding, despite Congress having banned it in 2015.

“If it were my call I would not discontinue those programs,” he said, adding that he does not consider the methods included in them to be torture. “I’d have them active and ready to go, and I’d go back and study them and learn.”

Cheney’s comments come as Haspel, President Donald Trump’s pick to replace Mike Pompeo, faces increased scrutiny for her stance on torture as an interrogation technique. Though she said during her hearing Wednesday that she would not restart the defunct program if confirmed to head the CIA, she refused to weigh in on the morality of the methods.

Most Democrats are expected to oppose her confirmation due to her role overseeing torture interrogations at a CIA black site and because of her part in destroying videotapes that documented the interrogations.Magician David Blaine got his cheek pierced Wednesday, courtesy of “The Late Late Show” host James Corden ― but it wasn’t exactly board-approved.

A squeamish Corden pushed the needle right through, setting up some other fun bits involving needle-swallowing and glass-munching.

Advertisement