Spartanburg County Detention Center

A South Carolina man tried to hire white supremacists to kill his black neighbor, hang him in a tree, and install a “flaming cross” in his front yard, according to officials.

Brandon Cory Lecroy, 25, of Hodges, South Carolina, was indicted by a federal grand jury on one count of solicitation to commit a crime of violence and one count of using interstate commerce facilities in the commission of murder for hire, the U.S. attorney’s office in South Carolina announced Tuesday.

An FBI agent reported in March that Lecroy had contacted a white supremacist organization to seek assistance in “the murder of his African American neighbor,” according to a court affidavit.

An undercover FBI agent subsequently recorded multiple phone calls with Lecroy, in which he reaffirmed his desire to hire someone to murder his neighbor, who is identified only as “FJ” in the court documents.

“$500 and he’s a ghost,” Lecroy told the undercover FBI agent in one of the recorded calls, in which he also requested his neighbor be hung from a tree and a “flaming cross” installed in his front yard, the affidavit says. In a subsequent phone conversation in March, Lecroy told the FBI agent he planned to take over the victim’s property and wanted to buy a 9 mm “ghost gun” that would be untraceable, according to the FBI account.

Lecroy met with the undercover FBI agent on April 9 during which he pointed out where his neighbor lived, discussed potential future targets, and provided a $100 cash down payment for the alleged murder for hire, the affidavit says. He was arrested later that day.

As noted by The Washington Post, the court documents did not provide details about Lecroy’s relationship with his targeted neighbor nor did they specify which white supremacist organization he initially reached out to when attempting to solicit the hit.

An attorney for Lecroy did not immediately respond to HuffPost’s request for comment.President Donald Trump announced Thursday that the historic summit with North Korean leader Kim Jong Un will take place on June 12 in Singapore.

The revelation follows Secretary of State Mike Pompeo’s second visit to Pyongyang to meet with North Korean officials. Trump said Wednesday that a date and site had been set, but declined to reveal the details.

The Trump administration has worked for months to bring the reclusive regime to the negotiating table. Enlisting China in helping spearhead the denuclearization dialogue, Trump has successfully set up the first face-to-face meeting between North Korean and American leaders.

Kim Jong Un has also met with the leaders of China and South Korea to discuss regional security, resulting in the two Koreas declaring an official end to the Korean war.

The highly anticipated meeting between Kim Jong Un and myself will take place in Singapore on June 12th. We will both try to make it a very special moment for World Peace! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) May 10, 2018

Kim expressed support for the “historic meeting,” calling it a first step toward the “building of a good future” on the Korean Peninsula.