Samantha Bee had a brutal message for Eric Schneiderman (D), who resigned as New York attorney general this week after allegations of physical abuse against former partners emerged.

“You are trash and we do not need you,” the comedian said on Wednesday’s episode of “Full Frontal.”

“Now, Schneiderman was a guest on my show, so this is a little complicated for me to talk about,” said Bee, in reference to her calling him “a hero” for standing up to “democracy’s nemesis” in a November broadcast.

“Just kidding, it’s not complicated,” she added. “Fuck you, Eric Schneiderman!”

Bee later “checked in” on other “penis weasels” who have been accused of sexual abuse and harassment since the #MeToo movement gained traction, including news anchor Charlie Rose and movie producer Harvey Weinstein.

The YouTube clip of Bee’s November interview with Schneiderman has been renamed to: “Former AG Tricks Sam Into Thinking He Was Decent.”

“We taped this segment before the allegations against Eric Schneiderman came to light, and we sincerely apologize for characterizing him as a hero when, to so many women, he was the vilest villain,” its description now reads. “We’re keeping this piece online in the interest of integrity.”“Parks and Recreation” fans, rejoice: Amy Poehler and Nick Offerman would definitely commit to a “Will & Grace”-style revival of the beloved series.

The actors dropped by “The Ellen DeGeneres Show” Thursday to promote their new NBC competition series, “Making It.” The host, however, couldn’t resist the chance to ask them about the possibility of resurrecting “Parks and Rec,” which wrapped in 2015 after seven seasons.

“I’ll speak for everybody and say we would all do it,” Poehler said. “I think we would all do it someday. It would be amazing.”

Offerman, who is married to “Will & Grace” star Megan Mullally, told Ellen he’d also be interested in a reboot ― under one condition.

“We said that if Beyoncé would play the mayor, we’ll bring the show back,” he quipped. “This is Beyoncé Knowles, the singer, the entertainer.”

However, returning to the fictional Pawnee, Indiana, might be easier said than done, as many of Offerman and Poehler’s co-stars are busier than ever. Rashida Jones, for example, stars in the TBS series “Angie Tribeca” and serves as an executive producer on TNT’s “Claws.”Actor/artist Jim Carrey is taking on President Donald Trump yet again, this time portraying him as Batman’s nemesis, the Joker.

The new portrait describes an agreement with the United States under Trump as “worthless,” a likely reference to the president withdrawing from the Iran nuclear treaty earlier this week. Here’s the image, with Trump getting made over in the style of Heath Ledger’s chilling version of the supervillain:

The white letters in the portrait spell out SEITAAGNNRUS, which astute Twitter users decoded as “RUSSIAN AGENT.”

Carrey knows a thing or two about Batman villains: He portrayed The Riddler in 1995′s “Batman Forever.”

Carrey has painted Trump several times in recent months, including an image that features his controversial former physician, Dr. Harold Bornstein:

Carrey has also depicted Trump as the “Wicked Witch of the West Wing”:

If you liked my last cartoon you may also enjoy...



"THE WICKED WITCH OF THE WEST WING AND PUTIN’S FLYING MONKEYS“ pic.twitter.com/slBG7j1s8d — Jim Carrey (@JimCarrey) March 19, 2018

He mockingly submitted a painting of Trump to the Smithsonian National Portrait Gallery:

Dear Smithsonian National Portrait Gallery @NPG, I know it’s early but I’d like to submit this as the official portrait of our 45th President, Donald J. Trump. It’s called, 'You Scream. I Scream. Will We Ever Stop Screaming?' pic.twitter.com/LrCmlXXpv7 — Jim Carrey (@JimCarrey) March 29, 2018

And he depicted Trump bathing in political sewage: