A suburban teen finds himself caught between his longtime girlfriend and a gay pal in “Alex Strangelove,” a new Netflix movie that aims to put an inclusive twist on the raunchy, coming-of-age comedy genre.

The film’s first trailer (see above) introduces Alex Truelove (played by Daniel Doheny), a high school senior who is determined to lose his virginity before graduation. Though his girlfriend, Claire (Madeline Weinstein), is ready to take the plunge, Alex becomes increasingly tentative. Is his budding friendship with the openly gay Elliott (Antonio Marziale) somehow getting in the way?

“Alex Strangelove” was written and directed by Craig Johnson, who previously explored queer themes in 2014’s “The Skeleton Twins,” starring Bill Hader and Kristen Wiig. Still, his latest project could be his most personal.

Netflix's "Alex Strangelove" finds a suburban teen caught between a girlfriend and a new gay pal. Netflix

“I describe Alex as the sexual confusion of my teens and my 20s crammed into one kid’s senior year of high school,” Johnson, who is gay, told Entertainment Weekly. “I’ve had girls in my life when I was younger who I was very invested in emotionally, who I was in love with in very legitimate ways. If it weren’t for that pesky sex thing, hey, it might’ve all worked out differently.”

“Alex Strangelove” comes on the heels of “Love, Simon,” which earned wide acclaim as Hollywood’s first mainstream movie comedy to focus on a gay teen. Johnson’s film, however, goes a step further by bringing the bawdy humor of “Superbad” and “American Pie” into the mix.

“I’m a big fan of movies like ‘Superbad,’ and I just love it when things go a little raunchy and a little crazy,” the writer-director said. “I just like the idea of inviting all comers to the party: straight kids, gay kids, anyone in between. And it’s not just for kids; I think there’s enough in it that people of all ages will get a kick out of it.”

AdvertisementA Texas woman says that she took two kittens into her home, only to discover that they were not housecats but wild bobcats.

Jane Dinscore, her sister and her niece were bitten on the hands while trying to feed the felines.

“I think they started doing a little bit more research and educating themselves and thinking: ‘You know what, these don’t look like your standard house cat.‘” San Antonio Animal Care Services spokeswoman Lisa Norwood told local TV station KENS 5 on Monday. “Maybe we should call somebody.’ Thankfully, they did.”

But Dinscore has changed her story since the news broke on Monday. Originally, she told authorities she found the kittens in an alleyway in San Antonio. Now she says she received the kittens from her brother, James Dinscore, in rural Atascosa County. However, she maintains that she believed the kittens were domestic cats.

“My brother called and he said he had some Bengal kittens at his house in McCoy,” Jane Dinscore told San Antonio TV station KSAT on Wednesday.

She said she took the kittens home and called ACS after they behaved aggressively, biting and scratching her and her relatives. She said she lied at first about their origin because she didn’t want to possibly get her brother in trouble. It’s unclear how he got the animals.

ACS and Texas State Parks and Wildlife are working together to determine if the situation merits any criminal charges for disturbing wildlife, according to USA Today.

The animals are now in quarantine under the care of Wildlife Rescue & Rehabilitation in San Antonio. The group wrote in a Wednesday Facebook post that by lying about where the kittens came from, Dinscore made it far less likely that they will be reunited with their mother. The group hopes to eventually release the bobcats in a safe area.

“Because the fragile window of opportunity to reunite them with their mother has most likely passed, our goal now is to keep them wild and after a year or so, release them to a protected habitat where humans will never lay eyes on them,” the Facebook post said. “These bobcats will be in our care for over a year as their needs are highly specialized and their developmental time is lengthened when they are in captivity.”