Richard Cordray, the former head of the federal Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, won the Democratic nomination for governor of Ohio on Tuesday, fending off a challenge from former presidential candidate and House member Dennis Kucinich.

Sen. Elizabeth Warren (D-Mass.) hand-picked Cordray, a former Ohio attorney general, to run the CFPB and raised money for his campaign. Cordray will face Ohio’s current attorney general, Republican Mike DeWine, in the general election race for the governor’s job. Incumbent John Kasich (R) is term-limited.

Kucinich ran heavily on his support of Medicare-for-all and won the support of the progressive group Our Revolution, which grew out of Vermont Sen. Bernie Sanders’ presidential campaign. (Sanders himself did not endorse Kucinich.)

Kucinich also attacked Cordray for his past support of gun rights, which earned Cordray an ‘A’ rating from the National Rifle Association when he was attorney general. Cordray now supports universal background checks.

Cordray’s campaign fought back with television ads showing former President Barack Obama praising him.

“Rich took on payday lenders, big banks and student loan schemes that profit at your expense,” a female narrator says in the ad. “And he won.”

DeWine defeated Lt. Gov. Mary Taylor in $10 million GOP primary that featured both candidates aligning themselves with President Donald Trump.The “master race” has lost again.

A Maryland man who identified himself as an imperial wizard in the Ku Klux Klan was found guilty Tuesday of firing a gun during the violent white supremacist rally in Charlottesville, Virginia, last year.

Richard Preston Jr., 53, pleaded no contest in Charlottesville Circuit Court to a charge of firing a weapon within 1,000 feet of a school property, The Washington Post reported. He was seen pointing his gun and then firing at the feet of a black counterprotester, Corey Long, on video taken by a bystander.

Preston had originally planned to argue to a jury that he acted in self-defense because Long ― who was armed with an aerosol can that he had turned into a makeshift flamethrower ― had shot flames in Preston’s direction. Long, who said he was protecting another man when he lit the spray can, is facing his own charges of misdemeanor assault and disorderly conduct.

Preston could face up to 10 years in prison and a $100,000 fine.

The violence sparked by the rally led to the death of counterprotester Heather Heyer, who was fatally struck by a car that plowed into the counterprotesters. James Alex Fields Jr., the alleged driver and a self-professed neo-Nazi, has been charged with first-degree murder in her death.

Earlier this month, 23-year-old Jacob Scott Goodwin was found guilty in the beating of a black man at the same rally. Video captured Goodwin and others beating 20-year-old DeAndre Harris in a parking garage. A jury recommended that Goodwin be sentenced to 10 years in prison.

Earlier in a parking garage in #Charlottesville - white supremacists beat this black kid w/poles. [Photo for by @zdroberts @NationofChange] pic.twitter.com/LLPBPjb8si — Zach D Roberts (@zdroberts) August 12, 2017

Meanwhile, white nationalist leader Richard Spencer is facing a federal lawsuit for his role in the rally. Spencer, who has had trouble finding a lawyer to represent him, recently released a video begging for donations to pay his legal fees. Earlier this week, a bar in his hometown claimed that Spencer’s card was declined when he tried to pay for a $4.25 drink.