"Essential Consultants was one of several firms we engaged in early 2017 to provide insights into understanding the new administration," AT&T said in a statement. The company is linked to Trump lawyer Michael Cohen. Jonathan Ernst / Reuters

May 8 (Reuters) - AT&T Inc. said on Tuesday it had hired Essential Consultants, a company linked to Donald Trump lawyer Michael Cohen, to advise it on working with the new administration in early 2017, around the time of Trump’s inauguration.

The business arrangement illustrates efforts by the telecommunications company to work with an influential adviser to the new president as his administration took up major industry issues and considered its $85 billion proposal to buy Time Warner Inc.

Payments by AT&T were described earlier on Tuesday by Michael Avenatti, a lawyer for porn star Stormy Daniels, who released a report alleging that a company owned by Russian oligarch Viktor Vekselberg, AT&T and other corporations had made payments to Essential Consultants.

Avenatti’s report said AT&T had paid $200,000 in four equal payments to Essential Consultants between Oct, 3, 2017 and Jan. 3, 2018.

“Essential Consultants was one of several firms we engaged in early 2017 to provide insights into understanding the new administration,” AT&T said in a statement.

“They did no legal or lobbying work for us, and the contract ended in December 2017,” it said, without commenting further.

Reuters could not immediately verify Avenatti’s claim and it was not clear how he would have knowledge of any payment from Vekselberg to Cohen. Cohen and Avenatti did not respond immediately to requests for comment from Reuters.

Daniels had previously said she was paid $130,000 by Cohen to stay quiet about a sexual encounter with Trump, an encounter which Trump has denied.

The Wall Street Journal released a 2016 Delaware certificate of formation for Essential Consultants that was signed by Michael Cohen.

A person familiar with the matter said AT&T engaged with Essential Consultants around the time of the inauguration to understand how the company would be affected by several issues from the new administration, including tax reform and net neutrality.

Advertisement“Black history is happening now and it’s everything to me, which is why I’m applying to the Shows & Editorial, Black History & Culture Fellowship,” she writes.

She told HuffPost via email that she got the idea to make a website because she knew “it would be the best way to showcase my technical skills, creativity and passion for Black history and culture in a way my resume wouldn’t.”

“I didn’t want to make a basic cover letter because I wanted the team to be able to actually see my relevant projects and the campaigns I’d been a part of within the Black community. Since August, I’ve been curating and sharing playlists on Instagram and Twitter, so I figured if I was going to apply for a position like this, it’d only make sense to post it on social media as well,” she said.

Bain also said her original tweet didn’t go viral until after she got the job at Spotify.

“Instagram was more helpful for me getting noticed. I created an Instagram highlight on my page to follow my journey from application to interview to getting hired and now going viral.”