That had “Late Show” host Stephen Colbert asking just one question.

“What are you talking about?” he said. “You literally just backed out of an American promise.”With his confirmation, Grenell became one of the most prominent openly gay Trump appointees. Among his supporters is Stuart Milk, co-founder of the Harvey Milk Foundation and nephew of the late gay civil rights leader.

Elements of Grenell’s past, including derogatory comments about women, made him a controversial pick. Grenell has a history of stirring controversy on social media, and the Senate vote was initially delayed after several Democrats voiced concerns about Grenell’s reputation for launching sexist attacks through his Twitter account and disparaging women in media and politics.Academy Award winner Jordan Peele teased his next project on Tuesday, tweeting a poster for his film “Us.”

The film, referred to as “a new nightmare” from Peele, will hit theaters in March 2019. According to an exclusive report from Variety, Lupita Nyong’o and Elisabeth Moss are in talks to co-star in the production. Winston Duke is also being considered for a lead role, according to Variety.

Peele made history in March when he became the first black filmmaker to win the Oscar for Original Screenplay for his directorial debut, “Get Out.” He was also nominated for Best Director, and the film was nominated for Best Picture.The Backstreet Boys are apparently wannabe members of the Spice Girls.

On their recurring cruise (yes, there is a literal Backstreet Boys Cruise), the iconic boy band came on stage during Tuesday night’s performance donning some spicy outfits.

Nick Carter was dressed as Emma Bunton’s Baby Spice, AJ McLean was Melanie Brown’s Scary Spice, Kevin Richardson was Victoria Beckham’s Posh Spice, Howie Dorough was Geri Halliwell’s Ginger Spice and Brian Littrell was Melanie Chisholm’s Sporty Spice.

A post shared by backstreetboys (@backstreetboys) on May 8, 2018 at 11:52am PDT

Confused? Same here. Enthralled? Also same.

The Boys reportedly sang the Girls’ hits “Wannabe” and “Say You’ll Be There,” followed by other girl power anthems like No Doubt’s “Just A Girl,” Pink’s “Raise Your Glass” and Britney Spears’ “Oops!... I Did It Again.” Throwback Tuesday, much?!

According to Instagram, the inspiration behind the nostalgia-inducing outfits was to celebrate “all of the girl power that’s kept us going for 25 years.”Seth Meyers likes to keep up with the kids when it comes to teen jargon.

So, on Tuesday’s broadcast of “Late Night,” the comedian once again deciphered a brand new bunch of (spoof) slang terms ― including a few definitions that mocked President Donald Trump’s administration.

AdvertisementAn interim memorial for the 49 people killed in the 2016 Pulse nightclub attack opened to the public Tuesday in Orlando, Florida.

The onePulse Foundation, which is managing the planning and design of a permanent memorial and museum on the site of the now closed nightclub, debuted the interim monument in an emotional ceremony attended by Pulse survivors, first responders and victims’ loved ones.

The site includes interactive wall exhibits, lighted benches and a steel fence where visitors can leave messages and mementos. The now iconic Pulse sign remains in place, and an adjacent fountain that was badly damaged by gunfire in the attack nearly two years ago has been restored.

The temporary memorial includes interactive wall exhibits, lighted benches and a steel fence where visitors can leave messages and mementos. Courtesy of onePulse Foundation

Pulse owner Barbara Poma, who now serves as the executive director of the onePulse Foundation, called the interim memorial “a true testament to how people continue to respond.”

“It is just utterly heartwarming how everyone still wants to be a part of what happens here,” she said, according to a press release. “Orlandoans truly love their city, their people, their family.”

She stressed that the current design is intended to be temporary, adding, “It is our legacy for all future generations. This is part of both Orlando and world history, and it’s going to take all of us to get it done right.”

The memorial is intended to be in place for up to two years, with three possible one-year extensions. Courtesy of onePulse Foundation

Democratic state Rep. Carlos Guillermo Smith echoed that sentiment, telling The Orlando Sentinel, “As a gay Latino man who lives here in Orlando, there’s no way that this tragedy couldn’t have been deeply, deeply personal for me. We can’t forget what happened here on the darkest day of our city’s history.”

Poma announced plans for a memorial and museum on the site of the massacre last May. A January survey, however, found that Orlando residents were divided nearly evenly over how to properly commemorate the tragedy.