Trevor Noah told Jimmy Fallon on Tuesday that he hears music in President Donald Trump’s voice.

So, when Trump said “knives, knives, knives” last week during roundly criticized comments describing violence in the United Kingdom, “Tonight Show” guest Noah apparently got inspired.

“The Daily Show” host made “knives” the chorus for a reggae song that brought down the house.Prodded by Democrats, the Senate is set late next week to vote on what could be the first step toward restoring net neutrality rules.

A petition filed by Senate Democrats on Wednesday will force the net neutrality vote in the chamber, where it has a good chance of passing, perhaps as narrowly as 50-49.

According to Reuters, all of the chamber’s 47 Democrats, the two independents who caucus with the party and Sen. Susan Collins (R-Maine) are expected to support the measure. That would outvote the remaining Republican senators, who are down one vote as Sen. John McCain of Arizona remains on medical absence. Potentially, other moderate Republicans could join Collins and back the effort.

Clearing the Senate hurdle likely is the easy part.

The measure would then go to the House, where Republicans have a larger majority. And if it passes the House, the legislation would still need Trump’s signature ― no sure thing, given that he put Pai in the position to lead the push overturning the Obama-era net neutrality rules.

Supporters of net neutrality protest the FCC's decision in Los Angeles on Nov. 28, 2017. Kyle Grillot / Reuters

The FCC’s repeal rolled back so-called “Title II” regulations that classified the internet as a public utility and which, among other things, required internet service providers (ISPs) to treat all of the data traveling on their networks equally.

Absent those protections, ISPs such as AT&T, Comcast and Verizon (which owns HuffPost’s parent company, Oath) could prioritize their own content at the expense of others.

(HuffPost’s union is represented by the Writers Guild of America, East, which supports net neutrality and opposed its repeal.)

Battle For The Net, a net neutrality advocacy group, is organizing demonstrations in support of the Senate effort on Monday. And many of its members ― including websites like Reddit, Tinder, Tumblr and Wikimedia ― began running “red alert” banners on Wednesday to raise awareness on the issue.

“Net Neutrality is overwhelmingly supported by people across the political spectrum: Republicans, Democrats, and independents alike,” Craig Aaron, head of the pro net-neutrality advocacy group Free Press Action Fund, said in an emailed statement.As he was presenting me with the gift he seemed nervous. He said, “Babe, I thought finding you a highlighter would be easy but I went everywhere and could not find the Fenty.” I assured him that I would likely love whatever he purchased. I then pulled out the brush and thought it was something he decided to grab me in addition to what I asked for. I then pulled out the Sharpie highlighters and thought, OMG! At the time, I didn’t say anything because he told me that he had gone to a few drug stores. The next day, I told him and we both laughed ourselves to tears.