Mark Harris, right, talks with Jahnmaud O. Lane during an election party in Raleigh, North Carolina, on Tuesday. Robert Willett/Raleigh News & Observer via Getty Images

Mark Harris, a Baptist pastor with a long history of social conservatism, won the GOP primary in North Carolina’s 9th Congressional District on Tuesday night, ousting Rep. Robert Pittenger.

Pittenger is the first congressional incumbent of either party to lose a primary this cycle.

Harris’ upset victory could make it easier for Democrats to pick up the seat in November. The 9th District is on the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee’s list of targets. Dan McCready, a former Marine Corps captain who founded a solar farm company, easily won the Democratic primary.

The district, which Trump won by 12 percentage points in 2016, stretches through the central part of North Carolina’s southern border. Republicans have held the seat since 1963. But McCready has nearly $1.2 million in his campaign account.

Pittenger and Harris sparred over each other’s relationship with the president, with Harris alleging Pittenger falsely claimed the president’s endorsement and Pittenger accusing Harris of trying to deny Trump the nomination during the 2016 presidential primaries.

This was Harris’ second attempt at defeating Pittenger. He lost by just 134 votes in 2016 in the closest congressional primary of the election cycle.

In 2012, Harris led Vote for Marriage NC, which successfully pushed a state constitutional amendment defining marriage in North Carolina as between one man and one woman.Sports news juggernaut ESPN is doing away with a role designed to be a liaison between the public and the newsroom. Mike Segar/Reuters

The role of the public editor, an independent voice who acts as a liaison between readers and the newsroom and may weigh in on editorial decisions, has “outlived its usefulness, largely because of the rise of real-time feedback of all kinds,” Kevin Merida, the sports network’s senior vice president, said in his announcement.

“While ESPN has valued the input and dedication shown by everyone who held the position, we too have seen how access to the Internet and its social platforms has created a horde of watchdogs who communicate directly with us to share observations and questions,” he said, noting that the recommendation to discontinue the role was handed down by ESPN’s editorial board, which he chairs.

ESPN’s last public editor, Jim Brady, stepped away from the role in March. As he departed, he emphasized his desire for ESPN to maintain the role.

I very much enjoyed my two-year term in this role and, as I wrote in my final column, I hope ESPN continues to have a public editor. — ESPN Public Editor (@ESPNPublicEd) March 22, 2018

Brady caught flak for one of the last controversies he addressed as public editor: ESPN anchor Jemele Hill calling President Donald Trump a white supremacist on Twitter last fall, which resulted in her two-week suspension. (Hill now works for The Undefeated, a site owned by ESPN.)

Brady wrote in his column that Hill had “made an error in judgement” because her tweets constituted an opinion. He cited ESPN’s rules that any opinion its public faces express on social media “should be related to a current issue impacting sports” and “should be thoughtful and respectful” without “personal attacks and inflammatory rhetoric.”

When feedback on his column was harsh, Brady tried to clarify his position on Twitter but ended up having a meltdown on the site as he engaged with critics.