U.S. Border Patrol agents have resorted to troubling tactics toward unaccompanied migrant children including abuse, neglect and harassment, a report about complaint records shows.

The American Civil Liberties Union and the International Human Rights Clinic at the University of Chicago Law School published their findings Wednesday after gaining access to more than 30,000 pages of records pertaining to complaints filed between 2009 and 2014.

The report, titled “Neglect and Abuse of Unaccompanied Immigrant Children by U.S. Customs and Border Protection,” highlights systematic patterns of mistreatment toward the minors, who by law should be granted special protection. CBP says the accusations are “baseless.”

One 16-year-old filed a complaint alleging that a Border Patrol agent “threw him down and smashed his head into the ground with his boot,” according to the report. “The child also reported that as the same agent walked him to a Border Patrol vehicle, he told the child that he would ‘fuck [him] up’ if he tried to run away.”

Other accounts point to the use of kicking, pushing, tasering, yelling and verbal abuse. Some complaints documented sexual abuse, including the touching of young girls’ buttocks and private parts. In addition, detained children reported the denial of clean facilities as well as food, water and medical care.

The agency, the report added, didn’t properly investigate the complaints it received. Although the Department of Homeland Security completed an investigation after complaints first surfaced in 2014, the ACLU argued that the practices didn’t change in the aftermath.

CBP characterized the accusations as “unfounded and baseless.”

“The ‘report’ equates allegations with fact, flatly ignores a number of improvements made by CBP as well as oversight conducted by outside, independent agencies,” CBP spokesman Dan Hetlage said in a statement.North Korean leader Kim Jong Un met with Chinese President Xi Jinping for the second time this week in the Chinese city of Dalian, Chinese media reports.

They held talks about Chinese-North Korean relations, according to CNN’s Will Ripley. The discussions likely centered around the diplomatic push to keep North Korea free of nuclear weapons.

According to North Korean state media, Kim said he is “very pleased” with how the relationship between North Korea and China is progressing, Reuters reported Tuesday.

Regional powers and the United States are seeking to prevent North Korea from obtaining nuclear weapons. Kim held a historic meeting last month with South Korean President Moon Jae-in, and Xi and Kim first met secretly in March.

U.S. President Donald Trump, who is set to meet with Kim sometime in the coming weeks, tweeted Tuesday that he plans to catch up with Xi. “Relationships and trust are building” with North Korea, he said.Amir Cohen/Reuters

Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu has gone to great lengths to make his opinions about Iran’s nuclear program known, often through visual demonstrations. In the past, these efforts have largely been ridiculed or dismissed ― but his latest presentation clearly reached the person it was meant for.

In 2012, while speaking at the United Nations General Assembly, Netanyahu pulled out a drawing of a cartoon bomb with a lit fuse to illustrate the dangerous progress Tehran was making with its uranium enrichment program. The drawing became the subject of endless jokes, and was unofficially dubbed the “Bibi Bomb.”

Then last month, Netanyahu delivered a presentation complete with props and a large screen, on which he spelled out one key message in letters almost as tall as himself: “Iran lied.” He said the display included details from secret documents that proved Tehran had pursued nuclear weapons in defiance of the Iran nuclear deal.

Experts quickly noted that much of the material from the presentation predated the nuclear agreement, which the U.S. and other world powers established in 2015 to prevent Iran from developing a nuclear bomb in exchange for sanction relief.

But U.S. President Donald Trump, an outspoken critic of the deal who watched “a little bit” of Netanyahu’s presentation, interpreted it as confirmation that his views on Iran were “100 percent right.”

Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu points to a red line he drew on the graphic of a bomb used to represent Iran's nuclear program as he addresses the United Nations General Assembly on Sept. 27, 2012. Lucas Jackson/Reuters

“Prime Minister Netanyahu just gave a very ― I don’t know if everybody’s seen it, but I got to see a little bit of it ― and that is just not an acceptable situation,” Trump said hours later. “I think if anything, what’s happening today and what’s happened over the last little while and what we’ve learned, has really shown that I’ve been 100 percent right.”

Little more than a week later, Trump announced that the U.S. would withdraw from the deal, which is known as the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action. The highly controversial move comes in defiance of U.S. allies’ pleas to save the agreement from collapse, and leaves an uncertain future for Iran’s nuclear program. Trump also said he will reinstate the sanctions on Tehran that had been lifted under the JCPOA.

While making the announcement on Tuesday, Trump hailed Netanyahu’s presentation as “definitive proof” that Iran was indeed lying about its nuclear ambitions.

“At the heart of the Iran deal is a fiction, that Iran only desired a peaceful nuclear energy program. Today we have definitive proof that this Iranian promise was a lie,” Trump said. “Last week Israel published intelligence documents, long concealed by Iran, conclusively showing the Iranians’ regime and its history of pursuing nuclear weapons.”

However, just last month, Trump’s own Secretary of State Mike Pompeo testified before Congress that there was no evidence of Iranian noncompliance with the JCPOA.

Netanyahu praised Trump’s “bold” decision Tuesday afternoon, even as messages of condemnation poured in from other world leaders.