All eyes were on Lena Waithe as she attended the Met Gala in New York City on Monday night, and she didn’t miss the opportunity to make a bold, inclusive statement.

The “Master of None” writer and star, who is a lesbian, wore a Carolina Herrera tuxedo topped by a silk rainbow cape inspired by the LGBTQ pride flag. The cape included brown and black stripes to represent inclusion of people of color in the queer community.

The superhero-inspired ensemble was a nod to Waithe’s 2017 Emmy acceptance speech, in which she encouraged LGBTQ people to “put on your imaginary cape and go out there and conquer the world, because the world would not be as beautiful as it is if we weren’t in it.”

Heard y’all were looking for me? pic.twitter.com/1o49tCltGg — Lena Waithe (@LenaWaithe) May 8, 2018

“Tonight this cape is not imaginary,” she told Vogue, as seen in the video above. “I’m reppin’ my community ... I want everybody to know that you can be whoever you are and be completely proud and be doing it. Let’s not be afraid of who we are.”

Needless to say, her fans were here for it.

Lena Waithe as queer priestess. This is the PERFECT response to "hey let's theme an evening around Catholicism". PERFECT. pic.twitter.com/Pvwjxf0C6F — Jared Pechacek (@vandroidhelsing) May 7, 2018

LENA WAITHE WEARING A PRIDE FLAG TO A CATHOLIC THEMED EVENT... A QUEER ICON #MetGala pic.twitter.com/UuE1Asl0sc — Dylan (@scholaurship) May 7, 2018

The annual Met Gala marks the opening of the Metropolitan Museum of Art Costume Institute’s spring exhibition. This year’s show is “Heavenly Bodies: Fashion and the Catholic Imagination,” which prompted stars like Madonna and Rihanna to incorporate religious iconography into their designer couture.

While Waite’s interpretation may not have been as literal as those A-listers’, she nonetheless felt her outfit fit the evening’s theme perfectly.NBC

In a Tuesday morning appearance on “Megyn Kelly Today,” two women who dated R. Kelly shared disturbing details about how he allegedly abused and controlled them.

Asante McGee and Kitti Jones, who went public with their abuse accusations last summer, told host Megyn Kelly they both lived with the singer at different points over the past several years in Atlanta and Chicago.

“I had to wear sweatpants. I had to stand up when he would walk into a room,” said Jones, who says she began dating the R&B star in 2011.

Both women allege the singer controlled many aspects of their lives, including what they ate, when they used the bathroom, and who they spoke to on their phones, which he allegedly monitored by adding them to his personal phone plan.

“You would have to send a text message to one of his runners, just asking if you could go to the restroom, and they would relay the information to him,” Jones said. “You weren’t free to walk throughout the house.”

“We were required to call him ‘Daddy.’ You would address him as ‘Daddy,’” said McGee, who dated Kelly between 2014 and 2016. Both women said that not using the nickname would lead to punishment, like being slapped.

A BuzzFeed report published last July renewed questions about the singer’s behavior. “Parents of women and girls still living in his house accused him of “brainwashing” their children in a “cult.” Several others subsequently came forward with similar stories of abuse.

Kelly’s representatives have dismissed the claims as a “conspiracy.”

One woman living with Kelly, Joycelen Savage, has denied the claims against him, but Jones and McGee agreed that Savage has indeed been “brainwashed.” Jones also said she believes the singer was guilty of the child pornography charges he was ultimately acquitted of a decade ago.