British actress Cynthia Erivo attends the 2018 Met Gala in New York City on May 7. Eduardo Munoz / Reuters

Cynthia Erivo is giving us life with her Met Gala manicure.

The British actress and singer stepped up her nail game for Monday night’s “Heavenly Bodies: Fashion and the Catholic Imagination”-themed Met Gala in New York City. With the help of iconic nail stylist Gina Oh, Erivo recreated the famous Michaelangelo Sistine Chapel painting “The Creation of Adam” with black women. (Pause for snaps, people.)

The illustration can be seen spread across three nails on Erivo’s right hand. Her middle finger depicts the historic part of the painting in which God is about to touch Adam’s finger.

A post shared by Gina Aka "The Hand" (@ohriginails) on May 7, 2018 at 11:34am PDT

A post shared by Gina Aka "The Hand" (@ohriginails) on May 7, 2018 at 11:50am PDT

A post shared by Gina Aka "The Hand" (@ohriginails) on May 8, 2018 at 5:27am PDT

“Creation of Adam,” added to the Sistine Chapel between 1508 and 1512, portrays God giving life to man. In Erivo and Oh’s version, God is a black woman and Adam, the first man to walk the earth according to the Bible, is also a black woman.

“Cynthia really wanted to incorporate this image with her nails,” Oh said. “The recreation was very meaningful because it was two women and they were African-American. It made this moment very personalized.”

A post shared by Harmonia (@honeiee) on May 5, 2017 at 12:33pm PDT

Rosales told HuffPost in an interview last year that paintings like “The Creation of Adam” really “helped to define” her understanding of the world.

“It was only later when I realized that the frame that was set by the masters excluded so much more than it included,” Rosales said. “What was included was a Eurocentric view of the world, and in this case, the heavens. What was excluded was all the rest of us.”

Scroll below to see more of Erivo’s Met Gala look.

HECTOR RETAMAL via Getty Images

Taylor Hill via Getty Images

Carlo Allegri / Reuters

Mike Coppola/MG18 via Getty Images

Carlo Allegri / ReutersWhoa.

Actors Keanu Reeves and Alex Winter are confirmed to party on with a third “Bill & Ted” movie, per The Hollywood Reporter.

Reeves will reprise his role as “Ted” Theodore Logan, and Winter will once again play “Bill” S. Preston Esq., two metalheads who use a time-traveling phone booth to go on most triumphant adventures.

The third film follows 1989’s “Bill & Ted’s Excellent Adventure” and 1991’s “Bill & Ted’s Bogus Journey.” Almost 30 years in the making, No. 3 will be called “Bill & Ted Face the Music,” featuring the now middle-aged duo with families of their own and yet to fulfill their destiny.

According to the first film, Bill and Ted’s band, Wyld Stallyns, is supposed to produce music that creates a utopia and saves mankind. But in the upcoming “threequel,” we learn that the two San Dimas slackers are still struggling to write a good song ― much less the greatest song ever.

“[They’re] having that moment in their life of going: ‘Do we try to get there, or give up the dream?’” Winter told Entertainment Weekly in March of the script that “Bill & Ted” creators Chris Matheson (“Imagine That”) and Ed Solomon (“Men in Black”) reportedly began writing in 2010.

“Of course, there is a little caveat, in that someone comes from the future and says: ‘Not only do you have to save the world, you have to save everything,’” Reeves added.

Dean Parisot (“Galaxy Quest”) is confirmed to direct, and Steven Soderbergh will serve as an executive producer alongside Scott Fischer, John Ryan Jr., and John Santilli, Deadline reports.

Winter, for his part, seems completely amped for the upcoming movie.