George Zimmerman, the Florida man acquitted of murder in the Trayvon Martin case, is facing charges of misdemeanor stalking after he allegedly threatened and harassed a private investigator in December.

A news release from the State Attorney’s Office for Seminole County, Florida, said Zimmerman was being investigated by the county sheriff’s office over allegations that he stalked Dennis Warren late last year.

Warren was hired to find people who might be interested in participating in “Rest in Power: The Trayvon Martin Story,” a documentary series about the African American teenager who was fatally shot by Zimmerman, a white man acting as a neighborhood watch volunteer, in 2012.

Warren contacted Zimmerman in September and gave him information on how to contact Michael Gasparro, the series’ executive producer.

Zimmerman called Gasparro, and they talked about the documentary series, which will focus on the life and death of Martin, according to the Florida Sun-Sentinel.

Warren told deputies he did not hear from Zimmerman again until December, when Gasparro told him an “extremely agitated” Zimmerman was sending threatening messages, according to deputies who requested a warrant.

In one of those texts, Zimmerman allegedly threatened that Warren would be eaten by an alligator:

“[The private investigator] is a [expletive] WHO BOTHERED MY UNCLE IN HIS HOME. Local OR former law officer He’s well on his way to the inside of a gator as well. 10-4?”

Warren told investigators that he received 55 phone calls, 67 text messages, 36 voicemails and 27 emails from Zimmerman between Dec. 16, 2017, and Christmas Day.

Some of the messages Zimmerman allegedly texted included “Answer your phone (expletive)” and “I’ll see you before you realize it,” according to WKMG-TV in Orlando.

Records show that when Warren asked Zimmerman to stop, he texted “NO!” and then “Pursue charges,” according to Spectrum News 13 in Orlando.

During this period, Zimmerman also allegedly threatened to “beat Jay-Z,” an executive producer on the series, which is scheduled to premiere later this summer.

Zimmerman told The Blast news site that “anyone who fucks with my parents will be fed to an alligator.”

Records show that when Warren asked Zimmerman to stop, he texted “NO!” and then “Pursue charges,” according to Spectrum News 13.Tom Williams via Getty Images

Newly released Environmental Protection Agency documents attempt to justify administrator Scott Pruitt’s frequent use of first-class and business-class travel with a claim that fellow passengers were “lashing out” at him.

The 87-word memo, dated May 1, 2017, was drafted by Pasquale Perrotta, who recently quit as head of Pruitt’s personal security detail. Perrotta wrote that he had noticed “lashing out from passengers which occurs while the Administrator is seated in coach with [his security detail] not easily accessible to him due to uncontrolled full flights.”

“We believe that the continued use of coach seats for the Administrator would endanger his life and therefore respectfully ask that he be placed in either business and or first class accommodations,” the memo concludes.

The justification reportedly allowed the scandal-scarred EPA head to fly in premium cabins, often costing taxpayers thousands more than seats in coach. One trip to Italy cost more than $7,000, The Washington Post notes. Another to Morocco cost more than $16,000.

The travel memo obtained by the Post was among thousands of EPA documents released to media outlets on Monday in response to Freedom of Information Act requests. Many show efforts by Pruitt’s staff to limit his encounters with the public. Pruitt is facing 11 investigations into his spending, management practices and ethical lapses. Pruitt’s travel preferences are under investigation by the EPA’s office of the inspector general.

The documents also reveal Pruitt’s practice of ducking interactions with average Americans, The New York Times reported on Monday, citing emails in a 10,000-document cache the EPA surrendered in response to a Freedom of Information Act request.

EPA officials choreographed appearances so Pruitt wouldn’t face questions from the public, worked to limit social media postings during his trips to keep them private, and often arranged events in secret to avoid reporters.

“He didn’t want anybody to question anything,” Kevin Chmielewski, Pruitt’s former deputy chief of staff for operations, told The Times. Chmielewski, who said he was pushed out of the agency for questioning Pruitt, said the EPA boss “just doesn’t understand what it’s like to be a public figure.”

The EPA has maintained that Pruitt has gotten far more threats than his predecessor, justifying his large security detail and extravagant travel arrangements. The Times notes that there were 33 threat investigations underway as of mid-March. Ten of those involved Pruitt himself, including a message on a “threatening postcard,” missives posted to Twitter and emails and phone calls.

BuzzFeed notes that three investigations have been launched this year involving Pruitt, but all have been closed due to lack of evidence that the administrator faced serious harm. One such incident, closed due to a lack of an “overt” threat, involved a Newsweek magazine cover that someone drew a mustache on and taped to an EPA elevator.

The release of Perrotta’s travel memo comes several months after the EPA said Pruitt was booked into premium cabins because members of the public yelled at him too much. The agency’s Office of Criminal Enforcement told Politico in February that the administrator was “approached at the airport numerous times, to the point of profanities being yelled at him.”