Greg Pence on Tuesday won the Republican primary for Indiana’s 6th Congressional District ― a seat his younger brother, Vice President Mike Pence, held for almost a decade, according to The Associated Press.

Greg Pence, a former Marine and the owner of two antique malls, ran a campaign that echoed his brother’s conservative values. He described himself as a “pro-life, pro-Second Amendment, and faith-driven conservative” on his campaign website.

The businessman’s campaign was in many ways reminiscent of the agenda the Trump administration has pursued.

“I love my brother Michael and there is no daylight on issues between him and me,” Greg Pence said in a recent email to The Indianapolis Star.

Pence, a Catholic, has voiced his support of “conservative values” while courting the evangelicals who have remained faithful to his brother.

“I think what we have seen in this country ― knocking other people’s values, how they practice, how they want to serve God ― I’ve always had a real problem with that,” Pence said in one of his campaign videos.

Greg Pence wins GOP nomination for Indiana US House seat once held by brother, Vice President Mike Pence. @AP race call at 7:17 p.m. EDT. #Election2018 #APracecall pic.twitter.com/naU234lkUs — AP Politics (@AP_Politics) May 8, 2018

Pence, who has no previous political experience, beat out four other Republican candidates in the primary race. He raised nearly $1.2 million in campaign funds, according to Federal Election Commission records, dwarfing his competitors.

A small portion of that money includes contributions from the Great America Committee, a political action committee created by the vice president to “advance President [Donald] Trump’s agenda day in and day out.

That agenda includes issues such as “securing our borders,” “repealing and replacing Obamacare” and “restoring the American economy.”

Pence’s campaign drew on his business and military background. In an April Facebook post, he expressed his support for building a wall along the U.S.-Mexico border to “prevent the flow of illegal drugs, illegal immigrants.”

Pence has advocated for tax cuts, Obamacare repeal and less federal control over Second Amendment rights. The businessman called Obamacare, formally known as the Affordable Care Act, an “attack on the middle class.”

“Obamacare is no good. It’s shot, it’s broke, it’s not working,” Pence said in another campaign video. “[The] Trump-Pence administration tried to do something ― Congress didn’t help them. I want to help them.”The U.S. Marine Corps has launched an investigation into the activities of an avowed white supremacist in the military whom ProPublica and PBS’ Frontline linked to neo-Nazi assaults.

Lance Corporal Vasillios Pistolis, 19, is stationed at North Carolina’s Camp Lejeune and assigned to logistics. He has been active with a number of neo-Nazi organizations, according to ProPublica and Frontline, which have linked six other current and former members of the military to neo-Nazi groups.

“We’re looking into the allegations,” Naval Criminal Investigative Service spokesman Adam Stump told ProPublica. Stump would not discuss any details while the investigation is ongoing. NCIS typically investigates potentially felony-level offenses involving personnel in the Navy or Marines.

The media investigations linked Pistolis to hate groups though records, photos and his own online comments to assaults during last summer’s deadly “Unite the Right” rally in Charlottesville.

He bragged about the assaults online and was photographed appearing to beat a counter-protester. “Today cracked 3 skulls open with virtually no damage to myself,” Pistolis wrote online after the August rally, Frontline reported.

6/ In private online chats with other Atomwaffen members he talked about his desire to assault a gay man in Charlottesville and use his military training to kill his opponents “if shit goes down.” https://t.co/7d4tG3MEzX — ProPublica (@ProPublica) May 3, 2018

Pistolis has also been linked to the notorious Atomwaffen Division, an American neo-Nazi group that aims to incite a race war. Atomwaffen members, who idolize Adolf Hitler and Charles Manson, have been tied to five murders in the U.S. over a span of eight months, beginning last year. The group’s chat logs revealed chilling praise for the murder of 19-year-old gay Jewish college student Blaze Bernstein early this year.

2/ He also acted as a leader in the Atomwaffen Division—a secretive neo-Nazi group that talks abt overthrowing the US gov't & igniting a race war. Here’s a Tweet Pistolis sent. He pulled down his Twitter after @ProPublica & @FrontlinePBS contacted him. https://t.co/7d4tG44frv pic.twitter.com/SEeSWK49A9 — ProPublica (@ProPublica) May 3, 2018

Rep. Keith Ellison (D-Minn.) wrote a letter to Defense Secretary James Mattis on Friday, urging him to launch an investigation into Pistolis and any other members of hate groups who serve in the military.

Ellison also called on the Defense Department to provide information to Congress detailing how the military screens for white supremacists or other hate group members before they join.

“The involvement of service members in white supremacist or other hate groups is cause for significant concern, particularly given their combat and weapons training,” Ellison wrote. The news reports may indicate a “broader problem within the military,” he warned.

Pistolis told ProPublica and Frontline that NCIS had questioned him about his activities months ago, but the investigation was apparently dropped. Sources told the media organizations there was an earlier investigation.