Christiane Amanpour will anchor the new PBS show “Amanpour & Company,” starting in July. Steven Ferdman via Getty Images

Christiane Amanpour, CNN’s longtime chief international correspondent, will also head up a new late-night program on PBS, the public television network told The Hollywood Reporter on Tuesday.

Dubbed “Amanpour & Company,” the public affairs program is set to premiere in July and will replace broadcasts of “Amanpour,” the CNN simulcast that PBS began airing after it cut ties with host Charlie Rose late last year amid the wave of sexual harassment allegations against him.

Though Amanpour will continue in her job as CNN’s chief international correspondent, she told The Hollywood Reporter that her PBS program will approach world news from a different angle.

″[I] am delighted for the opportunity it gives me to speak to Americans about what’s happening in the rest of the world and about how the world views America,” she said. “And I think these conversations can be really interesting. I’m not just doing breaking news every night. I’m not just doing world leaders. I’m also doing really interesting cultural conversations. I do think it’s a watershed moment right now.”Danny Alvarez, who was running for Jefferson County District Court judge in Kentucky, died on Wednesday after a primary victory. Facebook

An attorney running for judge in Kentucky collapsed and died Wednesday, the day after winning his race’s primary.

Danny Alvarez, a 43-year-old married father of three running for Jefferson County District Court judge in Louisville, collapsed at his home, according to local media. A cause of death was not immediately released.

His campaign consultant, Jonathan Hurst, described Alvarez as “a true public servant, a humanitarian, and a champion for human rights and the immigrant community” in a statement obtained by Louisville station WHAS.

“Danny spent the day humbled and grateful to this community after his historic victory last night,” Hurst added. “He would want us to honor his memory by showing compassion and love to all people.”

Tanisha Ann Hickerson, who finished just behind Alvarez in the primary on Tuesday, said in a statement that his death “goes beyond elections, jobs and careers.”

“His passion for equality and his fight for fairness are unparalleled,” she said. “I will miss him terribly, and I’m praying for his wife and children.”

Louisville Mayor Greg Fischer also offered his condolences to Alvarez’s family, describing the lawyer as “a tireless advocate for justice, a vessel of hope and inspiration for so many.”

So saddened by the passing of Danny Alvarez. He was a tireless advocate for justice, a vessel of hope and inspiration for so many. I am grateful to have known him. Prayers for his family and friends. Descansa en paz. — Mayor Greg Fischer (@louisvillemayor) May 24, 2018

Louisville Democrats expressed “shock and bewildered sorrow.”

“Our jubilation at his success has turned to grief at his passing,” the party’s chair, J. Russell Lloyd, said in a statement that praised Alvarez as “a friend, colleague, advocate and role model.”Madonna has never been afraid to break taboos at the Met Gala over the years ― donning bunny ears, chugging rosé from a canteen and even flashing her derrière. But she found yet another way to make a splash at Monday’s event, reminding fans and A-list attendees why she’s still the Queen of Pop by giving them a stunning three-song performance.

The theme of this year’s gala was “Heavenly Bodies: Fashion and the Catholic Imagination” ― which, frankly, seems tailor-made for Madonna, who has built her career on blurring the lines between religion and sexuality. True to form, the star descended the staircase in the Metropolitan Museum of Art’s Great Hall in a monk’s cloak singing her 1989 smash “Like a Prayer” with Gregorian chants in place of the song’s usual gospel choir.

She later removed the cloak to reveal a bustier and sheer skirt, both in pure white, for a dance break before segueing into Leonard Cohen’s “Hallelujah.”

Vogue captured snippets of the performance for posterity on Instagram.

A post shared by Vogue (@voguemagazine) on May 8, 2018 at 12:06am PDT

Meanwhile, fan site Madonna Nation shared additional footage.

Madonna’s set also included a sparse, and as-yet-unreleased, new tune.

“It’s a beautiful plan, but I’m not concerned. It’s a beautiful game, that I never learned,” she appeared to sing in the song, believed to be from a forthcoming album. “You have taught me to shut my mouth, so I don’t get burned. Keep your beautiful lies, ’cause I’m not concerned.”

She completed the look with a bejeweled crown and rosary necklaces by Indonesian designer Rinaldy Yunardi.

“Tonight I feel so close to God,” Madonna, wearing a black Jean-Paul Gaultier gown, told Vogue. Taylor Hill via Getty Images

After four decades in the business, the famously lapsed Catholic said her childhood faith continues to influence her music and performances.

“When I first started, I was covered in rosaries, so nothing’s changed, really,” she told Vogue, as seen in the clip above. “Religious themes have always been a part of my work and always inspired me in everything that I do ― my music, my creativity, the way I dress.”