Hugh Grant is candid about his thoughts on former co-workers. Mike Blake / Reuters

Hugh Grant has co-starred with many amazing actors and actresses over the years, but only one has wanted him dead.

Grant revealed that Robert Downey Jr., whom he starred with in the 1995 film “Restoration,” wanted to kill him.

“He hated me,” the actor recently told People. “He took one look at me and wanted to kill me.”

The 57-year-old actor told People that he’s worked with a number of other co-workers he’s liked, though you wouldn’t really know it from the way he talks about them.

Grant joked that his “Love Actually” co-star Emma Thompson is “a genius” who is “not remotely sane. She’s nuttier and nuttier as the years go.”

He basically said the same thing of his “Bridget Jones” co-star, Renée Zellweger.

“Renée loves me and I love Renée. Well, I mean she’s in the same category as Emma Thompson, in terms of lunacy, but an amazing actress of course, and very generous,” he revealed to People. “She once sent me a fabulous huge volume of beautiful photography, including a lot of semi-undressed women. I remember it because I had just landed in Marrakesh … and the book was impounded.”

Despite his praise (if one can call it that) of Zellweger and their apparent affection for each other, Grant told Andy Cohen back in 2016 that most of his former co-stars didn’t think too highly of him.

“They all hate me, I think,” he said.“Black Panther,” the highly anticipated Marvel movie due out in February, has become a bit of a poster child for well-done on-screen representation of people of color. So Yonkers, New York, native and marketing consultant Fredrick Joseph set out to give hundreds of Harlem kids the chance to see themselves reflected in the film.

“To me nothing is more important than inclusion and representation for children,” he said. “This is such a bigger moment in time than a superhero movie.”

When first creating the GoFundMe campaign on Friday, Joseph aimed to help 300 kids see the movie. By Thursday morning he’d far exceeded his initial goal of $10,000, raising more than $35,000.

Joseph plans to partner with the Boys and Girls Club of Harlem to hold private screenings for children and chaperones the week following the movie’s release. He said any remaining proceeds will go to BGCHarlem.

For Joseph and many others, “Black Panther” is more than another installment in the superhero genre ― it’s an example of blackness existing comfortably in an increasingly white medium.

“I want these children to be able to see that people who look like them can be superheroes, royalty, and more,” Joseph wrote on the page for his campaign.

Marvel officially began teasing the film when the character of Black Panther made his first superhero movie appearance in “Captain America: Civil War” in 2016. Since then, fans and the black community at large have been rooting for the film, which is Marvel’s first full-length superhero movie with a nearly all-black cast. Centered around a prince turned king turned superhero, the movie shows blackness as multifaceted.

It also represents a big departure from the way Marvel has depicted black heroes in the past. The comic giant got flak for portraying Storm, a canonically dark-skinned superhero from a fictional African country, as a light-skinned hero with a much weaker connection to black culture.

Black Panther, on the other hand, hails from the fictional African utopia Wakanda, a country explicitly never colonized. Because of these origins, he can be seen as representing pan-African blackness, and Wakanda can even be envisioned as Africa in an alternate timeline untouched by the slave trade. In short, it’s a celebration of black people not often seen in mass media.

Joseph now hopes other people will create similar campaigns for their own communities, and has partnered with GoFundMe to encourage such projects.