Musician Seal isn’t buying that Oprah Winfrey is a champion of women.

Days after the media mogul’s powerful speech at the Golden Globes proclaimed “time is up” for men in power who silence women, Seal published a fiery post on Instagram Wednesday that included two photos of Winfrey with the disgraced producer Harvey Weinstein, whose alleged serial sex crimes sparked the #MeToo movement and a cascade of accusations of abuse, harassment and assault against powerful men.

Oprah Winfrey accepts the 2018 Cecil B. DeMille Award during the 75th Annual Golden Globe Awards on Sunday. Handout via Getty Images

Superimposed on the photos in Seal’s post are the words: “When you have been part of the problem for decades but suddenly they all think you are the solution.”

His caption alleges Winfrey knew about Weinstein’s sexual misconduct. “Oh I forgot, that’s right.....you’d heard the rumours but you had no idea he was actually serially assaulting young stary-eyed [sic] actresses who in turn had no idea what they were getting into. My bad.”

The post ends with the hashtag #SanctimoniousHollywood.

A Winfrey rep didn’t immediately respond to HuffPost’s request for comment.

A post shared by SEAL (@seal) on Jan 10, 2018 at 2:05am PST

Winfrey’s rousing Golden Globes speech on Sunday assured young girls that a “new day is on the horizon” when no one will be a victim of sexual abuse, and pointed to Hollywood’s Time’s Up initiative combatting workplace sexual harassment. The stirring address prompted speculation she might run for president in 2020.

“The Daily Show” host Trevor Noah said Winfrey would be the “perfect opponent” for President Donald Trump because “she’s everything that he’s not.”

Others are skeptical of another celebrity running for the presidency.

“Oprah is beyond doubt a magnificent orator,” “Family Guy” creator Seth MacFarlane tweeted on Tuesday. “But the idea of a reality show star running against a talk show host is troublingly dystopian. We don’t want to create a world where dedicated public service careers become undesirable and impractical in the face of raw celebrity.”The State Department is now advising Americans not to travel to some crime-ridden Mexican states. Yet the safety of non-U.S. citizens seems to be less of a concern, since the Trump administration’s immigration crackdown could be sending some people straight back to these areas.

A revised State Department travel warning, released Wednesday, upgrades the Mexican states of Tamaulipas, Colima, Guerrero, Michoacan and Sinaloa to “do not travel” Level 4 ― the highest-risk category, which also includes war-torn Syria, Somalia and Yemen. Mexico as a whole is at the State Department’s Level 2, which recommends that American travelers “exercise increased caution.”

“Violent crime, such as homicide, kidnapping, carjacking, and robbery, is widespread,” the updated advisory says.

More than 20,000 people were killed in Mexico in 2016, a 22 percent rise from the previous year. Tecomán, a town in the state of Colima, was the country’s deadliest municipality in 2016, according to government data.

Mexico was just ranked the second deadliest country in the world, after only Syria. Drug trade is largely the cause. We will BUILD THE WALL! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) June 22, 2017

Yet a more aggressive approach to immigration has been a cornerstone of President Donald Trump’s time in office. The U.S. has been sending people back to Mexico and other countries engulfed by violence, and threatens to deport hundreds of thousands more.

From the time Trump took office until the end of September, Immigration and Customs Enforcement removals that resulted from an arrest increased by 37 percent over the previous year, the Department of Homeland Security said. Meanwhile, the number of people apprehended attempting to cross the U.S. southern border dropped to a historical low in fiscal 2017.

ICE agents raided almost 100 7-Eleven stores across the U.S. early Wednesday, arresting 21 people and interviewing many more about whether the chain hires people without authorization to work in the U.S.

The fate of hundreds of thousands of “Dreamers” ― the beneficiares of the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program ― also hangs in the balance. On Tuesday, a federal judge ordered the administration to halt the termination of the program, which protects and provides work authorization for undocumented immigrants who entered the country as children. The majority of DACA recipients are Mexican.