A 2015 recording from a night spent strip club-hopping that Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu’s son, Yair Netanyahu, likely never thought would see the light of day has surfaced across Israeli media this week. And it ain’t pretty.

“My dad got a great deal for your dad,” Yair Netanyahu told Ori Maimon, whose father is Israeli tycoon Kobi Maimon, in the conversation captured outside a strip club. “Bro, you have to be nice to me. Bro, my dad got your dad a sweet deal, he fought for it at the Knesset, bro.”

The reference was to a proposed natural gas deal that would have split profit between state and private entities, benefiting Maimon, who owns a gas field off the coast of Israel.

The young men are also heard bickering over how much money they spent that evening on prostitutes, two of whom Netanyahu refers to as “the best.”

“If we’re already talking hookers, what’s open at this hour?” Netanyahu asked. “Do you think the waitress will play along?”

Netanyahu told Maimon’s son to stop whining over money he sought to borrow in a club. “My father arranged 20 billion dollars for your father, and you’re crying over 400 shekels [about $100] for me, you son of a bitch.”

Netanyahu even threatens to kill a bodyguard and driver accompanying them, concerned that the conversation could be leaked.

“In a night-time conversation, under the influence of alcohol, I said nasty things about women and other things that should not have been said,” the younger Netanyahu said in a statement. “These things don’t represent the person I am, the values I was educated on and what I believe.”

His family, in its own statement, denounced the release of the recording, which it claimed is fake.

“Every parent that watched the report should think how they would react if every false expression of their kids was turned into a headline on Channel 2, and every time they left the house, it was turned into an investigation and every conversation was turned into a hidden recording,” the family said.

The prime minister is already knee-deep in corruption scandals that he’s managed to keep at bay for years. He’s currently a suspect in a series of bribery, breach-of-trust, and fraud cases. He and his wife also reportedly received tens of thousands of dollars worth of gifts, in the form of cigars and champagne, from Australian billionaire James Packer and Hollywood producer Arnon Milchan.Israeli soldiers walk next to tanks near the Israeli side of the border with Syria in the Israeli-occupied Golan Heights, Israel May 9, 2018. Amir Cohen / Reuters

Israel launched dozens of rockets into Syria early on Thursday, Syrian state media reported, after Israel’s military said Iranian forces in Syria had shelled one of its outposts near the border.

The scale of Israeli fire appeared to be far higher than in previous incidents and Damascus residents described seeing a series of explosions above the city from air defense systems.

Tensions between Israel and Iran have threatened to spill over in Syria, where the Iranian military and allied Shi’ite militia are backing Syrian President Bashar al-Assad in his war against rebels seeking to oust him.

“The Syrian air defenses are confronting a new wave of Israeli aggression rockets and downing them one after the other,” state news agency SANA reported.

An Israeli tank can be seen near the Israeli side of the border with Syria in the Israeli-occupied Golan Heights, Israel May 9, 2018. Amir Cohen / Reuters

Asked whether Israel had attacked near Damascus or scrambled communications there, an Israeli military spokeswoman said, “I have no comment on that at this time.”

Syrian state television was broadcasting footage of its air defenses firing at incoming rockets and playing patriotic songs.

It said Israeli warplanes were firing the rockets from outside Syria’s borders and targeting Baath City in Quneitra province.

Israel’s military spokesman Lieutenant Colonel Jonathan Conricus said earlier that Israel had retaliated for an attack on its outposts in the strategic Golan Heights plateau. He did not elaborate.

Israeli media said residents of Metulla, on the Lebanese border, had been instructed to go to bomb shelters. There was no official confirmation.

Syria’s state news agency SANA and a war monitor, the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights, had reported artillery fire from Israeli-held territory at Baath City, located near the border. The Observatory said rockets were fired at military positions of the Syrian army and allied forces.

A correspondent for SANA said strikes were targeting Syrian air defense brigades and attempting to destroy radar installations.

Lebanon’s National News Agency, citing Lebanese Army Command, reported Israeli jets circling over Lebanese territory early on Thursday before exiting.

Israeli soldiers can be seen near the Israeli side of the border with Syria in the Israeli-occupied Golan Heights, Israel May 9, 2018. Amir Cohen / Reuters

MOUNTING TENSIONS

The late-night incident followed a surge in tensions between Israel and Syria, where Iranian and Lebanese Hezbollah forces have been helping Damascus beat back a 7-year-old rebellion.

Israel describes Iran as its biggest threat and Hezbollah as the biggest threat on its borders.

Fearing that Iran and Hezbollah are setting up a Lebanese-Syrian front against it, Israel has occasionally struck at their forces. Iran blamed it for an April 9 air strike that killed seven of its military personnel in Syria, and vowed revenge.

Conricus said that, in Thursday’s attack, around 20 projectiles, most likely rockets, were fired by the Quds Force, an external arm of the Iranian Revolutionary Guards Corps, at around 12.10 a.m.

“A few of those rockets were intercepted” by Israel’s Iron Dome air defense system, Conricus told reporters. “We are not aware of any casualties. The amount of damage that we currently assess is low.”

Asked if Israel retaliated for the salvo, he said, “We have retaliated but I have no further details about this.”

Expectations of a regional flare-up were stoked by U.S. President Donald Trump’s announcement on Tuesday that he was withdrawing from the Iranian nuclear deal. Hours later, Israeli rocket rockets targeted a military base in Kisweh, a commander in the pro-Syrian government regional alliance said.

The strike killed 15 people, including eight Iranians, the Observatory said. Israel has neither confirmed or denied responsibility.