Jaylen Brown says racists have become emboldened by President Donald Trump. Omar Rawlings via Getty Images

Jaylen Brown has spoken out about racism in the U.S. in the age of Donald Trump.

In an interview with The Guardian published Tuesday, the Boston Celtics star said Trump’s presidency has “made it a lot more acceptable for racists to speak their minds.”

“I just think Trump’s character and some of his values [make] him unfit to lead,” he said. “For someone like him to be president, and in charge of our troops? It’s scary to be honest.”

The 21-year-old also shared details of the racist abuse he endured on the court during his youth in Marietta, Georgia.

“I’ve had people call me the n-word,” he said. “I’ve had people come to basketball games dressed in monkey suits with a jersey on. I’ve had people paint their face black at my games. I’ve had people throw bananas in the stands.”

Brown praised former San Francisco 49er Colin Kaepernick for sparking protests against police brutality and systemic racial injustice by taking a knee during the national anthem before NFL games last season.

“Often everybody is comfortable with their role in life and they forget about the people who are uncomfortable,” he said. “So for Colin to put his career on the line, and sacrifice himself, was amazing.”

″[Kaepernick] speaks for many people in this country ― including me,” Brown added.

Brown also offered his thoughts on David Foster Wallace, the Arabic alphabet and the psychological role of sports in society.

AdvertisementAustralian scientist and right-to-die advocate David Goodall chose to end his life with a lethal injection on Thursday. He was 104.

Goodall died at a clinic in Switzerland while listening to the final movement of Beethoven’s Ninth Symphony, a melody known to music lovers around the world as “Ode to Joy.”

The day before, the botanist and ecologist told reporters he was not afraid of death and had no hesitations about ending his life. Goodall was not terminally ill, but his health had deteriorated badly in recent years, according to The New York Times.

“I no longer want to continue life, and I’m happy to have a chance tomorrow to end it,” he said during a press conference on Wednesday.

Assisted dying is banned in Australia, where the British-born Goodall lived for the last part of his life. However, there are some changes in the works ― last fall, the state of Victoria became the first in the country to legalize assisted dying in specific cases. Starting in June 2019, terminally ill patients who have a life expectancy of less than six months can request a lethal drug to end their lives.

Goodall is an advocate for medically assisted death for the elderly. He has been a member of Exit International, a right-to-die organization, for about 20 years.

David Goodall, 104, arrives to hold a news conference a day before he intends to take his own life in assisted suicide, in Basel, Switzerland May 9, 2018. Stefan Wermuth / Reuters

Goodall flew from his home in Perth to an assisted-dying center in Basel. Switzerland is the only country that offers these services to foreigners. Since Monday, he’s had consultations with doctors, including a psychiatrist, and was visited by the Swiss police.

Reporters at the conference on Wednesday pressed Goodall about whether there was anything that he still wanted to do, or anything that he would miss about life. The scientist replied that he hasn’t been able to do some of things he enjoys for a while.

“There are many things I would like to do, of course, but it’s too late. I’m content to leave them undone,” he said.

Goodall’s last meal was fish and chips, Reuters reports, but the scientist said he hasn’t been able to truly enjoy his meals like he used to.

Goodall died with the aide of a barbiturate that was administered intravenously. In compliance with Swiss law, he turned a wheel to release a fatal dose of the drug himself.

His last words, as the infusion started to drip, were, “This is taking an awfully long time!”

He fell asleep within a few minutes and died at about 12:30 p.m. local time, just as the music for “Ode to Joy” concluded, according to Exit International. Some of his grandchildren attended the final appointment with him.

Goodall asked not to have a funeral or remembrance service. He wanted his body to be donated to science or for his ashes to be sprinkled. He did not believe in an afterlife, the organization said.

He told reporters he hoped sharing his story would “increase the pressure” on Australia to change its laws about assisted suicide.