President Donald Trump often boasts about how well he speaks the language of business.

So hopefully he’s paying attention tomorrow, when a public letter, signed by more than 100 chief executives from some of America’s most impactful businesses, urges politicians to pass legislation before Jan. 19 that allows Dreamers to continue their lives in the U.S. unimpeded.

“Dreamers” refers to a group of roughly 700,000 undocumented immigrants who were children when they arrived in the U.S. Until Trump abruptly ended it last year, a program known as Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals, or DACA, allowed Dreamers to apply for work permits and avoid deportation.

The letter was sent to congressional leaders on Wednesday, including House Speaker Paul Ryan (R-Wis.) and Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.), Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer (D-N.Y.) and House Minority Leader Rep. Nancy Pelosi (D-Calif.). It is set to publish in The New York Times and The Wall Street Journal as a full-page ad on Thursday.

Demonstrators protest in front of the White House after the Trump administration scrapped DACA on September 5, 2017. Kevin Lamarque / Reuters

Signatories span a large spectrum of industry, from tech to consumer goods to venture capital. Among them are Facebook’s Mark Zuckerberg, General Motors CEO Mary Barra, Amazon’s Jeff Bezos, James “Jim” Dinkins of Coca Cola and Tim Cook of Apple.

“The imminent termination of the DACA program is creating an impending crisis for workforces across the country,” the letter reads. “Failure to act in time will lead to businesses losing valuable talent, cause disruptions in the workforce and will result in significant costs.”

And when they say “significant costs,” they mean it. Not only would failing to extend DACA cause untold human suffering, they note, it could cost the U.S. economy $215 billion in lost GDP.

Should the Jan. 19 window pass without action, it’s unlikely a new policy could be enacted by March 5, the date Trump set as a congressional deadline when he ended DACA in September of last year.Michael Douglas, believing that a former employee is about to publicly accuse him of masturbating in front of her more than 30 years ago, strongly denies wrongdoing.

“This is a complete lie, fabrication, no truth to it whatsoever,” the actor told Deadline on Tuesday in an interview that he said was necessary “to get ahead of this.”

Douglas, 73, also rejected the unnamed woman’s claim that he had her blackballed from the movie industry after he fired her. He said the woman made the allegations to trade publications ― he mentioned Variety and The Hollywood Reporter ― for an upcoming article.

“I had the choice of waiting for a story to come out, one that will clearly get picked up by other newspapers and magazines, and then I have to sit there and try to defend myself,” he told Deadline. “Or, try to share with the public, a little ahead of the story, my thoughts and concerns. Again, I am sorry if I used coarse language with my friends. But this is really debilitating. It can have a large effect on my career. And also, I think it really sends a message out.”

Douglas, a two-time Oscar winner, said The Hollywood Reporter contacted his lawyer last month, and then interviewed him about the woman’s claims. He apologized for using “colorful” language in private conversations that the woman said she heard, but emphasized that the dialogue wasn’t aimed at the employee.

Michael Douglas said the accusations "can have a large effect on my career." Daniel Zuchnik via Getty Images

Douglas told Deadline he supports the #MeToo movement against sexual harassment “with all my heart,” and said he had employed and worked with dozens of women he has treated “as equals and my peers.”

A rep for Douglas told HuffPost that the actor was quoted accurately in the Deadline article.