Oh na naaaa. Chris McKay via Getty Images

Half of her heart may be in Havana, but Camila Cabello still managed to reach a big pop music milestone this week.

Her single “Havana” has now spent seven weeks at the top of Billboard’s Pop Songs radio airplay chart ― the longest run atop the chart for a solo female artist in a lead role in five years. The last artist to reach the milestone was Taylor Swift with “I Knew You Were Trouble” in 2013.

The feat comes days before Cabello’s release of her eponymous debut album. The singer has been teasing “Camila,” which drops Friday, via Instagram since last month.

In the lead-up to the new record’s debut, the Cuban-born artist revealed the album cover and the tracklist.

A post shared by camila (@camila_cabello) on Jan 9, 2018 at 10:47am PST

Even though Cabello is just starting her solo career, she already has fans in important places. Elton John gushed about her during a recent episode of Beats 1 with Matt Wilkinson on Apple Music Tuesday.

“I just think she’s going to have an amazing year, cause she’s … just so much fun,” John said. “She’s got a great voice, and she has a great attitude.” He added: “There’s a vibrancy in her. It makes me feel good, makes me want to get up and dance.”

Not surprisingly, Cabello freaked out when she heard what the English singing legend said about her.“Throughout my service, I worked hard and never lost sight of the people our government is supposed to serve,” Issa said in a statement. “Yet with the support of my family, I have decided that I will not seek re-election in California’s 49th District.”

Issa, one of the wealthiest members of Congress, narrowly won his re-election race against Democrat Doug Applegate in November 2016 by just 1,621 votes. It was Issa’s first competitive race in more than 15 years.

Applegate has already announced plans to run for Issa’s seat in 2018.

Rep. Darrell Issa will not run for re-election in 2018. Mike Blake/Reuters

“Secretary Clinton won this district by a huge margin in 2016, and the cohort of strong Democratic challengers, unprecedented grassroots activism, and historic investment by the DCCC in Southern California means we are in a strong position to elect a Democrat to the 49th District this fall,” said Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee spokesman Drew Godinich.

Rep. Steve Stivers (R-Ohio), chairman of the National Republican Congressional Committee, noted the multiple candidates Democrats have running in Issa’s district, saying it’s “fast becoming one of the bloodiest primaries in America.”

“While Democrats fight with each other, Republicans will focus on fighting Democrats ― and that’s how we plan to win,” he said. “We look forward to facing whoever limps out of the Democrats’ battle royale: black and blue, and broke.”

As the former chairman of the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee, Issa gained a reputation for being a fierce critic of President Barack Obama ― going after the administration on the Benghazi, Libya, terrorist attack, the IRS and the “Fast and Furious” gun-running scandal.

Issa’s district has changed considerably over the years, becoming more diverse and less conservative. In an attempt to appeal to his new voting base, the one-time Obama antagonist sent out a mailer last cycle touting praise from the former president.

In recent months, at least 30 House Republicans have announced they will leave Congress, according to CNN. Several Senate Republicans have also announced their plans to retire, including Jeff Flake (Ariz.) and Bob Corker (Tenn.).