It just shows everyone how broken and unfair our Court System is when the opposing side in a case (such as DACA) always runs to the 9th Circuit and almost always wins before being reversed by higher courts. — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) January 10, 2018

Trump, in criticizing U.S. District Judge William Alsup for dealing him a legal setback, slammed the whole “Court System” as “broken and unfair.”

The White House, in a statement Wednesday, called Tuesday night’s ruling “outrageous.” The decision blocks the Trump administration’s plan to end the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program, which protects undocumented immigrants who entered the country as children from deportation and allows them to work legally.

Trump has regularly responded to his administration’s setbacks in court by bashing the entire judicial system. Some of his attacks have come in cases involving his travel ban aimed at majority-Muslim countries, which federal judges on several courts, including the Ninth Circuit U.S. Court of Appeals, have deemed discriminatory.

The opinion of this so-called judge, which essentially takes law-enforcement away from our country, is ridiculous and will be overturned! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) February 4, 2017

Trump’s anti-court tweet on Wednesday singled out the Ninth Circuit, where judges have ruled against several high-profile cases involving his administration, and claimed the court favored “the opposing side.” The appeals court, based in San Francisco, includes several judges appointed by Republican presidents.

Trump’s incendiary tweets and rhetoric have hurt him in the courts. Lawsuits have cited his own words, such as his disparagement of Mexican immigrants as “rapists,” in attempting to prove that his travel ban and his DACA rollback have discriminatory intent.

A federal judge in Hawaii, in halting an early version of the travel ban last year, cited Trump’s anti-Muslim campaign rhetoric as “significant and unrebutted evidence of religious animus.”Streets turned to seething rivers. Buildings inundated with debris. The mangled frames of abandoned cars, drenched in mud.

As Southern California takes on the heavy burden of cleaning up from what’s become a one-two punch of devastating wildfires followed by heavy rains that caused deadly mudslides, this is some of the detritus left behind.

In addition to the physical damage, the floods have taken a human toll as well. Santa Barbara County officials said Wednesday at least 15 people are dead and 20 injured thanks to the onslaught of mud and water.

“The only words I can really think of to describe what it looked [like] was it looked like a World War I battlefield,” Santa Barbara County Sheriff Bill Brown said Tuesday. “It was literally a carpet of mud and debris everywhere.”

Here are some photos from the region:A ban on “conversion therapy,” a discredited practice that attempts to change sexual orientation or gender identity, failed to pass Tuesday in New Hampshire’s House of Representatives.

Two proposed bills would have protected minors from treatments aimed at erasing LGBTQ identity that medical professionals have labeled ineffective and potentially harmful.

Both the House and Senate versions of the legislation failed narrowly in a vote that fell largely along party lines, with Republicans generally opposing any change to existing state law. The measure was introduced in the New Hampshire Senate by Sen. Martha Fuller Clark (D) after a similar change failed in the state two years ago.

Laws banning conversion therapy have been passed in at least nine states, Washington, D.C., and more than two dozen municipalities, according to the National Center for Lesbian Rights. Florida’s Broward County, which includes Fort Lauderdale, on Tuesday became the latest locale to ban conversion therapy. Similar legislation is pending in at least six states.

The American Psychological Association and the American Psychiatric Association both caution against conversion therapy, also known as reparative therapy, on the grounds that it can be harmful. Its methods can include talk therapy, electroshock therapy and treating LGBTQ identity as an addiction.

Supporters of the New Hampshire legislation noted that being gay is not a mental health issue and should not be treated as such. Those who argued against the ban said it went too far in preventing counselors from talking to minors about temporary crushes.

Lawmakers also said they found no evidence the practice existed in New Hampshire, the Associated Press reported.

“Now, I would be against coercive therapy, but what about those who want help from a professional?” Republican Rep. Mark Pearson said Tuesday, WMUR-TV reported.

Pearson added that he thought the legislation was “unnecessary at best, and quite possibly harmful to youngsters that want an honest conversation” about sexual issues

Ray Buckley, chair of the New Hampshire Democratic Party, slammed House Republicans, saying in a statement they “are telling children that who they are is not good enough.”

The bills were also supported by the New Hampshire Log Cabin Republicans, a LGBTQ group whose co-chair, Jennifer Horn, called on her fellow conservatives to push a revised version forward after the votes.