Kellen Hickey, a 26-year-old who lives in Hudson, Wisconsin, has gift giving down to a fine art.

Lindsay Brinkman and Kellen Hickey. Kellen Hickey

He drew himself and his girlfriend Lindsay Brinkman, 24, in 10 different animation styles and gave the illustrations to her on Christmas.

Hickey told HuffPost that he got the idea a few months ago when he decided to draw the couple as “Futurama” and “Adventure Time” characters and Brinkman absolutely loved them.

Her enthusiasm inspired him to draw the two of them in the style of all the cartoons they had bonded over since they began dating in high school.

“I am fortunate enough to have the ability to create something that can represent us and our enjoyment of each one of those shows relatively faithfully,” Hickey told HuffPost.

"Rick and Morty" Kellen Hickey

“But I have to admit, the “Dragon Ball Z-style drawing was kind of for me.”

"Dragon Ball Z" Kellen Hickey

Hickey says that Brinkman’s response to the gift on Christmas was “everything I could’ve hoped for.”

Old school black-and-white cartoon style Kellen Hickey

“As soon as she finished [looking through the drawings she] jump-hugged me and was sure to remind me of how much she loves me for the next hour or so.”

Modern Disney style Kellen Hickey

Proud of his work, Hickey posted the drawings on his Instagram account earlier this week, where they’ve since gotten a lot of attention online.

The couple has framed nine of the photos and have them hanging in their living room. Hickey says Brinkman’s favorite is the “Bob’s Burgers” illustration. The “Dragon Ball Z”-version of the couple is sitting in a frame on Hickey’s work desk.

“I’m not sure I could ever properly express how much she inspires me,” Hickey told HuffPost.Oprah Winfrey has shared Instagram videos of her Santa Barbara County, California, property after the area was overcome by floods, mudslides and even a gas fire.

The activist and former talk-show star ― whose name is being floated as a possible 2020 presidential contender after her rousing speech at the Golden Globes on Sunday ― posted one clip Tuesday showing her walking through deep mud. “The house in back is gone,” she says, presumably referring to her neighbor’s property.

“What a day!” she captioned the video gallery. “Praying for our community again in Santa Barbara.”

A post shared by Oprah (@oprah) on Jan 9, 2018 at 5:03pm PST

On Wednesday Winfrey shared another clip of her assessing the damage.

A post shared by Oprah (@oprah) on Jan 10, 2018 at 8:48am PST

At least 15 have died and dozens were rescued by air and ground after rain-triggered mud and floods swept down mountainsides burned by wildfires in December.

According to People, Winfrey purchased her 65-acre Montecito estate in 2001. The area is also home to celebrities Rob Lowe and Ellen DeGeneres, who tweeted news of the devastation.

This is not a river. This is the 101 freeway in my neighborhood right now. Montecito needs your love and support. pic.twitter.com/jRNCBrp4b5 — Ellen DeGeneres (@TheEllenShow) January 9, 2018