President Donald Trump will likely meet with North Korean leader Kim Jong Un in Singapore next month, according to several media reports.

Both CNN and Fox News, citing people familiar with the plans, said officials have been told to begin preparations for the summit after Trump ruled out the Demilitarized Zone on the Korean Peninsula as a possible location. The White House has confirmed that a date and site have been set, but the announcement has not been made publicly.

Trump said he would reveal the details in three days.

“I can tell you that a date and location are set, but, beyond that, I don’t have any other announcements at this point,” White House press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders told reporters on Wednesday.

Kim expressed support for the summit in a statement given to North Korean state television on Wednesday, saying the event would be a “historic meeting” and a first step toward the “building of a good future” on the Korean Peninsula.

The news comes shortly after newly confirmed Secretary of State Mike Pompeo traveled to Pyongyang to meet with Kim and finalize details of the meeting.

During the Wednesday visit, Pompeo secured the release of three American prisoners that had been held in North Korea. The U.S. had long demanded that North Korea free the men, Kim Dong-chul, Kim Hak-song and Tony Kim, who had been held on charges of espionage and “hostile acts.”

“I’m thrilled that we have them back,” Pompeo told reporters, according to The New York Times. “President Trump set conditions for this to happen, and I am thrilled with that.”

The secretary also appeared optimistic about the summit, telling Kim at a lunch in Pyongyang that he was “hopeful that we can work together to resolve this conflict, take away threats to the world and make your country have all the opportunities your people so richly deserve.”

The three former prisoners are scheduled to arrive at Joint Base Andrews, outside Washington, D.C., at 2 a.m. Thursday and will be met by the president. All are reportedly healthy and able to walk on their own.

“I will be there to greet them,” Trump tweeted. “Very exciting!”The second season of the FX true crime anthology series explores the murder of fashion designer Versace (played by Édgar Ramírez) by serial killer Andrew Cunanan (Darren Criss). It’s based on Maureen Orth’s 1999 book about the case, Vulgar Favors: Andrew Cunanan, Gianni Versace, and the Largest Failed Manhunt in U.S. History.

On Monday, the Verace family released a statement distancing themselves from the series, saying it had “neither authorized nor had any involvement whatsoever” in the show, calling it “a work of fiction.”

Murphy, in turn, rebutted those remarks Tuesday. In spite of the fashion house’s claims, the “Glee” and “American Horror Story” producer told EW his latest project is “a work of non-fiction obviously with docudrama elements.”

Interestingly, Murphy claimed that Donatella Versace, who took over the Versace label after her brother’s 1997 death, had recently been in contact with Penelope Cruz, who portrays her in the series.

"American Crime Story" presents Donatella Versace, at right with her brother Gianni, as "a feminist hero," executive producer Ryan Murphy said. Vittoriano Rastelli/Corbis via Getty Images

“After I offered the role to Penelope, she said, ‘OK, I’m interested, but I’m friends with Donatella and I’m not going to do it unless Donatella is cool with it.’ So she called Donatella,” he said, noting that the designer had sent Cruz a bouquet of flowers prior to the Golden Globes.

Donatella, Murphy explained, is portrayed on the show “in a true feminist light as a feminist hero.”

By Wednesday, the Versace family had fired back at Murphy and the “American Crime Story” team once more.

“The company producing the series claims it is relying on a book by Maureen Orth, but the Orth book itself is full of gossip and speculation,” the family wrote in a second statement to EW and The Hollywood Reporter. Orth, who has worked for Vanity Fair since 1988, “never received any information from the Versace family” and instead presented “second-hand hearsay that is full of contradictions” to create a “lurid” and “sensational” story.

“Gianni Versace was a brave and honest man, who engaged in humanitarian work for the benefit of others,” the statement continued. “Of all the possible portrayals of his life and legacy, it is sad and reprehensible that the producers have chosen to present the distorted and bogus version created by Maureen Orth.”

Advertisement