Virginia state law requires ties to decided “by lot,” a random selection process such as the one employed in this election, or drawing straws or flipping a coin.

In Simonds’ concession announcement, she urged Yancey to vote for Medicaid expansion in the state.

Simonds also announced Wednesday that she is running for the seat again in 2019, and emphasized the need for voting reform.

“This tight campaign exposed a number of problems; it needs to be easier for people to vote absentee, and ballots that are postmarked by Election Day should be counted in a close election like mine,” Simonds said in an email to supporters. “We need to make sure college students are not kicked off voter rolls when they renew their licenses at 20 and 21 years old.”Celine Dion dealt with a drunk fan in the classiest of ways.

A woman tried to dry-hump the 49-year-old singer onstage at her show at the Colosseum at Caesars Palace in Las Vegas on Friday, per multiple reports.

But instead of ordering security to immediately remove the unruly fan, Dion used the incident to remind people to be kind to each other.

Dion chatted with and sang to the unidentified woman for a couple of minutes, before making sure she was safely escorted from the stage.

“You know what, some people go through a lot and some people need to talk,” Dion told the audience. “And I want to say thank you to all of you, because for maybe five minutes we have given this lady a moment to talk.”

It’s unclear whether Dion invited the woman to join her, or if the fan crashed the stage of her own accord. The end result was truly beautiful, however.

Advertisement“How can I operate with integrity and stay on at E if they’re not willing to pay me the same as him?” she wrote. “Or at least come close? How can I accept an offer that shows they do not value my contributions and paralleled dedication all these years? How can I not echo the actions of my heroes and stand for what is right no matter what the cost? How can I remain silent when my rights under the law have been violated?”

At the time, E! responded to Sadler’s departure in a statement to HuffPost, saying that the entertainment channel “compensates employees fairly and appropriately based on their roles, regardless of gender.”

This weekend, actresses Debra Messing and Eva Longoria called out E! during the Golden Globes for paying its female co-hosts less than their male counterparts.If there was an Academy Award for best impersonation, you can bet your bottom dollar that Tom Hanks and Meryl Streep would be in the running.

“The Post” costars had a little too much fun doing impressions of each other’s iconic characters on Tuesday’s broadcast of “The Ellen DeGeneres Show.”

Streep imitated Woody from the “Toy Story” movies and Forrest Gump from the film of the same name. Hanks, meanwhile, channeled Miranda Priestly from “The Devil Wears Prada” and former British Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher in “The Iron Lady.”