John Leguizamo was a bright-eyed college graduate when he first realized how hard it is for a Latino actor to make it in the entertainment industry.

The 53-year-old actor described the moment during a visit to The New York Times, where he spoke to film writer Monica Castillo about his one-man Broadway show, “Latin History For Morons.”

During the conversation on Tuesday, Leguizamo noted how Latino stars like Jennifer Lopez have to be extra resourceful and multi-talented in order to succeed.

“It really became apparent to me as a young actor, after I graduated from NYU, and all of my white friends were going to five auditions every day and I was going to one, once every two months,” Leguizamo said. “And I was like, I went to the same college, I studied with the same teachers, I got the same grades, why don’t I have the same opportunities? And once that became incredibly obvious to me, I was like, wow, I gotta find some other path.”

Leguizamo said after realizing that he decided to forge his own path by working in performance art spaces and writing one-shows like “Mambo Mouth” and “Ghetto Klown.”

In 2015, the actor told The Hollywood Reporter that he began working on his autobiographical shows as an “antidote” to Hollywood’s tendency to typecast Latinos.

“It was an antidote to the system, to the Hollywouldn’t-ness of it all,” he said. “You know? And it was that, because I didn’t want to be a drug dealer or a murderer for the rest of my life. That’s not me, that’s not my people.”

While talking to Castillo this week, Leguizamo also said he wrote about his life in the hope that others would see themselves represented in his stories.HuffPost may receive a share from purchases made via links on this page.

HuffPost 12 Cruelty-Free Coats That'll Keep You Warm Without Down And Fur

While we’re just starting to see changes in the weather, winter will be here before you know it and you don’t want to be caught off guard. If last years winter coat didn’t cut it or has seen better days, it might be time to replace it.

If you’re looking to make a more conscious choice when it comes to your winter coat you might want to avoid jackets filled with down feathers. The filling is commonly used in coats and comforters, but has come under scrutiny for the harm it can cause to geese. The good news is, along with vegan leather and faux fur, there are a lot of down-alternatives available that that are better for your conscience and your wallet.

That’s why we’ve scoured the internet for cruelty-free coats that are not only warm, but animal friendly. Most of these coats are made using synthetic down or down alternative fillings, and some even use recycled materials for a more sustainable jacket. We’ve even found a coat made of recycled down, for folks who are concerned with reusing and recycling

See below for 12 of our favorite cruelty-free coat picks: