“Black history is happening now and it’s everything to me, which is why I’m applying to the Shows & Editorial, Black History & Culture Fellowship,” she writes.

She told HuffPost via email that she got the idea to make a website because she knew “it would be the best way to showcase my technical skills, creativity and passion for Black history and culture in a way my resume wouldn’t.”

“I didn’t want to make a basic cover letter because I wanted the team to be able to actually see my relevant projects and the campaigns I’d been a part of within the Black community. Since August, I’ve been curating and sharing playlists on Instagram and Twitter, so I figured if I was going to apply for a position like this, it’d only make sense to post it on social media as well,” she said.

Bain also said her original tweet didn’t go viral until after she got the job at Spotify.

“Instagram was more helpful for me getting noticed. I created an Instagram highlight on my page to follow my journey from application to interview to getting hired and now going viral.”As he was presenting me with the gift he seemed nervous. He said, “Babe, I thought finding you a highlighter would be easy but I went everywhere and could not find the Fenty.” I assured him that I would likely love whatever he purchased. I then pulled out the brush and thought it was something he decided to grab me in addition to what I asked for. I then pulled out the Sharpie highlighters and thought, OMG! At the time, I didn’t say anything because he told me that he had gone to a few drug stores. The next day, I told him and we both laughed ourselves to tears.Streamline recommends “Moonrise Kingdom” as the movie you should watch on Hulu this week. Agency for International Development is continuing to fund projects in the Mekong and Red River deltas.

But perhaps more significantly, the White House has proposed slashing the USAID budget by 33 percent.

“Apparently there have been some fluctuations in funding from one year to the next,” a USAID spokesman said in an email, noting that the delta projects have continued so far. He did not respond to questions about the funding for those individual programs, and they were not itemized on the State Department’s budget justification in February.

President Trump has pushed to scale back regulations on coal in the U.S. and made pitching the fuel a top priority at the annual United Nations climate conference. In one of his first moves as president, he pulled the U.S. The service adds this on Sept. 16.

“Moonrise Kingdom” stars two unknown child actors ― Kara Hayward and Jared Gilman ― along with a notable cast of adults that includes Tilda Swinton, Edward Norton, Bill Murray, Frances McDormand and Bruce Willis. Wes Anderson directed this and co-wrote the screenplay with Roman Coppola.

The two children run away and try to make a life for themselves together ― a very twee life. The answers all involve artificial intelligence and computer vision (and, in the case of buying booze without a human looking at your driver’s license, probably some lobbying and legislation, too).

“We have solutions for those top three problems already in the lab,” he said.

However the machines improve, Waugh says, there are certain things a cashier does that a computerized kiosk could never duplicate. He has a handful of elderly regulars who stop by his store two or three times daily; he figures they come by so often because his cashiers offer some of the only conversation they have over the course of the day. He’s convinced customers would continue to value that sort of interaction. He just wonders about the employers.Westend61 via Getty Images We turned to our HuffPost Parents community to get tips on how to make road trips with kids more manageable.

Family road trips can be a test for parents on how long they can keep kids occupied in the car before the children reach their breaking point, or more specifically, their tantrum point. Then the adults start looking for them ― in a very twee way.

Although the Anderson aesthetic is kind of out right now during this more hardened, ultra-cynical Donald Trump era, I still love this movie. I think you’ll find much to enjoy whether you’re revisiting it or watching for the first time.com/wjri8Q0I3X — Jonathan Cheng (@JChengWSJ) May 25, 2018

North Korea has sharply criticized suggestions by Trump’s national security adviser John Bolton and Vice President Mike Pence that it could share the fate of Libya if it did not swiftly surrender its nuclear arsenal. Libyan leader Muammar Gaddafi was deposed and murdered by NATO-backed militants after halting his nascent nuclear program.

Trump had initially sought to placate North Korea, saying that he was not pursuing the “Libya model” in getting the North to abandon its nuclear weapons program. White House Press Secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders also said: “This is the President Trump model. He’s going to run this the way he sees fit.”

Kim Kye Gwan said North Korea’s recent criticisms of certain U.S. officials had been a reaction to unbridled American rhetoric, and that the current antagonism showed “the urgent necessity” for the summit.Trump’s tweet in support of Lahren came just days after the weekend brunch incident and shortly after she spoke out about it on “Fox & Friends.” But as many pointed out on Twitter, he never sent a tweet in support of James Shaw, the hero who stopped the Waffle House shooter. Four people were killed and several others injured in the attack in Tennessee last month, including Shaw, who grabbed the gun’s barrel, disarmed the shooter and chased him out of the restaurant ― an act credited with saving lives.”

Davidson, who in March declared he was sober for the first time in eight years, wrote that getting therapy for BPD has helped.

“I love you,” he wrote to others who may be struggling.

InstagramActor Morgan Freeman spoke out again in the wake of sexual harassment allegations against him, saying Friday that he was “devastated” by the turn of events.

Several women accused the Oscar winner of inappropriate behavior, including lewd comments and unwanted touching, according to a CNN investigation. / Reuters

Some Canadians are especially worried about the Three Percent, a group whose members often tote assault rifles at American white nationalist rallies. Canada’s stricter gun laws mean members can legally carry only items like baseball bats and tire irons. But, according to reports from Vice and other news outlets, the group conducts paramilitary training in private with guns and tactical gear.

“The fact that there are armed militia groups in Canada right now is anathema.