Ryan Reynolds has a warning for fans ahead of “ Deadpool 2 ,” which hits theaters next week: Don’t spoil it.

Reynolds tweeted a letter supposedly from Wade Wilson, his on-screen character, filled with the offbeat humor that fans of the “Merc With a Mouth” have come to expect:Actor Mike Myers is currently starring with Margot Robbie in the film “Terminal,” and after about a five-year break from films, it looks like he’s here to stay.

In an interview with People, Myers says he’s having the “happiest time” of his life raising his three kids, but that even they are eager for him to get back into movies, specifically as his character Austin Powers.

The “Saturday Night Live” alum, who turned 55 on Friday, last played the British spy in 2002′s “Goldmember. — Andrew Lynch (@AndrewLynch) March 19, 2018

This is some Kim Jong Un bullshit — Dong Overton (@DongOverton) March 19, 2018

All the weight of the entire team on your back will do that — Justin Tucker = GOAT (@baseballdingerr) March 19, 2018

We All Know Why pic.twitter.com/XB5TWL3U3M — RT (@_RJ191) March 19, 2018

LeBron facts has surpassed Chuck Norris facts — MNclone (@IPA2thebeach) March 19, 2018A federal court in Pennsylvania unanimously declined to step in and block the state’s new congressional map on Monday.

The decision by the special three-judge panel leaves in place a congressional map issued by the state Supreme Court in February. In January, the state Supreme Court said the congressional plan Republicans had in place since 2011 so unfairly benefited the GOP that it violated a provision in the state constitution guaranteeing free and equal elections. The suit sought to preserve that map, which gave Republicans a consistent 13-5 advantage in the state, for elections this year.

The U.” Myers said it was his son Spike who asked him if there was going to be a new Austin Powers movie. “I’d like to,” he told his son.

Myers resurrected his Dr. Lotter, who had received death threats throughout his career, was shot and killed while in a taxi in Tanzania.The New York Times has asked the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court to release warrant application documents on President Donald Trump’s former campaign aide Carter Page. The newspaper is arguing that the president himself has already “lowered the shield of secrecy” by approving release of the controversial Republican memo.

Because the president already agreed to declassify information in the memo concerning the FBI and Justice Department investigation of Page, there is “no longer any reason for the Page warrant orders and application materials to be withheld in their entirety,” states the newspaper’s request Monday for release of the wiretap records. “Continued classification of the entirety of this court’s orders and the warrant application materials is no longer proper in light of President Trump’s declassification of the Nunes memo.”

Rep. Devin Nunes (R-Calif.) last week released a four-page memo written by GOP staff claiming that the FBI used biased information, paid for by Democrats, in a warrant application for electronic surveillance of Page. The memo said the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act (FISA) court was unaware of the political motivation behind the research, which the Democrats have countered is inaccurate and misleading. (Nunes conceded in a Fox News interview that there was a “footnote” by the FBI in its surveillance application that referred to a political entity being behind research used in the FISA request.)

Disclosure beyond the selective information in the Nunes memo also “serves the public interest,” according to the Times. “Publication would contribute to an informed debate about the propriety of the government’s FISA application.”

The memo has “sparked an intense debate over the accuracy of its characterization of the Page warrant applications.” But none of the “accusations .. Evil character on “The Tonight Show” in April, having recently been fired from President Donald Trump’s cabinet. Apparently, even Dr. Evil wasn’t evil enough for the Trump administration.

“I have a lot of stuff coming,” said Myers.

The Bangladeshi government allocated 2,000 acres (809 hectares) for a new camp in Ukhia, prompting an influx of people before anything was ready.Australian Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull wants his country to become a top 10 'defence exporter.' But his plan has been criticised at home. SAEED KHAN via Getty Images

Australia has unveiled an ambitious plan to become one of the world’s largest arms exporters within a decade, under a controversial strategy announced by the nation’s prime minister.

Malcolm Turnbull on Monday unveiled his government’s $US3.1 billion “defence export strategy” which outlines the policy and strategy to make Australia one of the world’s top 10 weapons exporters by 2028.S. State Department official told The Associated Press on Thursday that the timing of the dropped charges before Tillerson’s meeting was coincidental. An official told CNN that questions arose about the identity of Erdogan’s guards involved in the attack. Several faces of the attackers were clearly visible in the Voice of America videotape.

The government says Australia currently only sells about $1.5bn to $2.5bn in defence exports a year.

“The Government believes that, over time, Australia can become a major defence exporter,” the export strategy says.

Australian Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull said the plan was ambitious and positive. FRANCK ROBICHON via Getty Images

Prime Minister Turnbull described the plan as an “ambitious, positive plan” to boost Australian industry, increase investment, and create more jobs. Women have a lot of roles they can do in the church. Let no one stand in the way of the holy spirit,” she added.

Watch a livestream of the Voices of Faith conference below.

The Voices of Faith conference is typically held in a small palazzo in the Vatican gardens, according to the Associated Press. In the past, the conference has addressed issues like women’s activism in immigration and education.

This year’s conference is organized around the theme “Why Women Matter.” Organizers aimed to spark conversation about how women can become more involved in the decision-making structures of a church dominated by male clergy. Sessions address topics like where Catholic women can look for female role models and whether the church is relevant to young women. In one panel discussion, organizers put forward the question: “Will the Catholic Church survive the 21st century?”

“If current leaders of the Roman Curia do not include capable qualified women in roles that are theoretically open to them, we face a future where the Catholic Church will be a relic of the past,” the organizers state in a program booklet for the conference. “I think I may have found the right balance now, and I’m super thrilled.”When it comes to New York Jets players kneeling during the national anthem, team chairman Christopher Johnson is a standup guy.

Johnson said the team wouldn’t fine any player for protesting, despite a new NFL owner-approved measure that enables teams to do so, according to reports.

Wednesday’s rule change says players must stand for the anthem or stay off the field. If any player kneels, his team would face a league fine. Teams can discipline individual players.

“As I have in the past, I will support our players wherever we land as a team,” Johnson said in a statement, according to the New York Post. “Our focus is not on imposing any Club rules, fines, or restrictions. Instead we will continue to work closely with our players to constructively advance social justice issues that are important to us. I remain extremely proud of how we demonstrated unity last season as well as our players’ commitment to strengthening our communities.”

Christopher Johnson locks arms with players during the national anthem before a game in September 2017. Al Bello via Getty Images

Johnson elaborated on his pledge not to fine players in an interview with Newsday.

“I do not like imposing any club-specific rules,” he said. “If somebody (on the Jets) takes a knee, that fine will be borne by the organization, by me, not the players.

“I never want to put restrictions on the speech of our players. Do I prefer they stand? Of course. But I understand if they feel the need to protest. There are some big, complicated issues that we’re all struggling with, and our players are on the front lines.”

Johnson’s stance could get interesting in the team’s hierarchy. He has been designated as the acting owner while his brother, team owner Woody Johnson, serves as President Donald Trump’s ambassador to the United Kingdom, CBS Sports pointed out.

Trump, who has repeatedly criticized demonstrating players, applauded the new NFL edict. “You have to stand proudly for the national anthem or you shouldn’t be playing,” he said.