Indiana’s Democratic Sen. Joe Donnelly has a tricky dance to learn if he wants to be re-elected this fall in his red state. Bill Clark / Getty Images

HIGHLAND, Ind. — President Donald Trump is set to fly to Indiana on Thursday night for a campaign rally, and if Senate Republicans have their way, his first goal will be to slam Joe Donnelly.

Don’t expect Donnelly, arguably the most vulnerable Democratic senator running for re-election in 2018, to return the favor.” But a new study from the Pew Research Center shows that for a significant number of Americans, “God” is not the God of the Bible.

The online survey of more than 4,700 adults, published Wednesday, found that a slim majority of Americans described themselves as believing in God “as described in the Bible” (56 percent). On the other hand, 33 percent of Americans said that while they don’t believe in that God, they do believe in some other higher power or spiritual force in the universe.

This belief in something bigger is found even among those who identify as atheists, agnostics or “nothing in particular” ― a group that previous Pew research has found makes up more than 22 percent of adults and is growing. In fact, 72 percent of that religiously unaffiliated group, collectively known as “nones,” expressed belief in God or a higher power. Fifty-three percent of them said they believe in a vague spiritual force, 17 percent confessed to believing in the God of the Bible, and 2 percent were unclear on the particulars.

Pew Research Center

Not surprisingly, Christians were the most likely to say they believed in the God described in the Bible (80 percent). This belief was especially pronounced among Christians who go to historically black Protestant churches (92 percent) and evangelicals (91 percent).

But there were some differences in belief within Christian denominations. For example, 26 percent of mainline Protestants and 28 percent of Catholics said they believe in a higher power or spiritual force, but not in the God of the Bible.

Only 33 percent of Jews said they believe in the God of the Bible, while 56 percent just believe in a higher power or spiritual force.

There were not enough responses for Pew to draw conclusions about Muslims, Buddhists, Hindus and other religious believers.

Ryan T. Cragun, a professor of sociology at The University of Tampa who studies secularization, told HuffPost that the survey aligns with other research indicating that non-belief is growing in the U. — Sara // #NEVERAGAIN (@_saxarmaxim) March 22, 2018

The students at Marjory Stoneman Douglas have been pushing for gun law reform since the massacre last month. Their social media campaign, #NeverAgain, has galvanized a movement and garnered support from big names like Oprah Winfrey, Steven Spielberg and George Clooney.

The teens also organized last week’s 17-minute walkout at high schools across the country and even pressured Florida Gov. Rick Scott (R) to enact the state’s first gun control measure in over two decades.

Other Twitter users criticized the clear backpack rule, with many echoing the issues stated by Marjory Stoneman Douglas students.

At a campaign event at a public park here in heavily Democratic Lake County, he never mentioned Trump’s name in his stump speech, even as Donnelly slammed two of the administration’s signature achievements: nullifying Obamacare’s individual mandate and making sweeping changes to the tax code.

The twist? He blames those measures on Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, not the president who signed them into law.

“Mitch McConnell increased everybody’s health care [costs] in that tax cut bill,” he said to applause from the crowd of about 40 Democratic activists. “And Mitch McConnell’s tax bill made it so everything you did get would be given back in health care payments.”

The second television ad of Donnelly’s campaign, released before Trump’s visit, has the candidate positioning himself as “a bridge between the far left and the far right” to pass laws combating military suicides and working with then-Gov. Mike Pence to expand health care in the state.

It’s a complicated dance — slam GOP policies without attacking Trump, promote bipartisanship while bashing McConnell. And with five Democratic senators running for re-election in 2018 in states Trump won by double digits, Donnelly won’t be the only one who needs to learn the steps. While the Democratic base is fired up to deliver a blow to the president in the midterms, Donnelly and other red-state Democrats want to keep the focus on the GOP’s unpopular tax and health care policies while showing they can work with the president at times. It’s an approach Democrats are confident can work in Indiana.

“The voters Donnelly needs to win don’t want someone who’s throwing red meat,” said Kip Tew, a former Indiana Democratic Party chair. “They want someone who’s trying to solve problems.”

Donnelly’s re-election bid got tougher on Tuesday night, when businessman and former state legislator Mike Braun won the GOP primary to challenge him. Braun portrayed himself as an outsider to win a Trump-inspired primary so nasty that one candidate made a children’s book attacking another.

Donnelly has a low profile in D.C. compared with some of the other Democratic senators facing re-election in 2018 — Missouri Sen. Claire McCaskill is ubiquitous on cable news, for instance, and Montana Sen. Jon Tester played a key role in spiking the nomination of Trump’s White House doctor to lead the Department of Veterans Affairs. But Donnelly is a constant presence back home, and he has already gone on multiple tours of the state, driving a campaign-branded recreational vehicle.

Even his potential opponents acknowledged how hard it would be to defeat him. At a campaign stop last weekend before his loss in the primary to Braun, Rep. Sheila Jackson Lee (D-Texas) invoked rapper Jay-Z’s recent comments that Trump was “missing the whole point.”

“I probably followed the mode somewhat of Jay-Z,” she told HuffPost. “I frankly believe there’s black unemployment, and black unemployment among young African-American men, who need more than praise about unemployment. They need job training, they need education, starting from primary and secondary schools of which neighborhoods they live in that the schools are not where they should be. They need support for their families.”

“So I thought it was disingenuous, and it was placating, and insulting, to be very honest with you. Where’s the compassion and the passion for comprehensive issues dealing with our community? Gun violence? The need for housing?”

Igor Bobic contributed reporting.WASHINGTON — President Donald Trump’s first State of the Union address was competently delivered and — for him — relatively inoffensive. The mainstream media and the television pundits will surely deem it to be a presidential moment, representative of yet another pivot to the center.

But one speech does not erase Trump’s record. The speech’s banality — its embrace of optimism and platitude — is a mask. Do not be fooled: Political extremism, divisive rhetoric and bizarre behavior have characterized the first year of Trump’s presidency and underlie many of the harmless-sounding proposals he talked about Tuesday night.

In his first State of the Union address, President Donald Trump downplayed or didn't mention many of his administration's policies. Mandel Ngan/Getty Images

Trump mentioned none of those facts in his State of the Union address. Indeed, the speech was most notable for all of the policies and initiatives of his administration that he downplayed or left out entirely. Todd Rokita said, “If you know Joe Donnelly, you know he’s better than Evan Bayh in a lot of ways,” referring to the state’s Democratic former senator who lost a comeback bid in 2016. “He’s very retail in what he does, and I mean that in the best way.”

Braun won the primary with the help of millions of dollars worth of television ads boosting his name recognition. He paid for those ads with his own money — something he reportedly said he wouldn’t do in the general election.

In an interview before his primary victory, he seemed confident his momentum would continue into November. He contrasted his success building up Meyer Distributing, his warehouse distribution business, with what he said was Donnelly’s failed legal career and ineffective time in politics.

“He’s got a voting record that matches up pretty well with [House Minority Leader Nancy] Pelosi and [Senate Minority Leader Chuck] Schumer,” he said. “I don’t think we send the cream of the crop to D.C.”

Braun has a simpler job: He just needs to keep pro-Trump voters in his corner.

“His record is going to be easy to flush out,” Braun said in his victory speech on Tuesday night, citing Donnelly’s votes against the tax bill and for maintaining Obamacare. “I intend to be the person to send Joe Donnelly to an early retirement.”

Republicans and Democrats agree there are two large groups of swing voters in the state: union workers who make up Donnelly’s base but voted for Trump in 2016 and college-educated suburban voters, mostly women, in the so-called doughnut counties surrounding Indianapolis.

Union leaders are confident Donnelly’s history of opposing free trade deals and outsourcing will keep voters in his camp in 2018. Jerome Davison, the rapid response coordinator for the United Steelworkers District 7, noted that Trump won 40 percent of the vote in deep blue northwestern Indiana, even as Democratic Rep. Pete Visclosky won re-election with 82 percent of the vote.

“It’s a lot about the individual, not the party,” he said of union members’ voting decisions. “They know Sen. Donnelly’s record on trade issues, on working-families issues.”

But Republicans see an opportunity to undercut his image by attacking him for owning stock in a family business that outsourced jobs to Mexico. That manager will be unanimously selected by the city’s mayor, the speaker of the City Council and the president of NYCHA within 60 days. If they are unable to make a selection, the city’s comptroller will have two weeks to make one.

Gov. Cuomo described the homes he saw on his tour as "some of the worst living conditions I have ever witnessed." Office of Gov. Addressing reporters at the State Department Tuesday afternoon, a sullen Tillerson said that Trump had called him at noon, more than three hours after the president’s tweet.

Mike Pompeo, Director of the CIA, will become our new Secretary of State. He will do a fantastic job! Thank you to Rex Tillerson for his service! Gina Haspel will become the new Director of the CIA, and the first woman so chosen. Congratulations to all! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) March 13, 2018

The White House said Trump asked Tillerson to step down on Friday so the president could have a “new team in place” for an upcoming meeting with North Korean leader Kim Jong Un.

But a State Department spokesman told CNN that Tillerson found out about his firing when Trump announced it on Twitter on Tuesday.

According to a statement that followed Trump’s announcement, Tillerson ”had every intention of staying,” the State Department said. “The Secretary did not speak to the President and is unaware of the reason.”

The State Department official who contradicted the White House on Tillerson’s firing was also fired, The Associated Press reported.

Trump told reporters on Tuesday that he “made that decision by myself” to remove Tillerson, and noted that “Rex, as you know, was not in this country” at the time. He alluded to their disagreements, saying, “we were not thinking the same,” and predicted, “Rex will be happier now.”

Tillerson cut short a trip to Africa, returning to Washington Monday night. Reporters traveling with him said that they had no idea the secretary of state had been fired on Friday.

We got off the plane with Tillerson less than four hours ago. Andrew Cuomo

Cuomo’s signing was attended by a number of city officials, including city Comptroller Scott M. Stringer. Noticeably absent was Mayor Bill de Blasio.

The governor and mayor have engaged in a long feud over money and management issues.

Gov. Cuomo, flanked by city officials on Monday, signed an executive order that declared a state of emergency at the New York City Housing Authority. Office of Gov. Andrew Cuomo

De Blasio has publicly defended the housing agency and its chairwoman, Shola Olatoye, affirming in January that he is “convinced she is the person that can move us forward.”

He had not publicly commented on Cuomo’s emergency order by Monday evening. Donnelly sold the stock, but that hasn’t stopped the GOP from dubbing him “Mexico Joe” and the National Republican Senatorial Committee from sending a mariachi band to one of his campaign events. Republicans hope the attacks can undercut the core of Donnelly’s public image.

Democrats will attempt to fire back by highlighting Braun’s business record, citing an Associated Press report that found his companies “do brisk business importing goods from the same overseas countries he has criticized for taking American jobs” and said federal records “present a picture of a boss who has overworked and underpaid employees.”

He defended his business record, saying Democratic opposition researchers “cherry-picked” from a long career.

“I think they found three instances from 37 years,” he said. “If we had those kinds of problems, we wouldn’t have high retention rates. And we did.”

Some Republicans are worried that his embrace of Trump — Braun called himself a humbler version of the New York real estate magnate and ran ads promising to build Trump’s promised border wall and follow the president’s agenda — could alienate voters in the suburbs. Trump won just 56 percent of the vote in Hamilton County, a GOP stronghold where George W. Bush claimed nearly three-quarters of the vote in his two presidential bids.