Sen. John McCain (R-Ariz.) on Wednesday urged the U. Pat Garofalo, who is sponsoring a sports betting bill, said in a statement it’s time to move Minnesota’s sports gambling laws “out of the caveman era and into the 21st century.”

“Hundreds of thousands of Minnesotans already wager on sports,” Garofalo, a Republican, said. “Modernizing these laws will move these activities away from” the underground economy “where citizens have few protections, and into a safe, regulated business environment.”

Bucking the Trend

In other states, meanwhile, elected leaders are getting ahead of the Supreme Court to block sports gambling within their borders.

A broad betting bill to allow casinos as well as sports gambling was introduced in the South Carolina Legislature last year, but it got nowhere, partially because to make gambling legal would require a constitutional amendment.S. Senate to reject Gina Haspel’s nomination as director of the CIA.

McCain released a statement just hours after Haspel went before the Senate Intelligence Committee for her confirmation hearing. In her testimony, Haspel told lawmakers that she would not restart the agency’s defunct torture program if confirmed to head the CIA, but she repeatedly dodged questions about the morality of the program.

In his statement, McCain said he understood “the urgency that drove the decision” to resort to torture as a method of interrogation after the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks. “But as I have argued many times, the methods we employ to keep our nation safe must be as right and just as the values we aspire to live up to and promote in the world.”

He continued: “I believe Gina Haspel is a patriot who loves our country and has devoted her professional life to its service and defense. However, Ms. Haspel’s role in overseeing the use of torture by Americans is disturbing. Her refusal to acknowledge torture’s immorality is disqualifying. I believe the Senate should exercise its duty of advice and consent and reject this nomination.”

McCain is a fierce opponent of so-called enhanced interrogation techniques. The senator, who fought in the Vietnam War, was held in solitary confinement and tortured as a prisoner of war in Hanoi for more than five years.

Haspel, a 30-year CIA veteran and current acting director of the agency, headed up a clandestine base in Thailand, where she reportedly oversaw the interrogation of a terrorism suspect that included waterboarding. She also reportedly played a part in helping to destroy recorded tapes of the interrogations in 2005.

Despite McCain’s comments, his good friend Sen. Lindsey Graham (R-S.C.) announced Thursday that he would back Haspel. Graham said she “has rejected the interrogation policies of the past” and “should be confirmed as soon as possible as we live in a time of continuing threats.”

At the time of Haspel’s nomination in March, McCain responded by calling the United States’ use of torture against detainees “one of the darkest chapters in American history.”Marielle Franco, a black, queer Rio city councilwoman born in one of the city's sprawling favelas, was shot and killed in March. NurPhoto via Getty Images

Nearly two months have passed since the assassination of Marielle Franco, the black, queer favela-born Rio de Janeiro councilwoman whose murder turned her into a martyr for the cause of police reform. Now Rio police believe they may finally be close to answering the question that has become a rallying cry in Brazil and across the world: “Who killed Marielle?”

During a meeting with two federal lawmakers this week, top police delegates seemed optimistic about new information they had recently obtained in the course of their investigation. The delegates mentioned they could soon begin preparing hard evidence to take to a jury and a courtroom, said federal deputy Jean Wyllys, who was in attendance.

The investigation still isn’t over, Wyllys cautioned. But police believe their investigation is on the right path, he told HuffPost by phone.

For the 2018 open enrollment period on the exchange marketplaces, which ended Dec. 15 in most states, 11.8 million people signed up for private health insurance plans, according to government data compiled by the National Academy for State Health Policy and released Wednesday.

That’s down 4 percent from the 12.2 million who chose policies during the sign-up campaign for 2017.

“It’s not collapse. It’s incredible stability,” Peter Lee, executive director of Covered California, the state’s health insurance exchange, said during a conference call organized by the health policy academy on Wednesday.

Fewer enrollees is hardly ideal, and 2018 marks the second consecutive year in which sign-ups declined, after growing from 2014 through 2016. The 2017 and 2018 open enrollment periods were the first ones under the Trump administration.

The results among some of the state-run exchanges, over which the federal government has less influence, suggest the health insurance exchanges work better for consumers when the people in charge aren’t actively trying to make them worse.

Eleven states and the District of Columbia manage their own health insurance exchanges, and five other states handle many of the exchange’s functions even though their residents use the federal HealthCare.gov system to enroll instead of a state-run website.

In those states, enrollment rose 2 percent ― a modest gain, except when compared with the 5.3 percent decline in the remaining 34 states, where the Trump administration had almost total control this year.

And over the past two open enrollment periods, sign-ups in state-run exchanges, including those that use HealthCare. And that path, according to news reports, may lead right back to the police.

Rio’s Civil Police did not respond to HuffPost’s requests for comment on Thursday morning. But the Brazilian newspaper O Globo reported Wednesday that an anonymous witness identified two men ― one a city councilman, the other a former military police officer ― who allegedly orchestrated Franco’s murder. O Globo later reported that the witness said two military police officers were in the car that fired on and killed Franco and her driver, Anderson Gomes.

“Many feel that Franco's murder was a deliberate and targeted attempt to erase a woman who had challenged Rio’s entrenched power structures.”

Franco, a member of the leftist Socialism and Freedom Party, or PSOL, was 14 months into her first term on the city council when an attacker gunned her and Gomes down after an event in Rio the night of March 14.

Franco was a fierce critic of rampant police violence in the city; she also opposed the federal military intervention that Brazilian President Michel Temer launched in February. With her election, she became a powerful advocate for poor, black favela-born residents like herself. Many say they feel her murder was a deliberate and targeted attempt to erase a woman who had challenged Rio’s entrenched power structures ― from its police to its political leadership ― which often stigmatized and ignored favela residents.

Almost immediately, Rio police turned their suspicions on rogue militias. The extrajudicial armed groups, often made up of current and former law enforcement officials, are active in Rio and especially its informal favela neighborhoods. Franco had previously served on an investigative committee that probed the number of killings such militias had carried out across Rio.

Since then, investigators have linked the bullets that killed Franco and Gomes to a cache originally owned by the Federal Police in Brasilia.

Victim Mattie Larson speaks at the sentencing hearing for Larry Nassar on January 23, 2018. Brendan McDermid / Reuters

Denhollander first went public with her accusations in The Indianapolis Star in September 2016. At the time, she and her husband were attending a church in Louisville, Kentucky. She claimed the church was “directly” involved in supporting a local pastor who had been accused of covering up child sex abuse. When Denhollander spoke up on behalf of survivors, it caused a rift between her and the leaders of her church. She said some elders even used her personal story of sexual abuse as a weapon against her, claiming that the assault had clouded her judgment as an advocate.

In the interview with Christianity Today, Denhollander made it clear that she feels the problem is bigger than one individual congregation. She believes the American evangelical church as a whole has to work much harder to appropriately respond to abuse allegations from survivors.

“The only reason I am able to have the support of these leaders now is because I am speaking out against an organization not within their community,” Denhollander said. “Had I been so unfortunate so as to have been victimized by someone in their community ... I would be massively shunned. That’s the reality.”

Larry Nassar stands with his attorney Matt Newburg as Judge Janice Cunningham (seen on screen) gives instructions during Nassar's second sentencing in the Eaton County Circuit Court in Charlotte, Michigan, U. Last week, reports emerged that five security cameras monitoring the street where they were killed had been turned off during the assault. And on Sunday, a Brazilian TV news program reported that the two victims had not been killed with a pistol, but with a submachine gun commonly used by Brazil’s special police forces.

Additionally, two men who’d been indicted as a result of the militia investigation Franco helped conduct had visited the Rio city council building in the days before her murder, The Intercept Brazil reported.

Orlando Oliviera de Araújo, the former military police officer whom O Globo’s witness named, has been in prison since 2017, but he allegedly still runs a militia group from behind bars, according to the paper. Araújo and Marcello Siciliano, the city councilman the witness identified, have reportedly denied any role in the shooting.

‘I Want To Believe In Justice’

"Marielle Presente" -- or "Marielle Is Present" -- became a rallying cry for protesters around the world after Franco's murder. NurPhoto via Getty Images

Franco’s death sparked demonstrations in cities across Brazil and the world: Cries of “Marielle Presente” ― or “Marielle Is Here” ― came from protesters in Paris, Buenos Aires, New York and Washington who hadn’t known her name just days earlier, but were nonetheless inspired by her cause.

But as days turned into weeks, the worst fears of Rio residents and Franco’s supporters began to deepen: that her killers were professionals committing a crime designed to go forever unsolved, that the same power structures Franco had criticized would have no interest in solving the crime anyway.

“Brazil has a long history of killing of human rights defenders with no investigation,” said Jurema Werneck, the director of Amnesty International Brazil.

Rio police, who initially refused assistance from federal police investigators, have attempted to alleviate any fears that they will not find Franco’s killers, insisting for more than a month that their investigation “is on the right track” and pledging that they “will not rest until we have settled the case.”

The lack of immediate answers is not a result of an unwillingness to pursue the case, police and security experts said, but of a justice system in which progress is made inch by inch when it’s made at all.

“I want to believe in justice. I want to believe that these people will reach Marielle’s killers.” - Brazilian federal deputy Jean Wyllys

The meeting between top police officials and the federal congressmen was an information-sharing session, meant to assuage public doubts in the police investigation and address the lawmakers’ misgivings about it. During his 2010 re-election bid, for example, Sen. John McCain (R-Ariz.) starred in a memorable ad in which he walked along the U.S. border with Mexico and urged then-Sheriff Paul Babeu to “complete the danged fence.” In 2012, GOP presidential contender Mitt Romney urged undocumented immigrants to “self-deport.” And just last week, Romney said as a Senate candidate in Utah that undocumented immigrants who came into the country as children shouldn’t be allowed to obtain legal status at all.

Trump recently signed a $1.3 trillion government funding bill into law that will greatly increase the federal deficit by raising spending for domestic and military programs. During the Obama administration, Republicans railed against the federal deficit and called for cutting spending. But the fact that the omnibus sailed through was less a result of Trump being a new type of president then the reality that Republicans no longer need to make the deficit a political issue now that they have a GOP president.

On gun policy, Trump stunned lawmakers earlier this year when he publicly embraced several gun control measures and shot down GOP priorities like concealed carry reciprocity. He even, shockingly, said he would be fine taking away people’s guns without their permission, and told members of Congress that they should be willing to stand up to the National Rifle Association.

Shortly thereafter, however, order in Trump’s Washington was restored: The Republican president had realigned himself with conservative priorities and abandoned talk of pushing lawmakers to pass broader gun control proposals.

And on social policy, Trump has continued to restrict abortion access and block advancements for lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender people, staying in the space where Republicans have traditionally fallen.

Wyllys, himself a member of PSOL, criticized police for allowing information on the case to be disseminated primarily through media reports, saying it has fueled the belief that Franco’s killers may never be found by creating “room for speculation and insecurities on the part of society.” But the congressman, who represents Rio de Janeiro, is trying to maintain hope about the investigation.

“I want to believe and I hope that we find the culprits,” Wyllys said. “I want to believe in the good faith and competence of this team and in the commitment of the delegate Rivaldo [Barbosa, head of Rio’s Civil Police], who personally knew Marielle, and I want to believe in justice. I want to believe that these people will reach Marielle’s killers.”

‘They Have An Obligation To Give Us An Answer’

Without a hard conclusion to the case, though, Wyllys and others reiterated the need to maintain pressure on the police to carry out a thorough investigation.

Rio’s police are among the most violent in the world ― in 2017, they were responsible for nearly 1,000 killings. And human rights activists have long criticized investigations into police killings and the rogue militias that patrol many favelas, saying they effectively allow police to target poor, black Brazilians with impunity. That has diminished trust in Rio’s police and contributed to the belief that they may not be capable of carrying out a real investigation into Franco’s death.

City councilman David Miranda, also a member of PSOL, delivered a petition to the Organization of American States in the Dominican Republic this week, calling for an independent investigation into Franco’s murder. Miranda was accompanied by Mônica Benício, Franco’s widow.

More than 20,000 people have signed the petition since it first went public in March, including high-profile celebrities, musicians, authors and politicians from around the world.

Foram mais de 20 mil assinaturas exigindo saber quem mandou matar Marielle Franco e por quê. Eu e Mônica, a viúva de Marielle, estamos a caminho da Organização dos Estados Americanos, na República Dominicana, para exigir que este crime bárbaro seja solucionado! pic.twitter.com/uIavp9bZOT — David Miranda (@davidmirandario) May 8, 2018

“Given that Marielle’s assassination bears all the hallmarks of a targeted assassination,” the petition states, “we call for the creation of an independent commission comprised of prominent and respected national and international human rights and legal experts and tasked with carrying out an independent investigation of the murder of Marielle Franco with the full cooperation of state judicial and police authorities.”

Franco’s killing came amid a yearslong increase in violent crime rates across Brazil, and the number of shootings in Rio de Janeiro has continued to rise in 2018. But Franco’s death stands out, given the challenge her very existence represented to Rio’s ― and Brazil’s ― establishment. Senators, has a nasty mouth.

“This was really an attack on democracy,” Brian Winter, the editor-in-chief of Americas Quarterly who lived in Brazil for five years, said on his podcast last week. “Whoever did this was trying to send a message, a message in favor of the disastrous status quo on violence in Rio and in Brazil as a whole, and a message that political participation by people like Marielle was unacceptable.”

Demonstrators march through Mare, the Rio favela where Marielle Franco was born, to protest her killing in March. MAURO PIMENTEL via Getty Images

Wyllys, meanwhile, sees Franco’s murder as a side effect of the broader political polarization that has plagued Brazil since the 2016 impeachment of President Dilma Rousseff and former President Luiz Inácio “Lula” da Silva’s conviction on corruption charges last year.

That polarization, Wyllys said, has provoked increasingly incendiary rhetoric, often aimed at leftist politicians ― both Rousseff and Silva, who is once again running for president in 2018, are members of the center-left Workers’ Party. The rhetoric has at times turned violent. In March, just two weeks after Franco’s murder, someone fired on Silva’s campaign bus during an event in the southern state of Parana. A month later, gunshots fired at a group of Silva’s supporters injured two of them.

“I believe that Marielle’s murder took place within this atmosphere of hatred,” Wyllys said. “Criminal forces that have a presence in [Rio] state and are dissatisfied with the political action of the left may be behind this murder, not only in an active way, but by allowing this environment of tension and hatred.”

The political nature of Franco’s killing and its links to official sources of ammunition and weaponry only increase the importance of finding her murderers, Werneck said ― and until the investigation actually brings Franco’s killers to justice, activists will continue to pressure investigators and police.

“We are demanding an answer, and we are expecting an answer, and they have an obligation to give us an answer,” she said. “It has been almost 60 days, but we will continue to put on pressure. They have an obligation, not only to Marielle’s family, but to the movement, to black women, to the people of Rio de Janeiro, and to the people of Brazil.”

Werneck added: “We have the whole world looking at them, and asking for answers. We cannot send the message of impunity.”