

Do you think antitrust is a part of that toolkit? Because people look at how concentrated the drug industry, the hospital industry, the insurance industry are, and they say that that is one of the key drivers of costs.

Let me just say this, because I think it’s important to say this clearly: We’re not beholden to anybody except the right answer for the American public.

What I would tell you is, when you end up, as you had with the ACA and almost every other law, where ... the insurance companies and pharma companies are sitting around the table quote-unquote bargaining for the end game, who represents the American public in that bargain?

And the reality is that we felt like that voice wasn’t strong enough. I spent this last summer doing town halls across the country ― I did 15 town halls in districts where congresspeople had refused to hold town halls ― in order to bring information to the American public. And what I saw is enormous unanimity around what it is that people want.If you ever run into “Queer Eye” style expert Tan France on the street and he doesn’t like what you’re wearing, chances are he’s not going to tell you. That is, unless you ask what he thinks.

During a recent sit-down with AOL Entertainment at Express 51st + Madison ahead of his appearance at the store’s Success & Style series, France revealed that he only gives style advice to those who ask for guidance ― unsolicited advice would just be too cruel.

“I don’t give unsolicited advice,” France said. “I don’t think it’s fair! Unless you’re close with someone, I don’t want to destroy them. If I think something is heinous, but the person feels amazing in it, who am I to critique it? If they think that those bell-bottom, cropped, shredded jeans look good, then good for them!”

“I promise they’ll look back in horror,” he added with a laugh. “But if it makes you feel good, go for it!”

France was the face of Express’ Office Style Tips Q&A session last week, which is an elevated position in the public eye that he’s still getting used to just three months after Netflix’s “Queer Eye” reboot made him and the rest of the Fab Five overnight sensations.

“It’s still a strange feeling,” he explained to us. “The weirdest thing is people knowing your name. I wasn’t in this industry before, and I never wanted to be in show business before this. All of the other boys were part of this world, so for me it was the most shocking. I was a very private person. I never had an open social media account.

See more photos of the Lego royals with their brick babe below:In the fall of 2013, James Bay played an intimate gig in New York City as part of the CMJ Music Festival. He was just at the start of his career, performing for maybe a hundred or so people.

“It feels like a short space of time,” he said when I asked him about that CMJ show. “That does in so many respects feel like yesterday, to be where I’m at now and talking to you.”

In the last five years, the English singer has put out multiple EPs and released his full-length debut album, featuring the single “Let It Go.” He’s been nominated for three Grammys, and in March, he made his debut on “Saturday Night Live. So, for me to walk down the street and have people say, ‘Hey, Tan!’ I turn around thinking, ‘Do I know you?’ That moment is new for me. It’s difficult.”

Even if it’s still “difficult” for him, he doesn’t show it. As hundreds of fans lined up outside of the Express store in Midtown Manhattan, France was jittery with excitement to greet fans who, he says, make him “feel the love.”

As for the office style tips that he was doling out to eager ears, France explained that his two-year stint as a receptionist back in London made him more than qualified to share his expertise on what men should be wearing when they go to work every day.

“I worked as a receptionist in England for a couple of years whilst I was building up my business,” he recalled. “I decided to take a massive pay cut from my full-time job and work as a receptionist, so I could make my own business work. I had to wear a suit. I don’t love to wear a suit in a corporate setting, but I wore one for two years and I did it my way: Cropped, with sneakers, with a shirt of my choice. I definitely have experience with a corporate job, and I still think that, even if you have to wear a suit, you can make it cool and make it your own without looking like you’ve lost your mind at work.”

France said that, while guys should strive to include some sort of color or pattern in their everyday workwear, they should avoid too much of a pop ― it’s easy for an work look to get too busy.

“I love that people want to throw on a print in their socks or a pocket square or a tie, but you’re going to look crazy if you’ve got all of those things going on, so choose two,” he said. ”

For men who don’t want to have to make a choice every single morning while getting ready for work, France’s advice was to simply go back to basics and throw out anything that hasn’t been worn in a while. In other words, just make things easier for yourself. The cause of the fire remains unknown, though Chernov suggested a child may have used a lighter to ignite the foam filler of a trampoline in the play area, according to The New York Times.

Video shared online by Russian news outlets showed thick smoke rapidly filling the fourth floor as the fire began to spread.

Russian authorities confirmed Monday that emergency exits at the shopping center had been blocked and the fire alarm system had been switched off, corroborating eyewitness accounts.

Harrowing videos posted on social media showed desperate people jumping from windows to escape the fire. An 11-year-old boy was among those who jumped.

Russia’s Health Minister Veronika Skvortsova said the child had survived but was in “serious condition.” He lost his parents and a younger sister in the fire, Skvortsova said.

11yo boy survived by jumping out of window of burning mall in #Kemerovo. His entire family didn't https://t.co/ueC7xrUuhY pic.twitter.com/Jrhf776t9H — RT (@RT_com) March 26, 2018

At least 64 people died in the inferno, described as one of the worst fire disasters in modern Russian history. Interfax news agency said Monday that at least 41 of those killed were children. Earlier reports said an entire fifth grade class and their teacher had perished in the blaze.

“If you have items in your closet that you haven’t worn in a year, then you’re never going to wear them. Pull them out,” he advised. “If you are struggling with style, find what we call a capsule collection, which men and women who are style-challenged need to be more aware of. [They’re] items that are going to make sense for their day-to-day: A tee, a great pair of jeans that fits well, a great suit that’s dark and goes with anything.”

“There are so many great options that are basic, and once you’ve gotten those down, you’ll always look great,” he added.

While Wood said that while the Me Too movement spotlighting the problem of sexual abuse has been “empowering and validating for survivors,” it also has triggered disturbing memories for her. Many survivors have echoed her feelings over the past months.

“While no one had to tell me that rape was such a worldwide epidemic, to see the flood of stories so similar to my own was both freeing and soul-crushing,” Wood said. “Waves of memories and details came flooding into my brain every time I read the words. “Then it’s time to add more quirk and personality to it. But Michael C. Hall is a big television star thanks to his starring role on “Dexter.” A new show starring Hall is exciting in and of itself.

The show, a pulpy thriller that could be a fun watch, has earned decent reviews. It’s like a gruesome beach read you always see at airport bookstores, but in television form. Not the most interesting writing, but a solid whodunnit. If you don’t have your basics down, then you’re never going to make it.”