Eric Schneiderman, who resigned Tuesday as New York attorney general, could have just opened up a spot for a female successor. Brendan McDermid / Reuters

WASHINGTON ― It’s difficult to read the abuse accusations against Eric Schneiderman without thinking of the job he held: The people’s attorney.

The man responsible for championing the most vulnerable New Yorkers is the same man now accused of calling a woman of color his “brown slave,” telling her she should get breast implants, choking her until she couldn’t breathe. The same man who publicly backed the Me Too movement allegedly wielded his powerful position as a threat in private, reportedly telling a woman: “I am the law.”

The Democrat, who resigned Tuesday after the allegations surfaced in a New Yorker article the day before, has denied abusing the women, saying the actions were consensual.

The position of attorney general, a state’s chief law enforcement officer, is extraordinarily influential, touching everything from policing amid the opioid epidemic to environmental and consumer protections. It can also serve as a pipeline to higher office, like a governorship. And right now, men hold the vast majority of these jobs: Only 12 of the 56 state and territory attorneys general are women; most are white.

Campaigns are underway to make state attorneys general better reflect the populations they serve. Democrats have had at least 11 female candidates run for AG in 2018, including those who lost in a primary. Republicans currently have eight. The Democratic Attorneys General Association launched the “1881 initiative″ last fall with the goal of ensuring that half of elected Democratic state attorneys general are women by the end of 2022. “My gladiator lay down his shield and gained his wings at 02:30 absolutely heartbroken,” the boy’s father Tom Evans wrote on Facebook.

“Our baby boy grew his wings tonight ... Thank you everyone for all your support,” his mother Kate James wrote.

Medical experts in Britain had agreed that more treatment for Alfie would be futile, but his parents wanted to take him to Rome, where the Vatican’s Bambino Gesu hospital had offered to care for him. A British court rejected an appeal by the parents on Wednesday to take their son to Italy.

I am deeply moved by the death of little Alfie. Today I pray especially for his parents, as God the Father receives him in his tender embrace. — Pope Francis (@Pontifex) April 28, 2018

The case has provoked strong feelings over whether judges, doctors or parents have the right to decide on a child’s life. Alfie’s parents have been backed by Pope Francis and Poland’s President Andrzej Duda.

AdvertisementGAZA, April 28 (Reuters) - A 15-year-old Palestinian youth died on Saturday after being shot the previous day by Israeli troops during protests along the Gaza border, the Palestinian Health Ministry said.

Israeli forces have killed 42 Palestinians since Gaza residents began staging protests along the border fence on March 30. The demonstrators are pressing for a right of return for refugees and their descendants to what is now Israel.

The teenager killed was identified as Azzam Aweida. The initiative is focused on recruitment and training, and is named for the year when two women in separate states ran for the office despite not being able to vote.

“Women tend to look at the job more as protecting the most vulnerable in our community,” Ellen Rosenblum, the attorney general of Oregon who is co-chairing the initiative, told HuffPost. “Not to any way diminish the guys, because I think many of them do as well. The median age of the people who have already voted is 67.

National Republicans are already casting a Lesko win as a referendum on progressive health care policies. Tipirneni advocates allowing Americans of all ages to buy into Medicare, as well as offering Medicaid beneficiaries the opportunity to purchase private coverage. But Lesko and national Republicans have dubbed her a proponent of single-payer health care in which the federal government would be the sole insurer for all Americans.

“Hiral Tipirneni will be the first of many single-payer supporters to suffer defeat this year,” said National Republican Congressional Committee spokesman Jesse Hunt.

Progressives hope to argue that Tipirneni kept the race close because she ran strongly as a champion of affordable health care, and defender of Social Security and Medicare. Tipirneni has vowed to protect the social insurance programs and denounced the budget-busting GOP tax cuts for creating a political impetus to cut them.

Ady Barkan, an ALS-stricken progressive activist whose “Be A Hero” initiative targets Republicans who voted for, or back the tax cuts, traveled to the district to campaign on Tipirneni’s behalf. While in Arizona, Barkan, who will need Medicare as his body deteriorates, asked Lesko to respond to the stated intentions of several Republican leaders, including House Speaker Ryan and White House budget director Mick Mulvaney, to seek major cuts to Social Security, Medicare and Medicaid.”

The Republican Attorneys General Association is “always searching for strong and compelling candidates who will defend the rule of law and who have the experience to do the job,” spokesman Zack Roday said. “Female candidates are frequently the leading candidates for attorney general, not because they are female, but because they are the best person for the job. That is our focus.”

Tatewin Means, a former Oglala Sioux Tribe attorney general, faces a tough road running as a Democrat in a red state, South Dakota. But she’s taking on the challenge because she’s unhappy “with the status quo, with the usual course of business in the justice system and law enforcement,” she said. One of her areas of interest is addressing the overrepresentation of American Indian youth in the state’s justice system. Money magazine attributed Monday’s sell-off to new inflation data. MarketWatch told its readers to keep their eye on the yield curve of Treasury bonds. The Guardian, with a bit more precision, explained that investors expect higher interest rates from the Fed.

But none of this is really true. When Keynes bemoaned the ignorance of stock traders more than 80 years ago, he wasn’t insulting their education. He was pointing out that any precise value judgments about a company’s future prospects require knowledge of the future ― something nobody possesses.

Means sees herself as relatable to South Dakotans because of the obstacles she’s had to personally conquer.

“With this field predominantly white male, there’s a certain sense of privilege attached to that,” Means said. He has a passion for the history of military aircraft, but he can’t quite keep up a conversation with new people. When he meets someone, he’ll quote from movies or ask them about their favorite Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtle.

His mother, Linda Demer, worried that he wouldn’t be able to make complicated decisions about his finances and health care once he turned 18. So, in 2005, a judge in Los Angeles, where they live, granted her conservatorship over Greg.

“I wanted to protect him,” she said of her son, who is now 31.

But in the conservatorship process, the judge also stripped away Greg’s right to vote. “How can they possibly relate to average citizens that have to overcome those kinds of barriers?”

Erika Harold, the Republican nominee for Illinois attorney general, initially decided to become an attorney because of an experience she had in ninth grade, when she was subject to “severe racial and sexual harassment,” including slurs and a death threat, she said. Harold, a former Miss America, wants to reform the process of reporting harassment in the state legislature so victims don’t have to be afraid of retaliation.

“We absolutely need more diversity in the people who hold these positions,” she said. “With the advent of the #MeToo movement, we’re seeing how what we need is not only reform of the law but reform of our culture.”

Dana Nessel, a Democrat who has worked on everything from high-profile same-sex rights cases to investigating and prosecuting shootings by police officers, is running for attorney general in Michigan. Last November, Nessel, who would be the state’s first openly gay AG, published a tongue-in-cheek campaign ad: “Who can you trust most not to show you their penis in a professional setting?”

“The reality is that judges, sheriffs, prosecutors and attorneys general need to look more like the populations they represent,” Nessel told HuffPost. As for that ad, she is “now trying to move on to another P word, which is policy.”

The cohort of women already went up one this week, when Barbara Underwood, a Democrat, took over as acting attorney general after Schneiderman resigned. Her position is temporary, but she’s the first woman to ever hold that job in the state, after hundreds of years of men. It’s very possible a woman could end up with the permanent position.

“It’s very hard to lose a colleague under any circumstances, but it’s not a surprise, in that we’re now hardened to the reality of what’s going on in our country... GEOFF ROBINS via Getty Images

The NCAA has formally opened an investigation into Michigan State University’s handling of the allegations against Larry Nassar, the school’s disgraced former team doctor who has been accused of sexually abusing more than 140 women, The New York Times reported on Tuesday.

The NCAA confirmed the news in a statement late Tuesday.

“The NCAA has sent a letter of inquiry to Michigan State University regarding potential NCAA rules violations related to the assaults Larry Nassar perpetrated against girls and young women, including some student-athletes at Michigan State,” the group said. “We will have no further comment at this time.”

Jason Cody, a spokesman for Michigan State University, said the school’s athletic department had received the letter and was reviewing it.

More than a hundred women have read victim impact statements during Nassar’s week-long sentencing hearing, set to conclude later this week. The physician pleaded guilty to 10 counts of first-degree sexual misconduct and faces a minimum of 25 years in prison. He was already sentenced to 60 years in prison in December for child pornography.

Many of the women say they told parents, coaches and trainers at Michigan State University about Nassar’s abuse, but that the allegations were overlooked or hidden.

Michigan State University’s former gymnastics coach Kathie Klages retired last February as allegations against Nassar began to pile up. She has been accused of covering up the accusations, according to the Times.

Jessica Smith, who said Nassar abused her for months when she was 17, told HuffPost’s Alanna Vagianos that many of those involved haven’t faced proper punishment for overlooking the complaints. with respect to the way women are treated,” Oregon Attorney General Rosenblum said. “It absolutely must stop, and women in positions like mine are in a position to do something about it.”