“And that he was just this clueless, hapless Indiana Hoosier that Donald Trump and the rest of the White House said nothing to.. and enacted before the end of this year.”

The moral influence of the Roman Catholic Church is waning in the country. In 2016, Roman Catholics made up 78.3 percent of the Irish population, down from 86.8 percent in 2006.

‘DROWNING MAN’

Russia’s Olympic delegation chief and its figure skating silver medalist, Evgenia Medvedeva, had made a last appeal to the IOC on Saturday for their suspension to be lifted, apologizing for the two doping violations during the Games.

Medal-winning curler Alexander Krushelnitsky and bobsledder Nadezhda Sergeeva failed doping tests, angering a team that had been through extensive testing before and during the first days of Games competition without returning any positive results.

The lawyer for Grigory Rodchenkov, the former Russian doping laboratory director who turned whistleblower and helped expose the drugs scandal, said “cooler heads” at the IOC had prevailed and stopped Russia’s immediate Olympic return.

Rodchenkov currently lives in hiding in the United States.

“Thomas Bach was a drowning man, but finally cooler heads within the IOC threw him a life preserver,” Jim Walden said in a statement.

“Yet, in the decision, the IOC had the gall to claim Russia ‘respected’ its decision on December 5th to institute the suspension. A series of scandals — chief among them the clerical sex abuse revelations in the 1990s — has undermined the church’s authority. A younger generation in Ireland was poised to bring the country’s reproductive rights laws up to speed with most other rich Western nations.

“It just seems a bit absurd to me that we essentially have abortion in Ireland already,” said Aisling Grace, 20, in an interview three weeks before the vote. “The eighth amendment is a continuation of this Irish culture of burying our heads in the sand,” the student at Trinity College in Dublin added. But you’ve just got to start asking yourself, if Mike Pence wants to kill an investigation that is pursuing how the Russians tried to undermine American democracy in 2016 — my gosh, makes me sad to say this … but I guess we have to start asking the question why does Mike Pence want to kill this investigation?”

Scarborough called Pence the “Spiro Agnew for the Trump administration,” referring to Richard Nixon’s first vice president, who resigned after pleading no contest to an income tax evasion charge.Andy Cohen clearly had the time of his life at the Billboard Music Awards on Sunday, chatting it up with Erika Jayne, rocking out to Janet Jackson and even scoring a coveted seat behind Taylor Swift.

Given his dramatic history with the singer ― Cohen once joked about Katy Perry with Swift and it didn’t go down well ― it seemed like things could’ve been super awkward. Luckily, Cohen told HuffPost, it was anything but.

Shawn Mendes, Taylor Swift, Camila Cabello -- and look who's photobombing on the right. Jeff Kravitz via Getty Images

“She was super nice ― so nice,” the talk show host said Tuesday at a Purina ONE and Petfinder Foundation event. “She turned around and was really sweet to me about my pink suit ― we were wearing the same color. She was awesome.”

But did he bring up Perry again, now that the two singers have reconciled?

“No, I did not,” Cohen said with a smile. And for good reason.Flay)

“Go To War” — Ben Anderson, Jonny Hawkins, Will Hoffman, Daniel Oliver, David Pramik & Mark Vollelunga, songwriters (Nothing More)

“Run” — Foo Fighters, songwriters (Foo Fighters) (WINNERS)

“The Stage” — Zachary Baker, Brian Haner, Matthew Sanders, Jonathan Seward & Brooks Wackerman, songwriters (Avenged Sevenfold)

Best Rock Album:

“Emperor Of Sand” — Mastodon

”Hardwired…To Self-Destruct” — Metallica

”The Stories We Tell Ourselves” — Nothing More

”Villains” — Queens Of The Stone Age

“A Deeper Understanding” — The War On Drugs (WINNER)

Best Alternative Music Album:

“Everything Now” — Arcade Fire

”Humanz” — Gorillaz

”American Dream” — LCD Soundsystem

”Pure Comedy” — Father John Misty

“Sleep Well Beast” — The National (WINNER)

Best R&B Performance:

“Get You” — Daniel Caesar Featuring Kali Uchis

“Distraction” — Kehlani

“High” — Ledisi

“That’s What I Like” — Bruno Mars (WINNER)

“The Weekend” — SZA

Best Traditional R&B Performance:

“Laugh And Move On” — The Baylor Project

“Redbone” — Childish Gambino (WINNER)

“What I’m Feelin’” — Anthony Hamilton Featuring The Hamiltones|

“All The Way” — Ledisi

“Still” — Mali Music

Best R&B Song:

“First Began” — PJ Morton, songwriter (PJ Morton)

“Location” — Alfredo Gonzalez, Olatunji Ige, Samuel David Jiminez, Christopher McClenney, Khalid Robinson & Joshua Scruggs, songwriters (Khalid)

“Redbone” — Donald Glover & Ludwig Goransson, songwriters (Childish Gambino)

“Supermodel” — Tyran Donaldson, Terrence Henderson, Greg Landfair Jr., Solana Rowe & Pharrell Williams, songwriters (SZA)

“That’s What I Like” — Christopher Brody Brown, James Fauntleroy, Philip Lawrence, Bruno Mars, Ray Charles McCullough II, Jeremy Reeves, Ray Romulus & Jonathan Yip, songwriters (Bruno Mars) (WINNER)

Best R&B Album:

“Freudian” — Daniel Caesar

”Let Love Rule” — Ledisi

“24K Magic” — Bruno Mars (WINNER)

“Gumbo” — PJ Morton

”Feel the Real” –Musiq Soulchild

Best Urban Contemporary Album:

“Free 6LACK” — 6LACK

“Awaken, My Love!” — Childish Gambino

”American Teen” — Khalid

”Ctrl” — SZA

“Starboy” — The Weeknd (WINNER)

Best Rap/Sung Performance:

“PRBLMS” — 6LACK

”Crew” — Goldlink Featuring Brent Faiyaz & Shy Glizzy

”Family Feud” — Jay-Z Featuring Beyoncé

“LOYALTY.” — Kendrick Lamar Featuring Rihanna (WINNER)

“Love Galore” — SZA Featuring Travis Scott

Best Rap Performance:

“Bounce Back” — Big Sean

“Bodak Yellow” — Cardi B

“4:44” — Jay-Z

“HUMBLE.” — Kendrick Lamar (WINNER)

“Bad And Boujee” — Migos Featuring Lil Uzi Vert

Best Rap Song:

“Bodak Yellow” — Dieuson Octave, Klenord Raphael, Shaftizm, Jordan Thorpe, Washpoppin & J White, songwriters (Cardi B)

“Chase Me” — Judah Bauer, Brian Burton, Hector Delgado, Jaime Meline, Antwan Patton, Michael Render, Russell Simins & Jon Spencer, songwriters (Danger Mouse Featuring Run The Jewels & Big Boi)

“HUMBLE.” — Duckworth, Asheton Hogan & M. Williams II, songwriters (Kendrick Lamar) (WINNER)

“Sassy” — Gabouer & M. Evans, songwriters (Rapsody)

“The Story Of O.J.” — Shawn Carter & Dion Wilson, songwriters (Jay-Z)

Best Rap Album:

“4:44” — Jay-Z

“DAMN.” — Kendrick Lamar (WINNER)

“Culture” — Migos

”Laila’s Wisdom” — Rapsody

”Flower Boy” — Tyler, The Creator

Best Country Album:

“Cosmic Hallelujah” — Kenny Chesney

”Heart Break” — Lady Antebellum

”The Breaker” — Little Big Town

”Life Changes” — Thomas Rhett

“From A Room: Volume 1” — Chris Stapleton - (WINNER)

Best Country Solo Performance:

“Body Like A Back Road” — Sam Hunt

“Losing You: –Alison Krauss

“Tin Man” — Miranda Lambert

“I Could Use A Love Song” — Maren Morris

“Either Way” — Chris Stapleton (WINNER)

Best Country Duo/Group Performance:

“It Ain’t My Fault” — Brothers Osborne

“My Old Man” — Zac Brown Band

“You Look Good” — Lady Antebellum

“Better Man” — Little Big Town (WINNER)

“Drinkin’ Problem” — Midland

Best Country Song:

“Better Man” — Taylor Swift, songwriter (Little Big Town)

“Body Like A Back Road” — Zach Crowell, Sam Hunt, Shane McAnally & Josh Osborne, songwriters (Sam Hunt)

“Broken Halos” — Mike Henderson & Chris Stapleton, songwriters (Chris Stapleton) (WINNER)

“Drinkin’ Problem” — Jess Carson, Cameron Duddy, Shane McAnally, Josh Osborne & Mark Wystrach, songwriters (Midland)

“Tin Man” — Jack Ingram, Miranda Lambert & Jon Randall, songwriters (Miranda Lambert)

Best New Age Album:

“Reflection” — Brian Eno

”SongVersation: Medicine” — India.Arie

“Dancing On Water” — Peter Kater (WINNER)

“Sacred Journey Of Ku-Kai, Volume 5″ — Kitaro

”Spiral Revelation” — Steve Roach

Best Improvised Jazz Solo:

“Can’t Remember Why” — Sara Caswell, soloist

“Dance Of Shiva” — Billy Childs, soloist

“Whisper Not” — Fred Hersch, soloist

“Miles Beyond” — John McLaughlin, soloist (WINNER)

“Ilimba” — Chris Potter, soloist

Best Jazz Vocal Album:

“The Journey” — The Baylor Project

”A Social Call” — Jazzmeia Horn

”Bad Ass And Blind” — Raul Midón

”Porter Plays Porter” — Randy Porter Trio With Nancy King

“Dreams And Daggers” — Cécile McLorin Salvant (WINNER)

Best Jazz Instrumental Album:

“Uptown, Downtown” — Bill Charlap Trio

“Rebirth” — Billy Childs (WINNER)

“Project Freedom” – Joey DeFrancesco & The People

”Open Book”— Fred Hersch

”The Dreamer Is The Dream” — Chris Potter

Best Large Jazz Ensemble Album:

“MONK’estra Vol. 2″ — John Beasley

”Jigsaw” — Alan Ferber Big Band

“Bringin’ It” — Christian McBride Big Band (WINNER)

“Homecoming” — Vince Mendoza & WDR Big Band Cologne

”Whispers On The Wind” — Chuck Owen And The Jazz Surge

Best Latin Jazz Album:

“Hybrido” – From Rio To Wayne Shorter — Antonio Adolfo

”Oddara” — Jane Bunnett & Maqueque

”Outra Coisa” – The Music Of Moacir Santos — Anat Cohen & Marcello Gonçalves

”Típico” — Miguel Zenón

“Jazz Tango” — Pablo Ziegler Trio (WINNER)

Best Gospel Performance/Song:

“Too Hard Not To” — Tina Campbell

“You Deserve It” — JJ Hairston & Youthful Praise Featuring Bishop Cortez Vaughn

“Better Days” — Le’Andria

“My Life” — The Walls Group

“Never Have To Be Alone” — CeCe Winans (WINNER)

Best Contemporary Christian Music Performance/Song:

“Oh My Soul” — Casting Crowns

“Clean” — Natalie Grant

“What A Beautiful Name” — Hillsong Worship (WINNER)

“Even If” — MercyMe

“Hills And Valleys” — Tauren Wells

Best Gospel Album:

“Crossover: Live From Music City” — Travis Greene

”Bigger Than Me” — Le’Andria

”Close” — Marvin Sapp

”Sunday Song” — Anita Wilson

“Let Them Fall In Love” — CeCe Winans (WINNER)

Best Contemporary Christian Music Album:

“Rise” — Danny Gokey

”Echoes” (Deluxe Edition) — Matt Maher

”Lifer” — MercyMe

”Hills And Valleys” — Tauren Wells

“Chain Breaker” — Zach Williams (WINNER)

Best Roots Gospel Album:

“The Best Of The Collingsworth Family – Volume 1″ — The Collingsworth Family

”Give Me Jesus” — Larry Cordle

”Resurrection” — Joseph Habedank

“Sing It Now: Songs Of Faith & Hope” — Reba McEntire (WINNER)

“Hope For All Nations” — Karen Peck & New River

Best Latin Pop Album:

“Lo Único Constante” — Alex Cuba

”Mis Planes Son Amarte” — Juanes

”Amar Y Vivir En Vivo Desde La Ciudad De México, 2017″ — La Santa Cecilia

”Musas (Un Homenaje Al Folclore Latinoamericano En Manos De Los Macorinos)” — Natalia Lafourcade

“El Dorado” — Shakira (WINNER)

Best Latin Rock, Urban or Alternative Album:

“Ayo” — Bomba Estéreo

”Pa’ Fuera” — C4 Trío & Desorden Público

”Salvavidas De Hielo” — Jorge Drexler

”El Paradise” — Los Amigos Invisibles

“Residente” — Residente (WINNER)

Best Regional Mexican Music Album (Including Tejano):

“Ni Diablo Ni Santo” — Julión Álvarez Y Su Norteño Banda

”Ayer Y Hoy” — Banda El Recodo De Cruz Lizárraga

”Momentos” — Alex Campos

“Arriero Somos Versiones Acústicas” — Aida Cuevas (WINNER)

“Zapateando En El Norte” — Humberto Novoa, producer (Various Artists)

Best Tropical Latin Album:

“Albita” — Albita

”Art Of The Arrangement” — Doug Beavers

“Salsa Big Band” — Rubén Blades Con Roberto Delgado & Orquesta (WINNER)

“Gente Valiente” — Silvestre Dangond

”Indestructible” — Diego El Cigala

Best American Roots Performance:

“Killer Diller Blues” — Alabama Shakes (WINNER)

“Let My Mother Live” — Blind Boys Of Alabama

”Arkansas Farmboy” — Glen Campbell

”Steer Your Way” — Leonard Cohen

”I Never Cared For You” — Alison Krauss

Best American Roots Song:

“Cumberland Gap” — David Rawlings

“I Wish You Well” — The Mavericks

“If We Were Vampires” — Jason Isbell And The 400 Unit (WINNER)

“It Ain’t Over Yet” — Rodney Crowell Featuring Rosanne Cash & John Paul White

“My Only True Friend” –Gregg Allman

Best Americana Album:

“Southern Blood” — Gregg Allman

”Shine On Rainy Day” — Brent Cobb

”Beast Epic” — Iron & Wine

“The Nashville Sound” — Jason Isbell And The 400 Unit (WINNER)

“Brand New Day” — The Mavericks

Best Bluegrass Album:

“Fiddler’s Dream” — Michael Cleveland

“Laws Of Gravity” — The Infamous Stringdusters (WINNER)

“Original” — Bobby Osborne

”Universal Favorite” — Noam Pikelny

“All The Rage” – In Concert Volume One [Live] — Rhonda Vincent And The Rage (WINNER)

Best Traditional Blues Album:

“Migration Blues” — Eric Bibb

”Elvin Bishop’s Big Fun Trio” — Elvin Bishop’s Big Fun Trio

”Roll And Tumble” — R.L. Boyce

”Sonny & Brownie’s Last Train” — Guy Davis & Fabrizio Poggi

Blue & Lonesome” — The Rolling Stones (WINNER)

Best Contemporary Blues Album:

“Robert Cray & Hi Rhythm” — Robert Cray & Hi Rhythm

”Recorded Live In Lafayette” — Sonny Landreth

“TajMo” — Taj Mahal & Keb’ Mo’ (WINNER)

“Got Soul” — Robert Randolph & The Family Band

”Live From The Fox Oakland” — Tedeschi Trucks Band

Best Folk Album:

“Mental Illness” — Aimee Mann (WINNER)

“Semper Femina” — Laura Marling

”The Queen Of Hearts” — Offa Rex

”You Don’t Own Me Anymore” — The Secret Sisters

”The Laughing Apple” — Yusuf / Cat Stevens

Best Regional Roots Music Album:

“Top Of The Mountain” — Dwayne Dopsie And The Zydeco Hellraisers

”Ho’okena 3.0″ — Ho’okena

“Kalenda” — Lost Bayou Ramblers (WINNER)

“Miyo Kekisepa, Make A Stand [Live]” — Northern Cree

”Pua Kiele” — Josh Tatofi

Best Reggae Album:

“Chronology” — Chronixx

”Lost In Paradise” — Common Kings

”Wash House Ting” — J Boog

“Stony Hill” — Damian “Jr.

Two years ago, Cohen was attending the Met Gala when he ran into Swift, who was looking for a seat to watch Lady Gaga’s performance. For some reason, he decided to point out where she could settle down.

“Why I felt I needed to get involved I will never know (maybe I was auditioning for her squad?) but I innocently said exactly the wrong thing to her, which was, ‘Your friend Katy is sitting in the corner and there’s plenty of room around her,’” Cohen recounted in his book Superficial: More Adventures From the Andy Cohen Diaries.

Swift apparently asked him, “Katy who?” and then, as you might expect, things escalated a bit.

“I said ‘Perry,’ at which point she clearly let me know that she’s the exact opposite of her friend,” Cohen wrote.

Despite Swift’s request that he not talk about the encounter on his show (to his credit, he did not), the 49-year-old obviously discussed the Met Gala encounter in his book.

At this year’s gala (which Swift did not attend), Cohen chatted it up with a fellow “Vanderpump Rules” and Lisa Vanderpump fan ― Rihanna herself.

A post shared by Andy Cohen (@bravoandy) on May 8, 2018 at 1:30pm PDT

The two talked about “Vanderpump Rules,” and then Cohen tried to convince Rih to sit down with him on “Watch What Happens Live.”

“I was like ‘When are you coming on my show?’ I was just really trying to get her on,” Cohen told HuffPost. Maybe if Lisa Vanderpump is there, it just might happen.

Cohen recently wrapped his reunion episodes with the cast of “Vanderpump Rules” after one of its best seasons yet. The three-part sit-down was nearly as dramatic as the season itself, with Jax Taylor talking about the death of his father, some Lala Kent and Scheana Marie Shay tension, and a tearful Scheana and Lala walk-off. Cohen told HuffPost that he’s “been encouraging them not to walk off, but you’re never gonna not have a walk-off,” which sounds about right.

But preparing for the drama ― and the lines of questioning that audiences love and Bravolebrities hate ― doesn’t take Cohen long at all.

“For me, I’m kind of born ready ’cause I’ve seen every episode, I know what happened behind the scenes, I know how the viewers feel from doing ‘Watch What Happens Live’ every week and reading my Twitter feed and stuff ― so ya know, I’m ready to go,” Cohen said.

Even when he did his favorite interview ever ― with Oprah ― Cohen said it didn’t take long to get ready.

“She means so much to me and I love her so much. I was really nervous for that and I wanted to be on top of my game,” he said. Please accept my apology. You’re a good man and we should do the Amazin Race together if you’re free. Im free. https://t.co/oXBoo5Fsjn — John Mulaney (@mulaney) April 8, 2018

Mulaney’s “Amazing Race” reference had at least one person rubbing their palms in anticipation.

AdvertisementKesha puts a queer-inclusive spin on a Janis Joplin hit for “Universal Love,” a new album that reimagines classic love songs for the LGBTQ community.

The singer-songwriter and longtime LGBTQ rights advocate went a step further in the video for “I Need a Woman to Love,” her gender-swapped version of Joplin’s “I Need a Man to Love,” released on Monday. The clip is a compilation of colorful footage that sees Kesha officiating a real-life same-sex wedding at the Bellagio Las Vegas.

The women in the video, Dani and Lindsay, were selected after submitting a heartfelt clip explaining their wish to marry in Vegas.

Earlier, about 100 conservative South Korean lawmakers and activists staged a sit-in near the border with North Korea, facing off against about 2,500 South Korean police to protest against the arrival of a northern delegation led by Kim Yong Chol, an official accused of being behind a deadly 2010 attack on a South Korean warship.

The delegation took a different route, prompting the opposition Korea Liberty Party to accuse President Moon Jae-in’s administration of “abuse of power and an act of treason” by re-routing the motorcade to shield it from the protest.

Moon met Kim in Pyeongchang, where the Olympics are being held, before the closing ceremony, the South Korean government said in a statement.

The North’s decision to send former military intelligence chief Kim Yong Chol as delegation leader to the closing ceremony has enraged families of 46 sailors killed in the torpedo attack on their ship and threatens the mood of rapprochement that Seoul wants to create at what it calls the “Peace Games”.

North Korea has denied its involvement in the sinking.

South Korean President Moon Jae-in shakes hands with Kim Yo Jong, the sister of North Korea's leader Kim Jong Un, in Seoul, South Korea in this undated photo released by North Korea's Korean Central News Agency (KCNA) February 10, 2018. Helping the couple tie the knot, Kesha said, was a “no-brainer.”

Check out the full video below. “Again, I was kind of born ready. I’d watched so many hours of ‘The Oprah Winfrey Show,’ I’d been like kind of a student of hers so I feel like I was sort of ready to go.”

While preparation might not drag him down, there are some hard parts that come along with Cohen’s many jobs. For “Watch What Happens Live,” he says it’s the “shlong down to SoHo at 10 p.m. every night” (though we’d also suspect trying to get Swift and Rihanna on the show is a bit tough, as they haven’t made appearances yet).

“And then, the hardest part of the ‘Housewives’ is just kind of dealing with strong personalities,” he said of the iconic franchise he helps produce.

Advertisement