Justin Hartley is eager to get back to work on the set of "This Is Us." NBC via Getty Images

“This Is Us” fans will have to wait until fall to watch Season 3 of the hit NBC series. But the show’s cast and crew will return to work filming new episodes very soon.

Justin Hartley, who plays Kevin on the show, says he’s been enjoying the time off ahead of returning to the set this summer. He’s spending time with his new wife, Chrishell Stause, following a romantic honeymoon on Maui. And the actor recently partnered with Gillette for the shaving company’s “One Size Does Not Fit Every Man” initiative.

Still, he’s ready to see his castmates again and find out what the next season has in store. At the end of Season 2, we saw his character, Kevin Pearson, working on his addiction recovery and linking with a new love interest: Beth’s cousin Zoe, played by Melanie Liburd.

Through your character’s story arc in Season 2, “This Is Us” managed to shed a light on addiction and the challenges of it. What was the biggest challenge for you to take on that new plot line?

For me, it was a constant checking in and making sure we were telling a truthful, honest story because the subject matter is important, because it is so serious. Because there are so many fine people that struggle with addiction or mental illness. It’s a constant thing. It’s not something that you deal with a for a few minutes and beat or you conquer.

I definitely think so. I think about all the projects that I’ve been doing, including “The Last O. It’s something that becomes a part of you going forward. It becomes part of your fabric. You deal with it every day. And I just wanted to make sure that we told an honest story so that someone out there that is going through something like that or has gone through something like that can look at it and say, “That’s really what it is.” For me it meant not tying everything up in a nice little bow.’”

“It was, for me, a decision of looking at her performance in its entirety, and realizing that if we went in to try to alter it, we inevitably would have to lose some scenes which I thought were scenes that the fans should have ― that people who loved Leia would have,” he said. The average full-time worker affected by the increase would get a $3,500 raise once the $15 minimum is phased in, the EPI estimates.

Another key avenue for workers seeking higher wages that grow in tandem with their employers’ profits are labor unions. In 2017, the median pay of a unionized worker was 25.6 percent higher than the median pay of a non-union worker, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics. “I would never have wanted to lose her conversation with Luke or her conversation with Holdo or the final moment with Rey. Those are just things that I feel like we deserved to have from Leia in this movie, so that included the scenes where she is lying in her chamber unconscious, and [it’s] uncomfortable to watch. Sort of getting down and dirty and really getting into it. And seeing this guy really hit rock bottom … And then also making sure that when we told the story we were very clear if you are dealing with it you are not doing it alone … You need help.

Zoe and Kevin in the Season 2 finale of "This Is Us." NBC

The final episode teased a new romance for Kevin. Are you excited about that, and can you tease anything about what we might see in Season 3?

Oh yeah, I am totally excited about that. It’s so interesting what they do on our show. They’re able to open up these chapters of these characters’ lives. You’ve been watching it for two seasons, but If you think about it, you’ve only really seen 36 hours of these people’s lives . No government agency tracks the fate of migrants after their deportations, but a New Yorker investigation published in January documented 60 cases in which deportees in recent years were killed, kidnapped or sexually abused after their removal from the United States. Others suffocate in unventilated trailers, as Homan knows from personal experience.... It’s just a brilliant way to tell a story and so we’re able to open up chapters of these characters’ lives and it gives you insight into why they do certain things and why they act a certain way or what influences these events had on their lives going forward. And she’s [actress Melanie Liburd] wonderful. Our casting is insane. They literally bring in the best actors … I also think it’s good for Kevin moving forward to find someone new that maybe doesn’t know so much about him. To discover new things about himself via someone new. So, I’m really excited about that and I think he’s on this journey in trying to find out more about his father and also having a self-discovery chapter as well. I’m sure we can go pretty deep with all of that stuff. He’s a pretty complex character.

Sterling K. Brown plays an older version of Randall on "This Is Us." NBC

We saw Sterling K. — Jessica Huseman (@JessicaHuseman) March 12, 2018

“Wait. Especially you,” she said to Richman. “You don’t speak unless you’re asked a question. You aren’t here as an advocate, you aren’t here to trash the plaintiffs, and you aren’t here to argue with me.” — Jessica Huseman (@JessicaHuseman) March 12, 2018

Richman’s testimony continues on Tuesday.

A perplexing moment on Monday came when Kobach called Jo French, a retiree in her mid 70s, to the witness stand. French is one of six people since 2013 who lack a birth certificate or other citizenship documents, but have been approved by the state election board to register to vote. Kobach hoped to show how easy it was for people to be approved to vote even without documents.

But French testified there was a burdensome process, even before she could get a hearing with the state election board, according to Talking Points Memo.

She said she was blocked from registering to vote when she went to get a Kansas driver’s license in 2016. Brown play an older Randall this past season. Do you think we’ll see an older Kevin down the line?

I hope so. I hope that he ages as well as Randall! There’s definitely room for that … That would be fun. I would like to see where he is as an older man, what he’s got going on. Does he have kids? Does he get remarried? How many times has he been remarried? Does he find Sophie again? Do they never talk again? Does he have twins? Who knows? I’m really curious to know where this guy ends up.

You guys have been off for months. Do you miss everyone?

I’m ready to go. It was good to have a couple of weeks … We’re in touch regularly. We have like 37,000 group chains that go through. Some of them I’m on. Probably some of them I’m not on. I’m trying to think ― the longest I’ve gone is a week or two without talking to every single one of them. I talked to Milo [Ventimiglia] yesterday. I talked to Sterling the day before yesterday. We’ve become pretty good friends. I’m ready to get back to work.