“The federal government didn’t do things right from the beginning,” the mayor told Time magazine. JIM WATSON via Getty Images

San Juan Mayor Carmen Yulín Cruz remains one of the most vocal critics of the federal government’s response to Hurricane Maria’s devastation in Puerto Rico.

In an interview with Time magazine, published Thursday, Cruz addressed the Trump administration’s “lack of role” in recovery efforts after the storm devastated the U.S. territory in September.

“The federal government didn’t do things right from the beginning,” the mayor told the magazine. “President Trump insulted the Puerto Rican people over and over and over. You know that Carly Simon song, ‘You’re so vain, you probably think this song is about you’? He probably thought that Maria was about him.”

“But it wasn’t about him, it wasn’t about politics; it was about saving lives,” she continued. “FEMA [Federal Emergency Management Agency] was asking Puerto Ricans to go online and register for support. For heaven’s sake, we have no electricity. FEMA kept asking for memos, as if this were the first disaster that they had ever encountered. I finally lost my patience and stopped being politically correct. And I just shouted out an SOS to the world: ‘We’re dying here!’ That didn’t make me a lot of friends in the federal government, but that’s my duty.”

In the weeks following the storm’s landfall in Puerto Rico, Cruz publicly asked FEMA to prioritize lives over bureaucracy. The decision to call out the Trump administration sparked a headline-grabbing Twitter feud with the president, who said she was “nasty” and that the people of Puerto Rico wanted “everything to be done for them when it should be a community effort.”

In October, the mayor told HuffPost she felt it was “unthinkable” the federal government could not bring enough supplies to meet the needs of hurricane survivors.

“It may be easy to try to disregard us,” Cruz said." (via CNN) pic.twitter.com/zPInTbsrBB — Kyle Griffin (@kylegriffin1) April 29, 2018

12. When she reminded everyone what’s going on in Flint, Michigan.

It’s been four years.

AdvertisementPresident Donald Trump and his crew can’t seem to dodge Stormy Daniels’ telegenic attorney Michael Avenatti.

He didn’t have anything to say to CNN Saturday at the White House Correspondents’ Association dinner in Washington about romantic entanglements involving his client, who has said she had a brief affair with Trump several years ago. But Avenatti did engineer a slick photobomb of Trump aide Kellyanne Conway.

It happened while Conway was talking to CNN’s Kaitlan Collins about Trump’s future messaging. “I predict confidently that next year he’ll have more great economic and security news to tell,” she says on the video — as White House press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders stands with her and tries to keep her cool during the smirking Avenatti’s photobomb.

Check it out above.

Avenatti was a guest of The Associated Press. He said Daniels, whose real name is Stephanie Clifford, turned down several invitations and skipped the gala, according to The Hollywood Reporter. “It may be easy because we’re a U.S. territory and a colony of the United States. But we are people, dammit, and I don’t care what the political status is.”

Cruz Soto also slammed Trump’s October visit to Puerto Rico, nearly two weeks after the hurricane made landfall. She criticized the president for tossing paper towels to storm survivors in need of supplies, after the storm left millions of Puerto Ricans without power and limited access to drinking water.

During the visit, Trump also downplayed the island’s devastation during a press conference, saying it was not a “real catastrophe like Katrina” in reference to the death toll at the time, 16. Since then, the figure has quadrupled, amid reports from media outlets who’ve looked into the accuracy of the official death count and found that the number dead as a result of the storm is likely more than 1,000.WASHINGTON ― Did Russians target the key swing states with their social media advertising push, and did they have any help from the Trump campaign? The question has troubled Washington for months. But a review of Facebook advertisements from Russian trolls during the 2016 presidential election now shows that they barely targeted the states that would decide the presidency.

The striking revelation is the result of a review by Democrats on the House intelligence committee who looked at Facebook advertisements from July 2015 to November 2016 by the Internet Research Agency, a Russian company that operates online propaganda for the Putin government and others. The ad release includes previously undisclosed targeting information, including demographic groups and location.

It shows that fewer than 300 of the 3,000-plus Facebook advertisements purchased by the Russian “troll factory” targeted states that could determine the outcome of the 2016 election. Even fewer of these social media ads mentioned the election or the presidential candidates.

It appears the trolls’ strategy was to initially gain followers with unremarkable ads. Once someone followed an account, that user could receive the troll’s posting in the Facebook News Feed. While most of the content of these accounts simply imitated activist content, toward the end of the election a few accounts bought ads, not targeted to any particular state, telling people either not to vote or to vote for a third-party candidate.

The vast majority of the 277 swing state ads purchased by the Russian agency were about non-electoral issues, including police violence, racism, LGBTQ rights, immigration and Islamophobia. Many of them centered on themes of the Black Lives Matter movement. They mixed calls for protest with denunciations of police misconduct and systemic racism with praise for black celebrities and the black experience. Aside from the inability to conform to the rules of any known North American English dialect, they were mostly indistinguishable from social media posts by actual activists. In fact, many of the ads were incredibly banal.

House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence/Facebook.com

“Join us because we care.”Mike Ehrmann via Getty Images

Note to Pink: When you perform the national anthem at the Super Bowl next Sunday, be prepared for rough criticism.

Coates: I didn’t do that.First of all, you MUST get your firearm terms correct if you are going to publish anything on this subject. There is NO SUCH THING as Dick’s Sporting Goods selling “an assault rifle” because it does not exist. Rather it would be a termed a semi-auto rifle or semi-auto carbine. Also, there is no such thing as a “high capacity” magazine. Over 5? Over 10? Over 15? Over 20? Over 30? Over 90?

Kinds of firearms have nothing to do with these mass murders. Think about it: The SAME firearm that the school children call to save them is the SAME firearm that only some of the perps use.

Example: During a church murder spree earlier this year where members were caught unarmed, an NRA member with an AR-15 STOPPED the carnage by scoring three hits on the murderer and then chased him down in a truck until the perp bled out. So there is no such thing as a “bad gun” or an inappropriate firearm in the hands of a “good guy”. Why would you ban a firearm? There is a Second Amendment in effect. Two, there are 450 million firearms in this country – nearly one for every man, woman and child!

My customers want the SAME firearm that the “bad guys” have so they can over-power them. I use my AR-15 for hunting and personal defense. And part of it was, going back to that earlier thread, I learned how to blog from Andrew. That was who I actually learned from. That was who actually helped me craft my voice. Even recognizing who he was and what he was, you know, I learned from him.

I think one of the things that happens is you become incredibly cynical about certain people and about certain political beliefs, and you just don’t hold them to a level. So I can read Kevin Williamson, for instance, and I guess — and I probably would not have said this like this two weeks ago — but just watching, and thinking, and not really having expectations.

Viewers checked Brett Young hard against the boards after his rendition at the NHL All-Star Game in Tampa, Florida, on Sunday. We didn’t think his performance was that bad. But people on Twitter sure did.

Brett Young do us all a favor and never sing the National Anthem again, thanks. — Scott (@SDress92) January 28, 2018

Puck yet to drop, Brett Young hit with delay-of-game call. Major. Drew blood. Black Matters!” said one ad for Black Matters US, a fake Black Lives Matter activist group set up by Russian trolls. The ad had the highest number of impressions (113,000) of all of the ads that targeted swing states. (Ad impressions are a common way to calculate digital advertising delivery, although an impression does not necessarily mean that a user viewed the ad.) The ad targeted the city of Atlanta and the state of Virginia, as well as non-swing-state regions including the cities of Ferguson and St. Louis in Missouri and the state of Maryland.S. government transferring the prisoner to another country while being sued for unlawfully detaining him would allow the administration to do an “end run” around habeas litigation, the judge suggested.

Hafetz, said on Monday that his team would be satisfied with receiving 72-hour notice and the chance to challenge any transfer.

“Keeping eye on our brother’s cases and much more,” the next two swing-state ads with the most impressions said. They were both pushed out by Black Matters US, targeted the same areas and reached 148,000 impressions combined.

Only a handful of ads in swing states made direct electoral appeals. Several of them originated in Being Patriotic, a Facebook group created by the Russian trolls that promoted pro-Trump rallies in Pennsylvania and Florida in the final months of the campaign. “We could help Mr. Trump win Pennsylvania which is a battleground state,” one read. “We announce a patriotic flash mob in Florida on August, 2016. We either win Florida or lose. Florida Goes Trump,” another read. The Florida ad, which reached 59,000 impressions, depicted Trump giving two thumbs up over a faked image of Hillary Clinton behind bars.

Pro-Trump troll accounts on Instagram joined in to urge Floridians to support the Republican candidate in July 2016.

House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence/Facebook.com

The swing state ads didn’t only promote Trump. A Russian troll account called United Muslims of America ran ads in the Washington, D.C., area, which includes Northern Virginia, calling on Muslims to support Clinton. “The time has come to understand one simple thing:we the American muslims are as American Support Hillary. Save American Muslims!” said the the ad, which showed Clinton shaking hands with a woman wearing a hijab.

The Russian trolls’ attempts at directly targeting swing-state voters on social media with posts for or against particular candidates were limited, but that does not mean the influence campaign didn’t affect those voters.

In the final months of the campaign, the trolls specifically targeted African-American audiences across the country with calls to boycott the election or vote for Green Party candidate Jill Stein.

House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence/Facebook.com

“Choose peace and vote for Jill Stein,” said one ad from Blacktivist, a fake Black Lives Matter account, in an ad that ran from Nov. 3 through the election and received over 18,000 impressions. “Trust me, it’s not a wasted vote.”

The troll account Williams and Kalvin ran an ad on Nov. 7 and Nov. 8, 2016, that targeted users interested in Martin Luther King Jr., Malcolm X, the civil rights movement and the presidential election. “Hillary Clinton is a traitor! Hillary Clinton is a liar! Hillary Clinton is insane!” the message started. “I know that many black people support this old dirty bitch. I don’t know why they do this, still it’s their personal choice and we are a free country yet. But, listen to my word of truth and don’t let them fool you.”