A verbal argument between Anthony Wall and Waffle House employees brought police to the scene, and then this happened. Anthony Wall / Facebook

A video that shows a Warsaw, North Carolina, police officer putting 22-year-old Anthony Wall in a chokehold and wrestling him to the ground outside a Waffle House set off social media outrage this week for what many argue was an unjustified level of violence.

Wall had taken his younger sister to prom last Saturday and they stopped at Waffle House to grab a bite to eat. He got into a heated argument with restaurant employees before the police were called ― local news affiliate ABC11 posted a brief clip of the dispute.

At least one officer responded to the call.

The video ― which was taken by a bystander and publicly posted to Wall’s Facebook page ― does not reveal how his encounter with the police began. It ended with the officer nearly lifting Wall off the ground by his neck before pushing him to the ground and attempting to pull his arms behind his back.

On social media, people have suggested the video captures a racially motivated use of force by a white officer against a young black man. A call and email to the Warsaw Police Department were not immediately returned Thursday.

In the video, Wall appeared to have trouble drawing his breath at some moments.

“We decided we needed a voice,” Charlie J. Johnson, a home page editor and key union organizer at the Tribune, told HuffPost. “We needed a say in how this place operated and the union was the tool that was available to us.”

If successful, the Tribune could follow a growing number of news organizations that have joined unions in recent years as the industry grapples with increasing uncertainty.

“I was pretty much trying to scream for air and trying to breathe because he was holding my throat, and that’s when I got aggressive with him because you are choking me,” he told ABC11.

Wall takes responsibility for the indoor spat but is critical of law enforcement’s response outside the Waffle House. “Your hands should have never been around my neck like that if my hands were in the air,” he told the station.

Wall was charged with resisting arrest and disorderly conduct.

On Tuesday, he posted the footage on his Facebook page, where it has racked up 575,000 views and nearly 30,000 shares as of Thursday. HuffPost was not immediately able to contact him.

According to ABC11, both the Warsaw Police Department and Onslow County District Attorney Ernie Lee are investigating the incident and plan to report their findings to the public. (Verizon is the parent company of the corporation that owns HuffPost.) These companies have funded the opposition to net neutrality rules for years and backed the FCC’s recent decision to repeal them.

The Progressive Policy Institute “has a history of bending over backwards to do whatever large phone and cable companies ask it to do,” Tim Karr, a senior director at Free Press, a pro-net neutrality nonprofit group, told HuffPost.

Free Press and other net neutrality advocates point to the Progressive Policy Institute’s longtime opposition to FCC net neutrality rules and its publication of dubious reports on the cost of net neutrality that internet service providers have used to defend their lobbying against net neutrality.

Net neutrality advocates also find the Progressive Policy Institute’s Twitter campaign suspect because it came just as the internet service providers launched a lobbying campaign for what the advocates deem a “fake” net neutrality bill.

Reacting to the response the video has garnered, Warsaw Police Chief Eric Southerland told the Charlotte News & Observer, “I wish people would not blow things out of proportion and not let one situation create any additional situations.”The comedian dissected the inadvertently comic aspects of former coal executive Blankenship’s campaign, from his giving Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.) the nickname “Cocaine Mitch” to repeatedly admitting he did prison time for his role in the 2010 Upper Big Branch mining disaster. I so enjoy sad Tom Brady #SuperBowl pic.twitter.com/te1EJ43QgU — Damon Martin (@DamonMartin) February 5, 2018

No better way to start off a great week than by watching confetti fall on a sad Tom Brady. — Bahner Smash Drum (@carlbahner) February 5, 2018

Many people found the meme very satisfying.

Tom Brady is sad right now pic.twitter.com/qALBGZpwI3 — Juli (@Julisteamer) February 5, 2018

Sad Tom Brady is the best Tom Brady. #superbowl pic.twitter.com/B8mDpcEEVX — Kyle W (@KyleWalker007) February 5, 2018

Some folks got straight up petty about it.

I don’t know anything about football, I just hope Tom Brady is sad — Sarah Jones (@onesarahjones) February 5, 2018

I like that now when someone says “I love that iconic picture of Tom Brady sitting on the field in the Super Bowl like a sad toddler,” you’ll have to ask them to be more specific.If nothing else, I hope every producer, writer, actor, crew member, etc who worked on Brooklyn Nine-Nine looks at Twitter today and sees how DEEPLY loved their show is, and that the work they’ve been doing had an impact. It means a lot to a lot of people. We gape at the great fortunes won and lost on the exchanges, and broadcast the Dow Jones’ minor movements on the nightly news. This week’s wild swings in the market have alternately thrilled and alarmed us.

The stock market is a good story ― one of the best. But it doesn’t mean what most people think it does. The stock market is not an important measure of national well-being, productive capacity or material wealth. It isn’t even a reliable gauge for the health of specific companies, and is only tangentially related to helping them raise capital. This idea is now being translated into housing policy.

The focus on economic self-sufficiency is not new. The most iconic contemporary capitalist institution is, in truth, inessential to the operation of capitalism itself. The stock market, in the words of the late British economist John Maynard Keynes, is merely “the outcome of the mass psychology of a large number of ignorant individuals.”

The basics: A stock exchange is where people go to buy and sell shares of corporations. Buying stock gives you an ownership stake in a company, but this stake itself has no inherent value. It doesn’t entitle you to proceeds from the firm’s earnings, or provide you with a stream of revenue. It’s taken over my TL.