Alex Wong via Getty Images

Second-tier bank regulatory jobs aren’t usually a major battleground within the Democratic Party, particularly when Republicans control the White House. No matter who ends up getting these posts, Democratic nominees won’t be able to write tough new rules or approve stiff penalties against corporate America. Appointees get seats at important tables, but with Republicans in charge of major agencies, they have little policymaking power.

But Donald Trump isn’t an ordinary Republican president, and the financial crisis of 2008 taught Democrats the value of committed watchdogs. Even if whistleblowers can’t make policy, those with access to important financial information can highlight abuses. Even ostensibly minor posts can serve as a springboard to top-level oversight jobs. And let’s face it: With Republicans in control of all three branches of the federal government, there just aren’t many ways for Democrats to exercise power in Washington. It’s unclear how the agency’s decision-making process will be affected if the bank bill is signed into law, as is expected to happen.

“The FHFA still needs to do that, continue with that process, but we pointed out there are other tools that are out there in the marketplace,” Sen. Mark Warner (D-Va.), who co-authored the provision with Sen. Tim Scott (R-S.C.), told HuffPost.

Scott has argued that FICO scores disadvantage minorities and people with limited credit histories because they ignore data on rent, utility and phone payments.

So liberal activists and wonks have made it a priority to give Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer (D-N.Y. Greg Doherty/Getty Images

Heather Matarazzo is gearing up for a happily ever after of her very own.

The “Welcome to the Dollhouse” and “Princess Diaries” star revealed on Monday that she’d popped the question to her girlfriend, Heather Turman, last week. In an Instagram post, Matarazzo explained that she and Turman, who is also an actress and a comedian, had gotten engaged Jan. 11 but opted to keep it to themselves for a bit.

A post shared by heathermatarazzo (@heathermatarazzo) on Jan 15, 2018 at 4:03pm PST

Turman, who co-wrote 2017′s “Stuck” and appeared in “La La Land,” called Matarazzo “the absolute, unequivocal love of my life” in a similar post on her Instagram account.) an earful on his recommendations for slots at the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. Bannon,” Kwatinetz stated in the affidavit.

“Mr. Al-Rumaihi requested I set up a meeting between him, the Qatari government, and Steven Bannon, and to tell Steve Bannon that Qatar would underwrite all of his political efforts in return for his support.”

Kwatinetz, who is a friend of Bannon’s, said that he rejected the offer because he considered it a bribe. He stated that he did not tell Bannon of the conversation.

Kwatinetz said in the affidavit that “Al-Rumaihi laughed and [said] that I shouldn’t be naive, that so many Washington politicians take our money.”

Avenatti also tweeted a photo in the lobby of Trump Tower the same day of the apparent meeting of Cohen talking with Michael Flynn. But that photo appeared to be a screen grab from a different YouTube video of the lobby. Flynn is not seen with the man who appears to be al-Rumaihi or the group he is with. Trump fired Flynn as his national security adviser after Flynn lied about his contacts with then-Russian Ambassador Sergey Kislyak.

Cohen did not immediately respond to a request for comment about Avenatti’s tweets., the Federal Trade Commision and the Securities and Exchange Commission ― posts which party leaders have in the past shrugged off as relatively harmless opportunities to curry favor with industry lobbyists.

Left-leaning groups are eyeing two vacant slots on the FDIC’s board of directors. And according to a source familiar with the nomination process, Schumer will recommend that Trump select the board’s chairman, Martin Gruenberg, to fill one of the board slots when his current term at the helm expires.

Thus far, Schumer’s record on appointments during the Trump era is mixed. Progressives cheered his recommendation of Rohit Chopra for the FTC last year, but Sen. Tammy Baldwin (D-Wis.) temporarily blocked his pick for SEC commissioner, Robert Jackson Jr., arguing that he was too friendly with activist hedge funds and private equity firms. Jackson has since sided with Republican commissioners on at least one major vote, earning the ire of outgoing Democratic Commissioner Kara Stein ― who Schumer will have ultimate say in replacing later this year.

The Gruenberg pick signals that Democrats have decided to postpone the real fight over the FDIC board for another day.

Martin Gruenberg has served as chairman of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.'s board of directors since 2011. Bloomberg via Getty Images

Gruenberg has assembled a solid but unremarkable record running the FDIC since 2011, largely overshadowed by two Republican appointees. His predecessor, Sheila Bair, was widely considered the toughest bank regulator to serve during the administrations of Presidents George W. Bush and Barack Obama. Meanwhile, former board member Thomas Hoenig was a rare, outspoken GOP critic of too-big-to-fail banks. Jerry Brown (D) on Tuesday expressed confidence his state would prevail in a looming legal battle over the Trump administration’s plan to weaken auto fuel economy and emissions standards.

“The idea we’re going to roll back the auto standards is absurd.

Thank you for being the Lois Lane so many of us grew up with. RIP, Margot Kidder. pic.twitter. We’re not going to do that,” Brown told reporters at an event hosted by the National Press Club. “We have the legal horsepower to block the immediate legal moves by the Trump administration.

“I hope they have good reason to believe that Gruenberg understands how his role now shifts from wielding power diplomatically into being a witness and, when needed, a whistleblower,” said Jeff Hauser, director of the Revolving Door Project at the Center for Economic and Policy Research, a liberal-leaning think tank.

Privately, several progressive bank watchdogs in Congress and at liberal think-tanks say they are saving their energy for Schumer’s recommendation for the other FDIC board position. Schumer hasn’t settled on a timeline for his pick for that job.

Trump technically doesn’t have to follow Schumer’s lead on the nominations, but based on Capitol Hill convention, he almost certainly will. Presidents typically defer to the opposing political party’s preferences on minority posts at three- and five-member commissions like the FDIC, and there are no indications that Trump plans to make an issue of these nominations.

Though left-wing activists have long criticized “Wall Street Chuck” and his fundraising appeals to the banking sector, Schumer has a powerful pragmatic streak. He has repeatedly supported populist firebreathers when it serves Democratic Party interests. Sens. Elizabeth Warren (D-Mass.), Sherrod Brown (D-Ohio) and Jeff Merkley (D-Ore.) ― the loudest big bank critics in the upper chamber ― were all Schumer recruits as candidates.

Gruenberg’s record at the FDIC is similarly complicated. Progressives welcomed his opposition to a recent push from the Federal Reserve and the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency to ease capital requirements on the biggest banks. But when a handful of Senate Democrats began working with Republicans to scale back Dodd-Frank rules on everything from racial discrimination in the housing market to capital requirements on banks with up to $250 billion in assets, neither Schumer nor Gruenberg spoke out against the effort.

The resulting legislation is expected to clear the House and be signed into law by Trump.