You’ve never seen U.S. gymnast Gabby Douglas looking like this before.

The 22-year-old three-time Olympic champion is unrecognizable after being transformed into a middle-aged office manager named Diane Anderson for an upcoming episode of “Undercover Boss: Celebrity Edition,” which airs on CBS Friday at 8 p.m.

In HuffPost’s exclusive clip above, Douglas, as Diane, visits a gymnastics school in pretend preparation for opening her own similar establishment.

The gym’s owners think their guest is being filmed for a documentary and have no clue about her real identity. They’re a bit confused when Diane claims not to have heard of Douglas, and they touchingly urge her to do some research because of how inspirational she is.Two young girls are facing serious charges in Virginia after allegedly plotting via text messages to kill a classmate. skynesher via Getty Images

Officers in Virginia foiled a plot by two pre-teen girls to kill their 11-year-old classmate after a parent discovered a “cryptic” text message exchange, the Prince William County Police Department said.

Police arrested the suspects, ages 10 and 11, on May 3, and they were charged with one count of conspiracy to commit a felony.

The arrests came after someone contacted staff members at Prince William County School on April 25 and alerted them to the alleged plot, police spokesman Jonathan Perok said. Then they had some troubles with their shooting and script. They went through a lot of things, so their timeline was put off from what they thought it would’ve been previously. Then, they finally called me in to shoot as if I had known I was coming the whole time. Like, “OK, can you come two days from now or tomorrow?”

What? So were you able to change your schedule?

I did. I was working on some other job, but it was just going to be the last two days of it or something, so I just canceled the last two days and went out.

What’s it like arriving in “Westworld”?

It was a bit magical. You definitely feel like you’re stepping into another world when you arrive at the ranch. It looks a bit just like how it looks on the show, so you feel like you’ve stepped into that world, and I saw some of the set design. It’s crazy how some of it doesn’t feel like these psychotic crazy scary places, but then when I realize what it was, then I had that feeling like, “Oh my gosh. This is that place, and it looks like that place, and it looks like nothing right now, but it’s very scary.”

Was anybody like, “Oh, you’re the person from the photo”?

Yeah, somebody — another director — he came up to me, and he thought he knew me and was talking to me.

“It was a parent, but not a parent of those involved and the school notified us,” Perok told HuffPost.

While police did not disclose the content of the text messages, the department did report that the girls discussed in detail how they planned to kill the student. The suspects also allegedly encouraged each other to delete message threads related to those plans. A motive in the alleged plot is unclear.

While no threat to harm the victim was carried out, investigators decided to file charges after consulting the district attorney’s office.

“Obviously, we took it seriously,” Perok said. “This is not something we commonly see.”

The young suspects, whose names were not released due to their ages, have been charged as juveniles. Conspiracy to commit a felony in Virginia carries a maximum sentence of up to five years behind bars.

A court date for the girls is pending.WASHINGTON — Sanctions that the Trump administration slapped on a Russian oligarch as part of an effort to punish the country for its hostile behavior in Crimea, Ukraine and Syria likely delayed the delivery of sewage pump equipment to the headquarters of the National Mall last month, forcing National Park Service employees to continue using portable toilets at work.

The Russian in question is Viktor Vekselberg, the billionaire reportedly involved with $500,000 in payments to President Donald Trump’s attorney Michael Cohen.

HuffPost was alerted to toilet troubles at the National Mall and Memorial Parks headquarters last month by an Interior Department employee with knowledge of the situation. The employee said at the time that the agency was working to find a new distributor to obtain a pump after the Russian sanctions held up the original order.

Mike Litterst, a spokesman for the National Park Service, confirmed that the historic building, located just east of the Jefferson Memorial, has had ongoing issues with pumps in the building’s sewage pit. The pumps were replaced last summer, but burned out again in March, rendering the restrooms unusable.

For weeks, employees had to use portable toilets or facilities in nearby buildings, Litterst said.

The difficulties at the National Mall and Memorial Parks headquarters comes as Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke is pushing an energy- and infrastructure-focused agenda. He has repeatedly promised to address the ballooning $11.3 billion maintenance backlog at national parks.

Portable toilets are pictured April 13 in the parking lot of the National Mall and Memorial Parks headquarters in Washington, D.C. Chris DAngelo/HuffPost

It appears the restrooms would have been up and running sooner had Sulzer, a Swiss industrial company that specializes in pump equipment, not gotten wrapped up in the Russia sanctions. On April 6, the Treasury Department announced sanctions against seven Russian oligarchs with ties to President Vladimir Putin and 12 companies those individuals control or own. Among those targeted was Vekselberg, the Ukrainian-born owner of Renova Group, an investment company that specializes in metals, energy and chemicals. Until recently, Renova held a majority stake in Sulzer.

To obtain new pumps, the National Park Service hired Chesapeake Environmental Equipment, a company based in Forest Hill, Maryland, that distributes Sulzer’s products. An online summary of the $9,468 contract lists the purchase as “Sewage Ejector Pumps For National Mall and Memorial Parks HQ Waste System.”

Initially, Litterst told HuffPost that NPS was obtaining parts from two suppliers.

Blue struck a contrast with her famous parents, dressing in white with some sparkling low-heeled shoes.

Christopher Polk via Getty Images

People tweeted their excitement at seeing Bey ― and her hat ― arrive at the show.

I'm glad she came dressed for a funeral...and an hour and a half late.



Ooooo she is so politely disrespectful.

“She was licking the whipped cream where it had been sitting on top,” Vice told CBS Los Angeles, describing the moment she noticed the drink was corpuscle-enhanced. She said the Frappuccino also had a strange metallic smell.

Then she noticed something else.

“It was on the inside of the rim of my Frappuccino,” she said.

Vice said her first instinct was to see if she or her daughter were bleeding. They weren’t.#GRAMMYs pic.twitter.com/hzoSYlbZjv — Jasmyn Lawson (@JasmynBeKnowing) January 29, 2018

Imagine having to sit there mad as hell because there’s no way you’re telling Beyonce you can’t see over her damn hat pic.twitter.com/WEDXk44Re6 — Ira Madison III (@ira) January 29, 2018

i just drooled laughing thinking about beyonce telling the driver to 'keep circling the block' cause she wasnt ready to go in yet — Jenna Wortham (@jennydeluxe) January 29, 2018

Thoughts and prayers for the person who thought they had a perfect view for the Grammys until Beyonce and her fabulous Four Weddings and Funeral hat sat arrived mid-show. pic. He later clarified that the agency only dealt with Chesapeake, which was getting parts from two suppliers.

Reached by phone, Chesapeake’s president, Jason North, immediately hung up. He and other company representatives did not respond to numerous subsequent calls and emails seeking comment.

Litterst confirmed that Sulzer manufactures the pumps and system controls the park service received through Chesapeake. Asked specifically if sanctions imposed against Sulzer impacted the contractor’s ability to supply NPS the required parts in any way, Litterst said, “Chesapeake Environmental Equipment provided the equipment we ordered, and did so within the requested time frame.”

He suggested HuffPost contact Chesapeake with questions about the contractor’s suppliers.

After learning of the Treasury’s actions against Vekselberg, Sulzer CEO Gregoire Poux-Guillaume “stepped into crisis mode” in order to come up with a plan to limit the impact to the company’s U.S. operations, Bloomberg reported. And on April 12, Sulzer announced that it had acquired 5 million of its shares from Renova in order to make Renova a minority shareholder, thus freeing Sulzer from the sanctions. At 80 percent of businesses that reported data in the U.K., men outearn women.

But the numbers revealed something else. By breaking things down by wage level, the data reveal what percentage of the best- and worst-paying roles are held by women. The Blue Dog Democrat considers himself a moderate and has characterized Newman as belonging to the “tea party of the left” ― too liberal for his southwest Chicago district.Tonight at 11/10c, Fox News short-circuits after #NationalWalkoutDay pic.twitter.com/PGOTJMvovX — The Daily Show (@TheDailyShow) March 16, 2018

Earlier in the week, Carlson asked why “people who don’t have the right to buy guns have the right to make my gun laws.”

“They’re not citizens,” he added. “They’re children. They’re not of 18.”

On Thursday’s broadcast of “The Daily Show,” Noah took Carlson to task. In doing so, they show a major reason for the pay disparity: Women are making less not because men earn more for the same work, but because women aren’t getting the best-paying jobs.

At the granular level, the numbers were truly eye-popping. Men earn more than double what women make at some companies, demonstrating that when it comes to equal pay, women aren’t just facing a “gap,” they’re staring down a vast, dystopic hole of inequity.

The male-dominated finance industry was one of the worst offenders. At Goldman Sachs in the U.K. Sulzer said at the time that its activities “have been considerably disrupted,” but that it “does not believe that its long-term performance will be affected.”

Christopher Scott, a U.S.-based attorney for Sulzer, told HuffPost that while the sanctions temporarily froze the company’s assets in the U.S., he could not speak to how exactly it might have impacted its business with Chesapeake.

Russian oligarch Viktor Vekselberg, owner of industrial firm Renova Group, at a 2017 event in Moscow. Alexander Shcherbak via Getty Images

NPS’s contract with Chesapeake is dated March 19, roughly three weeks before Sulzer was ensnared in the sanctions. Litterest said the pump controls were delivered to headquarters on April 13 ― one day after Sulzer freed itself from the penalties.

So while the sanctions likely were not the sole reason for a delay, they appear to have further slowed toilet repair at the park service building. The toilets at the headquarters building were back up and running April 20, and the portable toilets were removed from the headquarters parking lot this Tuesday, according to Litterst.

In an April 6 release announcing sanctions against Vekselberg and other oligarchs, the Treasury Department noted that in 2016 Russian prosecutors stormed Renova’s offices and arrested two top executives for “bribing officials connected to a power generation project in Russia.”