A guest on Fox Business Network touted torture as an effective way to extract information from prisoners, claiming it “worked” on Sen. John McCain (R-Ariz.).

“The fact is ... it worked on John [McCain],” Retired Air Force Lt. Gen. Tom McInerney told FBN’s Charles Payne on Tuesday. “That’s why they call him ‘Songbird John.’”

“The fact is those methods can work and they’re effective as former Vice President [Dick] Cheney said,” McInerney continued. “And if we have to use ’em to save a million American lives, we will do whatever we have to.”

...Wow



Conversation on Fox about torture: "It worked on John [McCain]. That's why they call him 'Songbird John'" https://t.co/OjCwhv2ZhI pic.twitter.com/WehsgPAqgb — Leanne Naramore (@LeanneNaramore) May 10, 2018

Payne apologized hours later for not confronting McInerney about his comments on McCain during the interview.

“I regret I did not catch this remark, as it should have been challenged,” Payne tweeted. “As a proud military veteran and son of a Vietnam Vet, these words neither reflect my or the network’s feelings about Senator McCain.”

My Apology to Senator McCain and his Family

“This morning on a show I was hosting, a guest made a very false and derogatory remark about Senator John McCain. At the time, I had the control room in my ear telling me to wrap the segment, and did not hear the comment. — Charles V Payne (@cvpayne) May 10, 2018

I regret I did not catch this remark, as it should have been challenged. As a proud military veteran and son of a Vietnam Vet these words neither reflect my or the network’s feelings about Senator McCain, or his remarkable service and sacrifice to this country.”

Charles V. Payne — Charles V Payne (@cvpayne) May 10, 2018

McCain was a prisoner of war for over five years in North Vietnam while serving in the Navy during the Vietnam War. His captors repeatedly broke his arms, leaving him without the ability to raise them over his head today.

Not only are “enhanced interrogation techniques” immoral, according to McCain and many other lawmakers, but they do not extract accurate information.

On Wednesday, McCain urged the Senate to reject President Donald Trump’s nomination of Gina Haspel to head the Central Intelligence Agency, given her reported role in overseeing the torture of an al Qaeda terror suspect in 2002 at a clandestine base in Thailand.

“Like many Americans, I understand the urgency that drove the decision to resort to so-called enhanced interrogation methods after our country was attacked,” McCain said in his statement. “But as I have argued many times, the methods we employ to keep our nation safe must be as right and just as the values we aspire to live up to and promote in the world.

“We will paralyze the whole city and the whole country,” said Sargis Babayan, a 22-year-old student wearing a T-shirt with Pashinyan’s portrait.

A resident in the town of Dilijan, in the north-east of Armenia, said parked vehicles and rocks had been used to block the roads there. The resident said shops were open but most schools and kindergartens were shut.

Not all Armenians back the protests. Some see Pashinyan as a demagogue who is trying to oust the country’s democratically-elected leaders by whipping up public anger.

Reuters reporters witnessed two incidents in Yerevan when the drivers of vehicles remonstrated with protesters blocking their path.

“The country can’t exist like this. I couldn’t get to work today and called in to say that I wouldn’t come,” said Zhanna Petrosyan, a 56-year-old doctor.It’s a hair-raising theory, but some people are suggesting that a so-called mustache battle is behind the departure of Donald Trump’s lawyer Ty Cobb.

The official word is that Cobb simply wants to retire, but moments after Wednesday’s announcement, Twitter users took to the platform to suggest Cobb’s real reason for leaving was right under his nose.

I’m starting a rumor that John Bolton’s mustache pushed out Ty Cobb’s mustache. — JackiSchechner (@JackiSchechner) May 2, 2018

The rumor started to snowball.”North Korean leader Kim Jong Un met in secret with China’s Xi Jinping this week in Kim’s first trip abroad since assuming power, Chinese state news reported Wednesday.

The news confirms widespread rumors that Kim had unexpectedly traveled to China via an armored train on Monday in his first foreign trip as leader of the North. The 21-car behemoth chugged into Beijing’s central train station, where a military honor guard and a large motorcade of diplomatic vehicles reportedly met it. But senior officials in the U. Some suggested Bolton’s stache pushed out Cobb’s.

“I believe Gina Haspel is a patriot who loves our country and has devoted her professional life to its service and defense,” he continued. “However, Ms. Haspel’s role in overseeing the use of torture by Americans is disturbing. Her refusal to acknowledge torture’s immorality is disqualifying.”

A representative of McCain did not immediately respond to HuffPost’s request for comment. He reassured Americans who felt that their lives and those of their children (going into debt for their very educations in ways that once would have been unimaginable) were turning third world on them. Eserman should have never been the person leading on the response regarding the new information on the case,” Bob Arthur said. “There is clearly a conflict of interest on her part along with her husband, Sgt. Travis Eserman. There is always a possibility that Mrs. Eserman’s response was written to protect her husband and the other detectives for their shoddy investigation.”

The Jefferson Parish Sheriff’s Office, which reopened the investigation into Shawn Arthur’s death after HuffPost started raising questions, did not respond to a request for comment.

Shawn Arthur was found dead in his apartment in February 2017. Bob Arthur

Whether the reclassification of Arthur’s death will have any impact on the Jefferson Parish District Attorney’s Office is yet to be seen. A spokesman for the office declined to comment on the case.

Kennedy said he plans to reach out to each of the relevant agencies to raise questions about the reclassification of Arthur’s death.

“We feel strongly that this is a homicide and will be working to provide additional information to the coroner to have that change made,” Kennedy said. “In the meantime, it is our hope the Jefferson Parish Sheriff’s Office will take notice and look more closely at the case, so we can get justice for Shawn.”

More Information About The Shawn Arthur Case See GalleryThe Department of Justice released copies of the so-called Comey memos to congressional leaders on Thursday. This they blamed on both the “swamp” of Washington and people of color of every sort. In his own distinctive way, Trump reassured them that life in America didn’t have to be like this, repeatedly sending them messages of firstness and greatness, as well as anti-immigrant-ness, with convincing fire and fury.

Of course, upon entering the Oval Office, our first billionaire president promptly chose a cabinet of billionaires and multimillionaires, while the great achievement of his initial year as president would be to free both corporate America and that same gilded class of yet more financial responsibility for the nation, thanks to his tax “reform” bill.

McInerney has come under fire in the past for promoting conspiracy theories, including the racist myth that former President Barack Obama wasn’t born in the United States and that terrorists hijacked missing Malaysia flight 370 in 2014.

Cindy McCain, John McCain’s wife and a businesswoman, scolded Payne and Fox Business Network for having McInerney on the show..

“It’s embarrassing,” Gilbert said. “We’re learning how little they pay their workers. We’re learning how much they pay their CEOs, and the ratios are stark.”

Although it has little regulatory impact, the CEO-to-worker pay ratio was one of the most contentious pieces of the Dodd-Frank legislation. It took the SEC three years to issue a proposal for firms to disclose the ratio, over the fierce objection of corporate lobbyists. The business community argued it would be too difficult and costly to calculate the ratios.

Some regulators sympathized. Two Republican members of the SEC voted against the rule, and one of them, Michael Piwowar, said its real intent was to “shame” executives.

The rule’s backers argued that both investors and employees have a right to know when executive pay is grossly out of step with typical workers’ salaries, saying it sheds light on a company and its priorities.

Labor groups have used industry-level wage data to calculate worker-to-CEO pay ratio estimates to spotlight pay inequity. The AFL-CIO reported last year that among more than 400 companies traded on the S&P 500, the average CEO made 347 times more than his or her average worker.

Executive compensation has grown far faster than overall wages, according to a report by the Economic Policy Institute, a liberal think tank. It found that in 1965, executives earned merely 20 times more than their average employee.

For some firms, the ratio alone can obscure important details about employee compensation, such as whether workers reside in areas with a low cost of living and what their hours are, said Tim Bartl, CEO of the Center on Executive Compensation, a group that opposed the pay rule.

“Unless you get into the details, it doesn’t tell you a whole lot,” Bartl said