” [HuffPost]Olympics officials confirmed on Sunday that a cyberattack during the opening ceremony last week disrupted Wi-Fi and television at Pyeongchang Olympic Stadium and knocked servers offline for about 12 hours.

International Olympic Committee spokesman Mark Adams told Reuters the attack didn’t affect any critical operations, though South Korea’s Yonhap News Agency notes it did prevent some would-be spectators from printing tickets to the games.

Adams declined to comment further on the source of the attack, a decision reached in tandem with the Pyeongchang organizing committee.

“We decided with the IOC we are not going to reveal the source (of the attack),” committee spokesman Sung Baik-you told Reuters. “All issues were resolved and recovered yesterday morning.”

A report on the attack by Cisco’s Talos Intelligence Group concluded the hackers likely compromised the network well ahead of the games, meaning the timing of the attack ― during the opening ceremony ― was intentional and intended to embarrass Olympics organizers.

“The actors behind this were after embarrassment of the Olympic committee during the opening ceremony.Tom and Abby will be lounging in his-and-her recliners forever and ever.

Tom Jackson, a beloved contestant on Netflix’s “Queer Eye” revival, announced on Twitter Wednesday that he and ex-wife Abby Parr married each other again.

The couple told Us Weekly that they eloped on March 27 and had a private ceremony at Chapel at the Park in Gatlinburg, Tennessee.

During this intimate affair, the couple lit a unity candle, had a small wedding cake and did some smooching in the woods.

Jackson, who appeared on the first episode of the show’s reboot, stole fans’ hearts with his unwavering devotion to his ex, saying on camera: “I love Abby more than anything. I want to spend the rest of my life with her.”

After Jackson received his makeover, he took Abby on a date to a classic car show and showed off his recently revamped digs, which included his-and-her recliners.

By the end of the episode, it seemed like the star-crossed lovers were rekindling their old flame. Fans were delighted when Jackson announced in March that the two were engaged.” The bio on Pruitt’s now-defunct official Twitter account as Oklahoma’s attorney general reads: “Husband, Father, Christ Follower.” He been attending Bible studies with Vice President Mike Pence and other Cabinet secretaries since shortly after taking office at the EPA last year.

While Pruitt’s penchant for rolling back environmental regulations and bolstering the fossil fuel industry is widely touted as the reason President Donald Trump has refused to fire the EPA chief amid a four-week whirlwind of ethical and spending scandals, that largely overlooks Pruitt’s other asset: His reputation as a zealous crusader for conservative Christian politics.

For a president dogged by accusations of adultery and sexual impropriety, that sort of reputation has currency. The ostentatiously devout Pruitt gives Trump cred among evangelical Christian power players at a time when five Republican lawmakers and 170 Democrats in Congress are calling for his resignation. Amid a staggeringly earnest story, the scene jolts into a surreal whimsy that’s just plain confusing. Billy stands at the lectern nervously, fiddling with his notes and observing a clock’s defeating tick.

Then, as if a lightning bolt has struck him, he starts shouting to the room in nonsensical fragments (“And what about David and Moses?!”) as the camera zooms toward him feverishly. Zany hoedown music plays as he yaks. At first it seems like a fantasy sequence, something taking place in his head. A homily on LSD, if you will.

Rocky Mountain Pictures

But it’s all too real. On Thursday, the EPA head testified before two House hearings for a total of six hours, during which Republicans leaped to his defense, arguing the administrator was the victim of “Washington politics,” “innuendo and McCarthyism,” and “a shameful attempt to denigrate the work that’s being done at the EPA.As Amnesty International’s Pakistan researcher Rabia Mehmood told Al Jazeera, passage of the bill shows progress, but executing it will be key.

“This bill makes Pakistan one of the few countries in the world to recognize the self-perceived gender identity of transgender individuals,” Mehmood said. “The country’s transgender community has very high hopes from this bill. Its implementation is therefore crucial to ensure they can live their lives with dignity and respect.”On Thursday, Democrats on the House Intelligence Committee released the 3,000 Facebook ads that Russia paid to run on the platform from 2015 through 2017, including those that were posted during the 2016 elections. Imagine that! You can always turn the channel if you’re offended by my huge legs. Hope you don’t mind. I may share your post with everyone on my FB page. All the best, Janice

In a column for the Fox News website, Dean also explained why the critique hurt her feelings.

“I have had Multiple sclerosis (MS) for more than 10 years,” she said. ”My big legs have always been a sore spot for me ― but now more than ever I am proud of them. Because with MS, I could lose my ability to walk literally any day. So I’ve learned to be proud of my legs, and am grateful for them every day of my life.”

Although Dean admits she’s “always been conscious about what body part I’d like to change,” she hopes to send a message to the next generation of women.

AdvertisementRob Lowe and Bella Thorne. Jason LaVeris via Getty Images / Jon Kopaloff via Getty Images

Actor Rob Lowe isn’t having it.

According to a House analysis, the advertisements came from the Internet Research Agency, a Kremlin-backed troll farm that Democrats say spreads misinformation and amplifies partisanship among Americans.

In addition to the ads, which the IRA paid Facebook around $100,000 to run, the group published 80,000 other posts on the site, organically reaching an estimated 126 million Americans... I don’t know.

HuffPost: You don’t know. You’re a DOJ alum, it seems like something that might pique your interest...

Cruz: It is ... concerning ... that lead investigators at the FBI and senior prosecutors at the Department of Justice have a demonstrated hard partisan bias against the president. I think it was a serious mistake to staff this investigation with Democratic partisans.

House analysts noted the ads fit within a well-defined set of categories, all of which touch on the most divisive political topics of our time. The posts played both sides of the debate on subjects like immigration, gun control, political candidates and veteran affairs.

The ads would also simultaneously bolster certain communities’ online presence on one hand, while encouraging detractors to attack that same community on the other. They targeted divisions along racial and religious lines, in addition to LGBTQ issues.

“The main goal of the Russian propaganda and misinformation effort is to divide America by using our institutions, like free speech and social media, against us,” Facebook’s vice president of ads, Rob Goldman, said in February. “It has stoked fear and hatred amongst Americans. It is working incredibly well. We are quite divided as a nation.”

The full 7.9 gigabytes of ads can be downloaded here, via the Democrats’ House Intelligence Committee website.

Check out a small sample of the ads below: