Don’t shoot the messenger: the Kim Kardashian edition.

The reality TV star got caught in the crossfire between sister Khloe Kardashian and boyfriend Tristan Thompson. Kim was first to break the family’s silence on multiple videos showing Thompson cheating days before Khloe gave birth, calling the situation “so fucked up. Wages remain low, and much-vaunted tax breaks have come at a price. Critics say the government is raiding future benefits in a short-sighted attempt to pay for them.

AdvertisementPresident Donald Trump ousted Secretary of State Rex Tillerson on Tuesday, marking Tillerson’s long-anticipated departure as America’s top diplomat. CIA Director Mike Pompeo will replace him.

Tillerson, 65, allegedly threatened to quit more than once, but had stayed in the job since Trump nominated him in December 2016. He reportedly found out he was fired the same way everyone else did ― via one of Trump’s tweets on Tuesday about Pompeo taking over the role.

“We have such a beautiful country.”

Apparently, that didn’t sit too well with Thompson, who has yet to publicly address the scandal. In a sneak peek of Kim’s appearance on “Live with Kelly and Ryan” airing on Friday, she revealed the consequence of speaking out against the NBA player.

“The last time I went on TV and I answered some questions about her and I got blocked on social media,” Kim said. “And not from Khloe.”

After Kim first commented on Thompson’s alleged affairs, social media sleuths discovered neither followed each other on Instagram anymore.

“It’s a really sad situation all over,” Kim said in April. “I kind of made this rule with my brother. If there’s a baby involved, I’m going to keep it cute and classy and try not to say anything negative because one day True is going to see this. It’s just so messed up.”

In spite of the social media retaliation, Kim reiterated that she’s always “rooting” for her sister, whatever the outcome.

“I’m always rooting for love,” the beauty mogul told co-host Ryan Seacrest in the clip. “I’m always rooting for families.”

Despite her family’s reported objections, Khloe and Tristan have seemingly reconciled after the cheating scandal and have been spotted out together with their daughter on outings around Cleveland. The two were seen catching a movie together on Wednesday and “looked very much like a couple,” according to TMZ. They are reportedly living together again.

Tristan Thompson and Khloe Kardashian in February 2018.S. Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin enjoying last August’s eclipse proves sunlight is the best disinfectant.

The photo, just unearthed by ThinkProgress.org through a Freedom of Information Act request, shows Mnuchin and his wife, Louise Linton, viewing the eclipse with appropriate glasses and smiles on their faces.

On Aug. 21, the day of the eclipse, the couple flew to Fort Knox in Kentucky on a government plane. Since the gold fortress just happened to be near the path of totality, an ethics watchdog group asked whether the couple planned a personal trip funded by taxpayers to see the eclipse.A.

Mnuchin, a multimillionaire and former Goldman Sachs executive, insisted that his trip to Fort Knox was not connected with the total eclipse, though the U.S. Jerritt Clark via Getty Images

Khloe recently revealed how she’s celebrating her upcoming first Mother’s Day with her baby girl True, whom sister Kim called “gorgeous” and “so happy.”

“I’ve always loved Mother’s Day and celebrating Kris Jenner, MJ and my sisters — but this year will be even more special because now I’m a mommy, too!” she wrote on her website. That’s appealing to those who need coverage the least and unappealing to people who have to have medical care.

Still, cheaper insurance gets a lot more expensive if you try to use it and find out it doesn’t cover what you need. “As of now, there aren’t any special plans (that I know of, LOL). I’m really enjoying spending quality time with True and loving just hibernating with her.”Get used to Kenan Thompson, because he has no intention of leaving “Saturday Night Live” anytime soon, he told People in its latest issue.

With 15 years on the show, Thompson holds the record for most years as a cast member, but he says “there’s no reason for me to run out the door.”

“I’m going to try and make that record as long as possible,” Thompson said. The 39-year-old actor is known for his amazing character work, and his “SNL” colleagues consider him one of the greatest sketch comics ever.

Thompson’s recurring sketch “Black Jeopardy” may be his most popular, but he brings something to every sketch he’s in. That’s because, for him, it needs to be good.

“I just love for the sketch to go right,” he told HuffPost last year. “If I’m involved in it and it’s my thing, it has to be right.”