Author Tim Federle's trilogy of middle-grade novels follow a gay teen's coming-of-age on Broadway. Justin Patterson

Author Tim Federle has captured the hearts of young Broadway fans nationwide by setting a 13-year-old’s journey toward self-acceptance in New York City’s theater world.

HuffPost got an exclusive first look at the cover of Nate Expectations, the third ― and, for now, final ― book in the beloved series about budding thespian Nate Foster.

A still of Jenner and Scott from the nearly 12-minute video. Kylie Jenner

They have been dating for almost a year. Kylie Jenner

Jenner and Scott both stepped out separately a few days after Stormi’s birth, and Jenner has become more active on social media.

Earlier this week, she posted photos of herself wearing a maroon tracksuit that coordinated with her Bentley:

A post shared by Kylie (@kyliejenner) on Feb 12, 2018 at 5:38pm PST

And she later shared a sultry snap for Valentine’s Day:

A post shared by Kylie (@kyliejenner) on Feb 14, 2018 at 10:52am PSTZendaya, Blake Lively and Emily Blunt attend the Michael Kors Collection Fall 2018 Runway Show. Jamie McCarthy via Getty Images

The front rows at Fashion Week are like a celebrity centrifuge: They spit out random combinations of stars to mingle and make nice as the cameras flash away.

Take Zendaya, Blake Lively and Emily Blunt for example, who were all seated front and center for Michael Kors’ Fall 2018 collection at Lincoln Center this week.

All three ladies brought their fashion A-game to the event (though if we have to choose, we’ll go with Zendaya for the win) and seemed to get along fine.

Until the internet stepped in.

“These kids have their cellphones on their hands the whole day. And we, as parents, we criticize that a lot because we ignore the power of that,” he continued. “The difference between this tragedy and others, if you ask me, is that this generation is used to [getting] answers right away. You think they’re going to wait for six months or a year for anybody — Congress or anybody that needs to make the right call?”

Gonzalez, whose rousing speech calling out the NRA went viral days after the massacre, became a public face of the anti-gun violence movement overnight. Her mother, Beth, said she’s proud of her daughter, but also “terrified.”

“It’s like she built herself a pair of wings out of balsa wood and duct tape and jumped off a building, and we’re just running along beneath her with a net which she doesn’t want or think that she needs,” Beth Gonzalez said of her 18-year-old daughter.

“Somebody said, you know, ‘Please tell Emma we’re behind her,’ which I appreciate,” she added. “But we should’ve been in front of her. It covered things that might come up.”CNN’s Don Lemon has no regrets about calling President Donald Trump a racist. I should’ve been in front of her. *CB — Delta (@Delta) March 16, 2017

Delta apologized via Twitter. According to Byer, it also offered her compensation on condition she didn’t talk about the incident. But she declined, and insisted that people should hear her story.

The ordeal wasn’t completely over, however. Byer revealed she later found more poop in her cellphone case — which had been on her lap at the time. “It’s gross, plain and simple,” she told O’Brien.

AdvertisementFormer USA Gymnastics Olympic coach John Geddert with Olympian Jordyn Wieber in 2011. KAZUHIRO NOGI via Getty Images

The Eaton County, Michigan, sheriff’s office announced on Tuesday that John Geddert, the former U.S. women’s gymnastics Olympic coach who worked closely with former team doctor and convicted pedophile Larry Nassar, is facing a criminal investigation.

The Lansing State Journal reported on Tuesday that the sheriff’s office said “there are new people coming forward” with complaints against the former U.S. Olympic coach. The department said it could not comment about the details of the complaints as the investigation was ongoing.

Neither Geddert nor USA Gymnastics immediately responded to HuffPost’s requests for comment. We all, adults, should’ve dealt with this 20 years ago.”YouTube

Apparently, bears are allowed to vote in Russia ― or at least people in bear costumes.

During Sunday’s national election, a voter in the Siberian town of Severobaykalsk ― more than 3,400 miles east of Moscow ― decided to show he was bullish on Russia by dressing up as a bear.

Russian government-controlled Sputnik News reported that the unnamed voter scared a few people with his loud roar, but that most people seemed amused. (Good job, internet.)

In a couple of clips that have made the rounds, the former Disney star appears to give Lively and Blunt the side-eye, while the two actresses share a laugh.

The moment spawned a swarm of memes about the power of Zendaya’s disdain, with others speculating as to what might’ve angered her. In the follow-up to 2013′s Better Nate Than Ever and 2014′s Five, Six, Seven, Nate!, Nate is reminded that there’s more to life than sequins and the spotlight.

Rex Bonomelli, whose designs have graced books by Stephen King and James Patterson, created the cover art. When Nate Expectations hits retailers in September, the new printings of Better Nate Than Ever and Five, Six, Seven, Nate! will receive Bonomelli-designed covers, too.

Federle's new middle-grade novel, Nate Expectations, is due out Sept. 18. Rex Bonomelli

Nate Expectations finds Nate returning to his Pennsylvania hometown after his Broadway debut draws more jeers than cheers. This unexpected change of plans (and location) doesn’t dampen Nate’s spirit or his wise-beyond-his-years wit, however, and he finds creative ways to put his theatrical chops to use in his suburban high school.

The teen has matured in other ways, too. Federle told HuffPost that his first two books about Nate aimed to capture “that period when you’ve not fully arrived at a ‘gay’ identity,” and that Nate Expectations sees its main character confidently identifying as gay.

Federle, himself a former Broadway performer, said he never anticipated Nate’s story would become a trilogy. But glowing reviews of the first two novels, praise from “Hamilton” composer Lin-Manuel Miranda and a slew of new readers convinced him otherwise.

“I got to thinking, Broadway itself is kind of a three-step process: hoping you’ll get there, getting there, and then, you know, dealing with life when the show closes or gets crappy reviews,” he said. “So it felt fitting to tell one more Nate story.”

The new printings of Better Nate Than Ever and Five, Six, Seven, Nate! will receive covers designed by Rex Bonomelli to reflect their appeal to all ages. Rex Bonomelli

The trilogy is intended for middle-grade readers between the ages of 8 and 12, but Federle said he’s been surprised at how adults have responded to the series. (Miranda’s praise, in particular, made him feel “like a 13-year-old theater kid all over again.”)

Federle said he “feels incredibly lucky just to write anything for a living, period,” but named the Nate trilogy as the work he’s most proud of to date.

“I didn’t realize at the time of the second book’s release that I’d written the first-ever middle school kiss between two boys,” he said. “If I’d read characters like that when I was a kid myself, it would have saved me a lot of grief. And self-doubt.”“We had this beautiful, funny, heartbreaking, joyful, very relatable script and story,” Parker said at the time. “It’s not just disappointing that we don’t get to tell the story and have that experience, but more so for that audience that has been so vocal in wanting another movie.”

Cattrall later fired back and defended her decision, explaining that her “heart isn’t in it anymore.” She also sat down with Piers Morgan where she said Parker “could have been nicer” and shot down rumors about her on-set behavior. “That’s the president of the United States of America. It’s just extraordinary.” He derided Trump’s “lack of any comportment” and “dignity.”

“It’s inherent racism, this notion of people are coming here, and they’re black and they’re brown and they’re rapists and they’re murderers,” Schmidt added.