Can you believe?!

“Queer Eye” star Karamo Brown got engaged to his longtime boyfriend, director Ian Jordan, on Wednesday night surrounded by co-hosts Bobby Berk, Tan France, Antoni Porowski and Jonathan Van Ness.

The show’s culture expert popped the question during Jordan’s surprise 40th birthday party at SBE Hyde Sunset in West Hollywood with the help of his two adult sons, Jason and Chris.

“You are the funniest man I know, the kindest man, my biggest cheerleader,” Brown told Jordan with tears running down his face, according to Entertainment Tonight. “You made me feel like I could do anything.”

Then Brown got down on one knee and proposed with matching engraved David Yurman rings, as the room burst into applause.

“I hope we can conquer the world together for the rest of our lives. Ian Lamont Jordan, will you marry me?”

A post shared by Karamo (@karamobrown) on May 8, 2018 at 8:23am PDT

The former “Real World” star, who’s been dating Jordan for eight years, flew in his newly minted fiancé’s family to witness the special moment.

Brown’s own “Queer Eye” family was certainly emotional, with each member sharing heartfelt tributes to the couple on social media.Samantha Bee’s parents want her to come back home to Canada. On Thursday night’s episode of “Jimmy Kimmel Live,” the host of “Full Frontal” revealed what her Canadian family really thinks of the United States.

“They think it’s such a dangerous and decrepit place now,” Bee told Kimmel. “My dad bought me a Kevlar vest.”

Kimmel asked Bee if her dad also bought a Kevlar vest for her husband, former Daily Show correspondent Jason Jones.

“No, just me,” Bee said. “There’s a limit to my father’s affection.”Rudy Giuliani says there’s “nothing illegal” about trying to find compromising information about opponents — even if the source is Russia.

“When I ran against [the Democrats], they were looking for dirt on me every day,” Giuliani told Fox News host Laura Ingraham on Wednesday night, in response to a question about Donald Trump Jr.’s apparent quest to find “dirt” on Hillary Clinton before the 2016 presidential election.

“That’s what you do, maybe you shouldn’t, but you do. Nothing illegal about that,” Giuliani said.

“Fully crying,” Van Ness posted on his Instagram Stories. “He produced this so well.”

“OMG!” France wrote. “I couldn’t be happier for you, KK and Ian!”

“So, I just realized through all of Karamo and Ian’s proposal I didn’t post one video. It was almost like I wasn’t there!” Berk also said on Instagram. “I was so caught up in the moment that I just wanted to experience it in real life. I love you both. doesn’t rank very well with the rest of the world in terms of internet speed. Depending on where you live, you might have a better shot having reliable cable than internet.

And then if you do cord-cut, you may have to pay more for your internet to make sure the streamed shows and movies don’t overload your internet connection. The wheels keep turning. “Drag Race” is really cool, but I’ve always got the next 10 monopoly moves ready.

A post shared by Trixie Mattel (@trixiemattel) on Mar 14, 2018 at 5:54am PDT

Do you feel like you need to defend your success in the competition given that some of the top competitors were knocked out of the race before the final lip-sync?

The people who should have to defend that are the people who pulled the lipsticks, you know what I mean? You saw me in the interview. I really thought Shangela and I were going to be lip-syncing, so I was as shocked as anybody else. I have huge respect for her, and I think she’s such a superstar given her track record. I’m an optimistic realist. I kind of expect the worst but prepare for the best.

There have been conversations about the rules of “Drag Race” and how the endless twists are negatively impacting the show. As a competitor but also a major fan, do you think the show should return to the strict merit-based elimination criteria?

I don’t think so. As much as people might not always agree with the choices made, it’s fun to watch. On a normal season, when people are in the bottom and there’s a lip-sync for your life, people also often disagree about who wins the lip-sync. When they announced that the people choosing were going to be judges, in a certain light maybe that’s more fair because these people were in the workroom and behind the scenes at all times.

Levin finds poll workers are still afraid of new technology. “We get complaints where a person walks in and asks to use the machine, and a worker says, ‘It doesn’t look like you need it,’ ” Levin said. “They were discouraged and intimidated by it. Who better to make the call than people who were in the Snatch Game with you or learning the choreography next to you? They know how hard everything was, and they know who struggled. In a weird way, they have a lot of insight the judges can’t offer.

You turned a corner about halfway through the competition. As one reader pointed out, certain areas of the country with sub-par internet could have no good way of avoiding this problem.

“My internet slowed down to a crawl and no amount of resetting the box helped. Turned out it was something wrong with the box and it was replaced. However, it was still occasionally cutting out. When we moved from Los Feliz to Boyle Heights [in Los Angeles], connection with these services greatly improved. I think it’s due to it being adjacent to downtown so that connections are underground and stronger.” ― Ruby McNeil

5. You might have to fight your cable company. Congratulations!”

Jonathan Van Ness, Bobby Berk, Anthoni Porowski, Tan France and Karamo Brown visit SiriusXM Studios. Rob Kim via Getty Images

Before the proposal, Brown shared a touching birthday tribute to the “love of his life” on Instagram.

“I love you because of your heart, your humor but mostly because you don’t mind serving #GlamourShots realness w/ me anytime I ask,” Brown wrote in the caption of a photo of them.”

Orcem, which didn’t respond to multiple requests for comment, touts the site’s location as positive. On its website, it mentions the deep-water berth, railroad, and proximity to the highway as an opportunity to help “establish Vallejo as a center of international trade and commerce. “I pray today and this year brings you everything your heart desires.”

Brown isn’t the only one to find love lately. One of the Netflix show’s most memorable subjects, Tom Jackson, recently remarried his ex-wife Abby, who was also featured in the show.Halfpoint via Getty Images

If you’re on a time crunch to find a perfect Mother’s Day gift that’ll still arrive on time, it’s your lucky day.

Amazon competitor Jet, owned by Walmart, just announced an easy way to save on Apple products this Mother’s Day. Jet is now an authorized reseller of Apple products and accessories, which means you can snag Mac, Apple Watch, iPad, HomePod, iPhone as well as Beats by Dre accessories at the same time you’re stocking up on everyday essentials like groceries and toilet paper.

Jet

You’ll also see suggestions on Jet’s Apple store for compatible accessories for Apple devices, something that’s not normally available for Apple resellers who also sell third-party accessories.

Because of the news, Apple fans shopping on Jet can save serious dough when bundling certain Apple products and accessories, but procrastinators take note. The sale ends May 23, so browse now if you’ve been eyeing a new iPhone X or need a new pair of Airpods before your summer vacation, because you could save as much as $300.

Below, we’ve rounded up some of the best Apple deals on Jet:

1 Save $50 on Apple Watch Nike+ and Beats Powerbeats3 Wireless Earphones Jet Buy both together and save $50. Get the deal 2 Save $125 on 13" Apple MacBook Air, Beats Solo3 Wireless Headphones and Apple Magic Mouse 2 Jet Buy all three together and save $125. Get the deal 3 Save $300 on 15" Apple MacBook Pro with Touch Bar, Beats Studio3 Wireless Headphones and Apple Magic Mouse 2 Jet Buy all three together and save $300. Get the deal