Sen. Ron Johnson used all kinds of delay tactics to prevent President Barack Obama from getting a federal judge confirmed. Bill Clark via Getty Images

WASHINGTON ― The Senate voted Thursday to confirm Michael Brennan to a lifetime seat on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the 7th Circuit ― a vacancy that Republicans prevented President Barack Obama from filling for six years.

The vote, 49 to 46, was entirely partisan.

Until now, the seat was the nation’s longest circuit court vacancy. It was empty since January 2010, and it had been up to Wisconsin’s two senators to work with the White House to fill it. The reason it went unfilled for so long largely came down to one person: Sen. Ron Johnson (R-Wis.).

Obama nominated Victoria Nourse to the seat in July 2010. Johnson denied her a confirmation hearing for all of 2011 by refusing to turn in his so-called blue slip, a Senate tradition whereby home-state senators have the ability to stop or advance a judicial nominee in the Judiciary Committee. Nourse withdrew her nomination in early 2012, calling the system “broken.”

Nourse had been recommended for the court seat by Wisconsin’s judicial nominating commission. But after she withdrew, Johnson said he wanted a new system of picking judicial nominees. He disbanded the state’s nominating panel and worked with Sen. Tammy Baldwin (D-Wis.) to create a new one. That took another year.

Johnson then said the panel couldn’t put forward a 7th Circuit nominee until Obama nominated people to two other district court vacancies in the state. That added another year to the process. By the time the panel was seeking applications for the 7th Circuit, it was July 2014 and the seat had been empty for four years.

The commission had eight candidates to recommend by January 2015, but couldn’t reach a consensus. The process stalled out in May, so Baldwin submitted all of their names to the White House to let the administration pick someone. I think to some degree. I’ll be honest with you, yes I’ve done that because I’ve grown up seeing albums to be full bodies of work that you’re supposed to listen to start to finish .. Johnson fumed that Baldwin’s move was “partisan” and said the nomination process should start all over.

By January 2016, six years after the seat became empty, Obama nominated Donald Schott — one of the eight people chosen by the state panel. Baldwin gave the green light for him to get a hearing by turning in her blue slip, and reluctantly, Johnson did too. Schott got his hearing in June 2016. But Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.) blocked action on Obama’s court picks for the rest of the year, and Schott’s nomination expired.

That left the seat open for a Republican president, Donald Trump, to fill, which was Johnson’s and McConnell’s goal all along. Of course, the event itself typically makes enormous revenue, between ticket sales, licensing deals, incoming tourism and international sponsorships.

Surprisingly, $13 billion is downright affordable in comparison to the most expensive games in history.

Mitch McConnell has been very effective at denying Democrats the ability to fill empty court seats, and then filling up all those seats when Republicans are in power. Alex Wong via Getty Images

After years of denying votes to Obama’s judicial picks, McConnell is now aggressively moving forward with filling those empty court seats with young, conservative, lifetime judges. Trump has been nominating people at record-breaking levels, and many of his picks have records of being anti-LGBTQ rights, anti-abortion rights or anti-voting rights.

“This is my top priority in the Senate,” McConnell told conservative radio show host Hugh Hewitt last week. “By appointing and confirming these strict constructionists to the courts who are in their late 40s or early 50s ... I believe we’re making a generational change in the country.”

Brennan’s confirmation is rich with irony. He wrote an editorial endorsing the blue slip process in 2011 after Johnson refused to return his blue slip for Nourse. He didn’t earn the support of Wisconsin’s judicial nominating commission. attorney.

“Mr. Sessions has used the awesome powers of his office in a shabby attempt to intimidate and frighten elderly black voters,” she wrote. “For this reprehensible conduct, he should not be rewarded with a federal judgeship.”

Scott King accused the Alabama Republican of pursuing “politically-motivated voting fraud prosecutions” and blasted him for prosecuting civil rights leaders. Allegations of racism against Sessions, including those Scott King mentioned in her letter, led the Senate to kill his nomination.

The letter came back to haunt Sessions in February 2017, when Sen. Elizabeth Warren (D-Mass.) read it aloud on the Senate floor during his nomination hearing, but Sessions still became attorney general.In 2016, after reading through “Harry Potter And The Half-Blood Prince,” a few filmmakers began crowdfunding the fan film “Voldemort: Origins Of The Heir,” which follows Voldemort’s path to evil. Word quickly reached Warner Bros. and the kickstarter was shut down due to copyright laws.

But then, something surprising happened. The creators Gianmaria Pezzato and Stefano Prestia had a private meeting with Warner Bros. and ― after some discussion on restrictions, we’re guessing ― the studio agreed to let them go forward with the film.

And the same Republicans who used blue slips to deny Obama the seat have now ignored the tradition of blue slips to help Trump fill it. Baldwin never turned in her blue slip in for Brennan, but Sen. Chuck Grassley (R-Iowa), the chairman, gave him a hearing anyway and Republicans sent his nomination to the Senate floor.

Democrats have fumed about the hypocrisy surrounding this court seat. Some already opposed Brennan, a 57-year-old Milwaukee lawyer, on his merits. Among other things, Brennan has discounted the concept of the “the glass ceiling” being real, and raised some eyebrows in his confirmation hearing when he couldn’t say if racial bias exists in the criminal justice system.

“How is Sen. Baldwin’s right to consult on judges for her state any less important than Sen. Johnson’s?” Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer (D-N.Y.) said Wednesday on the Senate floor. “It’s mind-bending hypocrisy. It’s an appalling double standard.”

Until this year, it had been three decades since the Senate confirmed a judge without positive blue slips from both home-state senators..

The coming-out moment spotlighted that, aside from the camp, wit and glamour we expect from the now-10-season strong VH1 series, RuPaul’s show achieves something incredible for mainstream entertainment. Using wigs and gowns and makeup, it is slowly undoing rigid concepts inherent to the gender binary, and bringing complicated conversations about gender theory and performance to mainstream audiences.

What was once reserved for the annals of academic journals is now taking place on our personal screens.

And perhaps the most nuanced way gender has been explored on “RPDR” is through the voices of trans drag queens themselves. In being both trans and drag performers, these queens exist at the intersection of performed and lived gender identities. They are the driving force behind discussions of what it means to rewrite gender expression on and offstage.

Put in “Drag Race” terms, “we’re all born naked and the rest is drag.” And there are trans and gender non-conforming queens who, in their unique drag styles, rewrite what it means to express one’s gender.

In a phone interview with HuffPost, Peppermint spoke about the balance trans queens strike between their on- and off-stage identities. For many, she said, drag can function as a bridge to a more authentic, self-realized gender expression in their daily lives.

Today, “Peppermint the drag queen and Peppermint the everyday woman are definitely the same personality,” she said. But this wasn’t always the case. When she began drag at 18, she was preoccupied with projecting a sense of “realness,” or conventional femininity. But the longer she spent on stage crafting a persona, the more she realized how much room she had to explore her gender identity in less constrained ways.

"RuPaul's Drag Race" Season 9 runner-up Peppermint performs in March 2017.

But it’s hard to pretend that this isn’t Washington’s problem.

“Given that the U.S. touts its relationship of cooperation, including intelligence cooperation, with the Emiratis, it certainly seems likely that there would be sharing of information from interrogations,” said Hina Shamsi, director of the national security project at the American Civil Liberties Union. “And to the extent that any of those interrogations are abusive, there would be reason for concern that the U.S