Spartanburg County Detention Center

A South Carolina man tried to hire white supremacists to kill his black neighbor, hang him in a tree, and install a “flaming cross” in his front yard, according to officials. [HuffPost]

WHAT THE TERM ‘SUNSHINE BABY’ MEANS “A sunshine baby is one who was born before a miscarriage, stillbirth, infant death or other early loss of a child. Just as a rainbow baby represents the hope after a storm, a sunshine baby represents the calm before.” [HuffPost]

BEFORE YOU GOActivists of color rallied in Washington on Wednesday to condemn President Donald Trump reportedly labeling Haiti and African nations as “shithole countries.”

Several organizations ― including UndocuBlack Network, Asian Americans Advancing Justice | AAJC, National Korean American Service & Education Consortium (NAKASEC), and the New York Immigration Coalition (NYIC) ― held a press conference near the Supreme Court, protesting the “racist” comments, along with Trump’s stance on several immigration issues.

The activists also urged Congress to pass a so-called clean Dream Act before midnight on Friday, the deadline for keeping the government funded. A Dream Act would allow undocumented immigrants brought to the U.S. as children to stay in the U.S., without adding to the bill border security measures and other immigration provisions sought by Trump.

Courtesy of NAKASEC

Sam Yu, Communications Coordinator, for NAKASEC told HuffPost that it was important that communities of color come together as a united front on immigration.

“These issues aren’t just Black, or AAPI, or Latinx.”

According to Argentine newspaper Clarín, cited by NPR, the driver defended his action, saying that he wasn’t familiar with the area and that he only left the road because of a mechanical problem.

The paper speculated, however, that he may have left the road in an attempt to avoid paying a highway toll.

The ancient designs, whose purpose remains unclear, cover 280 square miles. MARTIN BERNETTI via Getty Images

Local news site Peru21 identified the driver as 40-year-old Jainer Jesús Flores Vigo and said that he was only briefly detained as there wasn’t enough evidence to prove that he acted with intent.

Prosecutors for the public ministry say they will pursue charges.

Fiscal Pavel Ramos Peralta, de 2º Fiscalía Provincial Penal Corporativa de Nasca, apeló la decisión del Poder Judicial que dispuso hoy comparecencia restringida a favor de Jainer Jesús Flores Vigo (40), chofer del tráiler intervenido por invadir zona intangible de #LíneasDeNasca pic.

Brandon Cory Lecroy, 25, of Hodges, South Carolina, was indicted by a federal grand jury on one count of solicitation to commit a crime of violence and one count of using interstate commerce facilities in the commission of murder for hire, the U. Embassy move “gives life to a religious conflict instead of a dignified peace,” it said in a statement.

Israel said all 86 countries with diplomatic missions in Israel were invited to the event, and 33 confirmed attendance. Among those present were delegates from Guatemala and Paraguay, which will open their own Jerusalem embassies later this month.

EUROPEAN RIFT

Attending the Foreign Ministry gathering were representatives from Hungary, Romania and the Czech Republic, but none from western European Union states - suggesting a rift within the bloc over Trump’s Jerusalem move.S. attorney’s office in South Carolina announced Tuesday.

An FBI agent reported in March that Lecroy had contacted a white supremacist organization to seek assistance in “the murder of his African American neighbor,” according to a court affidavit.

An undercover FBI agent subsequently recorded multiple phone calls with Lecroy, in which he reaffirmed his desire to hire someone to murder his neighbor, who is identified only as “FJ” in the court documents. With the Parkland students positioning themselves to be an enduring force in the gun policy debate, it’s also possible that these priorities will continue to evolve after the march.

Although public details are still vague, a number of high-profile figures have pledged donations.

“$500 and he’s a ghost,” Lecroy told the undercover FBI agent in one of the recorded calls, in which he also requested his neighbor be hung from a tree and a “flaming cross” installed in his front yard, the affidavit says. In a subsequent phone conversation in March, Lecroy told the FBI agent he planned to take over the victim’s property and wanted to buy a 9 mm “ghost gun” that would be untraceable, according to the FBI account.

Lecroy met with the undercover FBI agent on April 9 during which he pointed out where his neighbor lived, discussed potential future targets, and provided a $100 cash down payment for the alleged murder for hire, the affidavit says. He was arrested later that day.

As noted by The Washington Post, the court documents did not provide details about Lecroy’s relationship with his targeted neighbor nor did they specify which white supremacist organization he initially reached out to when attempting to solicit the hit.

An attorney for Lecroy did not immediately respond to HuffPost’s request for comment.President Donald Trump announced Thursday that the historic summit with North Korean leader Kim Jong Un will take place on June 12 in Singapore.

The revelation follows Secretary of State Mike Pompeo’s second visit to Pyongyang to meet with North Korean officials. Trump said Wednesday that a date and site had been set, but declined to reveal the details.

Turnout at the election was 46 percent, it said, way down from the 80 percent at the last presidential vote in 2013.

Falcon called for a new vote, complaining about the government’s placing of nearly 13,000 pro-government stands called “red spots” close to polling stations nationwide.

Mainly poor Venezuelans were asked to scan state-issued “fatherland cards” at red tents after voting in hope of receiving a “prize” promised by Maduro.

The “fatherland cards” are required to receive benefits including food boxes and money transfers.

Maduro now faces a colossal task to turn around Venezuela’s moribund economy and offered no specifics on reforming two decades of state-led policies. The bolivar currency is down 99 percent over the past year and inflation is at an annual 14,000 percent, according to the National Assembly.

Furthermore, Venezuela’s multiple creditors are considering accelerating claims on unpaid foreign debt, while oil major ConocoPhillips has been taking aggressive action to seize state oil company PDVSA’s assets over a 2007 nationalization.

The Trump administration has worked for months to bring the reclusive regime to the negotiating table. Enlisting China in helping spearhead the denuclearization dialogue, Trump has successfully set up the first face-to-face meeting between North Korean and American leaders.

Kim Jong Un has also met with the leaders of China and South Korea to discuss regional security, resulting in the two Koreas declaring an official end to the Korean war.

The highly anticipated meeting between Kim Jong Un and myself will take place in Singapore on June 12th. We will both try to make it a very special moment for World Peace! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) May 10, 2018

Kim expressed support for the “historic meeting,” calling it a first step toward the “building of a good future” on the Korean Peninsula.