Samantha Bee had a brutal message for Eric Schneiderman (D), who resigned as New York attorney general this week after allegations of physical abuse against former partners emerged.”

A post shared by Michelle Obama (@michelleobama) on May 22, 2018 at 2:09pm PDT

Obama, 54, noted how she’d “never stood out in a crowd or a classroom because of the color of my skin before” but soon found close friends and a mentor who gave her the confidence “to be myself.”

“Going to college is hard work, but every day I meet people whose lives have been profoundly changed by education, just as mine was,” Obama said. “My advice to students is to be brave and stay with it.”

She captioned the post with the #ReachHigher hashtag, in reference to the program she launched at the White House in 2014 which aimed “to inspire every student in America to take charge of their future by completing their education past high school.”

Obama paid tribute to her parents, Marian and Fraser Robinson, with this picture earlier Tuesday:

A post shared by Michelle Obama (@michelleobama) on May 22, 2018 at 6:46am PDT

Her father “taught me to work hard, laugh often, and keep my word,” Obama wrote.co/THOPfhYfAM — Leland (@itisLELAND) April 2, 2018

The debate got so serious, in fact, that even Malaysia’s prime minister got involved. Najib Razak alluded to the elimination and posted a Facebook status, asking, “who eats ‘crispy’ rendang?” And the country’s minister of foreign affairs, Anifah Aman, spoke out as well. Aman labeled Wallace’s actions as “whitesplaining” and noted that ultimately Olpin is a winner after all. Her mother “showed me how to think for myself and to use my voice.”

On Wednesday, she shared this photograph from her wedding day to former President Barack Obama.

A post shared by Michelle Obama (@michelleobama) on May 23, 2018 at 4:03am PDT

“You can’t tell it from this photo, but Barack woke up on our wedding day in October, 1992 with a nasty head cold,” she wrote. I will never sue anybody. “Somehow, by the time I met him at the altar, it had miraculously disappeared and we ended up dancing almost all night.”

Obama has promised over the coming days to share more old photographs from her upcoming memoir, BECOMING, which is scheduled for release in November.After Bill Cosby was found guilty Thursday on three felony counts of aggravated indecent assault, one of his more than 60 accusers ran out of a Pennsylvania courtroom sobbing.

Actress Lili Bernard said Cosby drugged and raped her in the early 1990s while she was guest-starring on the final season of “The Cosby Show.” It’s a story many other women echoed, and today their pain was validated after a jury found Cosby, 80, guilty of drugging and sexually assaulting former college women’s basketball coach Andrea Constand in 2004.

“You are trash and we do not need you,” the comedian said on Wednesday’s episode of “Full Frontal.”

“Now, Schneiderman was a guest on my show, so this is a little complicated for me to talk about,” said Bee, in reference to her calling him “a hero” for standing up to “democracy’s nemesis” in a November broadcast.

“Just kidding, it’s not complicated,” she added. “Fuck you, Eric Schneiderman!”

Bee later “checked in” on other “penis weasels” who have been accused of sexual abuse and harassment since the #MeToo movement gained traction, including news anchor Charlie Rose and movie producer Harvey Weinstein.

The YouTube clip of Bee’s November interview with Schneiderman has been renamed to: “Former AG Tricks Sam Into Thinking He Was Decent.”

“We taped this segment before the allegations against Eric Schneiderman came to light, and we sincerely apologize for characterizing him as a hero when, to so many women, he was the vilest villain,” its description now reads. “We’re keeping this piece online in the interest of integrity.”“Parks and Recreation” fans, rejoice: Amy Poehler and Nick Offerman would definitely commit to a “Will & Grace”-style revival of the beloved series.

The actors dropped by “The Ellen DeGeneres Show” Thursday to promote their new NBC competition series, “Making It.” The host, however, couldn’t resist the chance to ask them about the possibility of resurrecting “Parks and Rec,” which wrapped in 2015 after seven seasons.

“I’ll speak for everybody and say we would all do it,” Poehler said. “I think we would all do it someday. It would be amazing.”

Offerman, who is married to “Will & Grace” star Megan Mullally, told Ellen he’d also be interested in a reboot ― under one condition.

“We said that if Beyoncé would play the mayor, we’ll bring the show back,” he quipped. “This is Beyoncé Knowles, the singer, the entertainer.”

Now, according to several employees, D’Vorkin is determined to find the leaker in his midst, and Tronc is supporting the cause by sending human resources executive Dyana Burke to L.A. to assist the investigation. According to one former employee, “They had to bring her in because there are no HR people left at the L.A. Times.”

However, returning to the fictional Pawnee, Indiana, might be easier said than done, as many of Offerman and Poehler’s co-stars are busier than ever. Rashida Jones, for example, stars in the TBS series “Angie Tribeca” and serves as an executive producer on TNT’s “Claws.”Actor/artist Jim Carrey is taking on President Donald Trump yet again, this time portraying him as Batman’s nemesis, the Joker.

The new portrait describes an agreement with the United States under Trump as “worthless,” a likely reference to the president withdrawing from the Iran nuclear treaty earlier this week. Here’s the image, with Trump getting made over in the style of Heath Ledger’s chilling version of the supervillain:

The white letters in the portrait spell out SEITAAGNNRUS, which astute Twitter users decoded as “RUSSIAN AGENT.”

Carrey knows a thing or two about Batman villains: He portrayed The Riddler in 1995′s “Batman Forever.

Will Smith returned to his roots on Sunday with a short film to create some hype for the Philadelphia Eagles’ big night.

A post shared by Will Smith (@willsmith) on Feb 4, 2018 at 2:42pm PST

In case you forgot, Smith is from West Philadelphia, born and raised. The “Fresh Prince” star is clearly rooting for his hometown team to win its first Super Bowl in franchise history. The video above depicts a montage of game-day preparation scored to the theme song of the city’s other famous athlete, Rocky Balboa.

Smith got ready with his special Eagles merchandise, keychain included, and watched a little pregame analysis, which is a roller coaster of emotion. His game face is more than a little intimidating with Bill Conti’s classic “Gonna Fly Now” playing in the background.Several members of Super Bowl champion Philadelphia Eagles have said they will not visit the White House if invited by President Donald Trump.

Wide receiver Torrey Smith, defensive end Chris Long and safety Malcolm Jenkins have all said they won’t be going, NJ.com reported.

Jenkins said during an appearance Monday on CNN’s “New Day” that he does “not anticipate” attending the White House celebration.

“My message has been clear all year,” Jenkins said. “I’m about, you know, creating positive change in the communities that I come from, whether it be Philadelphia, New Jersey, Ohio, Louisiana or this entire country.”

Carrey has painted Trump several times in recent months, including an image that features his controversial former physician, Dr. Harold Bornstein:

Carrey has also depicted Trump as the “Wicked Witch of the West Wing”:

If you liked my last cartoon you may also enjoy...



"THE WICKED WITCH OF THE WEST WING AND PUTIN’S FLYING MONKEYS“ pic.twitter.com/slBG7j1s8d — Jim Carrey (@JimCarrey) March 19, 2018

He mockingly submitted a painting of Trump to the Smithsonian National Portrait Gallery:

Dear Smithsonian National Portrait Gallery @NPG, I know it’s early but I’d like to submit this as the official portrait of our 45th President, Donald J. Trump. It’s called, 'You Scream. I Scream. Will We Ever Stop Screaming?' pic.twitter.com/LrCmlXXpv7 — Jim Carrey (@JimCarrey) March 29, 2018

And he depicted Trump bathing in political sewage: