Trump predictably wasted no time in crowing that he was the reason for the big plunge in the black jobless rate. It was part his trademark ego, and part a chance to score political points by digging at the Democrats talking. He bellowed his stock campaign spiel, “what do blacks have to lose by voting for me. “ That aside, it is a mix of the continuing spiral upward of the economy that began early in Obama’s second term, and the entrenched Bureau of Labor Statistics manipulation of who and how it counts as the jobless that account for the jobs surge. The figures more than bear out that Obama must get the political credit for the job upswing. The actual biggest percentage drop in black unemployment didn’t come with the release of the latest BLS numbers, but in the two months from December 2011 to January 2012. That was the tail end of Obama’s first term. The employment cycle continued steadily upward after that.

“When you go to the basketball game, you walk in that new Breslin [Student Events Center], and the person who hustled and got all those major donors to give money was Lou Anna Simon,” he said.

Ferguson added that while the board of trustees wants Simon as president, trustees would be happy to have the attorney general review the investigation independently.North Korean leader Kim Jong Un shakes hands with U.S. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo in this May 9 photo by North Korea's Korean Central News Agency in Pyongyang. KCNA KCNA / Reuters

SEOUL/WASHINGTON ― North Korea has scheduled the dismantlement of its nuclear test site for sometime between May 23 and 25, depending on weather conditions, in order to uphold its pledge to discontinue nuclear tests, the country’s state media reported on Saturday.

The official Korean Central New Agency said dismantlement of the Punggye-ri nuclear test ground would involve collapsing all of its tunnels with explosions, blocking its entrances, and removing all observation facilities, research buildings and security posts.

“The Nuclear Weapon Institute and other concerned institutions are taking technical measures for dismantling the northern nuclear test ground ... Anger at the election of President Donald Trump prompted new enthusiasm among New York Democrats that has dramatically increased scrutiny on state politics in general, and the IDC in particular.

IDC members blame Felder for Republican control, claiming they have moderated a GOP agenda that would pass with Felder’s help anyway. But progressive activists, some of whom are backing a primary challenge against Felder as well, have lambasted the IDC members as “Trump Democrats.” They note that GOP control of the Senate, enabled in part by the IDC, has prevented progressive climate action and single-payer health care bills that passed the state Assembly from coming up for a vote, and stalled or diluted other liberal legislation.

IDC critics have also drawn attention to the fact that under the current system, New York’s budget negotiations are hammered out between four men ― Cuomo, Senate Majority Leader John Flanagan (R), Assembly Speaker Carl Heastie (D) and IDC Leader Klein who has been accused of sexual misconduct by a former staffer. IDC-enabled GOP domination of the state Senate prevents Democratic Senate Leader Andrea Stewart-Cousins, a black woman, from playing the leadership role in negotiations that Democrats’ numerical majority would otherwise afford her. If Democrats regain control of the chamber, Stewart-Cousins would be the first black woman in charge of a legislative chamber in New York history.

This year, members of the IDC face their first serious primary threats. Biaggi is one of seven Democrats challenging IDC members with the backing of major progressive organizations like the Working Families Party. in order to ensure transparency of discontinuance of the nuclear test,” KCNA said.

The announcement comes after U.S. Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.) has the backing of more than one-third of the Senate Democratic Caucus, including virtually every rumored 2020 presidential candidate.

Ellison, a longtime backer of H.R. 676, attributed the uptick in congressional support to lawmakers hearing from constituents desperate for a more effective health care system.

“My motivation is just being in meetings, talking to people about their health care nightmare, and studying the array of options and coming up with this one as being the best one,” Ellison told HuffPost.

Rep.

There is no mystery why the cycle up has continued. There is more state and federal spending on infrastructure projects, the expansion of retail, tech and service industries, more robust state budgets due to increased tax revenues, and increased investment of foreign companies in the country. The bulk of the jobs, though, are minimum or slightly above minimum wage jobs, with minimum or non-existent labor protections, health benefits, and management promotion opportunities. Still, a paycheck is a paycheck, and if more blacks are getting those checks no matter the type of jobs, and pay, it still counts big in the labor picture. The credit for that goes to Obama, not Trump.

There is the dark side that also explains the seeming run-up in black employment. Fewer and fewer blacks are even counted as in the labor force. They are invisible either through prolonged unemployment, not actively looking for work, were part timers, or simply didn’t fit into any of the varied measures the BLS uses to determine who is a valid worker, and should be counted.

The other way the books are cooked on the employment figures is to downplay the crisis of joblessness among young black males. They are the group that is hammered harder with chronic high unemployment than any other segment of the working population. The news of record high black employment made no mention of whether their numbers also took the same sharp downward turn as the overall black jobless numbers.

The Great Depression-level jobless numbers among young black males was a major issue, and sore point, during the Obama years with many blacks. At various times the Congressional Black Caucus publicly prodded Obama to say and do more about the jobless crisis. Obama made it plain then and on the handful of occasions that the issue has publicly surfaced since then that his antidote to high unemployment was to pound the GOP to back his tax hikes on the rich, job creation stimulus measures, and his demand that corporations bring back the tens of billions they’ve parked offshore and plow them into domestic job expansion that generates jobs for all. There was merit to Obama’s position. A recovering, robust economy does mean more jobs. But the troubling question as always is who gets the jobs even when the economy officially is humming?

The Clinton years provide one answer to that question. During the late 1990s joblessness tumbled to its lowest levels in two decades. Help wanted signs were everywhere. Deficit spending was not a major administration or congressional flashpoint issue since the government had a healthy budget surplus. There was no wholesale flight of capital to off shore havens, ballooning trade deficits, and corporations and medium sized businesses expanded. Yet, during the economic boom times, the unemployment rate for young black males was double — and in some parts of the country — triple that of white males.people are dead and wounded,it's not a game for you to have political fun withWASHINGTON ― Environmental Protection Agency Administrator Scott Pruitt rolled back limits on planet-warming emissions for motor vehicles this week, adding the rule to the list of more than two dozen environmental regulations his agency has cut in the last year.

But there’s one regulation Pruitt has said the EPA should actually enforce more vigorously: the Safe Drinking Water Act’s limit on lead particles in tap water.

Experts have faulted weak enforcement of the so-called Lead and Copper Rule for the 2014 water crisis in Flint, Michigan. The EPA has been working on major revisions to the regulation since 2010, but so far has not produced an updated rule that would provide better protections against contamination.

The rule is designed to minimize the danger of lead water pipes. It requires utilities to test for lead in water samples from household taps and to treat water to minimize pipe corrosion since lead is a deadly neurotoxin that dissolves in water with no obvious flavor. There are millions of lead pipes in use across the country and utilities are rarely required to replace them.

Pruitt’s predecessor had said the agency would have a draft of a new rule in 2017. But while Pruitt has said updating the rule is a top priority, his EPA has postponed the deadline to later this year. A spokesperson for the agency said Wednesday that Pruitt is still committed to the regulation.

“After more than a decade of inaction on a new rule, Administrator Pruitt has directed his team to work swiftly to update the Lead and Copper Rule,” an EPA spokesperson told HuffPost.

Pruitt recently drew headlines for reportedly using a different provision of the Safe Drinking Water Act to secure raises for aides, one of several scandals in recent weeks that has overshadowed his policy work. Plentiful jobs did not wipe out the nagging racial gap in employment.

That’s the case now. Although the group that didn’t get a partisan cue rated the law a few points higher, perceptions of the effect the law would have on them personally were about the same in the two groups.

Averaging the results between the two groups, the HuffPost/YouGov survey found that just 21 percent of Americans expect the law to make things worse for them, down from nearly one-third in December. About one-third now expect it to make things worse for average Americans, down from 41 percent.

Still, public polling this January shows the tax law viewed unfavorably overall, with about 37 percent approval and 43 percent disapproval ― numbers that don’t appear auspicious enough to give Republicans much of a boost in November. Studies and surveys still show that young black males, with no arrest records, are far less likely to get a job than young white males with arrest records. The big problem with touting the real and inflated black unemployment drop is that Trump, the GOP can gleefully wave this around as yet another excuse to claim the black unemployment crisis is over. And, of course, that their giveaway tax policies to the wealthy and corporations, gutting business regulations, and the slash and burn of spending on job and education programs is the permanent antidote to black joblessness.

This will be Trump and the GOP’s mantra in the crucial 2018 mid-term elections they’ll bludgeon the Democrats with. The counter must be, yes, more blacks may be working, but what type of jobs, and jobs for whom? Worse, when the GOP’s wealth gap widening policies dump more blacks in the poverty ranks, even with a job, will Trump still be able to crow look how much better you are under me?