LPETTET via Getty Images

Michigan Republicans are pushing a new, Donald Trump-inspired bill that would require Medicaid recipients in the state’s mostly black cities to work to keep their health benefits, but exempt some of the state’s rural white residents from the same requirement.

Republican state Sen. Mike Shirkey, who wrote the legislation, has denied any discriminatory intent. He apparently came up with the bill’s most controversial provision — which has drawn withering scrutiny from legal experts — on the suggestion of the Michigan Chamber of Commerce.

“We were just trying to be helpful,” Michigan Chamber lobbyist Wendy Block told HuffPost. “It was really just a simple suggestion, not one that we’re married to.

After hunting down the records, French said she got someone to drive her 40 minutes to a hearing in Topeka with the election board.

Though she said she supports the proof of citizenship law, she said she was insulted that no one believed she was a citizen.

She also said she had become friends with Assistant Secretary of State Eric Rucker, and agreed to appear in court to make Kobach look good.

Kobach and his lawyers have repeatedly claimed during the trial that it’s easy for anyone to make their case to his office and the state election board that they could be registered.

Donna Bucci testified last week for the ACLU as another example. She was blocked from registering because she doesn’t have a birth certificate, but was told to call the Secretary of State’s office during her lunch break to schedule a hearing. Bucci said she works from 3 a.m. until noon as a prison cook and can’t even use a cell phone inside.

Kansas Gov. Jeff Coyler (R), who is running against Kobach in the GOP primary for governor, and Attorney General Derek Schmidt, both declined to say Monday whether they still had confidence in Kobach’s ability to defend the law.White House press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders pointedly avoided saying the word “Russia” on Monday when very specifically questioned about that country’s culpability in the poisoning last week of a former Russian spy with a deadly nerve agent.

British officials have determined that Sergei Skripal, 66, and his 33-year-old daughter, Yulia, were poisoned with a nerve agent developed in Russia. British Prime Minister Theresa May announced Monday that it was “highly likely” that Russia was responsible for the attack. “We must now stand ready to take extensive measures,” May said.”

Shirkey did not respond to requests for comment.

Under the bill, Medicaid recipients in 17 mostly white counties, all represented by Republican senators, would be exempt from the work requirements, according to an analysis by the Center for Michigan, a think tank. But Medicaid recipients in the six municipalities with the highest unemployment rates, including Detroit and Flint, would have to work at least 29 hours a week to keep their health benefits. All six cities have black majorities or significant numbers of black residents.

The disparity stems from a provision in the bill that would lift the work requirements in counties with unemployment rates of over 8.5 percent — but not from cities with similar joblessness rates. Since most urban counties in Michigan contain both high-unemployment cities and their richer suburbs, Michigan’s biggest cities would be subject to the work requirements. [HuffPost]Rep. Jackie Speier (D-Calif.

Franco was spotted in the audience early on during the show’s broadcast, but did not appear on the red carpet or participate in pre-show interviews. He was nominated for Outstanding Performance by a Male Actor in a Leading Role for his role as Tommy Wiseau in “The Disaster Artist.” Gary Oldman won the award for his role as Winston Churchill in “Darkest Hour.”

TNT

Franco has denied the allegations waged against him, appearing on “The Late Show with Stephen Colbert” days before the LA Times’ story was released to say he was “here to listen and learn and change my perspective where it’s off.”

“The things that I heard that were on Twitter are not accurate, but I completely support people coming out and being able to have a voice,” he said, referring to accusations made against him on social media.

Franco also said during an interview on NBC’s “Late Night With Seth Meyers” that he has his “own side of this story.” But he said he believed “in these people that have been underrepresented getting their stories out enough that I will hold back things that I could say just because I believe in it that much.”

“And if I have to take a knock because I’m not going to try and actively refute things, then I will, because I believe in it that much,” he said.

Actress Alison Brie, Franco’s sister-in-law, commented Sunday on the allegations against the actor.Pence defended the president in an Associated Press interview during his visit to Jerusalem.) has invited activist and #MeToo creator Tarana Burke to be her guest at the State of Union address in late January.

Take Detroit. It’s in Wayne County, which had an unemployment rate of 5.4 percent in 2017. But the rate for the city itself was 9.3 percent, well over the 8.5 percent cutoff for counties. That means its majority African-American population would be subject to the Medicaid work requirement, while the mostly white residents of high-joblessness counties in the northern part of the state would not.

Michigan Gov. Rick Snyder (R) has gone head to head with the Legislature's Republicans on Medicaid in the past. Kevin Lamarque / Reuters

“The racial consequences are unmistakable,” University of Michigan Law School professors Nicholas Bagley and Eli Savit wrote in The New York Times. The disparate racial impact of the proposal, they said, would be vulnerable to a court challenge because it would violate federal civil rights laws.

In response to a query from statehouse Republicans, Block said she suggested the 8.5 percent unemployment exemption because of a similar threshold in the state’s minimum wage law. Block told a reporter for the Center for Michigan that federal data made it simpler to go by county jobless rates rather than using smaller geographical areas.

But there’s another big state-federal program that grants exemptions based on more fine-grained data. The Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program, commonly known as food stamps, allows states to waive the program’s work requirements for counties or cities where joblessness is high or above average. States can also request waivers according to federal “labor surplus area” designations that account for county-city differences.

Bagley said in an interview that the SNAP model would probably be better. “It might explain why the SNAP program hasn’t run afoul of some the same concerns that we raised with the Michigan Legislature’s proposal,” he said.

Block also said the food stamp waiver mechanism might be an improvement on the one in the Michigan bill, which passed the state Senate but is pending in the House amid the racial controversy and doubts from Gov. Rick Snyder, a Republican. ― Whenever a white non-Muslim man commits an act of mass violence ― not an infrequent occurrence in recent history ― the online debate begins. Why aren’t authorities calling this terrorism?

The debate broke out once again Wednesday morning after the news broke that the bomber behind a string of deadly attacks in Austin, Texas, was a 23-year-old white Christian male.

Media coverage often grants white non-Muslim perpetrators a level of humanity not typically seen in coverage of other attackers, and “terrorism” can often be used simply as a stand-in for “Muslim.” But it’s more than just politics and privilege that makes authorities ― and in turn, the media ― shy about calling terrorism by its name.

The United States has no federal law criminalizing acts of domestic terrorism. That’s something the FBI Agents Association, an organization that represents more than 14,000 current and former FBI special agents, would like to see changed.

“Calling it what it is is something that I believe is important,” Thomas O’Connor, a current FBI agent who has worked on domestic terrorism investigations, said in an interview earlier this year. O’Connor, speaking to HuffPost in his capacity as head of the FBI Agents Association, said that the lack of a federal charge has broad implications for how the American public thinks about the threat of domestic terrorism.



“It’s easy for people to wrap their heads around someone coming in with an internationally based ideology and committing a crime,” O’Connor said. (Snyder backed expanding Medicaid in the state over the objections of conservative Republicans in the Legislature.)

Several other states have sought permission from the federal government to impose work requirements on Medicaid recipients. Ohio’s proposal would follow the state’s current geographical exemptions for SNAP work requirements... [focusing on] their own little area. If you work for me, you’re going to do everything.’”

Smothermon, the district attorney in Oklahoma, agrees that prosecutors tend to have an “I can try any case” attitude. But a bigger issue, he argued, is that offices can’t afford to send lawyers to a 3½-day training and cover their caseloads.BURNS, Tenn. — Police formed a tight perimeter around a Tennessee state-owned hotel Saturday, guarding a white nationalist conference inside the building from anti-racist protesters gathered outside.

American Renaissance, a racist Virginia-based organization listed by the Southern Poverty Law Center as a hate group, reserved the 125 rooms inside Montgomery Bell State Park Inn for the weekend conference. Attendees not staying at the hotel arrived there early Saturday morning. Nearly all of them were men. They wore suit and ties — mandatory dress for the event — and didn’t respond to reporters’ questions as police escorted them inside. The Center for Community Solutions, a liberal think tank based in the state, has said the proposal raises similar civil rights concerns because the state lifts SNAP work requirements by county rather than by labor surplus area.

Another solution would be to drop the geographical exemptions altogether. Other states that have pursued Medicaid work requirements, such as Mississippi and Arkansas, have said Medicaid recipients who are complying with SNAP work requirements would satisfy the new Medicaid rule. There are no counties exempt from the food stamp work requirement in those states.

Republicans in the U.S. Congress and the Trump administration have been pushing to make it more difficult for states to obtain food stamp waivers, making stricter work requirements the centerpiece of their welfare agenda. Currently, most able-bodied adults in Michigan are exempt from the SNAP work requirement. It only applies to able-bodied adults without dependents.

Work requirements have not traditionally been part of Medicaid, which provides health coverage for some 70 million low-income Americans. Earlier this year, the Trump administration invited states to draw up work requirement schemes, which would likely shrink program enrollment if they win approval from the administration.

And while the term “work requirement” may imply that people on Medicaid don’t work, the vast majority of nonelderly, adult Medicaid recipients without disabilities live in households in which someone is working, according to the Kaiser Family Foundation, and a majority of recipients work themselves.

This story has been updated with additional information about Medicaid proposals in other states.