On March 25, in the year of our Lord 2018, 22 million people turned on their TVs to watch adult film star and director Stormy Daniels tell renowned journalist Anderson Cooper about the time she had sex with the president. Also on March 25, three people got incredibly mad.

In her “60 Minutes” interview, Daniels alleged having a condom-less encounter with Donald Trump in 2006 and being threatened to keep quiet about the affair. Certainly more than three people were riled up by the segment, but only three were enterprising enough to take their complaints straight to the Federal Communications Commission. And thanks to a Freedom of Information Act request filed by HuffPost, the words of these engaged citizens will not go unheard.WASHINGTON ― President Donald Trump warmly received three Americans back from North Korean imprisonment early Thursday, calling their release a vindication of his aggressive foreign policy strategy. But many Americans jailed by other repressive regimes around the world appear to have gained little from Trump’s ad-hoc and often confrontational international approach, their advocates say, and in several cases the president may have actually made it harder for them to come home.

After tweets promoting the event and White House emails inviting camera crews, Trump posed at Joint Base Andrews in Maryland with Kim Hak-song, Tony Kim and Kim Dong-chul, whom the North Koreans released to show goodwill ahead of a summit between the U.S. commander in chief and North Korean ruler Kim Jong Un.

Elsewhere, American families remained separated from their loved ones.

Consider the Americans trapped in Iran. At least six are known to be there: Robert Levinson, Xiyue Wang, Karan Vafadari, Morad Tahbaz and father and son Baquer and Siamak Namazi. Some U.S. green card holders are also detained.

Trump’s decision this week to withdraw the U.S. from a groundbreaking international agreement over Iran’s nuclear program dramatically escalated tensions between the two countries and torpedoed the main dialogue between American and Iranian officials.

Supporters of the jailed U.S. citizens were already worried that the administration did not focus on their plight as it frequently issued laundry lists of various other troubling Iranian actions and did not impose punishments specifically over the detentions.

“The rhetoric and the commitment and the inclusion of a need to secure the release of the American citizen hostages and the end of hostage-taking as a matter of their foreign policy has not been operationalized into meaningful and unequivocal action,” Jared Genser, an attorney for the Namazis, told HuffPost.

Genser had a White House meeting less than 24 hours after Trump withdrew from the deal and noted that the issue was on officials’ radar. He even got a top aide to take Trump a laminated printout of a tweet about the Namazis that he issued during his campaign. ”We hope the president is able to do for the Namazis what he’s now done on North Korea,” Genser told HuffPost.

But without deal-related economic benefits to use as leverage with Iran, Trump might have little influence over Tehran on the prisoner issue, according to Jason Rezaian, a Washington Post journalist who had been jailed in the Islamic Republic and was released in 2016, at least in part because of goodwill the Obama administration created through the nuclear negotiations.

“If Trump decides to leave the deal, he will effectively be abandoning American citizens — the very same ones he has vowed to save,” Rezaian wrote last month. After Trump’s speech, Rezaian asked what happened to concern for those Americans.

They didn’t make it into Trump’s address, which instead repeated criticisms of the Iranian government. Asked about the cases at a State Department background briefing, an official said Americans’ safety was the administration’s priority but then acknowledged the skepticism among the press. “Well, I know, you can make that face, but it’s true,” the official added.

The Trump administration has also harshly criticized the government of Venezuela and on Tuesday called for the ouster of President Nicolas Maduro. American Joshua Holt has been imprisoned in the country since 2016. Trump mentioned Holt by name when he announced new sanctions against Venezuela last year. But the dialogue that might secure Holt’s release is being led not by his administration but by key outside figures who are talking with Maduro’s inner circle.

Protesters at a rally for Austin Tice, an American journalist held in Syria, in Washington on November 2, 2016. President Donald Trump tried to bring him home last year but failed. ANDREW CABALLERO-REYNOLDS via Getty Images

And in Syria, Trump officials’ efforts to start a dialogue with the regime of President Bashar Assad over the fate of missing journalist Austin Tice appear to have fallen apart because of poor coordination. Weeks after then-CIA Director Mike Pompeo broached the subject with the Syrian government, U. It wasn’t meant as shade. And if he’s falsely accused, well, that’s awful. There’s due process, and that’s important.

Ryan Seacrest, Brian Dunkleman and "American Idol" winner Kelly Clarkson. Jeffrey Mayer via Getty Images

Well E! isn’t his only platform. Seacrest works on a lot. He’s got “Live,” he’s got “Idol”…

I’m familiar with his resume. [Laughs] He’s got a couple gigs. District Judge Julie Robinson issued a preliminary injunction blocking the law. According to the transcript of a status conference that October, the judge asked whether the affected voters ― about 18,000 at the time ― would receive the postcard that Kansans typically receive before an election informing them of their polling location. Kobach assured her that his office was taking all steps necessary to make sure those individuals ― and anyone else who failed to prove their citizenship when registering to vote ― would be treated the same as other voters.

Overall, the American Civil Liberties Union estimates that the requirement to prove citizenship impacted around 35,000 voters. The ACLU is currently facing off against Kobach at trial in Robinson’s courtroom in Kansas City in an effort to permanently overturn the law.

Despite Kobach’s apparent promise, the League of Women Voters of Kansas has said they’d heard from voters who had not received postcards ahead of the 2016 election. Earlier this year, the ACLU asked the judge to hold Kobach in contempt of court for failing both to send out the postcards and to update the Kansas election manual to reflect the fact that the proof-of-citizenship law was on hold.

In Tuesday’s contempt hearing, Kobach and the state’s elections director conceded that they had merely given verbal direction to county election officials to follow the court’s orders, but never provided express written instructions to send out postcards, according to KCUR and the Topeka Capitol-Journal. Moreover, instead of updating the election manual, Kobach had removed it from the Secretary of State’s website.

Robinson appeared to be “livid” at Kobach’s response, according to KCUR. She accused him of telling people only that they could vote in 2016 and of not doing enough to avoid confusion, the Kansas City Star reported. Robinson pounded on her desk as she told Kobach that she had made it clear that those affected were to be considered “fully registered voters,” according to the Kansas City Star.

The judge told him that in her view he’d “chosen to interpret” the preliminary injunction in a way that wasn’t “fully compliant.

But what was it like working with him? You did say that after the finale you apologized to him for the way you acted when you guys were hosts together. Do you regret that apology now, knowing he may not be the person you thought he was?

It was before the finale, and I apologized to him for how we didn’t get along back then.N. Ambassador Nikki Haley surrendered what could have been a key bargaining chip: She walked back the United States’ anti-Assad position, handing Damascus a boon that Washington might have used as leverage.

Assad further damaged hopes for Tice once the Syrian leader turned chemical weapons on his people again that April and Trump responded with airstrikes.

A post shared by Shiree Nelson (SHUR-ee) (@shireester) on Mar 25, 2018 at 9:41am PDT

Pierce Bush’s sister, Lauren Bush Lauren, posted a photo of the couple at the ceremony.

A post shared by Lauren Bush Lauren (@laurenblauren) on Mar 25, 2018 at 8:46am PDT

Pierce’s dad is Neil Bush, brother of the dancing former president and the fourth of ex-president George H.W. Bush’s six children.

AdvertisementEffigies of President Donald Trump have become common at climate marches over the past two years. NurPhoto via Getty Images

In a sign the White House’s hard-line stance against climate science may be shifting public debate, independent voters have grown more doubtful of scientists’ warnings about climate change over the past year, according to a Gallup poll released Wednesday.

Between 2017 and 2018, the percentage of independents who understand greenhouse gas emissions cause climate change fell 8 percentage points to 62 percent, while the share of those who believe the effects of global warming have already begun dipped 7 points to 60 percent.

Sixty-five percent understand that most scientists believe global warming is occurring, down from 71 percent in 2017.

Fewer respondents said they worry a great deal or a fair amount about global warming, down 5 points from last year to 62 percent. But the 45 percent who said global warming poses a serious threat in their lifetimes stayed steady between 2017 and 2018.

Public opinion has seesawed slightly over the years, but the long-term trend is overwhelmingly toward the scientific consensus that climate change is real, man-made and dangerous.

Conversely, other governments holding U.S. citizens have received warm words from Trump ― and little pressure to send the Americans back.

The president repeatedly praised Egypt’s strongman President Abdel-Fattah el-Sisi on the campaign trail and in his early months in office. He then held a high-profile celebration when Sisi released an American aid worker who spent nearly three years in jail, Aya Hijazi. More than one year later, Trump has yet to publicly name any of the multiple other U.S. citizens who are among more than 50,000 people in Egypt’s poorly run jails.

“There’s a sentiment in Congress and among those families who’ve been victimized by Egyptian officials in various ways that the administration isn’t doing enough,” said Praveen Madhiraju of the nonprofit Pretrial Rights International. He represents two of an estimated 15 Americans held in Egypt: Mustafa Kassem and Ahmed Etiwy. Earlier this year, Vice President Mike Pence became the highest-ranking U.S. official to mention them in public. (Many families of Americans detained abroad choose to keep their identities hidden, often on the advice of U.S. officials who say a public outcry can hinder diplomacy.)

Capitol Hill pressure and anger over Cairo’s dealings with North Korea has pushed the Trump administration to withhold $300 million of the $1.3 billion military aid package Egypt receives from the U.S. annually. But the perception that Sisi will have an easy ride under Trump persists, and there’s little indication of consistent attention to the issue.

“The United States has enormous leverage with Egypt to secure the release of the Americans and the green card holders jailed there, and the only way that we will see all these cases resolved is for the White House to follow up on Pence’s comments,” said Genser, who also represents two U.S.”

They hope to inspire others, especially from the continent, to take on this and other winter sports in the future.

“It takes a special type of individual to take on a fear of the unknown. And that is exactly what we are trying to show people that you can do,” Adigun said. “[People from] a sub-Saharan climate can do anything. There’s just way too much innovation in this world for people to think they need to be limited to their own environments.”It takes a lot of mental energy to keep insisting that Vladimir Putin didn't help Donald Trump in 2016. MIKHAIL KLIMENTYEV/AFP/Getty Images

WASHINGTON ― As John Bentley waited in line to see President Barack Obama campaign for Hillary Clinton just days before the 2016 election, he worried that he’d been unable to persuade his son to cast a ballot for Clinton, too.

The 24-year-old believed Clinton was untrustworthy, with new emails released by WikiLeaks providing fresh proof on a daily basis.

“Can you believe it?” wondered Bentley, a 70-year-old African-American man and a lifelong Democrat.

Fifteen months later, special counsel Robert Mueller’s investigation has found that the skepticism that afflicted people like Bentley’s son was no fluke. It was the result of deliberate efforts by the Russian government to hurt Clinton and help Donald Trump win the presidency ― efforts that included the targeting of young African-Americans like Bentley’s son.

“Defendants and their co-conspirators began to encourage U.S. permanent residents held without due process since last summer.

Turkey, whose autocratic leader, President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, has also received plaudits from Trump, is meanwhile holding American pastor Andrew Brunson and trying him before what his home-state senator, Thom Tillis (R-N.C.), has called a “kangaroo court.” While the president has mentioned that case repeatedly, his approach to helping Brunson so far has involved multiple steps aimed at pleasing Erdogan. The Trump team has discouraged congressional talk of sanctions against Turkey and encouraged Washington law enforcement to drop charges against Turkish security guards who beat protesters in the capital last year.. On whether he nows who Peter Smith is: “No.”

197. On whether Michael Flynn ever made any efforts to obtain Clinton’s emails: “I don’t know.”

198. On whether Steve Bannon ever made any efforts to obtain Clinton’s emails: “I don’t know.”

199. On whether Kellyanne Conway ever made any efforts to obtain Clinton’s emails: “I don’t know.”

200. On whether Sam Clovis ever made any efforts to obtain Clinton’s emails: “I don’t know