A suburban teen finds himself caught between his longtime girlfriend and a gay pal in “Alex Strangelove,” a new Netflix movie that aims to put an inclusive twist on the raunchy, coming-of-age comedy genre.

The film’s first trailer (see above) introduces Alex Truelove (played by Daniel Doheny), a high school senior who is determined to lose his virginity before graduation. Though his girlfriend, Claire (Madeline Weinstein), is ready to take the plunge, Alex becomes increasingly tentative. Is his budding friendship with the openly gay Elliott (Antonio Marziale) somehow getting in the way?

“Alex Strangelove” was written and directed by Craig Johnson, who previously explored queer themes in 2014’s “The Skeleton Twins,” starring Bill Hader and Kristen Wiig. Still, his latest project could be his most personal.

Netflix's "Alex Strangelove" finds a suburban teen caught between a girlfriend and a new gay pal. Netflix

“I describe Alex as the sexual confusion of my teens and my 20s crammed into one kid’s senior year of high school,” Johnson, who is gay, told Entertainment Weekly. “I’ve had girls in my life when I was younger who I was very invested in emotionally, who I was in love with in very legitimate ways. If it weren’t for that pesky sex thing, hey, it might’ve all worked out differently.”

“Alex Strangelove” comes on the heels of “Love, Simon,” which earned wide acclaim as Hollywood’s first mainstream movie comedy to focus on a gay teen. Johnson’s film, however, goes a step further by bringing the bawdy humor of “Superbad” and “American Pie” into the mix.

“I’m a big fan of movies like ‘Superbad,’ and I just love it when things go a little raunchy and a little crazy,” the writer-director said. “I just like the idea of inviting all comers to the party: straight kids, gay kids, anyone in between. And it’s not just for kids; I think there’s enough in it that people of all ages will get a kick out of it. A second exit poll will be released later on Friday with vote-counting to begin at 0800 GMT on Saturday.President Donald Trump uses a cellphone not equipped with top security features and has rejected repeated attempts by his staff to harden his devices against hackers, Politico reported on Monday.

Trump regularly uses at least two government-issued iPhones — one a “burner” device capable only of making calls, and another that’s loaded with a Twitter app and “a handful of news sites,” according to Politico, which said former government security experts criticized the president’s phone practices.

Trump’s call-only phone has a camera and microphone — features that can be exploited by hackers, Politico reported, citing two senior administration officials as sources. As for the phone Trump uses for Twitter, the president reportedly has rebuffed his staff’s advice to swap the device every month, saying it would be “too inconvenient.”

Trump’s attitude toward his own communications security contrasts with Hillary Clinton’s use of a private email server during her tenure as secretary of state ― something Trump and his allies have assailed for years.

Politico said Trump has gone for as long as five months without getting his Twitter phone checked by security experts. The GPS trackers on both of Trump’s devices have reportedly been deactivated.”

AdvertisementA Texas woman says that she took two kittens into her home, only to discover that they were not housecats but wild bobcats.

Kelly Kincaid/Jetlagged Comic

“The journey has been amazing so far. People seem to really like it,” she said. “I get a lot of great feedback from comments on posts, but also in emails, letters and face-to-face.”

Kincaid told HuffPost airlines like Alaska and Emirates have used her work in their training programs, and others like Republic, United and Air New Zealand have published them in their internal magazines for flight crews.

“I’ve worked with various aviation organizations supplying them with cartoon luggage tags and books. I’ve had many interviews with flight crew- and aviation-related websites and businesses,” she explained. “It’s been a really positive response so far. ‘Jetlagged’ gives me a lot of healthy challenges that make me grow as an artist and writer, but also as a businesswoman and entrepreneur.”

Kelly Kincaid/Jetlagged Comic

She and her husband are saving up to purchase equipment so that they can create more “Jetlagged” products, like luggage tags and hand-drawn art, which they sell online and to airport stores.

Although she primarily focuses on the flight attendant experience, Kincaid has also created cartoons about pilots, agents and frequent flyers. She likes to draw ideas from major topics like sleep struggles, hotel life and in-flight interactions.

“Creativity ebbs and flows, just like the ocean.

Jane Dinscore, her sister and her niece were bitten on the hands while trying to feed the felines.

“I think they started doing a little bit more research and educating themselves and thinking: ‘You know what, these don’t look like your standard house cat.‘” San Antonio Animal Care Services spokeswoman Lisa Norwood told local TV station KENS 5 on Monday.

CNN later confirmed the Times report.

The Times said Hicks made the statement during private testimony before the House Intelligence Committee.

The reports did not elaborate on what Hicks considers to be “white lies.” However, the Times said that “after extended consultation with her lawyers,” Hicks claimed she hadn’t lied over matters related to the Russia investigation.

Critics on social media immediately began wondering just what constitutes a “white lie” in this case, and more than a few are speculating that special counsel Robert Mueller may take an interest in learning the nature of those fibs.

Here is some of that reaction:

“White lies”? Please define. White woman lying for white man with orange hair? About what? Russians? Money? Fixing an election? It’s not going to be a nothing sex story like 1998. Mueller’s finding out, and she’d better not lie to him.https://t.co/H9dw5l6YvG — Richard W.’”

Ahem. Is this thing on? Because on the first day of Women’s History Month, in the year of our Lord Bast, my dream is coming true. Walk with me. pic.twitter.com/43bdFMPeiL — April (@ReignOfApril) March 1, 2018

In January 2015, I created #OscarsSoWhite, a clarion call to increase diversity and inclusion in the entertainment industry. We have seen some progress, but there’s much more work to be done. “Maybe we should call somebody.’ Thankfully, they did.”

But Dinscore has changed her story since the news broke on Monday. Originally, she told authorities she found the kittens in an alleyway in San Antonio. Now she says she received the kittens from her brother, James Dinscore, in rural Atascosa County. However, she maintains that she believed the kittens were domestic cats.

“My brother called and he said he had some Bengal kittens at his house in McCoy,” Jane Dinscore told San Antonio TV station KSAT on Wednesday.

She said she took the kittens home and called ACS after they behaved aggressively, biting and scratching her and her relatives. She said she lied at first about their origin because she didn’t want to possibly get her brother in trouble. It’s unclear how he got the animals.

ACS and Texas State Parks and Wildlife are working together to determine if the situation merits any criminal charges for disturbing wildlife, according to USA Today.

The animals are now in quarantine under the care of Wildlife Rescue & Rehabilitation in San Antonio. The group wrote in a Wednesday Facebook post that by lying about where the kittens came from, Dinscore made it far less likely that they will be reunited with their mother.

About 19 percent of the residents in this steel- and coal-heavy district are either active or retired members of a labor union, according to Frank Snyder, the secretary-treasurer of the Pennsylvania AFL-CIO, the state’s largest labor federation, who introduced Lamb at the American Legion. That is significantly higher than the national rate of union membership, which was 10.7 percent in 2016.

Beyond financial contributions, labor provides a massive, organic field operation.

“The capacity ... is having volunteer union members talking member to member at the workplace, at their homes, over the telephone,” Snyder said.

“Our election program is gonna focus on educating union members, not saying, ‘Conor Lamb’s the best,’” Snyder added. “We’re gonna compare the two candidates: This is where he is on education or Medicare or Medicaid, and then you decide. The group hopes to eventually release the bobcats in a safe area.

“Because the fragile window of opportunity to reunite them with their mother has most likely passed, our goal now is to keep them wild and after a year or so, release them to a protected habitat where humans will never lay eyes on them,” the Facebook post said. “These bobcats will be in our care for over a year as their needs are highly specialized and their developmental time is lengthened when they are in captivity.”