A viral video showing a Kodiak bear eating ice cream at a Canadian drive-thru window has led to a criminal charge for the owners of the zoo where the bear resides.

“We made a mistake,” Doug Bos, one of the owners of Discovery Wildlife Park in Innisfail, Alberta, told The Guardian on Wednesday. “I’m embarrassed about it. Every time we take an animal off the property, we’re supposed to notify Fish and Wildlife, send them an email, and we forgot to do that in both instances.”

Under the terms of the zoo’s permit, the zoo must tell government officials if an animal will be leaving the zoo, Alberta Fish and Wildlife said in a statement sent to The Guardian. Bos and co-owner Debbie Rowland are now each facing one charge related to the bear, named Berkley, taking a trip to Dairy Queen earlier this year. They’re facing a second charge for allegedly not informing officials in 2017 that Berkley, then a young orphan, was being taken to a home at night for bottle feeding.

Bos told The Canadian Press that they intend to plead guilty.

The video that prompted the charges went viral on social media back in January. It showed Berkley leaning out the window of a vehicle, eating ice cream off a spoon held by the drive-thru worker.

The Dairy Queen trip sparked a legal investigation from safety and animal officials in the province, CBC reported at the time. Some wildlife experts criticized the video, saying it contradicted efforts to try to teach the public not to feed bears in the wild. Bos countered that no one was ever in any danger, because Berkley was on a chain and the Dairy Queen wasn’t actually open.

AdvertisementANKARA (Reuters) - President Donald Trump is not fit for his job, the speaker of Iran’s parliament said on Wednesday following his decision to back out of the international nuclear pact on Iran.

Trump pulled the United States out of the deal on Tuesday, raising the risk of conflict in the Middle East, upsetting European allies and casting uncertainty over global oil supplies.

“Trump does not have the mental capacity to deal with issues,” parliament speaker Ali Larijani told the assembly, broadcast live on state TV.

Iranian lawmakers set fire to the U.S. flag inside the country's parliament following President Trump's decision to withdraw from the Iran nuclear agreement. https://t.co/UnCr2FaPP1 pic.twitter.com/KM4ifsxouM — NBC News World (@NBCNewsWorld) May 9, 2018

Members of parliament burned a U.S. flag and a symbolic copy of the Iran deal, known officially as the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA), as a session of parliament began. They also chanted “Death to America”.

“Trump’s abandoning of the nuclear deal was a diplomatic show...Iran has no obligation to honor its commitments under the current situation,” Larijani said. Faulk’s head against the ground,” lawyers said in the lawsuit.

Faulk was then directly pepper sprayed in the face, they said, and the “excruciating pain” made it impossible for him to see for two hours.

The clap clap of the batons on their armor. The SWAT cops are back. Marching both directions down Tucker squeezing us west on WA #STLVerdict — Mike Faulk (@Mike_Faulk) September 18, 2017

The lawsuit alleges that Faulk saw officers giving high-fives and smoking cigars. “We arrested more than 100 of you clowns tonight,” one officer reportedly said.

The Post-Dispatch, according to the lawsuit prohibited Faulk from reporting on the protests or on any police departments.

“Mr. Faulk now believes that it is unlikely that he can continue his journalistic career in St. Louis because editors concerned about a perceived conflict of interest will not permit him to report on the broad scope of governmental issues for which he was hired. “It is obvious that Trump only understands the language of force.”

Hours after Donald Trump pulled the U.S. from the Iran nuclear deal, Iranian Parliament speaker Ali Larijani said the American president was not fit for his job., said much of the change in the coming year will occur as states experiment with new ways to deliver their programs.

What happens in states, she said, “may be a bellwether for things to come down the road nationally.”

Working for Assistance

Republican governors say they are invigorated by the Trump administration’s recent promises to give states more control over how they run programs, including welfare.

The federal government sets rules for administering both food stamps and Medicaid, and many states for years have sought permission to impose greater restrictions on eligibility, such as work requirements and drug testing.

The administration this month signaled it will follow through on its promise, when for the first time it approved a request from a state — Kentucky — to require able-bodied, working-age Medicaid recipients to work, go to school, get job training or volunteer in order to receive benefits.

Ten other states have submitted similar requests, and at least another — Ohio — is in the planning stages. ISHARA S. KODIKARA via Getty Images

General Mohammad Baqeri, the chief of staff of Iran’s military, said Iran had not had to sign the deal.

“But that arrogant country (America) did not even stand by its signature,” the Islamic Republic News Agency (IRNA) quoted him as saying.

President Hassan Rouhani said on Tuesday Iran would remain committed to the deal without Washington despite Trump’s decision to withdraw from it. The pact was designed to deny Tehran the ability to build nuclear weapons.

“If we achieve the deal’s goals in cooperation with other members of the deal, it will remain in place. ... By exiting the deal, America has officially undermined its commitment to an international treaty,” Rouhani said in a televised speech.

“I have ordered the foreign ministry to negotiate with the European countries, China and Russia in coming weeks.”When Channing Tatum and Jenna Dewan announced they were splitting up after almost nine years of marriage, the internet predictably declared that love was dead ― yet the “Magic Mike” actor gave his ex a special shoutout on Mother’s Day.

“Happy Mother’s Day everybody,” Tatum said in a video. “Jenna, happy Mother’s Day, baby. Agency for International Development are weaker than ever, while saber-rattling that threatens to inspire more anti-U.S. meddling by countries such as Iran is on the rise. Trump isn’t one for optimistic talk about reconstruction and civil society, but lawmakers and experts have warned for years that those are key bulwarks against extremism in the region. Mama, happy Mother’s Day — I hope you’re enjoying this beautiful sunset. Love you guys.”

Tatum and Dewan co-parent their 4-year-old daughter, Everly.

They have remained on good terms since breaking our collective hearts last month, and are still “very amicable,” according to People. Everly reportedly spent the day with Dewan, as Tatum has been traveling.

Channing Tatum and Jenna Dewan Tatum attend the U.K. premiere of "Kingsman: The Golden Circle." Rune Hellestad - Corbis via Getty Images

The actors, who met in 2005 on the set of the now-classic dance film “Step Up,” broke the mold with a candid, loving statement about their split.

“Absolutely nothing has changed about how much we love one another, but love is a beautiful adventure that is taking us on different paths for now,” they wrote in social media posts. “There are no secrets nor salacious events at the root of our decision — just two best-friends realizing it’s time to take some space and help each other live the most joyous, fulfilled lives as possible. If at the end of this short period we conclude that we can fully benefit from the JCPOA with the cooperation of all countries, the deal would remain,” he said.

French Foreign Minister Jean-Yves Le Drian said the deal with Iran was “not dead” and added that President Emmanuel Macron would speak later in the day to Rouhani.

Le Drian said Macron’s contact with Rouhani would be followed by meetings next week, probably on Monday, involving the Iranians and European counterparts from France, Britain and Germany.

Trump’s decision drew fierce criticism from Iranian officials and could give hardliners long opposed to the deal a greater edge over Rouhani.

“The biggest damage of the Iran deal was legitimizing and sitting at the negotiating table with America,” Iran’s army chief Seyed Abdul Rahim Moussavi said, according to the Iranian Students’ News Agency (ISNA).

Moussavi said America’s withdrawal from the Iran deal should also be a lesson to Saudi Arabia which was drawing closer to the United States, ISNA reported.

Shi’ite Muslim Iran has been locked in a regional power struggle with Sunni Muslim Saudi Arabia that has spilled into the wars in Syria and Yemen, where they have backed opposing sides, and fueled political rivalries in Iraq and Lebanon.

The United States’ Gulf Arab allies, who see Iran as a major security threat, expressed strong support for Trump.

Under the deal, struck between Iran, the United States, Russia, China, Britain and France and Germany, Tehran curbed its nuclear program in return for them lifting sanctions. The Washington Post/Getty Images

WASHINGTON ― Hours after President Donald Trump sent mixed signals on Twitter about a controversial spying program, House lawmakers on Thursday resoundingly voted to reauthorize that program, once again endorsing the collection of information on Americans’ electronic communications without a warrant.

The House voted 256-164 to reauthorize the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act, with 191 Republicans and 65 Democrats voting yes, and 119 Democrats and 45 Republicans voting no.

After years of libertarians and privacy-minded Democrats pushing to change FISA, the House passed a six-year reauthorization with hardly any changes. Before the final vote, lawmakers rejected a substitute proposal, 183-233, from libertarian-minded Rep. Justin Amash (R-Mich.) that would have added privacy protections and reauthorized FISA for four years. The amendment would have barred the federal government from knowingly collecting communications exclusively between Americans, and required the federal government to seek a warrant to search communications collected using FISA authority.

The major point of contention involved Section 702 of FISA, which allows the government to spy on the electronic communications of non-U.

‘SHENANIGANS’

Trump’s decision sets the stage for a resurgence of political infighting within Iran’s complex power structure, Iranian officials told Reuters. It could tip the balance of power in favor of hardliners looking to constrain Rouhani’s ability to open up to the West.

“They will blame Rouhani. They will continue their shenanigans at home and abroad. And they will have the U.S. to blame for the failure of the economy,” said Abbas Milani, director of the Iranian Studies program at Stanford University.

Rouhani tried to assure ordinary Iranians, frustrated by high unemployment and stagnant living standards, that Trump’s decision would have no impact on Iran’s oil-reliant economy.

“Our heroic people will not be affected by this psychological attack...Iran’s economic progress will continue. Our people should not be worried at all,” he said.

Iran’s ruling elite fears a revival of anti-government protests in January that revealed the establishment was vulnerable to popular anger fueled by economic hardship. At least 21 people were killed in the protests.

TOUGH STATEMENT

Trump said he would reimpose economic sanctions on Tehran immediately. His decision puts pressure on his European allies, which are reluctant to join the United States in reimposing sanctions on Iran.

The U.S. Treasury said the United States would reimpose a wide array of Iran-related sanctions after the expiry of 90- and 180-day wind-down periods, including sanctions aimed at Iran’s oil sector and transactions with its central bank.

Iran’s supreme leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, whose hostility toward Washington is the glue that holds together Iran’s faction-ridden leadership, had said Iran would “shred” the deal if the United States pulled out.

Rouhani said Iran was ready to resume its curbed nuclear activities if Iran’s interests were not guaranteed under a deal without the United States.

Under the 2015 deal, Iran stopped producing 20 percent enriched uranium and gave up the majority of its stockpile in return for most international sanctions on it being lifted.