“Late Night” host Seth Meyers is advising President Donald Trump to stop giving nicknames to stuff.

On Wednesday’s episode, the comedian mocked Trump for giving the “Spygate” moniker to his unproven claim that the FBI spied on him during the 2016 election campaign for “political purposes.”

“Knowing Trump, that might just be how he spells ‘Spaghetti,’” Meyers joked, before issuing this message to the president:

“Stop trying to make ‘Fetch’ happen. You’re not allowed to name stuff anymore. You had a garbage hotel in Atlantic City and called it the Taj Mahal, you had a son and the best you could do is ‘Uh, my name but with Junior.’”

Meyers also riffed on the “Spygate” theme in a later segment, in which he likened Trump to “the guy who tries to give himself a new nickname and pretends it catches on.”

Check out the first clip above, and the second below:U.S. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo departed North Korea on Wednesday with three Americans the country had been holding in captivity, another sign that relations between the U.S. and North Korea are warming in advance of a first-of-its-kind nuclear summit.

President Donald Trump announced the prisoners’ release on Twitter, noting that they appeared to be in good health and applauding Pompeo’s “good meeting” with North Korean leader Kim Jong Un.

I am pleased to inform you that Secretary of State Mike Pompeo is in the air and on his way back from North Korea with the 3 wonderful gentlemen that everyone is looking so forward to meeting. They seem to be in good health. Also, good meeting with Kim Jong Un. Date & Place set. — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) May 9, 2018

Secretary Pompeo and his “guests” will be landing at Andrews Air Force Base at 2:00 A.M. in the morning. I will be there to greet them. Very exciting! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) May 9, 2018

Pompeo tweeted an hour later that he was “delighted to bring home” the three liberated Americans.

I had productive meetings in Pyongyang with Chairman Kim Jong-un and made progress. Leaders from member countries will decide on Friday who will succeed the queen.

Earlier this week, a spokesperson for British Prime Minister Theresa May said the U.K. supports Prince Charles as the next head of the Commonwealth.

“He has been a proud supporter of the Commonwealth for more than four decades and has spoken passionately about the organization’s unique diversity,” May’s spokesperson said, according to Reuters. “Succession is a matter for the Commonwealth as a whole to determine. Constitution. In 2014, Ramos found that the law was discriminatory, and Texas appealed to the 5th Circuit.

At the time, the circuit court upheld Ramos’ ruling that the law had a discriminatory effect, but sent the case back to her to reconsider whether it was passed with the intent to discriminate. In April 2017, she ruled that it was. That decision led some to speculate that Texas could be put back under the heightened supervision of the Voting Rights Act, which would mean the federal government would have to sign off on changes to the state’s election laws.

Richard Hasen, an election law professor at the University of California, Irvine, noted that Jones wrote in her opinion that Texas’ adoption of SB 5 meant that the state shouldn’t be put back under federal supervision.”

At this week’s meetings in London and Windsor, Commonwealth leaders have discussed such topics as ocean conservation, cybersecurity, and trade, according to BBC.White House press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders has a curious relationship with facts. I'm delighted to bring home three Americans.

Kate Middleton (Cecily Strong) blows in tipsy, taking advantage of not being pregnant for once. And Meghan’s great uncle (Kenan Thompson) has his arm slung around a prim Queen Elizabeth (Kate McKinnon). “I was just telling her majesty here,” he says to Harry, “that she should start watching ‘The Crown,’ because they make her look like a bitch on that show. — Secretary Pompeo (@SecPompeo) May 9, 2018

Pompeo’s trip to Pyongyang was timed with Trump’s declaration that the U.S. would withdraw from the Iran nuclear deal. His meeting with Kim follows the North Korean leader’s second secret trip to China.

Kim Hak-song, Kim Dong-chul, and Kim Sang-duk, who is more commonly referred to as Tony Kim, were due to arrive at Andrews Air Force Base at 2 a.m Thursday, according to Trump’s tweets.

“I will be there to greet them,” Trump tweeted. “Very exciting!”

In a statement following the announcement, Tony Kim’s family thanked Trump for “engaging directly with North Korea.”

“We are very grateful for the release of our husband and father, Tony Kim, and the other two American detainees,” the family wrote. “We ask that you continue to pray for the people of North Korea and for the release of all who are still being held.”

Tony Kim's family has issued a statement: "We…want to thank the President for engaging directly with N. Korea. Mostly, we thank God for Tony’s safe return." pic.twitter.com/OsCpdschV6 — Jonathan Cheng (@JChengWSJ) May 9, 2018

Hak-song, who had been doing research at the Pyongyang University of Science and Technology, was detained in May 2017 and accused of “hostile acts.” Dong-chul, accused of spying, was arrested in 2015 but sentenced to 10 years of hard labor in April 2016. Tony Kim, who had been living in North Korea with his wife, taught for a time at the Pyongyang University of Science and Technology. He, too, was accused of “hostile criminal acts” against the regime and was detained in April 2017.

Trump hinted last week that the release could be imminent, tweeting that people should “Stay tuned!” There was no elaboration until Pompeo’s departure from Pyongyang on Wednesday.

As everybody is aware, the past Administration has long been asking for three hostages to be released from a North Korean Labor camp, but to no avail. Stay tuned! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) May 3, 2018

Trump’s unconventional approach to launching a dialogue with the reclusive North Korean regime consisted of wrangling with both the South Koreans and the Chinese to bring Pyongyang to the negotiating table. Pompeo also made a secret trip to North Korea prior to his confirmation, while he was still CIA director.

Trump and Kim plan to meet either this month or next in a location that has yet to be determined. Despite the fanfare surrounding the significance of such a meeting, experts have expressed caution that Kim will commit to meaningful steps toward denuclearization.

“The fact that we have the opportunity to change direction here and go in a more peaceful one and having it occur so quickly is good news,” said John McHugh, an Atlantic Council board director and former secretary of the U.S.

The airport’s online live flight schedule showed flights were departing and landing.

(Reporting by Maayan Lubell; Additional reporting by Tom Perry in Beirut and Stephen Farrell in Jerusalem; Writing by Tom Perry; Editing by Andrew Heavens and Richard Balmforth)Some victims were laid out nearby beneath sheets by emergency workers.

Police said at least 18 people, including 15 men, had been confirmed dead on the scene. Dozens more were hurt, some sitting hunched on the highway with blood streaming from their injuries.

One elderly man interviewed on television said the driver had been going extremely fast at the time of the accident, even taking bends at high speed.PYEONGCHANG (Reuters) - Pyeongchang Olympics organizers were looking into a disruption of non-critical systems on the day of the opening ceremony but could not yet confirm if it was a cyberattack, Games spokesman Sung Baik-you said on Saturday.

The Winter Olympics opened with a spectacular ceremony on Friday, attended by several heads of state who witnessed the joint march of North and South Korean athletes, as Games systems played up.

The ceremony was also attended by North Korean ceremonial leader Kim Yong Nam and North Korean leader Kim Jong Un’s sister, Kim Yo Jong, as well as U.S. Vice President Mike Pence.

Some local media reported system problems, including the Games website and some television sets, were due to a cyberattack but Sung said it was still too early to determine whether hackers had attempted to damage them.

“There were some issues that affected some of our non-critical systems last night for a few hours,” Sung told reporters, without detailing what the issues specifically were.

“We apologize for the inconvenience caused. Army. “But the lesson there is that we could very rapidly, if the upcoming summit is a failure, return to that [earlier] posture, which was an extraordinarily dangerous one.

The notice came in response to an April 3 letter Beyer and Lieu sent the watchdog, requesting that his office “consider possible waste or fraud associated with the decision to lay this cost at the taxpayer’s feet, rather than charge Administrator Pruitt personally.”

It’s unclear how many total investigations the EPA chief is facing. But the number of open federal investigations into Pruitt’s activities winnowed down to nine last week after the Government Accountability Office concluded that the agency’s decision to spend $43,000 on a soundproof phone booth broke two laws.

The inspector general in January began auditing the administrator’s costly flights to his home state of Oklahoma.”

Kim and South Korean President Moon Jae-in met last week in another historic gathering, jointly committing to ridding the Korean peninsula of nuclear weapons. The two leaders also agreed to officially end the Korean War after 65 years.