State Sen. Troy Balderson narrowly won a combative Republican primary to emerge as the party's nominee in Ohio's 12th Congressional District. Ohio State Senate

State Sen. Troy Balderson narrowly defeated businesswoman Melanie Leneghan on Tuesday in the hotly contested Republican primary for Ohio’s 12th Congressional District, a battle that pitted the party’s two major wings against one another.

Balderson beat out Leneghan as well as seven other GOP candidates, according to The Associated Press late Tuesday. He will face businessman Danny O’Connor, who defeated five other candidates to win the Democratic nomination for a special election scheduled for Aug. 7.

Balderson was endorsed in the primary race by former Rep. Pat Tiberi, the Republican who represented the Columbus-area district before stepping down in January. Tiberi, a reliable ally of the House GOP leadership, spent nearly a half-million dollars from his old campaign account to boost Balderson, viewed by the party’s establishment as a more suitable candidate to retain the suburban district, given the difficult political environment for Republicans this year.

Conservatives in Congress backed Leneghan, setting up the intraparty showdown. The House Freedom Caucus, led by co-founder Rep. Jim Jordan (R-Ohio), viewed her as the more solidly conservative candidate. Hartley considered pushing for the court-martial, where he would stand a better chance of being cleared of wrongdoing, but after a month on house arrest, he felt broken.

“I was basically like a prisoner,” he says. “There was no fight left in me.”

By the time he arrived back in Fort Drum for his Article 15 hearing, Hartley decided to just accept his punishment. He took issue with all of the charges against him, but the one that most bothered him was the charge officials ultimately focused on ― that he had supposedly disobeyed an order by continuing to write. “Which was bullshit,” Hartley says. “I was not given a direct order, but that was what I was punished for. Pretty neat, yeah. Yeah, he flew in. Got in, yeah. Yeah, not only that, next week, the president will go for a ride on a big red fire engine.” ― Conan O’Brien, May 2.

U.S. Forces Kill Saddam Hussein’s Sons In Mosul

“Folks, before we get started tonight, quick, quick question.” Nevertheless, wanting it to be over, he had already written a sworn statement saying that he had gone too far.

“I wanted to simply keep my friends and family abreast with my activities on this deployment. The more I wrote the more I learned about myself and the more appreciate people were to gain insight on how it felt to be a soldier going into combat,” he wrote in part. “The mistake I made was in an attempt to express my thoughts and experiences as honestly as possible, I wrote about and photographed things that I now realized may not have been appropriate or legal. For this I am remorseful. Now’s your time to step in.

[Laughs] I think Actor Thor needs his own spinoff. I’d like to see him maybe head off in his own spaceship with a little merry band of Shakespearean travelers, putting on shows across the universe.

AdvertisementA tweet from President Donald Trump saved a struggling family on Tuesday ― in the sit-com “Roseanne.”

The show’s season finale featured a fictional state-of-emergency declaration from the president that bailed out the financially strapped Conners after a storm hit.

“He ruined a good bit of my childhood and my early adulthood, gave me PTSD, and forced me to change careers, putting my life 10 years or more behind,” Byrd said.

Rice noted that Kricfalusi made her “a better artist,” but said she still wished she hadn’t worked with him.

“I wish I were a worse artist now and I didn’t have all this bullshit to deal with,” she said.

“The president spelled ‘Illinois’ wrong in his tweet, but it still counts, right?” Darlene (Sara Gilbert) cracked.”

Jason Hartley wrote a sworn statement saying he was “remorseful” for some of the things he wrote.

Last week, the group warned GOP leaders, including House Speaker Paul Ryan (R-Wis.), to stay out of the primary fight. The conservative anti-tax group Club for Growth also contributed $190,000 that paid for ads supporting Leneghan.

Businesswoman Melanie Leneghan had the backing of influential House conservatives in the GOP race. Melanie Leneghan for Congress

Though the 12th district has traditionally been one the GOP could count on winning, the special election is expected to be competitive. And the winner of that race should have a leg up in the November vote for a full two-year term.

Balderson and O’Connor also won the primaries to face off in the November elections for the seat.

In 2016, President Donald Trump carried the district by slightly more than 11 percentage points ― a concerning margin for Republicans because of increased enthusiasm among Democrats that have marked recent special elections. In the March special election for Pennsylvania’s 18th congressional district, for example, Democrat Conor Lamb edged his GOP opponent in a district Trump carried by 20 percentage points.Less than a week ago, Eric Schneiderman, at the time New York’s state attorney general, hailed the Me Too movement as “extraordinary.” It was his last interview before he resigned Monday evening in response to bombshell allegations that he’d physically abused four women while burnishing a public image as a champion for women.

“I think it’s changing the conversation,” Schneiderman told the host, actor Alec Baldwin, last Thursday. “It is part of what I see as this moment of social transformation and of the emergence of a new political movement.”

On Tuesday, WNYC released the now-uncomfortable interview on Baldwin’s show “Here’s The Thing.” Schneiderman resigned on May 7 after The New Yorker published a report in which four women claim he subjected them to violent abuse while in relationships with them, including hitting, choking and/or threatening to kill them. It was because our constituency was black.”

James OKeefe, in an interview with HuffPost, said it's wrong to focus on whether his accusations against ACORN uncovered actual criminality. Dalton Bennett/The Washington Post via Getty Images

The O’Keefe videos dropped about a month after a different ACORN-related bombshell that had gone almost entirely unnoticed. In August 2009, the House Judiciary Committee released thousands of pages of emails and transcripts related to President George W. Bush’s controversial decision to fire several Department of Justice prosecutors in his second term.

The documents revealed that in 2006, after a U.S. attorney in New Mexico refused to file bogus voter fraud charges against an ACORN worker, the Bush administration retaliated by firing him ― an account that corroborated a report from the Justice Department’s inspector general. This was a major scandal. The president had fired prosecutors for refusing to bring a nonsense case against an organization he believed to be a political enemy.

The U.S.

Acknowledging in the episode’s introduction that “what follows may make for difficult listening,” Baldwin says “it was important to post this now so the public has access to what turns out to be Eric Schneiderman’s last long-form interview as attorney general.”

According to Baldwin, Schneiderman’s communications director had curiously requested that the host not directly bring up the Me Too movement, Schneiderman’s investigation into the sexual misconduct allegations against Hollywood producer Harvey Weinstein, or Schneiderman’s own previous relationships.

“There were signs that maybe something was amiss,” Baldwin said.

Toward the start of the interview, Schneiderman discussed his time working at an abortion clinic in Washington, D.C., which he said “had a big impact on me.”

He worked at the clinic a year before the Supreme Court’s 1973 decision legalizing abortion, so women seeking the procedure were “essentially fleeing oppression in their states,” he said.

Later, when asked which of the cases he’d taken on as attorney general affected him personally, Schneiderman mentioned his work combating child abuse.

As an aside, he said the investigation into Weinstein’s company “was like taking a swim in a sewer” and suggested it was among the cases “that get to me personally.”

On May 3, the same day as his interview with Baldwin, Schneiderman tweeted about his work at the abortion clinic: