Businessman Mike Braun won the Republican nomination in Indiana on Tuesday to challenge Democratic Sen. Zach Gibson/Getty Images Demonstrators chant during Monday's protest. Bill Clark/CQ Roll Call via Getty Images Students and supporters hold signs as they protest outside the White House. Bill Clark/CQ Roll Call via Getty Images Students protest against gun violence. Zach Gibson/Getty Images Demonstrators chant outside the White House. Bill Clark/CQ Roll Call via Getty Images Students and supporters gather on Pennsylvania Avenue.Movie audiences got their first glimpse of the hotly anticipated Freddie Mercury biopic, “Bohemian Rhapsody,” with the release of the film’s first trailer on Tuesday. The trailer promptly set off controversy.

“Bohemian Rhapsody” stars Rami Malek as Mercury and, based on the trailer, traces its subject’s rise from aspiring singer-songwriter to era-defining superstar. But one Hollywood heavyweight cited the current publicity as indicating that the film, due out this fall, may downplay the Queen frontman’s sexuality as well as his battle with AIDS.

Writer-producer Bryan Fuller, who created the television series “Pushing Daisies” and “American Gods,” tweeted his distaste for what he perceived as the “hetwashing” of Mercury’s story on Tuesday. Joe Donnelly in November, a sign that President Donald Trump hasn’t satiated the GOP base’s demand for political outsiders.

Braun isn’t a total newcomer to politics ― he’s served in the state legislature and on a local school board ― but he spent millions of dollars of his own money on television ads telling how he built his warehouse distribution company. His ads also attacked his two rivals, Reps. Luke Messer and Todd Rokita, as career politicians.

“I built a successful national company here in my hometown of Jasper, and it’s time we had some Hoosier know-how in the Senate, rather than more career politicians,” he said in one of his spots.

Braun, Messer and Rokita each spent much of the primary campaign pledging fealty to Trump’s agenda, a no-brainer in a state the president won by 19 percentage points in 2016 and where he remains broadly popular with the GOP primary electorate. Rokita campaigned with a cardboard cutout of the president, Messer nominated him for the Nobel Peace Prize and Braun played up the similarity of his business career to Trump’s.WASHINGTON ― Hours after President Donald Trump’s CIA director nominee Gina Haspel refused to condemn torture during her confirmation hearing, a Republican Senate candidate in Wisconsin blasted Sen. Tammy Baldwin (D-Wis.) for her silence about the nomination amid widespread Democratic skepticism toward Haspel.

Baldwin has not yet taken a public position because she has not had the chance to meet with the nominee, her office told HuffPost Wednesday evening. Haspel canceled a scheduled meeting and they are attempting to reschedule it.

Wisconsin state Sen. Leah Vukmir (R) argued that Baldwin would be backing terrorism if she opposed Trump’s controversial nominee.

“After Sen. Baldwin’s outrageous support of the Iran deal, it’s no surprise that she would rather give the man behind the 9/11 attacks and other terrorists hugs and safe spaces than take adequate action to protect America and confirm Gina Haspel quickly,” Vukmir said in a press release. Sounds fake, but this is somehow a real story. It’s just that this presidency is fake. — Palmer Report (@PalmerReport) March 28, 2018

THE TRUMP ADMINISTRATION; DISNEY EDITION.



The rate of turnover in the Trump administration feels less like a revolving door and more like a pulse-pounding, gut-wrenching thrill ride; Space Mountain in warp drive.



Welcome #CarolineSunshine pic.twitter.com/25UNkk6wUa — Agit-Pop (@agitpopworld) March 28, 2018

OMG .. By the end of the football season Junior felt at home.

“All of them were accepting,” Junior told Outsports.

Former NFL player Ryan O’Callaghan, who lives in nearby Redding, had even visited Junior and his parents last autumn to provide some insight and inspiration to the family.

“He seems like a good kid,” O’Callaghan told Outsports of Junior, “the best player on his youth football team.”

The trouble for Junior started when he made another announcement: He was questioning his gender identity and identifying more and more as a girl.

Junior hadn’t been using any restroom facilities in school for a while because she didn’t feel comfortable walking into the boys bathroom anymore. One day at school it became impossible to avoid. So she walked into a girls bathroom. That’s when all hell broke loose.

She was reported to the principal and called out of class. She was told that she was not allowed to use any restrooms — boys or girls — in the school other than the one in the school’s main office.. Seriously?! Why not just hire the entire Mickey Mouse Club to run the government?! #TrumpInsanity #FratHouse45



Caroline Sunshine, former Disney star, joins White House press team https://t.co/A9xVl0DmXX — Caryn Jones (@Woke2Injustice) March 28, 2018

Former Disney Channel star Caroline Sunshine is joining the White House press office as a press assistant.



This is a sad attempt to make the White House look younger. They also want to take advantage of her social media presence. pic.twitter. “This is a dangerous time for America, and our CIA director should be willing to do what it takes to protect our nation, our citizens and our freedoms.”

Vukmir’s press release included a bizarre image showing Baldwin with Khalid Sheikh Muhammed, the man accused of planning the Sept. 11 attacks and a torture victim, who asked to submit testimony about Haspel. The image also labeled her as being with “team terrorists.”

The image included in the press release. Leah for Senate

Haspel, the Trump nominee, played a role in the Bush administration’s torture and detention program after Sept. 11. She oversaw a CIA black site in Thailand, where agents waterboarded at least two detainees (one before her tenure). She was also involved in destroying videotapes that showed the CIA interrogating its first detainee under the program.

Some Democrats and Sen. Rand Paul (R-Ky.) have said they will not vote for Haspel, in keeping with the general post-Bush administration consensus on Capitol Hill against using torture. Most Democrats are expected to eventually vote against her. Baldwin is among the senators who hasn’t publicly taken a position.

Trump, who has spoken approvingly of waterboarding and other torture tactics, has loudly supported Haspel. The day before her hearing, he tweeted, “Gina Haspel, my highly respected nominee to lead the CIA, is being praised for the fact that she has been, and alway will be, TOUGH ON TERROR!”

Subjecting captured terrorist suspects like Muhammed to torture and imprisonment outside the regular U.S. justice system at Guantanamo Bay has prevented the U.S. from successfully convicting them.”

For many scientists, funding from the EPA or other government agencies is one of the few financial resources available. While Pruitt claimed the ban would “strengthen member independence,” critics said the move would clear a path for industry-friendly advisers to gain more influence within the agency.

“Anti-democratic governments thrive on obfuscating truth and seeking to suppress scientists.” - Jamila Benkato, counsel at Protect Democracy

In a statement Wednesday, Joshua Goldman, senior legal analyst for the Union of Concerned Scientists, called the directive “an abuse of power and an affront to the scientific integrity of the EPA and the federal government.”

The nonpartisan legal advocacy nonprofit Protect Democracy and the law firm Jenner & Block filed the suit for the plaintiffs in the U.S. District Court for the District of Massachusetts.

“Anti-democratic governments thrive on obfuscating truth and seeking to suppress scientists and other authoritative voices that offer accurate information,” said Protect Democracy counsel Jamila Benkato. Most terrorism analysts say the tough tactics actually make counterterrorism work more difficult ― by complicating prosecution, prompting false statements and making U.S. partners abroad less likely to hand suspects over..

“We’ve had issues where children have tried to order delivery — we’ve been able to catch that,” he said. Oasis staff members review the purchasers’ identification to make sure they are over 21 before handing over the pot.

He said that he needs to be able to offer delivery to stay competitive.Gabby Frost, the founder and CEO of Buddy Project. Lexi Shannon

This 20-year-old CEO has created a website aimed at preventing suicide and self-harm by pairing people online who can support each other.

In 2013, Gabby Frost founded Buddy Project, a nonprofit peer support system to counteract some of the negativity and bullying often found on social media. The program is geared toward children and young adults and provides positivity, companionship, resources and education for those who are struggling with mental illness or are in need of a support system.

Mental illness affects tens of millions of people in the United States each year, yet only half receive treatment, according to the National Institute of Mental Health