An employment office worker in Tallahassee, Florida, helps a young man look for jobs and send out applications. Policymakers are looking to Nevada as a potential model for success. Phil Coale/AP

By Sophie Quinton

BALTIMORE — When the man in the teal hoodie mentioned that he had trained as a pharmacy technician, Lachelle Hill’s voice rose in excitement. “Why don’t I see that on here?” the state job counselor asked, pointing at the paperwork on the table between them.

Hill was counseling Corey, a 30-year-old jobseeker who didn’t share his last name, at a federally funded job center here on the top floor of a shopping mall, an escalator ride away from a Forever 21 and a Cinnabon.

Unemployment insurance beneficiaries are required to look for work, but Hill wasn’t just checking Corey’s paperwork for compliance. She was helping him focus his job search, and trying to steer him toward positions he was qualified for.

Such conversations are central to a reemployment grant program that the U.

The Department of Homeland Security had sought a big boost in those officers’ ranks to boost deportations of illegal immigrants.

Besides the largest defense buildup in 15 years, the measure includes new funds to improve infrastructure and counter Russian election hacking.

In response to public anger and frustration over mass shootings, it includes modest improvements to background checks for gun sales and grants to help schools prevent gun violence.Late-night TV hosts were incredulous over President Donald Trump’s feud with former Vice President Joe Biden on Thursday night.

An escalation in tensions came this week after Biden told a rally he’d have “beat the hell out of” Trump in high school for his treatment of women. Trump responded by tweeting that Biden “would go down fast and hard, crying all the way.”

Both Trump and Biden have received widespread criticism for their aggressive comments.

“Late Night” host Seth Meyers called the whole encounter “embarrassing.”

“This is just what America needs, the ‘Thrilla in Vanilla,’” Meyers quipped. “The last time I saw two old dudes going at it like that, my local Walmart was down to its last bottle of prune juice.”

“Could you imagine these two actually fighting?” Meyers added. “It would end as soon as one of them accidentally stepped on his own super-long testicles.S. This is not a way of life at all, in any true sense. Under the cloud of threatening war, it is humanity hanging from a cross of iron.”

Those words still seem salient today. As Americans experience acute income inequality, the rising cost of a college education, and ongoing deindustrialization in the heartland, the country’s runaway spending continues to rise precipitously. The planned 2019 Pentagon budget is now expected to hit a staggering $716 billion ― more than much of the rest of the world’s defense spending combined.

The battle between “guns and butter” is still raging in the United States and, if the new NDS is any indicator, the guns are winning.

Major Danny Sjursen, a TomDispatch regular, is a U.S. Army officer and former history instructor at West Point. Department of Labor has touted for years. In February, Congress passed a budget bill that would make the program permanent and increase its funding from about $100 million last year to more than $3 billion over the next six years.

“It’s the most difficult decision I can recall having to make,” he told Hunt on Sunday night. “I have an 8-month-old. I have a 4-year-old. And it’s a very challenging job, serving in Congress with a young family.”

National Congressional Campaign Committee Chairman Rep. Steve Stivers told ABC News that Costello’s retirement is a “great loss.”

He said in a statement to the news agency, “We will work tirelessly to ensure this seat remains in Republican hands.”

The Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee said in a statement that other Republicans should take heed of Costello’s decision.

“Costello’s exit should set off alarm bells for vulnerable House Republicans, who will also have to explain to middle-class voters why they’ve given repeated handouts to the rich and biggest corporations, and who will face similarly tough, well-financed challenges from our deep field of impressive candidates,” said spokesman Evan Lukaske in a press release.

Neither Costello nor his representatives were immediately available for comment.

(Reporting by Rich McKay; Editing by Michael Perry)The movie, which won a screenplay Oscar this month, was withdrawn from the Beijing International Film Festival set for April, Sony Pictures Entertainment told Reuters, declining to comment on the reason.

Homosexuality is not illegal in China, but activists say conservative attitudes in some sections of society have led to occasional government clamp-downs.

To push states to improve their programs further, the law requires that starting in 2023 states must spend a quarter of their money on “evidence-based interventions” that have been proven to get people jobs faster.

But creating evidence-based employment programs can be tricky. Dylann Roof, the 21-year-old who killed nine people in a Charleston, South Carolina, church in 2015, was reportedly a commenter on the site. James Jackson, who traveled from Maryland to New York City last March to stab a black man to death with a sword, cited only one ideological influence after his arrest: The Daily Stormer.

James Jackson, accused of traveling to New York City to fatally stab an African-American man in a racially motivated attack, appears in court in May 2017. Lucas Jackson / Reuters

Last week, Anglin even laughed about two of those murders on a podcast hosted by “crying Nazi” Christopher Cantwell, who brought an arsenal of guns to Charlottesville, Virginia, in August ahead of a deadly white supremacist rally.

“You do have that type of thing,” Anglin told Cantwell, chortling about a double homicide in Tampa, Florida, last May in which a member of the Stormer community who’d converted to Islam murdered two of his neo-Nazi roommates. A third neo-Nazi roommate escaped death but was later arrested for possessing explosives and bomb-making materials, and was sentenced to five years in prison earlier this month.

Given this context, whether Anglin believes in the Holocaust or not is moot. When he targeted Gersh, he urged his followers to physically confront her. ”[I]f you’re in the area, maybe you should stop by and tell her in person what you think of her actions,” he wrote. This recommendation echoes a more recent case in which Yousef al-Khattab posted a violent video to his Islamic organization’s website and encouraged readers to seek out Jewish leaders and “deal with them directly at their homes.” Al-Khattab also posted a photo and a map of a Jewish organization’s headquarters in Brooklyn, New York. He pleaded guilty to using the internet to put another in fear of death or injury, and in 2014 was sentenced to 2½ years in prison.

Anglin, unlike Al-Khattab, is not a Muslim extremist. He presents more like an American suburbanite, the sort of average white male from a privileged background who tends to fetch up in middle management rather than the middle of a race war. But his superficial white banality ― and that of the alt-right, at large ― masks an underlying fanaticism. While research generally shows that employment assistance helps people get jobs, it’s not always clear why certain programs work well and whether they can be expanded.

The nationwide employment program that Corey’s benefiting from is based on a Nevada model that significantly reduced the amount of time people received unemployment benefits. Studies have yet to determine whether the Nevada approach can get the same results elsewhere.

State workforce and unemployment insurance officials are now waiting for the Labor Department to clarify its definition of “evidence-based.” “We’re all waiting on pins and needles,” said Michelle Meader, who operates Washington state’s version of the employment program.

Back at the job center, Corey said he’d been looking for jobs on roadwork crews and at the seaport, and talking to a friend about starting a day labor business. Hill zeroed in on the brightest spot on his resume: his pharmacy training, which could net him wages of about $15 an hour in the area.

“Sometimes, people crash because they aim too low,” Hill said. Corey explained that his pharmacy technician license had expired, but Hill didn’t bat an eye. “Let’s look into the recertification, and see if we can get you the funds to do that.”

An employment specialist with the Nebraska Department of Labor helps a jobseeker in Omaha. Nati Harnik/AP

Success in Nevada

The current federal reemployment program began as a grant with a slightly different focus called Reemployment and Eligibility Assessment, or REA. The first $18 million was split between 20 states in 2005.

States used the money to require some unemployment insurance claimants to go to a career center for an interview. Staff members would check that the claimant was actively searching for work, share labor market information, and make sure they had a job search plan.

The program was designed to uncover idlers who weren’t looking for work — and thus weren’t eligible for benefits — and to help participants get jobs faster.

A 2011 Labor Department-funded study of the REA program in Florida, Idaho, Illinois and Nevada found that, on average, participants reduced their time receiving benefits by over a week compared with a control group.

The Nevada program had the best results: It cut time receiving benefits by almost three weeks, saving $805 in payments on average. For every dollar spent on administering the program four were saved on unemployment benefits, according to the study conducted by IMPAQ International, a research and evaluation firm in Bethesda, Maryland.

The researchers said Nevada’s program may have been successful because it used the same staff to conduct eligibility checks, help claimants make job search plans, and also — thanks to a separate federal grant — connected participants with more career services.

Claimants felt like the job counselors were there to help them, not put them through a compliance exercise, said Lynda Parven, deputy administrator of the Employment Security Division at the Nevada Department of Employment, Training and Rehabilitation. “Most people saw it not as a stick, but as a carrot.”

The Labor Department restructured the grant requirements in 2015 to reflect Nevada’s model. The program now emphasizes job assistance targeted to a claimant’s needs and requires staff to refer participants to at least one other career service, such as a resume workshop at a job center.

The employment program is now active in almost every state. But while the prior version of the grant required states to randomly select participants, the current version selects participants from higher-need populations, such as discharged veterans and people likely to struggle to find a job. States use algorithms to determine who falls into the latter group.

But Can It Be Repeated?

The Labor Department has long held up the Nevada results as a success story. In last year’s budget request, for instance, the agency called the reemployment program “a proven activity that saves an average of $536 per claimant.” The figure is seemingly taken from a 2012 study of the Nevada REA program, also by IMPAQ International.

But researchers still are not sure what caused Nevada’s program to work so well, if it can be replicated, or if the current version of the program delivers the same results.

The lack of clarity is true of many programs that help get people back to work. “A lot of the evidence on these interventions has been kind of at a black box level,” said Yvette Chocolaad, policy director for the National Association of State Workforce Agencies, at a recent Urban Institute event. While the overall outcome may be good, it may not be clear what components of a program make a difference.

Employment programs involve many factors. While research highlights a few strategies that work, such as friendly emails and follow-up messages that encourage claimants to come to their appointment at a job center, others are hard to quantify or replicate, such as a program’s leadership.

Jacob Klerman, principal associate of Abt Associates, an evaluation company based in Cambridge, Massachusetts, is wrapping up a Labor Department study that compares REA programs in multiple states. He wouldn’t remark on the yet-to-be-published findings, but said it wasn’t clear if the Nevada model could be copied. “The results from Nevada are basically twice as large as any other state. So Nevada is an outlier.”

As for the current version of the reemployment program, it’s too new to have been subjected to rigorous academic studies. Many state agencies are still crunching the first year of data on, for instance, whether the new model has decreased the amount of time people spend receiving benefits.

Maryland’s data so far, collected by the unemployment insurance office, shows that last year over 18,000 people attended a job services orientation, and almost half as many made it to a follow-up session, such as a resume workshop.

The program’s most important element may be the staff. At the job center here in Baltimore, they are a friendly bunch, quick to hand out inspiration. On a recent Friday morning, a receptionist in the lemon-walled reception area urged on a young man with an aphorism: “You’re a go-getter. Good things come to those who wait, but better things come to those who go out and get it.”

In a cubicle on the other side of the room, Hill deftly guided reemployment program participants toward services that might help their job search. She asked a recent college graduate laid off from a mortgage company if he was tailoring his resume to every job application, and she suggested he sign up for a resume workshop to get some tips.

Then Hill sat down with a young woman with braces and a trendy bob who said she was eager to take any job at all. The woman had previously worked as a security guard and in customer service, and she seemed a little lost and unsure of herself. Hill took a firmer, more motherly approach, registering her for a career aptitude test and an interviewing workshop and encouraging her to come back later for more one-on-one counseling. Hill asked if the woman had access to a computer at home — she didn’t — and told her she was welcome to use the job center’s computers..

Witnesses told Russian media the fire alarm and sprinklers had failed to function