Protesters rally in support of "Jane Doe," an immigrant teenager who had to go to court to seek access to an abortion. Since her case began, three other immigrant teens have done the same. Michael S. Williamson/The Washington Post via Getty Images

WASHINGTON ― For the fourth time in four months, Trump administration officials have refused to let an undocumented immigrant teenager seek an abortion, forcing her to sue to get one, according to a court filing Thursday.

The teenager, who came to the United States without authorization as an unaccompanied minor, alleges in a complaint that she asked to go to a clinic to terminate her pregnancy using her own funds two weeks ago, and has not to be allowed to do so.

It’s yet another example of the Trump administration’s Office of Refugee Resettlement (ORR) refusing a girl in its custody access to abortion. The American Civil Liberties Union, which is representing the teenagers, argues the administration’s actions are a violation of the girls’ constitutional rights. JEFF KOWALSKY via Getty Images

She went even further, saying that Nassar’s behavior was appropriate because “there is a legitimate medical treatment that involves touching sensitive areas and even penetrations.” Smith added that Nassar’s case should serve as a warning to other doctors because they need to “protect” themselves “from false allegations.”

While pelvic floor exams are legitimate and used in instances of bladder leakage and chronic pelvic pain, it is rarely done on women under 18 years old and always requires parental consent. “Nothing more specific than that at this time.”Michigan State University’s top two coaches said they have no plans to quit their jobs despite a damning ESPN “Outside the Lines” report that claimed the school mishandled complaints of sexual abuse and violence against women involving its athletic department.

Mark Dantonio and Tom Izzo ― head coaches of MSU’s football and basketball teams, respectively ― sought Friday night to tamp down rumors of their departures following the ESPN report.

The school’s sexual abuse scandal began with accusations of serial assault of female gymnasts by former MSU doctor Larry Nassar, who was sentenced earlier this week to a lengthy prison term on seven counts of first-degree criminal sexual misconduct.

The media coalition said its first demonstration will be on Feb. 5 at The Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences’ honoree luncheon. The second demonstration will be held on March 3. MSU President Lou Anna Simon and Athletic Director Mark Hollis bowed to pressure to resign amid criticisms that school officials mishandled complaints of sexual abuse by Nassar years before he was formally charged in 2016.

But the scope of the scandal is widening. According to the ESPN report, MSU has attempted to shield people in its football and basketball programs accused of sexual abuse and violence against women in order to maintain the school’s reputation. ESPN said it found a “pattern of widespread denial, inaction and information suppression” in MSU’s response to sexual assault complaints involving the school’s athletic department.

At least 16 members of the football team have been accused of sexual assault or violence against women since Dantonio became head coach in 2007, ESPN reported, based on interviews and public records.S. school districts.

In Colorado, more than twice as many districts have state approval to hold a four-day week, compared to two decades ago.

Dantonio called claims that he mishandled such accusations “completely false.” At a brief press conference, he said that “every incident reported in that article was documented by either police or the Michigan State Title IX office” that deals with gender equality issues.

HuffPost guest writer and physical therapist Lori Mize recently wrote about how Nassar’s treatments were nowhere near what a legitimate pelvic floor exam looks like.

“There is no doubt he did a lot of good for a lot of his patients.” - Defense attorney Shannon Smith on her client Larry NassarAmerican students are being taught an inadequate and often sanitized version of history when it comes to slavery, according to a new report. “I’d like him to come out a little bit stronger on that.”

Iowa Republican Sen. Joni Ernst says Trump needs to send a "stronger message" against abuse https://t.co/FCKLQ2gj2x pic.twitter.com/TjI6l8HStz — CNN Politics (@CNNPolitics) February 13, 2018

Trump administration officials have continually put forth conflicting narratives and talking points about the allegations against Porter, who left the White House as staff secretary last week after his two ex-wives, Colbie Holderness and Jennie Willoughby, said that he had punched and choked them.

White House press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders on Monday stressed that the president “supports victims of domestic violence and believes everyone should be treated fairly,” and that he “takes the issue of domestic violence very seriously.”

But Trump has made plenty of public statements suggesting otherwise, and Sanders would not affirm whether the president believes the women making the allegations.

On Friday, Trump expressed sympathy for Porter and reiterated that the former aide denied the claims by Holderness and Willoughby. He told reporters that the situation was “very sad” and “a tough time” for Porter, adding that “we wish him well.

The report, from the Southern Poverty Law Center, looks at how slavery is presented in K-12 classrooms and found that students are often taught a deeply incomplete version of events. Students learn inspirational stories ― about figures like Harriet Tubman and good Samaritans who helped slaves reach freedom in the underground railroad ― before they learn about the horrors of enslavement. When they learn about slavery, it is often presented as an isolated, albeit unfortunate phenomenon, disconnected from white supremacist ideologies that abetted it and the racism that continues as a pervasive part of American life today.

Only 8 percent of high school seniors surveyed by an independent polling firm for the study identified slavery as the primary reason for the Civil War. Almost half identified tax protests as the main cause.

Teachers also posted disappointing results. About 66 percent of social studies teachers surveyed said they discuss the immorality of slavery with their classes. The girls’ treatment is a result of policies by ORR Director Scott Lloyd that allow him or other officials to essentially veto immigrant teens’ abortions as long as the individuals are in government custody.

Lloyd described abortion as “killing a human being” in an internal document revealed as part of the broader lawsuit against ORR, referring to a separate case of an immigrant teen seeking an abortion. That teenager was the victim of a rape, and was eventually allowed to terminate her pregnancy after court intervention.

“The Trump administration is effectively banning abortion for these young women,” Brigitte Amiri, senior staff attorney with the ACLU Reproductive Freedom Project, said in a statement on Thursday about the latest teen seeking an abortion, referred to as “Jane Moe.”

“We’ve already stopped the government from forcing three other ‘Janes’ to continue pregnancies against their will, but clearly, their heartlessness knows no bounds,” Amiri said. “This administration is blatantly ignoring the fact that the Supreme Court has held that abortion is a fundamental constitutional right.”

ORR officials “have pushed Ms. Moe further into her pregnancy,” according to the complaint filed in court by the ACLU. “Without this Court’s immediate intervention, Defendants will continue to deny Ms. Moe the ability to access abortion, and ultimately will force her to carry to term against her will,” the complaint reads.

The past three teenagers represented by the ACLU were eventually able to obtain abortions against the government’s wishes.

In court, Trump administration officials have argued that they are not blocking teens’ access to abortion, because the individuals in question can agree to return to their native country ― potentially one that bars abortion or that they’ve left to seek asylum in the U.S. ― or be released to a sponsor, something the teens have no control over.

Department of Health and Human Services officials did the same on Thursday when asked about “Jane Moe.”

“The Jane in this case, Jane Moe ― who entered the country illegally ― has the option to voluntarily depart to her home country or find a suitable sponsor,” a spokesman for the HHS’s Administration for Children and Families, which includes ORR, said in a statement.

“If she chooses not to exercise these options, HHS does not believe we are required to facilitate Jane Moe’s abortion, out of concern and responsibility for the mother’s best interests,” the spokesman said.