Don’t expect Jim Parsons to stop pushing for improved LGBTQ representation in film and television anytime soon.

The “Big Bang Theory” star appeared on “The Late Show With Stephen Colbert” on Monday to chat about his role in Broadway’s “The Boys in the Band.” The play, which also stars Matt Bomer, Andrew Rannells and Zachary Quinto, is seen as a seminal queer drama, 50 years after it was first staged off-Broadway.

But Parsons, who is openly gay, interjected when Colbert asked if the show’s depiction of gay men needed updating. The actor likened the play to the film “Love, Simon,” which made history as the first romantic comedy distributed by a major Hollywood studio to focus on a gay teen. Some reviewers, however, felt the movie was too late, given recent social advances for the LGBTQ community.

“Maybe if you’re a 30-something-year-old writer living in New York or L.A., it may be, like, ‘I don’t need to see this,’ obviously,” he said. “I think there are people in many other places that, yes, you do still need to see it.”

“How many straight rom-coms do we need? When is it too late for them?” he continued. “Let me get sick of too many gay rom-coms, then, thank you very much.”

“This film is so unapologetically black and growing up on the outside of the nerd community as an ‘other,’ to have a film filled with people that look like me and my family is the most amazing gift,” she added.

Sutton wasn’t alone in her sentiment, as #WhatBlackPantherMeansToMe quickly began to trend on Twitter. People highlighted several reasons why they felt represented by the film, including the positive portrayal of an African nation and the important role of black scientists in Wakanda.

Like many Black Panther fans, Sutton has yet to see the film but already has plans to see an early screening and then attend a “sensory-friendly screening” with her son on opening weekend.

The social media influencer says she’s been touched by people’s responses to the hashtag and “can’t wait to see the reactions post-opening weekend. Bring it on!”

Parsons couldn’t be happier about his first Broadway role since 2015’s “An Act of God,” calling his “Boys in the Band” experience “heaven.”Rachel Crooks, who is among the women accusing President Donald Trump of sexual misconduct, won the Democratic nomination for a seat in Ohio’s House of Representatives in Tuesday’s primary election.

“We’re still waiting for the final count, but it was uncontested, so we’re happy,” campaign manager Chris Liebold told The Washington Post. “We look forward to the race ahead.”

Crooks, the director of international student recruitment at Heidelberg University in Tiffin, Ohio, claims that Trump kissed her without her consent in the lobby of Trump Tower in 2005, when she worked as a receptionist in the building.

“It was so inappropriate,” she told The New York Times in October 2016. “I was so upset that he thought I was so insignificant that he could do that.”

Trump denied the claim, and said kissing a stranger in a public place would constitute bizarre behavior:

A woman I don’t know and, to the best of my knowledge, never met, is on the FRONT PAGE of the Fake News Washington Post saying I kissed her (for two minutes yet) in the lobby of Trump Tower 12 years ago. Never happened! Who would do this in a public space with live security.

Michael Rotondo, the 30-year-old man who was court-ordered to move out of his parents’ home, spoke with Brooke Baldwin of CNN on Wednesday ― and their chat went way off the rails.

Toward the end of the interview, Baldwin told Rotondo that many people reacted to his story by saying millennials are entitled, and asked him what he thought of that criticism.

“I would say that I’m really not a member of that demographic,” Rotondo said. “I’m a very conservative person. The millennials that they are speaking to are very liberal in their ideology........ — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) February 20, 2018

Crooks now faces incumbent Rep. Bill Reineke (R) in a historically red district. She said she hopes to gain momentum from female empowerment ― an unprecedented number of women are running for office this year.

“Women are uniting,” Crooks told Cosmopolitan magazine this year. “The momentum is now. I want to be part of it.”WASHINGTON (Reuters) - The Donald Trump administration has launched a national security investigation into car and truck imports that could lead to new U.S. tariffs similar to those imposed on imported steel and aluminum in March.

The national security probe under Section 232 of the Trade Expansion Act of 1962 would investigate whether vehicle and parts imports were threatening the industry’s health and ability to research and develop new, advanced technologies, the Commerce Department said on Wednesday.

“There is evidence suggesting that, for decades, imports from abroad have eroded our domestic auto industry,” Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross said in a statement, promising a “thorough, fair and transparent investigation.”

Higher tariffs could be particularly painful for Asian automakers including Toyota Motor Corp, Nissan Motor Co, Honda Motor Co and Hyundai Motor Co, which count the United States as a key market, and the announcement sparked a broad sell-off in automakers’ shares across the region.

The governments of Japan, China and South Korea said they would monitor the situation, while Beijing, which is increasingly eyeing the United States as a potential market for its cars, added that it would defend its interests.

“China opposes the abuse of national security clauses, which will seriously damage multilateral trade systems and disrupt normal international trade order,” Gao Feng, spokesman at the Ministry of Commerce, said at a regular news briefing on Thursday which focused largely on whether Beijing and Washington are making any progress in their growing trade dispute. It’s still hard to comprehend, but Sean had perfected the art of grooming; I wasn’t even aware I needed saving,” she wrote. “And as long as I swam fast, it seemed easy enough for the organizations that have masterfully buried these tragedies for years, to once again brush off the rumors [of our relationship].”

Hutchison has denied all allegations, writing in a statement that "at no time did I ever abuse Ariana Kukors or do anything with her that was not consensual."

Kukors with her medal after winning the 200-meter individual medley at the ConocoPhillips National Championship on Aug. 7, 2005, around the time she says Hutchison began abusing her.

“We will closely monitor the situation under the U.S. probe and fully evaluate the possible impact and resolutely defend our own legitimate interests.”

Courting Voters

The probe comes as Trump courts voters in the U.S. industrial heartland ahead of mid-term elections later this year, and opens a new front in his “America First” trade agenda aimed at clawing back manufacturing jobs lost to overseas competitors.

It could raise the costs for overseas automakers to export vehicles and parts to the world’s second-largest auto market.

Growing trade tensions over cars and car parts, particularly with China, could raise risks for U.S. companies expanding their presence in the country, signs of which are already emerging.

Earlier this month, Reuters reported that Ford Motor Co’s imported vehicles were being held up at Chinese ports, adding to a growing list of U.S. products facing issues at China’s borders.

The majority of vehicles sold in the United States by Japanese and South Korean automakers are produced there, but most firms also export to the U.S. from plants in Asia, Mexico, Canada and other countries.

Roughly one-third of all U.S. vehicle imports last year were from Asia.

Vehicles stand at a port in Shanghai on April 30. Bloomberg via Getty Images

In addition to recently imposed 25 percent tariffs on steel and 10 percent tariffs on aluminum imports, the administration has threatened tariffs on $50 billion worth of Chinese goods over intellectual property complaints, and Beijing has vowed to respond.

The administration is also trying to renegotiate the North American Free Trade Agreement to return more auto production to the United States.

Commerce said the new probe would determine whether lost domestic production had weakened the U.S. “internal economy” and its ability to develop connected vehicle systems, autonomous vehicles, fuel cells, electric motors and batteries, and advanced manufacturing processes.

In a separate statement, Trump said: “Core industries such as automobiles and automotive parts are critical to our strength as a Nation.”

A Trump administration official said before the announcement that the expected move was aimed partly at pressuring Canada and Mexico to make concessions in talks to update the NAFTA that have languished in part over auto provisions, as well as pressuring Japan and the European Union, which also export large numbers of vehicles to the United States.

‘Fewer Choices, Higher Prices’

An ad hoc industry group representing the largest Japanese, German and other foreign automakers called “Here for America,” criticized the effort.

“To our knowledge, no one is asking for this protection. This path leads inevitably to fewer choices and higher prices for cars and trucks in America,” said John Bozzella, chief executive of Global Automakers, a trade group representing Toyota, Nissan Motor Co Ltd, Hyundai Motor Co and others.

A Toyota spokeswoman said that the company was monitoring the situation.

Chinese automaker Geely Holding Group urged free trade practices for the auto industry, which is built on a complex supply chain under which vehicle components for any given car often originates from numerous countries.

“As a global manufacturer, Geely Holding Group is in favor of free trade and open markets. Free trade creates jobs, wealth and economic growth,” a spokesman said, adding that its plant in South Carolina to produce its Volvo brand cars showed its commitment to the country.

Shares in Toyota, Honda and Hyundai each fell roughly 3 percent in local trade following the announcement, while Mazda Motor Corp, which does not have any U.S. production capacity at the moment, tumbled more than 5 percent.

Shares in automakers were battered by the news, dragging down Tokyo's benchmark Nikkei index on May 24. KAZUHIRO NOGI via Getty Images

Late last week, Japan’s automakers’ association urged its export partners to keep tariffs on vehicles and components low and maintain free trade relationships.

Roughly 12 million cars and trucks were produced in the United States last year, while the country imported 8. He gets representation and its about damn time. #WhatBlackPantherMeansToMe https://t.co/OczeBN3GEE — Kayla Marie (@Maria_Giesela) February 6, 2018

“This was inspired by a question that I asked my son yesterday,” Sutton told HuffPost in a direct message. “He has been reading the comics (like me) and as a young black male with autism I wanted to know what this movie meant to him. It got me thinking about the impact this movie is going to have on so many.”

“This film is so unapologetically black and growing up on the outside of the nerd community as an ‘other,’ to have a film filled with people that look like me and my family is the most amazing gift,” she added.

Sutton wasn’t alone in her sentiment, as #WhatBlackPantherMeansToMe quickly began to trend on Twitter. People highlighted several reasons why they felt represented by the film, including the positive portrayal of an African nation and the important role of black scientists in Wakanda.3 million vehicles worth $192 billion. But I’m still scratching around to try to figure out where the violation of principle is here.

Tyson Evans, senior editor, opinion products and strategy: I think that was key. This included 2.4 million from Mexico, 1.8 million from Canada, 1.7 million from Japan, 930,000 from South Korea and 500,000 from Germany, according to U.S. government statistics.

At the same time, the United States exported nearly 2 million vehicles worldwide worth $57 billion.

German automakers Volkswagen AG, Daimler AG and BMW AG all have large U.S. assembly plants. The United States is the second-biggest export destination for German auto manufacturers after China, while vehicles and car parts are Germany’s biggest source of export income.

Asked if the measures would hit Mexico and Canada, a Mexican source close to the NAFTA talks said: “That probably is going to be the next battle.”