Khalid Sheikh Mohammed, the self-professed mastermind of the 9/11 terror attacks, says he has information to share with lawmakers about CIA head nominee Gina Haspel ahead of her Senate confirmation hearing.

Mohammed, who was repeatedly tortured by the CIA following his 2003 capture in Pakistan, sought permission this week from a Guantanamo Bay judge to “share six paragraphs of information” about Haspel with the Senate Intelligence Committee, reported The New York Times.

From Guantanamo, Khalid Shaikh Mohammed wants to tell the Senate Intelligence Committee something about Gina Haspel. https://t.co/u5jowMhzyQ — Charlie Savage (@charlie_savage) May 8, 2018

Haspel, who has drawn criticism for her role in a controversial CIA interrogation program, faces what is likely to be a tough confirmation hearing before the committee on Wednesday.

The nature of Mohammed’s information about Haspel is unknown. One of his attorneys, Marine Lt. Col. Derek Poteet, told the Times that he was “not able to describe the information.” Poteet said that it comes directly from Mohammed and that defense lawyers “agreed that the information was important.”

The CIA used several torture techniques on Mohammed, including waterboarding him 183 times and subjecting him to sleep deprivation and rectal rehydration, while the al Qaeda operative was in custody in clandestine prisons in Afghanistan and Poland.

It’s not clear whether Haspel was involved in Mohammed’s torture in any way. She has come under scrutiny, however, for serving as the head of a black site prison in Thailand in the early-2000s, where another terror suspect was tortured. That’s what they’re calling themselves. They’re not activists — this is civil terrorism,” North said.

The retired Marine Corps lieutenant colonel previously served on the NRA’s board of directors. He is best known for his involvement in the Iran-Contra firearms scandal in the 1980s, in which he was found to have played a key role in the clandestine sale of weapons to Iran, which was under an arms embargo at the time. Funds from those transactions were then funneled to bolster terrorist efforts against Nicaragua’s socialist government.

North was convicted of three felonies related to the scheme, including charges of obstructing a congressional inquiry and destroying evidence. The convictions were later vacated amid concerns that tainted testimony had been used in the case.

Still, Wasserman Schultz said she considered it ironic for someone with North’s past legal troubles to accuse young people of criminal behavior simply for “standing up to make sure that we can keep people safe.

“It was a good time for everyone, as far as I can tell,” Garner said while recounting the conversation with her dentist. “Hamilton really is that beautiful. I was listening because I didn’t want to hear the drill and I was crying, weeping during the procedure. And he was like, ‘Are you okay?’”Chelsea Clinton has a message for the media: Lay off President Donald Trump’s grandchildren.

The former first daughter appeared to be responding to reports on Thursday that Vanessa Trump had filed for divorce from Donald Trump Jr., the president’s eldest son.

The couple have five children, prompting Clinton to warn:

Please respect the privacy of President Trump’s grandchildren. They’re kids and deserve to not be your clickbait. Thank you. — Chelsea Clinton (@ChelseaClinton) March 15, 2018

Vanessa Trump and Donald Trump Jr. released a joint statement on Thursday confirming the divorce reports.

Wynn has denied any wrongdoing. In a statement last week, he said his ex-wife, who is suing him over stock shares, orchestrated the accusations against him.

“The idea that I ever assaulted any woman is preposterous,” he said.

The WSJ story described how Wynn focused his unwanted attentions on his establishments’ service workers, who said their experiences ranged from vulgar comments and inappropriate touching to soliciting sex acts. As CEO of Wynn Resorts, the mogul operates two casinos in Las Vegas and two in China. Another project is under construction in Boston.

Wynn threw his support behind the Donald Trump in the 2016 election, and was hand-picked to serve as finance chair of the Republican National Convention. The WSJ report prompted him to resign from that position.Stephen Colbert has no time for President Donald Trump’s false claim that his State of the Union speech received the highest ratings on TV.

“First, that’s not true,” Colbert said on Thursday’s broadcast of “The Late Show.” “Second, it’s a lie.”

The comedian noted how former Presidents Barack Obama, George W. Bush and Bill Clinton all achieved higher viewing numbers for their addresses, but there was a bigger issue at hand.

“Look. It doesn’t matter how many people watched.”

Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (D-Fla. Haspel has been accused of playing a part in destroying videotapes of those sessions.

Haspel is expected to tell lawmakers that she “will not restart” the CIA’s controversial interrogation program as the agency’s director. The tariffs on those products will be raised by an extra 15 percent.

Eight other products, including pork and scrap aluminum, would now be subject to additional tariffs of 25 percent, it said, with the measures effective from April 2.

“China’s suspension of its tariff concessions is a legitimate action adopted under WTO rules to safeguard China’s interests,” the finance ministry said.

China is moving swiftly with retaliatory action amid escalating trade tension with the United States, which has rocked global financial markets in the past week as investors fear a full-blown trade dispute between them will damage world growth.

U.S. President Donald Trump is separately preparing to impose tariffs of more than $50 billion on Chinese goods following an investigation under Section 301 of the 1974 U. 10, 2008, on 282 screens ― a decent number for a limited release ― and collected all of $347,328 at the box office.

Further clogging this enigma, “Billy” is directed by Robby Benson, a minor ’70s heartthrob who lost out on the part of Luke Skywalker, voiced the Beast in Disney’s “Beauty and the Beast” and helmed a handful of “Friends” and “Ellen” episodes.

According to a Los Angeles Times report from 2008, “Billy” cost $3.6 million ― more than the budgets of “Saw” and “Moonlight” combined. The Billy Graham Evangelistic Association declined to endorse the film, calling it “greatly embellished,” even though it’s a saccharine portrait that paints Graham in an wholesome, exceedingly favorable light.S. Trade Act.

The U.S. administration says China has systematically misappropriated American intellectual property - allegations China denies.

About the Section 301 investigation, China had “yet to unsheathe its sword”, the official Xinhua news agency said.Sen. Joe Manchin (D-W.Va.) has voted more consistently for Trump's agenda than any other Democrat. Kevin Lamarque / Reuters

Sen. Joe Manchin (D-W.Va.) beat back his progressive primary challenger Tuesday, easily securing the Democratic nomination in a heated race in a state where President Donald Trump enjoys his highest approval ratings.

The 70-year-old, two-term senator trounced Paula Jean Swearengin, an activist and coal miner’s daughter who ran on a progressive platform calling for single-payer health care, a $15 minimum wage, free public college tuition, legal marijuana and bans on fracking and mountaintop removal.

Manchin, the conservative Democrat ― who has, by one estimate, voted in line with the White House agenda 61 percent of the time, more than any other senator in his party ― had the advantage of incumbency, a 36-year history in West Virginia politics, and a nearly $6 million war chest. Swearengin, a self-professed “hillbilly” endorsed by groups aligned with Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.), raised less than $180,000 by the end of March.

Manchin will face Patrick Morrissey, the state’s attorney general, who defeated U.S. Rep. Evan Jenkins and ex-convict and former coal baron Don Blankenship to earn the Republican nomination Tuesday.

It will be a challenging race for Manchin. Trump won West Virginia by 42 percentage points in 2016 and remains enormously popular in the state. Republicans are so eager to flip Manchin’s seat that Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.) has considered lengthening the Senate workweek to keep the West Virginia senator from campaigning.