Richard Cordray, the former head of the federal Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, won the Democratic nomination for governor of Ohio on Tuesday, fending off a challenge from former presidential candidate and House member Dennis Kucinich.

Sen. Elizabeth Warren (D-Mass.) hand-picked Cordray, a former Ohio attorney general, to run the CFPB and raised money for his campaign. Cordray will face Ohio’s current attorney general, Republican Mike DeWine, in the general election race for the governor’s job.

“I think if companies are unwilling to support a sexual harassment survivor or sexual assault survivor’s right to file a claim in open court, they should say so.”” - Julia Duncan, senior director of government affairs at the American Association for Justice

Earlier this year, Facebook, which also has reported lobbying activity, said that it was considering its position on the bill. A company spokeswoman said Thursday that there were no updates. Uber, which is not among the companies that have reported lobbying activity, said Tuesday it supports the bill.

Both bills were referred to their corresponding committees and subcommittees, the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Regulatory Reform, Commercial and Antitrust Law, and the Senate Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.

A spokeswoman for the House subcommittee’s GOP vice chair, Rep. John Ratcliffe (Texas), said that there were no updates on the status of the bill. A spokeswoman for subcommittee chair Rep. Tom Marino (R-Pa. Incumbent John Kasich (R) is term-limited.

Kucinich ran heavily on his support of Medicare-for-all and won the support of the progressive group Our Revolution, which grew out of Vermont Sen. Bernie Sanders’ presidential campaign. (Sanders himself did not endorse Kucinich.)

Kucinich also attacked Cordray for his past support of gun rights, which earned Cordray an ‘A’ rating from the National Rifle Association when he was attorney general. Cordray now supports universal background checks.

Cordray’s campaign fought back with television ads showing former President Barack Obama praising him.

“Rich took on payday lenders, big banks and student loan schemes that profit at your expense,” a female narrator says in the ad. “And he won.”

DeWine defeated Lt. Gov. Mary Taylor in $10 million GOP primary that featured both candidates aligning themselves with President Donald Trump.The “master race” has lost again. Only banks with healthy capital cushions can rely on them, and there are limits to the interest rates banks can offer to attract them.

A few other firms exist in the reciprocal deposit space, but it’s really Promontory’s game. The company’s website touts 800,000 “bank-to-bank connections” each year, and more than 2,700 banks participate in its network, according to a company spokesman. Promontory doesn’t like the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. discouraging banks with capital troubles from using its product. When the kids wake up this morning I’m going to tell them how - even though she’s not here - she’s still making the world a better place. https://t.co/qqe4lSjy5g — Brendan Cox (@MrBrendanCox) January 17, 2018

According to statistics published in a report by the foundation in 2017, more than 9 million adults in the U.K. report feeling often or always lonely. For 3.6 million people aged 65 or older, it found, television is considered the main form of company.

But the harmful impact of loneliness is more than psychological. Having weak social connections is considered to be as damaging to one’s health as smoking 15 cigarettes a day, according to Brigham Young University Psychology Professor Julianne Holt Lunstad. And it is spending an enormous amount of money on Capitol Hill trying to get around them.

A Maryland man who identified himself as an imperial wizard in the Ku Klux Klan was found guilty Tuesday of firing a gun during the violent white supremacist rally in Charlottesville, Virginia, last year.

Richard Preston Jr., 53, pleaded no contest in Charlottesville Circuit Court to a charge of firing a weapon within 1,000 feet of a school property, The Washington Post reported. He was seen pointing his gun and then firing at the feet of a black counterprotester, Corey Long, on video taken by a bystander.

Preston had originally planned to argue to a jury that he acted in self-defense because Long ― who was armed with an aerosol can that he had turned into a makeshift flamethrower ― had shot flames in Preston’s direction. Long, who said he was protecting another man when he lit the spray can, is facing his own charges of misdemeanor assault and disorderly conduct.

Preston could face up to 10 years in prison and a $100,000 fine.

The violence sparked by the rally led to the death of counterprotester Heather Heyer, who was fatally struck by a car that plowed into the counterprotesters. James Alex Fields Jr., the alleged driver and a self-professed neo-Nazi, has been charged with first-degree murder in her death.

Earlier this month, 23-year-old Jacob Scott Goodwin was found guilty in the beating of a black man at the same rally. Video captured Goodwin and others beating 20-year-old DeAndre Harris in a parking garage. A jury recommended that Goodwin be sentenced to 10 years in prison.

Earlier in a parking garage in #Charlottesville - white supremacists beat this black kid w/poles. [Photo for by @zdroberts @NationofChange] pic.twitter.

Salman’s family said they hoped to have her home in time to color Easter eggs with her son.

Noor Salman walks out of jail after being acquitted: https://t.co/6xZCWYvhZE pic.twitter. He was captured on tape in 2000 advising physically abused wives to avoid divorce whenever possible and to “be submissive in every way.com/QSyrf0QTRQ — WESH 2 News (@WESH) March 30, 2018

In a statement sent to the Orlando Sentinel after the trial, the unnamed foreman of the jury said jurors suspected Salman knew her husband was planning something, even if she didn’t know the date or location.com/LLPBPjb8si — Zach D Roberts (@zdroberts) August 12, 2017

Meanwhile, white nationalist leader Richard Spencer is facing a federal lawsuit for his role in the rally. Spencer, who has had trouble finding a lawyer to represent him, recently released a video begging for donations to pay his legal fees. Earlier this week, a bar in his hometown claimed that Spencer’s card was declined when he tried to pay for a $4.25 drink.