A Senate hearing for CIA nominee Gina Haspel was met with outcry Wednesday as Code Pink protesters rallied against her on Capitol Hill.

Video shows members of the anti-war and social justice group being dragged from the Senate Office Building while shouting against Haspel’s nomination as CIA director, citing her past ties to the spy agency’s torture program.

“Stop the torture!” protesters repeated. “Don’t reward Gina, say no to Gina!”

The Code Pink protesters just started chanting, protesting Gina Haspel’s nomination to lead the CIA, and many of them have now been placed under arrest and dragged forcibly from the hearing room. pic.twitter.com/44f82Vq1qC — Katie Bo Williams (@KatieBoWill) May 9, 2018

Others demonstrated outside the hearing room and the building.

We participated in a demonstration opposing the confirmation of Hapsel as CIA Director. Confirming Haspel is a message to gov's all over the world that they can practice #torture freely & w/out consequence... #BlockHaspel @WitnessTorture @CenterofConcern @NRCATtweets @YasmineTaeb pic.twitter.5 million U.S.

“Sessions is at risk. How quickly does he step up to back the men and women of the FBI while this scandal ― which is what it is ― kind of plays itself out?” Hosko said, prior to Sessions’ remarks on Friday.”WASHINGTON ― Housing and Urban Development Secretary Ben Carson is changing the mission statement of his agency, removing promises of inclusive and discrimination-free communities.

In a March 5 memo addressed to HUD political staff, Amy Thompson, the department’s assistant secretary for public affairs, explained that the statement is being updated “in an effort to align HUD’s mission with the Secretary’s priorities and that of the Administration.”

The new mission statement reads:

HUD’s mission is to ensure Americans have access to fair, affordable housing and opportunities to achieve self-sufficiency, thereby strengthening our communities and nation.

“An organization’s mission is never static,” Thompson wrote in the memo, which was shared with HuffPost by a HUD employee. “A mission statement describes an organization’s purpose, what it intends to do, and whom it intends to serve. Most importantly, an organization’s activities must be embodied in its mission.”

She said the mission statement had been developed with input from both Carson and his deputy. It’s not clear whether the new language is final. Thompson asked the political staff to send along any “comments or suggestions.”

The Carson mission statement is quite different from the current one, which is still up on HUD’s website. That one promises “strong, sustainable, inclusive communities and quality affordable homes for all.” It also says these communities will be “free from discrimination”:

HUD’s mission is to create strong, sustainable, inclusive communities and quality affordable homes for all. HUD is working to strengthen the housing market to bolster the economy and protect consumers; meet the need for quality affordable rental homes; utilize housing as a platform for improving quality of life; build inclusive and sustainable communities free from discrimination, and transform the way HUD does business.

HUD spokesman Raffi Williams said officials were considering “modest changes” to the mission statement, as has been done in previous administrations, to “make it a more clear and concise expression of the historic work this agency performs on behalf of the American people. “I would certainly love it if the attorney general steps up and says, ‘Hey, look, let’s keep in mind there are 30-some thousand FBI employees who are out there defending our freedom and protecting Americans every day. We’ve got to keep that in mind as we work our way through this.’”

In his speech, Sessions said he loves the Justice Department and the “great people” who work there. “The vast majority are dedicated, hardworking, patriotic Americans. It’s an honor to serve with them,” he said.

A Justice Department official told HuffPost that Sessions’ comments on the criticism DOJ has been facing were added to his speech in recent days. children reported that they did NOT once participate in any of over 100 sports or activities listed. #YouthSports @AspenInstitute — Ivanka Trump (@IvankaTrump) April 8, 2018

Lt. Gen. Mark Hertling, a CNN analyst and physical fitness advocate, was appointed a member of the council in 2013 and served through the rest of the Obama administration.

He points out that no one is on the council anymore:

Ummm.com/8ZTMEvkaak — TASSC International (@TASSCintl) May 9, 2018

Rallying outside Hart Senate office building to say #BlockHaspel just minutes before #GinaHaspel testifies before Sen Intel Committe. @WitnessTorture pic.twitter.com/zJFgRZ1oKe — NRCAT (@NRCATtweets) May 9, 2018

The #BlockHaspel argument in a nutshell.



Activists say no to Gina Haspel in front of the Hart Building this morning. #BlockGina #Gina Haspel #CIA pic.twitter.com/jHI6xAY2cj — Witness Against Torture (@WitnessTorture) May 9, 2018

We were outside of the Senate confirmation hearing this morning to say NO to torture and NO to #GinaHaspel as CIA director! pic.twitter.com/0TWAOGSgZ9 — CODEPINK (@codepink) May 9, 2018

Earlier in the day, more than 100 retired and former U.S. ambassadors sent a letter to the Senate expressing concern over Haspel’s nomination.

Haspel’s work running a CIA black site in Thailand in 2002 has been heavily scrutinized, and personnel at the facility are reported to have waterboarded at least one detainee. Haspel also has been connected to the destruction of video evidence of torture sessions.

At her confirmation hearing on Wednesday, she told Senate Intelligence Committee members that she “fully supports the detainee treatment required by law.”

Protesters from Code Pink are removed before Gina Haspel testifies at the Senate Intelligence Committee on Wednesday. MANDEL NGAN via Getty Images

“We followed the law then, we followed the law today. I support the law,” she told Sen. Mark Warner (D-Va.”

House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi (D-Calif.) commended Richards’ work in a statement.

“As an organizer, activist, and leader, Cecile has helped launch a nationwide movement to defend and advance women’s rights, and in doing so, she has inspired countless women to march, vote, run, and win,” Pelosi said. “Her leadership will be deeply missed, but I am confident that Cecile will continue to be a warrior for all women as she begins the next chapter of her journey.”

“Cecile has shown what it means to be a true fighter for the rights of women,” Sen. Kamala Harris (D-Calif.) said in a statement. “In the face of unprecedented attacks, she has never backed down from a fight and always stood strong for the patients and doctors at Planned Parenthood and women across America.). “I would not allow the CIA to undertake activity that I thought was immoral, even if I thought it was technically legal.”

Her testimony was interrupted at least twice by additional protesters, including one who shouted “Bloody Gina” while being removed from the room.

Another protester, yelling "Bloody Gina!," is removed by Capitol Police. pic.twitter.com/NUcVPvzQmo — Emma Loop (@LoopEmma) May 9, 2018

MOMENTS AGO: Protester screaming about waterboarding at Gina Haspel Senate confirmation hearing removed by @CapitolPolice. pic.twitter.com/qYim7kzubP — Fox News (@FoxNews) May 9, 2018

Code Pink members have become regulars in Washington. The women-led, grassroots group, founded in 2002, has organized demonstrations on a range of issues, including health care, education, and human rights.

Advertisement