

To be sure, Windmuller-Luna is qualified for her new job. But the question many people are asking is whether there was an art scholar of color suitable for the role, too. And, in case the museum couldn’t find one, Cohen-Aponte has started a #POCarthistory Twitter thread filled with exceptionally qualified candidates.Edith “Little Edie” Bouvier Beale and Lee Radziwill at Grey Gardens in New York in 1972. IFC Films

In a signature scene from “Grey Gardens,” Edith “Little Edie” Bouvier Beale parades down a staircase in the decaying East Hampton, New York, mansion she shares with her eccentric mother, “Big Edie,” aunt to former first lady Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis. It’s the fall of 1973, and Little Edie hoists a small American flag in her outstretched hand. As her upper body enters the frame, clad in a black leotard and red-trimmed headscarf, she waltzes straight toward the camera crew stationed across the room.

At last, an audience!

Grinning, Edie twirls the flag like a dance partner, spinning it to and fro, filled with a joie de vivre unlikely for someone who has fallen from high-society beneficiary to highly scrutinized recluse.

Little Edie’s performance is the sort of display that’s inescapable today. Our televisions and social media feeds are crawling with people eager to find the nearest camera, desperate to cash in on the proverbial 15 minutes they thought might never come. The Beale women were America’s reality stars before the term “reality star” existed. They satisfied the same archetypes ― catty, attention-starved, delusional, staunch ― that have come to define that genre of contemporary entertainment.

As the ultimate mark of a reality pro, Little Edie loved “Grey Gardens,” the 1975 documentary that portrayed her and her mother as curiosities in the capitalist treasure chest that is American pop culture. Instead of seeing it as a woeful slice of opportunism, she presumably viewed the film as we do: a delicious tribute to a woman who remained unflinching despite her troubled existence ― an unfiltered product belonging to an era that never was the Camelot it sought to be.Really? You even make mother's day about Trump?



Don't talk to us about what mothers want as you dictate what we do w/ our bodies. Nor when you want to defund CHIP for kids bc your deficit hawks suddenly care how fiscally awful you tax break will be for gov't. pic.twitter.com/CfuMFQZpZmJeff Swensen via Getty Images

Once it became clear Tuesday night that Don Blankenship would not be a Republican nominee for U.S. Senate, a jubilant Betty Harrah logged onto Facebook to show her gratitude to her fellow West Virginians. In each case, the RNC justified its financial aid because the men had denied the sexual harassment and assault allegations.

RNC chairwoman Ronna Romney McDaniel (left) introducing President Donald Trump (right) at the Republican National Committee's winter meeting in Washington last week. Yuri Gripas / Reuters

While announcing his resignation in a statement Tuesday night, Wynn continued to dismiss the allegations against him, claiming that he had become “the focus of an avalanche of negative publicity,” and arguing that “a rush to judgment takes precedence over everything else, including the facts.”“Obtain and combine information to describe that energy and fuels are derived from natural resources and their uses affect the environment. Further explanation: Examples of renewable energy resources could include wind energy, water behind dams, and sunlight; non-renewable energy resources are fossil fuels and atomic energy. Examples of environmental effects could include negative biological impacts of wind turbines, erosion due to deforestation, loss of habitat due to dams, loss of habitat due to surface mining, and air pollution from burning of fossil fuels.”

“Current scientific models indicate that human activities, such as the release of greenhouse gases from fossil fuel combustion, are the primary factors in the measured rise in Earth’s mean surface temperature.

“For the first time in 8 years I feel like dancing,” Harrah wrote. “Thanks everyone that did not vote for a certain person.”

Harrah has been living the last eight years with the Upper Big Branch mining disaster weighing on her. Her brother, Steven Harrah, along with 28 other men, died in the 2010 catastrophe in Montcoal, West Virginia. A series of investigations found that the disaster could have been prevented had the mine’s owner, Massey Energy, not routinely skirted safety regulations and put profits before miners’ lives.

The credible Senate run made by Blankenship, Massey’s unrepentant former chief executive, has made the Upper Big Branch tragedy feel like yesterday to Harrah and other families who lost loved ones. But his third-place finish behind Rep. Evan Jenkins and victor Patrick Morrisey in Tuesday’s primary restored their faith in their fellow voters, knowing that a candidate who served a year in prison on a conspiracy conviction was rejected.

“It was relief,” Harrah said Wednesday morning. “Just to know we don’t have to look at him anymore.”

Despite investigators’ findings, Blankenship has never taken responsibility for what happened at Upper Big Branch. Instead, he has propagated conspiracy theories, blaming the government for his workers’ deaths and his prosecution, and claimed the explosion was the result of an influx of natural gas in the mine. Investigators found the explosion’s central cause was excessive coal dust that Massey failed to keep in check.

Apparently not enough voters bought Blankenship’s claims about Upper Big Branch, or his insistence that he’d bring more jobs back to the state’s coal fields, to send him into a general election against Sen. If she manages to take home more than two gold medals in alpine skiing this year, she would beat Janica Kostelić of Croatia’s 2002 record.

Noriaki Kasai, Japan

Noriaki Kasai of Japan has the most Winter Olympic appearances of any athlete competing this year. Joe Manchin (D). Blankenship received 20 percent of the GOP primary vote, compared with Jenkins’ 29 percent and Morrisey’s 35 percent.

To Tommy Davis, who worked at Upper Big Branch and survived the blast, Blankenship’s campaign was an insult he couldn’t escape, seeing him on television and hearing his voice over the radio in ads the millionaire paid for. The disaster took Davis’ son, Cory Davis; his brother, Timmy Davis; and his nephew, Joshua Napper.

On Wednesday morning, Davis was looking forward to moving on.

“I’m feeling awesome,” he said.

In the weeks ahead of the primary, Davis was telling anyone who would listen not to vote for Blankenship, that the man put money before human life and should not represent West Virginia. Davis even confronted Blankenship at a Republican meet-and-greet, telling him he was to blame for the deaths at Upper Big Branch.

Panos Moumtzis, the United Nations humanitarian coordinator for Syria, condemned the bombing of five hospitals in eastern Ghouta and said intentional attacks on medical facilities “may amount to war crimes.”

A child walks near damaged buildings in the besieged town of Douma, Syria, on Feb. 20, 2018. Bassam Khabieh / Reuters

A Syrian civil defense member carries an injured child after a government bombing in the rebel-held town of Hamouria in Syria's besieged eastern Ghouta region. ABDULMONAM EASSA via Getty Images

People are trapped without food and access to medical evacuations, a spokesman for Save the Children, Alun McDonald, told Reuters.

“I think West Virginia sent him a message last night that he's not wanted here.” - Tommy Davis, who lost three relatives at Upper Big Branch

Nervous about Blankenship’s supposed surge late in the campaign, Davis spent Tuesday turkey hunting in the woods, trying to stay off the internet and away from the television until the final results came in.

“I think West Virginia sent him a message last night that he’s not wanted here,” Davis said. “Hopefully he’ll pack his stuff and go back to Las Vegas,” where Blankenship maintains his primary residence.

“If not, I’ll keep hounding him,” David added.

The Upper Big Branch disaster made Blankenship the face of greed and recklessness for many West Virginians. In 2016, he was convicted of one misdemeanor charge of conspiring to violate mine safety laws ― a charge not directly connected to the mining deaths ― leading to his one-year sentence at a federal prison in California.

Republican leaders all the way up to President Donald Trump urged voters to reject the disgraced coal baron ― not because he led a company that systematically endangered workers, but because they felt he would be a weak candidate in a general election.

“Burger King corporation believes that they can sell more and make more money selling chicken sandwiches and chicken fries, so now they’re slowing down the access to the Whopper” one of the employees said.

The result is angered customers who called the system both a “bad dream” and the “worst thing I’ve ever heard of.”

Luckily, none of the patrons had to actually pay the fake premium for faster service as Burger King revealed that the entire thing was a setup, but the mealtime lesson did teach them all a few things. One previously upset man said that he “didn’t think that ordering a Whopper would really open my eyes up to net neutrality.”

“A Whopper taught me about net neutrality. Trump won West Virginia by a whopping 42-percentage-point margin in 2016, which makes the GOP hopeful it can snatch the Senate seat from Manchin with the right challenger.

On the eve of the primary, Trump tried to remind his fellow Republicans of the cautionary tale of Roy Moore, the far-right candidate who won the Alabama GOP primary but later lost the general election after The Washington Post reported that he’d pursued sexual relationships with teenage girls. “Don Blankenship... can’t win the General Election in your State... No way!” Trump tweeted Monday. “Remember Alabama.”

Robert Atkins believes the president’s tweet influenced the primary. Atkins lost his son Jason at Upper Big Branch. During the campaign, he made a point of going to Blankenship’s events in order to speak directly to undecided voters and rebut Blankenship’s claims about what happened at the mine. When there were no campaign events, he went anywhere there were crowds ― like local baseball games ― to urge people to vote against Blankenship.

Atkins said he was happy to see the primary results, though he doesn’t believe Blankenship will quietly go away, even after a decisive loss. West Virginia election law has a “sore loser” provision that prevents someone who lost a primary from running as an independent in the general election. Still, Blankenship could feasibly urge voters to cast write-in votes for him, or launch another bid in the next election cycle.

If the coal baron stays in politics, Atkins said he will continue speaking out.

Advertisement