Trevor Noah told Jimmy Fallon on Tuesday that he hears music in President Donald Trump’s voice. “Nothing this constituent did was illegal, and we hope Congressman Amodei would be as interested in the opinions of students as anyone who seeks to ‘petition the government.’”

Amodei, a gun rights advocate, told the Los Angeles Times he had no apologies for the teen.

“Welcome to the world where words have impact,” he said.As the 50th anniversary of Martin Luther King Jr.’s assassination approaches and people across the country seek to celebrate his memory, it is a key time to reflect on what King’s legacy was ― and wasn’t ― and what it might look like to really honor him today.

Each year on Martin Luther King Jr. Day, politicians post on social media honoring MLK, all the while pushing policies like voter restrictions that disenfranchise people of color.

In January, President Donald Trump recorded an address praising King’s “dream of a world where people are judged by who they are, not how they look or where they come from” ― just days after making racist remarks lamenting the influx of immigrants from “shithole countries,” including Haiti and African nations.

Meanwhile, those who stand up to injustice today, from kneeling NFL players to Black Lives Matter protesters, are often vilified for being too extreme, much like King was in his day.

As the country honors King’s life, cut too short on April 4, 1968, HuffPost spoke to activists and educators ― from Women’s March leader Tamika D. Mallory to professor Wornie Reed, who marched with King in the 1963 March on Washington ― on how people can really do justice to King’s legacy now.

People didn't approve of the way my father protested injustice either; said he was causing trouble, called him an "outside agitator." #MLK pic. I saw the district attorneys and deputies not answering questions,” Webb said. “Anybody following this case, paying attention with critical thought, could see they cheated ― this is me sitting in the court listening to them cheat, listening to them lie.”

The hearings took a heavy toll. Each time, it took Webb days to mentally prepare to be in Dekraai’s presence. Goethals did his best to allow the victims’ families to address the court, but legal formalities meant they could make their voices heard only rarely.twitter.com/l5cAkiGR6K — Be A King (@BerniceKing) September 24, 2017

Many who quote #MLK today, and use his words out of context to deter nonviolent protest, would have hated him openly then.

So, when Trump said “knives, knives, knives” last week during roundly criticized comments describing violence in the United Kingdom, “Tonight Show” guest Noah apparently got inspired.

“The Daily Show” host made “knives” the chorus for a reggae song that brought down the house.Prodded by Democrats, the Senate is set late next week to vote on what could be the first step toward restoring net neutrality rules.

A petition filed by Senate Democrats on Wednesday will force the net neutrality vote in the chamber, where it has a good chance of passing, perhaps as narrowly as 50-49.

According to Reuters, all of the chamber’s 47 Democrats, the two independents who caucus with the party and Sen. Susan Collins (R-Maine) are expected to support the measure. That would outvote the remaining Republican senators, who are down one vote as Sen. John McCain of Arizona remains on medical absence. Potentially, other moderate Republicans could join Collins and back the effort.

Clearing the Senate hurdle likely is the easy part.

The measure would then go to the House, where Republicans have a larger majority. And if it passes the House, the legislation would still need Trump’s signature ― no sure thing, given that he put Pai in the position to lead the push overturning the Obama-era net neutrality rules.) DeAngelo hasn’t entered a plea yet, and his attorney emphasized that he is innocent until proven guilty. Both options are deeply embarrassing for this administration and unacceptable to the American people who demand better environmental stewardship.”I have nothing to do with Lord Voldemort. I do no business with Lord Voldemort. My staff's meetings with the Death Eaters were about adoptions.

I wear long sleeves because it's cold in the White House. #Trumps1stYearAtHogwarts pic.twitter.com/mIdthXX7QWThe Austin City Council voted this week to prohibit its police department from selling retired service weapons back to the public, citing concerns about how those firearms might be used once they’re in civilian hands.

The resolution was a response to recent revelations that Austin police had offloaded more than 1,100 Smith & Wesson .40 caliber handguns to a Houston gun dealer in 2016 after the department secured a new contract for 9mm duty weapons.

Police made around $370,000 for those firearms, which the dealer was then free to resell.

But if DeAngelo is the Golden State Killer, his background matters: Being in law enforcement could have helped him further his alleged crimes. And although this case is extreme — DeAngelo may have only been interested in policing to get away with wrongdoing — there’s dramatic evidence that when a person with abusive tendencies joins a police force, the tools and authority that come with being a cop may only make them more dangerous.

“With his training in law enforcement, he would absolutely look to try to use that to his advantage,” John Hall, the police chief at Exeter Police Department, where DeAngelo worked decades ago, told HuffPost.

Most people enter law enforcement “because they believe it’s a very noble and honorable profession, and they have a genuine desire to go out and make a positive difference,” Hall added. “So when you have somebody that comes on board, and they ... “I beat you because I love you.” “You have to be twice as good.” To prepare you for, like, “I’m going to deliver the licks early so that you aren’t killed, so that you’re successful.” And I’ve known for a while that we have to stop teaching our kids that, but this episode really drove that home. We cannot keep doing that shit to our kids.

“To make an omelet, you have to crack a few eggs” made me cringe. betray that trust that was placed in them, it’s just extremely disappointing.

Supporters of net neutrality protest the FCC's decision in Los Angeles on Nov. 28, 2017. Kyle Grillot / Reuters

The FCC’s repeal rolled back so-called “Title II” regulations that classified the internet as a public utility and which, among other things, required internet service providers (ISPs) to treat all of the data traveling on their networks equally.

Absent those protections, ISPs such as AT&T, Comcast and Verizon (which owns HuffPost’s parent company, Oath) could prioritize their own content at the expense of others.

(HuffPost’s union is represented by the Writers Guild of America, East, which supports net neutrality and opposed its repeal.)

Battle For The Net, a net neutrality advocacy group, is organizing demonstrations in support of the Senate effort on Monday. And many of its members ― including websites like Reddit, Tinder, Tumblr and Wikimedia ― began running “red alert” banners on Wednesday to raise awareness on the issue.

“Net Neutrality is overwhelmingly supported by people across the political spectrum: Republicans, Democrats, and independents alike,” Craig Aaron, head of the pro net-neutrality advocacy group Free Press Action Fund, said in an emailed statement.As he was presenting me with the gift he seemed nervous. He said, “Babe, I thought finding you a highlighter would be easy but I went everywhere and could not find the Fenty.” I assured him that I would likely love whatever he purchased. I then pulled out the brush and thought it was something he decided to grab me in addition to what I asked for. I then pulled out the Sharpie highlighters and thought, OMG! At the time, I didn’t say anything because he told me that he had gone to a few drug stores. The next day, I told him and we both laughed ourselves to tears.