Leaders of the New York State Legislature have zeroed in on a plan to replace former New York Attorney General Eric Schneiderman, who announced his resignation Monday night, hours after a bombshell report by The New Yorker detailed allegations by four women of physical abuse.

The plan, according to three sources familiar with the deliberations, is to assemble a special committee of four Democrats from the Assembly, one Republican from the Assembly, four Republicans from the state Senate and one Democrat from the Senate. Currently, Democrats control the Assembly by a wide margin, about 70 percent. Republicans control the state Senate by a one-seat margin.

Candidates who want to be considered have to submit their names for consideration by Friday and will be screened next week by the committee. After the committee presents its recommendation, a joint session of the Legislature will pick a replacement.

Rihanna showed her support for the Howard student’s protest and retweeted a video of them singing her song.

HU Resist, a student-run organization, had actually scheduled the sit-in before news of the university’s embezzlement scandal broke. The organization published a list of demands for the university, accusing the its administrative staff of negligence and calling for more transparency.

The demands also included an end to “unsubstantiated tuition hikes,” “complete access to administrative salaries” and the resignation of Frederick as university president.

The organization doubled down on its sit-in protest after learning of the scandal, according to local news station DCW50.

In the words of Frederick Douglass, "power concedes nothing without a demand. However, sources who spoke to HuffPost on the condition of anonymity, because they weren’t authorized to talk about these plans publicly, cautioned that the recommendation isn’t a sure thing. If there is even a recommendation, given that the panel is split evenly, the sources said, it is not legally binding and Assembly Democrats can choose anyone they want, even if it’s someone not recommended or even considered by the committee.

In 2007, when former state Comptroller Alan G. Hevesi resigned as part of a plea deal, a joint session of the Legislature chose Thomas DiNapoli to replace him instead of picking from one of three recommendations made by a special committee. DiNapoli was serving as a member of the state Assembly when he was chosen.

The election for New York attorney general is in November.

A source close to U.S. Haley also hasn’t vanished into obscurity like Transportation Secretary Elaine Chao or Small Business Administrator Linda McMahon. Rep. Kathleen Rice (D-N.Y.), a former federal prosecutor and Nassau County district attorney, said that Rice will submit her name to the special committee for consideration. Regardless of the committee’s decision, Rice is preparing to run for New York attorney general, confirmed the source, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because the person wasn’t authorized to speak to the press. Rice ran against Schneiderman for attorney general in the 2010 Democratic primary but lost by 3 percentage points.

Two sources in the New York State Legislature confirmed that Tish James, New York City’s public advocate, was calling members of the Legislature to actively lobby for her appointment as attorney general. We work in coalition with all sorts of groups to protect faith and freedom as understood by the First Amendment to the Constitution. And we work on behalf of all sorts of groups whose faith and freedom come under attack by those whose understanding of those constitutional guarantees are different (and, we would contend, wrong).

Much of the work we do at Interfaith Alliance can be put into two categories, the protection of religious communities, and the protection from religious communities. It is irrelevant to us if the belief system of any particular faith community is compatible with mine or with our staff or with our board. We are committed to protesting the denial of the full rights and privileges of citizenship to any American of faith or no faith, Evangelical Christians and Buddhists, Orthodox Jews and Unitarian Universalists, Roman Catholics and atheists, and Muslims. At the same time that we are protecting the rights of these and other faith communities to practice their religion without undue burden from the government, we are also protecting the rights of all Americans as some of these same faith communities seek to impose their beliefs on the rest of us.

This struggle can best be seen in the work we do day in and day out on behalf of Muslim Americans and LGBT Americans.. as did the creator of Lifetime’s “Army Wives,” Katherine Fugate, who is currently in talks to shoot an upcoming movie in Georgia.

I deleted my original because of a typo. Here it is again:



Please @FilmingInGA@georgiafilmbiz. Get on this. I am in talks to film my movie in Georgia.



TV Showrunner Ben Wexler Calls For Georgia Boycott After Anti-LGBTQ Bill Passes https://t.co/Lo2ssAXtab via @deadline — Katherine Fugate (@katherinefugate) February 26, 2018

If a boycott did materialize, the impact on Georgia’s economy would be considerable. In 2016, the Peach State reportedly outpaced California as the top U.S. location for movie production, with 17 feature films produced within its borders.A group of 109 retired and former career and non-career U.S. ambassadors sent the Senate a letter Wednesday to express “serious concern” over the nomination of Gina Haspel to be CIA director due to her controversial involvement in the agency’s torture program.

“We have no reason to question Ms. Haspel’s credentials as both a leader and an experienced intelligence professional. Yet she is also emblematic of choices made by certain American officials in the wake of the attacks of September 11, 2001 that dispensed with our ideals and international commitments to the ultimate detriment of our national security,” the ambassadors, who served in both Republican and Democratic administrations, wrote in advance of Haspel’s confirmation hearing Wednesday. “What we do know, based on credible, and as yet uncontested reporting, leaves us of the view that [Ms. Haspel] should be disqualified from holding cabinet rank.”

They’re referring specifically to the fact that Haspel ran a black site facility in Thailand in 2002 where at least one detainee was reportedly waterboarded. She was also connected to the destruction of video evidence of torture sessions..

Hundreds of international protesters urged U.S. lawmakers to make changes to the country’s gun laws, reminding them that the rest of the world is watching.

In France, a country still reeling from a terrorist shooting on Friday, a crowd of people that included some Americans gathered near the Eiffel Tower in Paris.

“It’s important for Americans even overseas to make sure that Washington knows that we’re not pleased with the gun control reform and we want more,” Caitlin Waters, co-organizer of the Paris march, told CBS News