Starting in 2020, nearly all new single-family homes and low-rise apartment buildings built in California must have solar power, state authorities ruled Wednesday.

The first-of-its-kind decision by the California Energy Commission puts the state on track to meet its ambitious renewable energy targets and reach its goal of turning energy-using homes into energy producers. By combining the solar panels with other requirements such as better insulation, the updated building code will make new homes net-zero electricity users.

The new requirement will be official after the Energy Commission, whose members voted unanimously for the change, gains the support of the state’s Building Standards Commission.

The change marks a serious shift. Currently, only 15 to 20 percent of new single-family homes built in California come installed with solar panels.

#CalEnergy's Rosenfeld Hearing Room at full capacity this morning as Commissioners consider adopting building standards that require #Solar PV starting in 2020. Listen live here: https://t.President Donald Trump’s deputy national security adviser is leaving the White House, officials confirmed Thursday.

Ricky Waddell “plans to step down from his position,” a spokeswoman for the White House confirmed in a statement to HuffPost.

“He will stay on board for the immediate future to help ensure a smooth and orderly transition,” according to the statement. But one thing is certain: when the next crisis comes, it will leave the last meltdown in the shade because our financial system is, at its core, unreformed and without adult supervision. Banks not only remain too big to fail but are still growing, while this government pushes policies guaranteed to put us all at risk again.

There’s a pattern to this: first, there’s a crash; then comes a period of remorse and talk of reform; and eventually comes the great forgetting. As time passes, markets rise, greed becomes good, and Wall Street begins to champion more deregulation. The government attracts deregulatory enthusiasts and then, of course, there’s another crash, millions suffer, and remorse returns.

Ominously, we’re now in the deregulation stage following the bull run. We know what comes next, just not when. Count on one thing: it won’t be pretty.Ellen DeGeneres struck an upbeat tone with her own spoof State of the Union address.

On Wednesday’s broadcast of “The Ellen DeGeneres Show,” the daytime television host joked that she hadn’t watched President Donald Trump’s Tuesday speech to Congress because she “had a thing. “Dr. Waddell is highly respected and very well liked within the White House, and the United States Army. We thank him for his continued service.”

Ivanka Trump, White House senior adviser Stephen Miller, deputy national security adviser Ricky Waddell and deputy director of presidential advance Jordan Karem walk across the South Lawn before departing the White House with U.S. President Donald Trump on March 29. Chip Somodevilla via Getty Images

Waddell’s departure, first reported by Axios, comes about three weeks after Trump announced that H.R.

“The issue has never been spoken about,” she said, “which now I’m thinking is problematic with the current issues we are facing.”

While hacking attempts failed in Pennsylvania, they were successful in Illinois, as hackers in 2016 accessed registration data for as many as 90,000 voters. Officials, though, say the hackers did not erase or modify any records.co/Nt22146JmT ⚡️ pic.twitter.com/dRMxGgvhpd — CA Energy Commission (@CalEnergy) May 9, 2018

There are some exceptions to the new code, which is updated every three years. Buildings ill-suited for solar, such as ones completely shaded by trees, are exempt, and homes may comply with the new code by tapping into a community solar energy system instead of having their own solar panels installed.

While there is some concern that the new standard will raise the price of homes by $8,000 to $12,000 ― a serious consideration in the state’s already expensive housing market ― advocates for the carbon emissions-cutting change say it will save homeowners money in the long run.

“Between the solar array and the efficiency measures, residents will save roughly $1,000 in annual utility bills, while only paying $40 per month for the measures on a 30-year mortgage, for a net saving of $480 annually at no extra cost upfront when fully financed,” the Natural Resources Defense Council said.”

Andrew McCabe FIRED, a great day for the hard working men and women of the FBI - A great day for Democracy. Sanctimonious James Comey was his boss and made McCabe look like a choirboy. He knew all about the lies and corruption going on at the highest levels of the FBI! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) March 17, 2018

“Sanctimonious James Comey was his boss and made McCabe look like a choirboy,” Trump added. “He knew all about the lies and corruption going on at the highest levels of the FBI!”

Sessions fired McCabe for an alleged lack of candor during a review of how the FBI and Justice Department handled a probe into Hillary Clinton.An attorney for Stephanie Clifford ― the adult film star who goes by the name Stormy Daniels and has alleged President Donald Trump’s lawyer paid her to stay silent about an affair with Trump ― said Friday that at least one element of his client’s allegations against the president has occurred since his inauguration.

CNN’s Jake Tapper asked attorney Michael Avenatti: “Is there anything in the litany of accusations — you would call them facts — that surround this case that happened while Donald Trump was president?”

“Yes,” Avenatti responded, but he declined to elaborate.”

When Quigley then asked how protecting the rights of transgender homeless individuals would infringe on the rights of others, Carson replied, “I’ll give you an example. There were some women who said they were not comfortable with the idea of being in a shelter, being in a shower, and somebody who had a very different anatomy,” Carson said.

On Tuesday, LGBTQ advocacy group GLAAD denounced Carson’s statements in a release, saying it perpetuated a “derogatory myth” about the presence of transgender people threatening others’ safety.

“It is because of derogatory myths like this, which have been debunked time and time again, that the transgender community faces disproportionate levels of discrimination and homelessness,” GLAAD president Sarah Kate Ellis said. “Today’s blatant and factually inaccurate anti-transgender rhetoric is the latest in a long line of uninformed and biased statements about LGBTQ people that make Dr. Carson unfit to be the head of the Department of Housing and Urban Development.

When Tapper asked Avenatti why people should care about an alleged sexual relationship between Trump and Daniels from many years ago, the attorney answered: “It’s all about the cover-up.”

Avenatti repeated an earlier charge that Daniels had been physically threatened to keep quiet about her alleged affair with Trump. He also encouraged viewers to watch “60 Minutes” on March 25, when an interview with Daniels is scheduled to air.

“I think that when the American people hear from my client, who will provide details — very specific details related to this threat — they will conclude, as I have, that this was not a random threat by some wing nut ..

The environmental costs saved are perhaps even more significant, the NRDC said.New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo assigned a special prosecutor to investigate allegations that former state Attorney General Eric Schneiderman physically abused multiple women, according to a statement released Tuesday.

A New Yorker article published on Monday detailed the stories of four women who accused Schneiderman of abusing them, including slapping and choking them. Cuomo appointed Nassau District Attorney Madeline Singas as the special prosecutor tasked with investigating the allegations and whether any resources or staff members from the attorney general’s office facilitated the reported abuse.

A statement from the governor’s office emphasized that the integrity of the justice system is of “paramount importance.” Cuomo also referenced the need for Singas’ inquiry as the attorney general’s office has an open investigation into the sexual abuse allegations against former Hollywood mogul Harvey Weinstein.

“There can be no suggestion of any possibility of the reality or appearance of any conflict or anything less than a full, complete and unbiased investigation,” the statement given to the Times said. “The victims deserve nothing less.”

NEW: NY Gov. Cuomo appoints Special Prosecutor to investigate Schneiderman allegations. "The integrity of our justice system is of paramount importance." https://t.co/v9i2FVckaB pic.twitter.com/FMmH4fBhd5 — ABC News Politics (@ABCPolitics) May 8, 2018

Schneiderman’s accusers say he assaulted them without their consent during sexual encounters. Two of the women, Michelle Manning Barish and Tanya Selvaratnam, told The New Yorker that Schneiderman, 63, “repeatedly hit them, often after drinking, frequently in bed and never with their consent,” forcing them to seek medical attention.

The former attorney general denied the accusations to The New Yorker but resigned shortly after the article went public on Monday.

Advertisement