A boy circles on a bike near the site of a crime investigation after a shooting in North Philadelphia. Pennsylvania Gov. Tom Wolf (D) recently launched an initiative to fund urban gun violence prevention programs. NurPhoto via Getty Images

Pennsylvania is creating a new gun violence prevention initiative that will fund programs working to stop shootings in urban communities, where this bloodshed tends to take the largest toll, Gov. Tom Wolf (D) announced on Tuesday.

At a press event in Philadelphia, Wolf unveiled the $1.

Ministers will then be sworn in later in the day - almost six months after last September’s national election in which both coalition partners lost support to the far-right Alternative for Germany (AfD).

FAULT LINES

The conservative bloc only turned to the SPD to prolong the ‘grand coalition’ that has governed Germany since 2013 out of desperation, after talks on a three-way alliance with two smaller parties collapsed last November.

Fault lines have emerged in the new government even before its first cabinet meeting, with tensions evident over the sequencing and extent of reforms.

The pressure is on for both camps to deliver: the inclusion in the coalition deal of a clause that envisages a review of the government’s progress after two years gives each the opportunity to leave the alliance then if it is not working for them.

The priority the government gives to different reforms set out in the coalition deal, the extent to which it implements them, and the personnel involved promise a welter of competing pressures that Merkel will need all her political skill to balance.Win McNamee via Getty Images

WASHINGTON ― Early in their efforts to push through tax reform last year, Republicans insisted the legislation was key to maintaining GOP majorities in Congress. Tax cuts, they said, would be popular enough that Americans would vote to keep Republicans in power.

But Democrats’ shocking upset in Tuesday’s special congressional election in Pennsylvania, in a district where Donald Trump won by nearly 20 percentage points in 2016, cast doubt on that argument and further served as a warning sign for the GOP ahead of November.

Public polling on the tax law has improved over the initial numbers. But it became evident a few weeks ago that Republican messaging on the law wasn’t working the way the party hoped. Outside GOP groups, which had poured nearly $11 million into the race ― much of it on advertising the tax law ― suddenly shifted tactics. Instead of touting their signature legislative achievement, Republicans began airing scary-sounding ads about immigrants, and attacking Democrat Conor Lamb’s record as a prosecutor. One GOP ad accused Lamb of allowing “gun runners” to avoid jail time and “walk free.5 million Gun Violence Reduction Initiative, which will direct grant money to municipalities seeking to implement violence prevention strategies that have helped make neighborhoods a bit more peaceful. The state opened the application process on Tuesday and will begin awarding grants in July.

In early March, Wolf and state Rep. Jordan Harris (D), who chairs the Pennsylvania Legislative Black Caucus, held a listening session with constituents in Philadelphia, where they met with gun violence victims to discuss the problem of daily shootings. Wolf said the event made it clear that the state must invest further in interventions that appear to have produced results in other cities.

“After hearing from this community about the real-world dangers of gun violence, I’m proud to return and deliver funds to help stem the tide of violence,” the governor said in a statement.

Wolf called the grants an “important step toward achieving that goal,” and he has said his administration will continue to show a commitment to combating violence.

Combatting violence in our communities is a top priority for my admin. Yesterday, @RepHarris and I announced the Gun Violence Reduction Initiative that will fund evidence-based programs to reduce gun violence. Many thanks to those who have come together on this important issue. https://t.co/GTxOSrItnl — Governor Tom Wolf (@GovernorTomWolf) May 9, 2018

With the launch of the Gun Violence Reduction Initiative, Pennsylvania becomes just the seventh state to directly fund violence prevention and intervention programs for urban areas.

High-profile mass shootings in affluent, predominantly white communities often dominate the conversation and policy agenda around gun violence. But day-to-day interpersonal violence in cities accounts for the majority of the 13,000 firearm homicides and 60,000 nonfatal shootings that take place across the nation each year.

Those trends are apparent in Pennsylvania, where in 2016 around half of the state’s gun violence incidents took place in Philadelphia County, Harris told HuffPost.

Harris said that with all the attention and resources dedicated treating the opioid epidemic as a public health problem, the government should be willing to take a similar approach to gun violence. He called it “public enemy number one” in the communities he represents.

“When are folks going to see all the black bodies and Hispanic bodies that are dying in the streets of Philadelphia? When are we going to see them as part of the epidemic as well?” he asked.

When people separate the issue of mass shootings from broader discussions of gun violence, it can make it hard to communicate the scope of the problem, Harris added.

“We seem to think one is more important than the other, but the mother who lost her son when he got shot on the corner on her block, she doesn’t feel any less pain than the parent of a kid who was killed in a school,” he said. “There’s no less pain, no less heartache, no less grief. ”[But] we continue to implore Israel to show greater restraint.”

Palestinian demonstrators run for cover from Israeli fire and tear gas during a protest against the U.co/6UY00jZMot — Zoe Saldana (@zoesaldana) January 25, 2018

Rodriguez called out Hollywood for the lack of Latino leads in film during a red carpet interview with E! News at Sunday night’s SAG awards, pointing to the community’s consumer power as avid moviegoers and the fact that the Latino population in the U.S. is more than 55 million strong.

The actress also expressed disappointment via Twitter after the 2018 Oscar nominations were announced Tuesday, with Latinos missing from all four acting categories.

AdvertisementA heartbroken mother in Virginia is desperate for answers in the disappearance of her daughter, a 16-year-old honor student who was last seen 12 days ago.

“It’s a nightmare I can’t wake up from,” Syreeta Steward told HuffPost. “That’s the best way I can describe it.”

Stewart’s daughter, Jholie Moussa, was last seen leaving their Alexandria home on the afternoon of Jan. 12. Prior to leaving, Jholie had reportedly been Snapchatting with an unknown individual. She told her twin sister, Zhane, that she was stepping out and would be right back.

Jholie failed to return home, and no one knows what happened to her after she left. It’ll actually flow into the adjacent counties and towns, many of which are predominately white. When you look at all the states that denied Medicaid expansion, the majority of those people who got hurt were white — mostly in the South and in the Rust Belt. And yet some politicians used code words like “Obamacare” and fooled people into a racist resistance to the Affordable Care Act.

We have to unmask this stuff. We have to show the intersections between race and poverty. We have to show that voter suppression hurts all people and allows the people who get elected to use their power to pass policies that hurt all people.



[Editor’s note: Rev. Barber had to leave the conversation at this point. We continued on with Rev. Theoharis.]

"We have to conquer racism and economic injustice together because you can’t do it separately," said Rev. Liz Theoharis.

“We just want her home. That’s it. Whatever it takes.S. embassy's move to Jerusalem. Ibraheem Abu Mustafa / Reuters

Clerics and leaders of militant factions in Gaza, led by Hamas, urged Palestinians to join the demonstrations after midday prayers, The New York Times reported. As the protesters descended upon the Gaza border on Monday, U.S. dignitaries ― including Treasury Secretary Steve Mnuchin and presidential advisers Ivanka Trump and Jared Kushner ― were celebrating the opening of the controversial new American embassy in Jerusalem.

The Israeli military said in a statement that some protesters “hurled firebombs and explosive devices at the security fence and Israeli troops,” and soldiers had followed “standard operating procedures” in response.”

California, Connecticut, Illinois, Massachusetts and New York have made similar investments in these programs. A number of cities and communities that run these violence prevention efforts have seen substantial declines in shootings and violent crime, according to a recent report by the Giffords Law Center to Prevent Gun Violence, a national nonprofit founded by former Rep. Gabrielle Giffords (D-Ariz.).

Last month, Maryland became the sixth state to take this approach, with the passage of a law that sets aside $5 million over the next year to fund grants to bolster these strategies.

Gun violence prevention and intervention programs tend to follow a few popular models. Some work directly in the community, mediating conflicts and providing outreach and social services to individuals most at risk of becoming victims or perpetrators of violence. Others are based out of hospitals and work to provide continuing care to victims to disrupt cycles of violence.

A number of organizations are already doing this sort of work in Philadelphia, often without recognition or the funding they need to be as effective as they can be, said Harris. The Gun Violence Reduction Initiative will free up some resources to help them succeed, he added. In the process, Rick causes Negan’s car to wreck, and the two end up pursuing each other on foot through an abandoned building with walkers inside.

That’s pretty baller. But this is where it gets weird.

Rick ends up procuring Lucille, and while struggling with Negan, pretty clearly hits him in the arm with the bat. Sure, Negan is wearing a leather jacket, so the barbs would’ve had to penetrate the sturdy material ― and Rick did light the bat on fire before he hit him.

But that bat had been sitting in a bucket of zombie blood, basically just marinating, prior to the fight.

I’m not familiar with the rules of sterilizing a zombie blood-infused baseball bat, but even if it was lit afire, I’d advise against getting slammed in the arm with one.

Gene Page/AMC

The show moves past this moment pretty quickly, though.

We’d probably ignore the hit entirely if not for the death of Carl (Chandler Riggs) earlier in Season 8. Carl died as a result of a zombie bite obtained in Episode 6, “The King, the Widow, and Rick.” Fans didn’t even notice the bite had occurred until a couple episodes later.

Back to Sunday’s episode: Negan eventually escapes Rick and wakes up in a car, having been kidnapped by Jadis (Pollyanna McIntosh), former leader of the Scavengers. She soon knocks him out, but why was he unconscious in the first place? Could he have perhaps been feeling the effects of the zombie virus?

Listen, anything is possible. After all, in “The Walking Dead” comics, Negan and Carl had a lot of storyline that wasn’t included in the show.

Following Carl’s death, Negan actor Morgan posted a tribute to Riggs, citing the Carl-and-Negan dynamic as a big reason he joined the show, adding that he’ll “forever be disappointed” that the two couldn’t play out that relationship more.

With gun violence costing states hundreds of millions of dollars each year in health care and criminal justice expenses alone, advocates say spending money on prevention actually ends up saving taxpayers money.

“It sounds like this is just a start and I’m hoping that the program will continue to grow,” said Mike McLively, the director of the Urban Gun Violence Initiative at Giffords.

McLively went on to urge gun violence prevention activists in states that aren’t currently funding these programs to reach out to their governors.