A leaked video shows the son of Denver Mayor Michael B. Hancock hurling a series of insults, including homophobic slurs, at a police officer after the young man got pulled over for speeding.

In the clip, which was obtained Tuesday by Denver ABC affiliate KMGH and can be viewed above, Jordan Hancock berates the officer, calling him a “bitch” and a “faggot.”

“My dad’s the mayor, you fucking faggot,” the 22-year-old says. “I’m about to get you fired, you fucking bitch!”

The video appears to be taken from body camera footage dating back to March 23, when the younger Hancock was pulled over for driving 65 mph in a 40 mph zone in Aurora, a Denver suburb. The 20-second clip leaked to KMGH ends with the mayor’s son driving away in a huff after being issued a speeding ticket.

“Attitude very poor,” the officer wrote on the ticket, according to KMGH. “See video.”

Aurora is a separate municipality from Denver, with its own police department.

Jordan Hancock paid a $250 speeding fine after a brief court appearance on Monday, but did not speak to reporters. In a Tuesday tweet, his father said Jordan has since apologized to the officer, who has not been publicly identified. And this wasn’t.

Bebe fails hardest, however, during a new segment introduced for this finale. Ru herself does not choose who will be the last two standing of the final four; she has the six eliminated queens serve as a jury. Each of them votes on which two queens they want as the finalists.

The mayor termed his son’s actions “inexcusable,” and said he hoped the “personal mistake” would provide a “valuable lesson” for the community.

We've addressed our son's behavior at a traffic stop w/him. He's apologized to the officer. While we don't support nor condone his inexcusable actions & words, we love our son dearly & will work w/him to turn a personal mistake into a valuable lesson for himself & the community. — Michael B. Hancock (@MayorHancock) May 8, 2018

“The last thing we want are young men interacting with our police officers in that manner ― particularly African-American young men,” the mayor told 9NEWS. “And so he recognizes that and he certainly understands that the officer didn’t deserve the interaction that he had.”

Aurora Police Chief Nick Metz, in a statement released Tuesday, said the department had launched an internal investigation into the video leak. I think he’s done some of the coolest stuff that’s come out in the last 20 years. At the same time, it’s like, well, yeah, of course your friends are going to say nice things!”

Overall, the four members of *NSYNC who aren’t Justin Timberlake had nothing but nice things to say about him, calling him their super-talented “little brother.” Their admiration could ring as surprising, considering the ultimate cause of the split and the conceivably unfair toll his decision took on their individual trajectories in the industry. But now, as grown men, they seem to understand he had to be selfish to become the global superstar he is today.

“I say the name Justin Timberlake and it’s almost like saying the name Madonna ― a name where everybody’s like, ‘Yeah, of course,’” Kirkpatrick said. “I’m sitting there at the Super Bowl watching him do the halftime show like, ‘Man, this is a big deal. airlines have rotated having the highest number of pet deaths. From 2010 to 2012, Delta held the top spot.

Q. And that is something you would recall?

A. Certainly not at that time. So I mean, obviously he’s aware of it now because he’s read it, it’s been in the papers, but that’s the extent of my knowledge of his knowledge of it.scott moir related requests:



1) can we immediately get a camera on him the rest of the game and have that as a second viewing option



2) can someone ask him his true feelings towards tessa and maybe have a tape recorder goingTerrorism analyst Michael S. Smith II has been fired from his position at the think tank New America after tweeting offensive remarks about Chinese intelligence agencies.

Smith, who was an international security fellow at the organization, shared a Quartz article on Friday regarding the Chinese government’s acquisition of New York’s Waldorf Astoria hotel.

In a tweet rife with Asian stereotypes and typos, Smith impersonated a Chinese accent, switching l’s with r’s. He even made a reference to eye shape, writing, “We know wheh you sreep, rouwound eye. And who you sreepy with!!!”

Michael Smith's since-deleted tweet. HuffPost

While the tweet has since been removed, it provoked an outpouring of criticism from both the Asian community and the national security community on social media. Many called Smith’s comments racist.

Mocking people based on their race is a disgusting, ugly, bigoted move.

In an interview with HuffPost last year, Inga Fricke, director of pet retention programs at The Humane Society of the United States, cautioned customers against putting their pets in cargo.

“Putting pets in cargo areas should be avoided whenever possible,” she said. “Once that animal is out of your control, there are so many risks it can be exposed to that it’s just not worth it.”I served for more than 20 years in the Marine Corps. I know that he doesn't read, but the fact that our Commander-in-Chief doesn't know the difference between a Corps and a "Core" is more than a spelling error. Wrap yourself in the flag all you like - actual veterans have had it. pic.twitter.com/1N2cO36bgTRemy Ma's song "Melanin Magic" celebrates praises dark-skinned black women, who aren't always represented in mainstream media. Gabriel Olsen via Getty Images

Remy Ma has been championing women’s empowerment through her music since the days of “Conceited,” and she has no plans on changing.

“However you are, that’s how you’re meant to be,” Remy said of the 2005 single while on the phone with HuffPost last month. “And that’s what I want people to hear when they listen to ‘Look at yourself in the mirror like what’s up.’ That’s what I’m giving them.’ He’s really done amazing, and I’m not a jealous person, so it’s awesome to watch because I feel like that’s part of me out there.”

Speaking of the Super Bowl, how did the guys feel about being left off Timberlake’s lineup?

“Everybody wanted it, everybody was waiting for it, but it’s his show and his thing, so whatever he wants to do,” Fatone said. “The guy was doing his job. You do you.

The 20-second clip appeared to have been “improperly copied and disclosed,” he said, and the department would not be releasing the complete footage.

On Sunday, U.S. Ambassador to the United Nations Nikki Haley announced that the United States would be unveiling new sanctions against Russia because of its alliance with Syrian leader Bashar Assad. On Monday, Trump’s new economic adviser said that was not the case and claimed Haley was confused, to Haley’s consternation. The adviser later backtracked, saying Haley “was certainly not confused” but that “the policy was changed and she wasn’t told about it.”

Last Thursday, Trump declared at a meeting with farm state senators that he wanted to join the Trans-Pacific Partnership, a trade agreement among North American, Latin American and East Asian nations that Trump campaigned against and withdrew from in his first days in office. On Tuesday morning ― just prior to hosting meetings with the leader of one of those nations, Japan ― Trump declared on Twitter that the U.S. wouldn’t be entering the TPP after all. “While Japan and South Korea would like us to go back into TPP, I don’t like the deal for the United States,” he wrote.

Sen. Bob Corker, a Tennessee Republican and retiring chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, said he has become desensitized to Trump’s frequent reversals and zigzags. “Forget sanctions on Russia, I can name probably 10 other things where if one day we’re doing one thing, the next day we’re doing another,” he said Wednesday at a breakfast sponsored by The Christian Science Monitor.

The reason for the chaos, say those close to the White House, is Trump himself.

He also pledged support for the officer in the video.PromesaArtStudio via Getty Images

Two black, progressive prosecutors running for district attorney positions in North Carolina won their primaries Tuesday night, raising the prospect that the midterm elections in November will bring in a new wave of powerful, reform-minded district attorneys around the country.

Both candidates, Satana Deberry in Durham County and Faris Dixon in Pitt County, were backed by reform groups that are supporting prosecutors who can help roll back the failed policies of the drug war and end mass incarceration.

Progressives are spending millions to challenge local prosecutors around the country maintaining the status quo, aiming to replace them with criminal justice reform advocates. They are hoping to replicate what is already happening in Philadelphia, where new District Attorney Larry Krasner is reshaping the city’s criminal justice system with the goal of ending mass incarceration.

In Tuesday’s Democratic primary election, Deberry, a former criminal defense attorney, beat out incumbent prosecutor Roger Echols. With the rival Democrat’s defeat and facing no candidates from any other parties, Deberry is now set to become the county’s new district attorney.

Satana Deberry received the endorsement of the Color of Change political action committee, a group focused on electing reform-minded district attorneys around the nation. Satana Deberry for District Attorney

Deberry had received the endorsement of the Color of Change political action committee, a group focused on electing reform-minded district attorneys around the nation. She has vowed to oppose cash bail, stand up to police misconduct and reject the return of the failed policies of the war on drugs.

Color of Change had been critical of Echols, who has been prosecutor in Durham since 2014, for not moving fast enough to reform the county’s criminal justice system. Echols’ supporters, however, argued that he had begun to implement some reforms, including allowing some defendants to complete a diversion program rather than be incarcerated and implementing an amnesty program that allows people to text or email to have their traffic records cleared.

“Throughout her campaign, Ms. Deberry repeatedly stressed that Durham could not continue to call itself the most progressive city in the South while over-prosecuting people of color and holding people in jail who simply can’t afford bail,” said Daniel Spiegel, senior legal counsel at the Justice Collaborative and a former public defender in Durham. “Her victory tonight shows how hungry this community is for a new vision of criminal justice reform.”

In Pitt County, Dixon beat Democratic challenger Derek Brown. A former assistant district attorney and current defense attorney in the county, Dixon supports the formation of a conviction integrity unit to review closed cases and ensure that defendants were not wrongfully convicted, expanding the use of drug courts in the region and creating more transparency out of the DA office.

Dixon will face off against the Republican candidate in November’s general election. Current county DA Kimberley Robb announced in January that she would not seek election to another term.

Faris Dixon in Pitt County defeated Democratic challenger Derek Brown. He'll now face the Republican candidate in November's general election. Feris Dixon/dixon4dacom

Deberry and Dixon’s victories were a “direct result of Durham’s Black residents showing up to the polls and sending a clear message about the changes they want for their criminal justice system,” said Rashad Robinson, spokesperson for Color Of Change PAC. “Now the real work begins,” he added, saying that Color Of Change PAC will remain deeply engaged in ensuring that both candidates hold true to their campaign promises.

Prosecutors are among the most powerful agents in the American criminal justice system. They have complete and unrivaled access to the evidence that can determine a person’s guilt or innocence, and broad powers over how seriously to take a charge against an individual and how aggressively to pursue a case. They determine the charges a defendant will face, and ultimately set the parameters for the punishment a person might receive.