"It's important to emphasize the concept of credibility. Even the most tech-savvy kids need to understand that not everything they see on the internet is true." - Talking with Kids About Being Online, page 7 #BeBest pic.twitter.com/BrRLBSnA05Streamline recommends “Moonrise Kingdom” as the movie you should watch on Hulu this week. The service adds this on Sept. 16.

“Moonrise Kingdom” stars two unknown child actors ― Kara Hayward and Jared Gilman ― along with a notable cast of adults that includes Tilda Swinton, Edward Norton, Bill Murray, Frances McDormand and Bruce Willis. Wes Anderson directed this and co-wrote the screenplay with Roman Coppola.

The two children run away and try to make a life for themselves together ― a very twee life. Then the adults start looking for them ― in a very twee way.

Although the Anderson aesthetic is kind of out right now during this more hardened, ultra-cynical Donald Trump era, I still love this movie. I think you’ll find much to enjoy whether you’re revisiting it or watching for the first time.Trump’s tweet in support of Lahren came just days after the weekend brunch incident and shortly after she spoke out about it on “Fox & Friends.” But as many pointed out on Twitter, he never sent a tweet in support of James Shaw, the hero who stopped the Waffle House shooter. Four people were killed and several others injured in the attack in Tennessee last month, including Shaw, who grabbed the gun’s barrel, disarmed the shooter and chased him out of the restaurant ― an act credited with saving lives. They say little when President Trump disparages all of Africa, Haitians, Salvadorans, Muslims and billions of humans who are black or brown or who live in developing countries. They espouse family values and are mum when President Trump disparages women and cuts benefits for childcare. He said he was “doing the bare minimum” to compete, and wanted to leave the sport. The feeling came to a head in 2014, he said, when he got his second DUI.

“I wanted to die. I straight wanted to die,” he said.

He said he actually checked his supply of sleeping pills “and I had one Ambien left.”

“And I’m actually happy I only had one,” he added. They express outrage at sexual misconduct and harassment when the perpetrator is a Democrat, but “launder” accusations against the President. They make inane excuses when Trump utters falsehood after falsehood as if the truth does not matter. I could go on and on but the message is clear. Morality is being pushed aside in favor of passing legislation and executive orders that benefit a privileged few and appeal to the basest of human values. And importantly, what seems to matter is the here and now for the “base” with little consideration for all Americans, the longer-term and wider fallout.

What could Republicans do? They could come together as a party and express their united outrage condemning the president’s statements, tweets and behavior. A vehicle for this could be done through a “sense of the House,” “sense of the Senate,” or “sense of the Congress.” Members of his cabinet and staff could resign and publicly voice the reasons for their inability to serve this president, as has the U.S. ambassador to Panama.

“It’s embarrassing,” Gilbert said. “We’re learning how little they pay their workers. We’re learning how much they pay their CEOs, and the ratios are stark.”

Although it has little regulatory impact, the CEO-to-worker pay ratio was one of the most contentious pieces of the Dodd-Frank legislation. It took the SEC three years to issue a proposal for firms to disclose the ratio, over the fierce objection of corporate lobbyists. The business community argued it would be too difficult and costly to calculate the ratios.

Some regulators sympathized. Two Republican members of the SEC voted against the rule, and one of them, Michael Piwowar, said its real intent was to “shame” executives.

The rule’s backers argued that both investors and employees have a right to know when executive pay is grossly out of step with typical workers’ salaries, saying it sheds light on a company and its priorities.

Labor groups have used industry-level wage data to calculate worker-to-CEO pay ratio estimates to spotlight pay inequity. If they continue to serve they are simply enablers. A few Republican lawmakers expressing their disbelief or rebuking the President’s behavior and statements carry little moral force. This Republican Congress appears set on destroying the Party of Lincoln in a short span of two years.The uninsured rate is creeping back up.

Occupation, civil war, ethnic cleansing, terror movements, abuses of every sort ― and as far as we know, we may still not be near the end of its effects.

It’s the first time an annual death toll in active shooting incidents exceeded 90 since the FBI began tracking the crimes in 2000. There was a single incident that year.

The FBI defines active shooters as gunmen actively killing or attempting to kill people in a populated area. All of the shooters in 2016 and 2017 were males operating alone, according to the FBI. (There were three women among 42 active shooters In the FBI’s previous report, which covered 2014 and 2015.)

The ages of shooters in 2016 and 2017 ranged from 14 years to 66 years. Seven were in their teens, 18 were in their 20s, nine were in their 30s, nine were in their 40s, three were in their 50s, and four were in their 60s, according to the report.

The two largest active shooting incidents last year were the Las Vegas music festival killings in October that claimed 58 lives, and the First Baptist Church shootings in Sutherland Springs, Texas, in November that killed 26.

The biggest attack in 2016 was the mass shooting at the Pulse nightclub in Orlando that killed 49.

“Am I surprised by the increase? No,” former FBI Agent James Gagliano told USA Today. He speculated that the increase could be linked to accessibility to guns, copycat shooters tracking news programs, and even video games.

“Part of it is these individuals see one gunman on the news and think, ‘Wow, if they did this, I can do it, too,’” he said.

“It’s a vicious circle and for the most part after these incidents, nothing changes. We all retreat to our corners and bicker. Parts of the Middle East already lie in ruins, city after city reduced to rubble, whole populations in flight. In 2017, for instance, the Syrian city of Raqqa, the former “capital” of the Islamic State, was subjected, among so many other things, to 20,000 “coalition” (i.

After several years of dramatic declines in the percentage of Americans who lack health insurance ― a direct result of the Affordable Care Act’s coverage provisions ― the trend is beginning to reverse, according to new data the polling firm Gallup and digital health company Sharecare published Wednesday.

The share of Americans without health insurance rose to 12.2 percent last year, up from 10.9 percent at the end of 2016. The 2016 figure was the lowest Gallup recorded since tracking the uninsured rate in 2008. The low uninsured rate two years ago represented a decline of nearly 7 percentage points from 2013, the year before the Affordable Care Act’s Medicaid expansion and subsidies for private health insurance came online and the year with the highest rate in Gallup’s polling history.

What’s more, the uninsured rate increased in 17 states last year, and it was the first year since 2014 that at least one state didn’t experience a decline in those without health insurance, Gallup and Sharecare report.

Hawaii, Iowa, New Mexico and West Virginia saw the largest increases. Massachusetts’ 4 percent uninsured rate was the nation’s lowest, and the highest was in Texas at 22.1 percent, according to the findings of telephone surveys conducted throughout 2017.

It’s unusual for the uninsured rate to grow during a period of low and falling unemployment because jobs are the most common source of health coverage.

But much higher premiums for those who buy insurance on their own, President Donald Trump’s actions to weaken the Affordable Care Act’s insurance marketplaces and other factors have begun to undo the gains seen earlier this decade.

In other words, Trump’s sabotage of the Affordable Care Act appears to be working. There’s reason to believe this trend will continue this year and into the future.

The Trump administration has begun approving states’ requests to impose work requirements and other restrictions on Medicaid enrollees, which is expected to cause an unknown number of low-income people to lose coverage.

In addition, Trump and Congress’ repeal of the Affordable Care Act’s individual mandate that most people obtain health coverage or face tax penalties takes effect next year. Premium hikes on the health insurance exchanges are expected to be significant next year, as indicated by early rate requests from insurers in Virginia and Maryland.

The Gallup-Sharecare survey is the second this month showing a rise in the number of people without health coverage. According to a Commonwealth Fund report published last week, the share of adults ages 18 to 64 who are uninsured is 15.5 percent, up from 12.7 percent at end of 2016, which the think tank calculates amounts to 4 million fewer people with coverage.

The Commonwealth Fund’s numbers are higher than the Gallup-Sharecare data largely because they exclude the elderly and children. Nearly all Americans 65 and over are covered by Medicare, and the uninsured rate for children is less than 5 percent, in part because Medicaid and the Children’s Health Insurance Program provide coverage for low- and middle-income kids.

Gallup and Sharecare’s data don’t explain who is losing coverage or why. But several factors last year made coverage harder to afford.

The health insurance exchanges created by the Affordable Care Act have struggled since their debut in 2014, and last year was no different.

Premiums for those who don’t qualify for subsidies rose by double digits ― and sometimes much higher ― in 2017, presenting major affordability challenges for people who must pay full price for their health insurance because they earn too much to qualify for government subsidies. That continued this year and will happen again next year.

Part of that is the ongoing trouble insurers on the exchange have experienced attracting enough low-cost healthy people whose premiums offset the expense of people who need high-priced medical care.

But Trump took a number of steps that exacerbated these problems. Chief among them was a decision to cut off billions of dollars in payments the federal government owes health insurance companies that serve the lowest-income exchange customers. Insurers responded with rate increases far above what they otherwise would have imposed.

Exchange enrollment fell in 2017 compared with the prior year, and it declined again this year.

During the open enrollment period for 2017 ― which began in the fall of 2016 under President Barack Obama and ended in 2017 during the early weeks of the current administration ― Trump officials halted advertising designed to encourage people to sign up for coverage.

The uninsured rate is likely to increase further this year and next.

It is doubtful that the administration will reverse course and begin putting greater resources toward helping people enroll on the exchanges, based on its conduct in the previous two sign-up periods.

The mandate repeal eliminates one reason to buy coverage, especially for those who believe they need it the least. Moreover, the administration is relaxing regulations on forms of health insurance that are more attractive to the healthy, and less attractive to those who need care, that could cherry-pick the most profitable customers from the exchanges, leading to further premium increases for those who remain in that segment of the market. Insurers cite these factors as reasons for their proposed rate hikes next year.