Raisman competing in the women's final of the 2015 P&G Gymnastics Championships. Joe Robbins via Getty Images

Aly Raisman just called out USA Gymnastics for victim-blaming the 120-plus women who have accused former team doctor Larry Nassar of sexual abuse.

In a series of tweets on Wednesday, the Olympic gold medalist wrote that USA Gymnastics is “100 percent responsible” for Nassar’s rampant sexual abuse, and called for an investigation into the organization.

″@USAGym STOP VICTIM SHAMING,” Raisman wrote. “Your statements are hurtful. If you did not believe that I & others were abused than why pressure & manipulate us? WE WERE MOLESTED BY A MONSTER U ENABLED 2 THRIVE FOR DECADES. You are 100% responsible.” And I kept going, “Why did he write that? Why was that image in his head when he wrote that? Because he didn’t have an association with ‘Malcolm in the Middle,’ so what was it?” And I asked him, and he didn’t know. He just thought the image was funny. And it is. Tighty-whities on a grown man is funny, and that’s primarily why I wasn’t going to do that again, because I had done that for seven years. It was mandatory to get ‘treatment’ by Nassar.”

Raisman seems to be referring to USA Gymnastics’ most recent statement in which the organization responds to top-tier gymnast Maggie Nichols’ new allegations that Nassar sexually abused her while treating a back injury. In the statement, USA Gymnastics denied that the organization covered up Nassar’s abuse, and applauded Nichols for coming forward. But it says Nichols and a second athlete “did not provide reasonable suspicion that sexual abuse had occurred.”

Raisman said USA Gymnastics should have done much more to protect athletes from the now-imprisoned serial predator. (and will be available for preorder in the U.S. in early summer).A large crowd of people gathered again in Sacramento, California, on Wednesday, still enraged over the death of Stephon Clark, the unarmed black man who was fatally shot by police in his backyard.

Just like several other protests held consistently since Clark was killed less than three weeks ago, Black Lives Matter activists marched through downtown Sacramento demanding justice for the 22-year-old father of two.

But Wednesday’s demonstration, which drew a crowd of about 200 people, had another kind of significance: It was held on the 50th anniversary of the assassination of Martin Luther King Jr.

“It’s been 50 years, and we’re still fighting for the same things, so we’re still angry,” Tanya Faison, founder of Black Lives Matter Sacramento, told The Sacramento Bee.

“Everything Martin Luther King fought for, we’re still fighting for.”

Wednesday’s protest was also a part of the National Day of Action, a nationwide protest of police brutality and racial inequality planned by Black Lives Matter Sacramento.

It also fell on the same day when police in Brooklyn, New York, fatally shot an unarmed black man whom 911 callers said was pointing a gun at residents. Officers later said the man was actually holding “a pipe with some sort of knob on the end of it.”

Black Lives Matter activists have held at least two demonstrations in Sacramento, California, in protest of Clark's death.

“We must understand how this happened to make sure it never occurs again,” she tweeted. Carlos Barria / Reuters

Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.) didn’t push back on the idea of Trump using the 2001 AUMF to bomb Syria, either, even as he noted, perhaps inadvertently, that the 17-year-old war authorization was never meant to be used to go after Assad.

“I think everyone knows we do have some American forces inside of Syria,” he told reporters on Tuesday. “My own view is they’re carrying out an important function and should stay there for the reason they were put there in the first place, which is to prevent [ISIS] from re-establishing [in] the eastern part of Syria.”

Congressional leaders have avoided action on a new war authorization for years for no real reason other than safeguarding lawmakers from a tough vote.

Brower described the shooting as “horrible” and “senseless.”

AdvertisementPhotos courtesy of Sundance Institute

The Sundance Film Festival provides the first snapshot of what Hollywood has in store in any given year. Almost without fail, at least a few gems leave Park City, Utah, to become mainstream smashes. Last year’s slate gave us “Call Me by Your Name,” “Get Out,” “The Big Sick,” “Mudbound” and “Icarus,” all of which are now Oscar nominees.

But 2018′s crop lacked the same sense of discovery. The buzz of Sundance didn’t coalesce around any one or two movies the way it usually does, nor has it yielded a massive distribution deal destined to produce the year’s indie success story.

That isn’t to say there weren’t still gems to be found in the mountains. But will any of them appear on the 2019 Oscar ballot? It’s questionable. Gone, mostly, were the breathless eight-figure acquisitions built on rousing premieres and emphatic tweets. It seems distributors took notes after Fox Searchlight ponied up a record-breaking $17. But Trump’s casual hints at bombing Syria have rattled rank-and-file members in both parties, some of whom issued statements this week saying the president should not act without their sign-off.

“Assad must face consequences for the horrific atrocities he’s committed against the Syrian people,” said Sen. Tim Kaine (D-Va.). “But President Trump needs to finally lay out a Syria strategy and come to Congress for approval if he wants to initiate military action. He’s a president, not a king, and Congress needs to quit giving him a blank check to wage war against anyone, anywhere.”

“If he strikes Syria without our approval, what will stop him from bombing North Korea or Iran?” Kaine asked.

Sen. Mike Lee (R-Utah) said the latest suspected use by Assad of chemical weapons on his people “absolutely” requires a U.S. ”... The system has to change so that athletes are safe. Enablers need to be held accountable.”

.@USAGym STOP VICTIM SHAMING. Your statements are hurtful. If you did not believe that I & others were abused than why pressure & manipulate us? WE WERE MOLESTED BY A MONSTER U ENABLED 2 THRIVE FOR DECADES. You are 100% responsible. It was mandatory to get "treatment" by Nassar. — Alexandra Raisman (@Aly_Raisman) January 10, 2018

We must investigate to figure out the many flaws in @USAGym system. We must understand how this happened to make sure it never occurs again. This problem is bigger than Penny and Nassar. The system has to change so that athletes are safe. Enablers need to be held accountable. — Alexandra Raisman (@Aly_Raisman) January 10, 2018

If athlete safety is the number 1 priority for @TeamUSA & @USAGym , why don’t they want to know all the factors that contributed to the worst case of sexual abuse in the history of sports? #INVESTIGATE #WeNeedAnswers — Alexandra Raisman (@Aly_Raisman) January 10, 2018

Raisman, along with Olympians Gabby Douglas and McKayla Maroney, have alleged that Nassar abused them for years under the guise of treatment.

"‘Treatment sessions’ with him always made me feel tense and uncomfortable,” Raisman wrote in her book Fierce., a membership association for county officials. More than half of the state’s counties prohibit marijuana businesses within their jurisdiction, according to state data. Some cities within those counties’ borders do allow marijuana businesses to operate. “I would grit my teeth trying to convince myself that all this was part of the healing process. The truth was he never made my injuries feel any better, but I always obeyed because he had a reputation for being the best doctor.”

All of Nassar’s victims claim that he abused them during routine medical exams; some say they were as young as 12 at the time.

Nassar, 54, pleaded guilty to 10 counts of first-degree sexual misconduct in November and is awaiting sentencing. He was sentenced to 60 years in prison in December for possessing child pornography.