WASHINGTON — Gina Haspel, President Donald Trump’s pick to lead the CIA, told lawmakers on Wednesday that she would not restart the agency’s defunct torture program if confirmed to head the CIA — but she refused to weigh in on the morality of the program.

Asked several times whether she thought the so-called “enhanced interrogation techniques” used by the CIA on terrorism suspects in the aftermath of the Sept. 11 attacks were moral, Haspel dodged the question. She claimed the CIA’s interrogation program was legal at the time, and said she now supports limiting interrogation techniques to the ones outlined in the U.S. Army Field Manuals.

“I support the higher moral standard we have decided to hold ourselves to,” Haspel said, pointing to anti-torture legislation passed by Congress years after the CIA shut down its interrogation program. (Torture was already illegal under the Geneva Conventions when the CIA began interrogating detainees using techniques like waterboarding.) The CIA should focus on intelligence collection and analysis and leave interrogations to the Pentagon and the FBI, Haspel said.

Haspel, who oversaw a black site where at least two detainees were waterboarded (one of them before Haspel arrived at the prison), faces a contentious confirmation process. Most Democrats are expected to oppose her confirmation because of her involvement in the interrogation program and her subsequent role in destroying videotapes that documented the interrogations. Sen.”

I called President Putin of Russia to congratulate him on his election victory (in past, Obama called him also). The Fake News Media is crazed because they wanted me to excoriate him. They are wrong! Getting along with Russia (and others) is a good thing, not a bad thing..... Rand Paul (R-Ky.) has also said he will vote against her.

Haspel, the current acting CIA director, was expected to assure lawmakers on Wednesday that she would not restart the CIA’s interrogation program — even if ordered to do so by Trump, who has expressed enthusiasm for waterboarding terrorism suspects. But Democrats on the Senate intelligence committee appeared frustrated that she would not outright condemn the CIA’s past conduct.

“I want to see, I want to feel, I want to trust that you have the moral compass that you said you have,” Sen. Martin Heinrich (D-N.M.) told her. “You’re giving very legalistic answers to very fundamentally moral questions.”

Haspel, however, did not express remorse about the CIA’s use of torture. If anything, she appeared frustrated with the continued focus on the matter.

“I’m not going to sit here with benefit of hindsight and judge the very good people who made hard decisions, who were running the agency, in very extraordinary circumstances at the time,” she told lawmakers on Wednesday.

Sen.”

The former diplomat said a number of the Trump administration’s foreign policy decisions didn’t sit right with those in the foreign relations field. Among those moves, he said, were the United States’ exit from the Trans-Pacific Partnership, its “abdication of responsibility” on climate change, and the travel ban targeting mostly Muslim-majority countries.

“What happened to the nation that welcomed ‘your tired, your poor, your huddled masses yearning to breathe free?’” Osius asked.

“I voiced my objections, was instructed to remain silent, and decided there was an ethical line that I could not cross if I wished to retain my integrity.” - Ted Osius

But the former ambassador said he reached his limit when he was told to push for the repatriations. Kamala Harris (D-Calif.) later told HuffPost it troubled her that Haspel did not answer “four different times” whether the CIA’s interrogation techniques were immoral. “I think she knows the answer and she didn’t give it,” Harris said.

At one point, Haspel seemed offended by a question about whether she’d called for the interrogation program to be continued as it was winding down.

“Let me say this about myself. After 9/11, I didn’t look to go sit on the Swiss desk,” she said. “I stepped up. I was not on the sidelines. I was on the front lines in the Cold War and I was on the front lines in the fight against al Qaeda.”

“I’m very proud of the fact that we captured the perpetrator of 9/11, Khalid Sheikh Mohammed. I think we did extraordinary work,” she continued. “To me, the tragedy is that the controversy surrounding the interrogation program... has cast a shadow over what has been a major contribution to protecting this country.”

Asked if she believed that enhanced interrogation methods are effective, Haspel was equivocal.

“I don’t believe that torture works,” Haspel said. But the CIA obtained “valuable information” through its interrogations, she claimed. It is unknowable whether enhanced interrogation led to that information, she said, echoing a longstanding CIA defense of the program.

Republicans on the Senate intelligence committee, meanwhile, said they were satisfied by Haspel’s responses about the CIA interrogation program, saying they’d received assurances from her in private that it was not moral.

“I don’t think I got that from her at all,” Sen. Jim Risch (R-Idaho) said when asked about Haspel’s dodging of the question. “I think she shares my view and everyone’s view up here that it is immoral.”

Lawmakers also pushed Haspel on her role in destroying 92 videotapes that showed the CIA interrogating Abu Zubaydah, the agency’s first detainee. At the direction of her boss at the time, Jose Rodriguez, Haspel drafted a cable calling for the destruction of the tapes. Haspel said Wednesday that she supported Rodriguez’s decision because the tapes could have endangered the CIA officials who appeared in them if they’d leaked.

When Heinrich asked why the CIA did not preserve a digital copy of the tapes with the faces of the CIA officials blacked out, Haspel said she didn’t know. “I’m just not a technical person,” she said.

Ahead of Wednesday’s confirmation hearing, the CIA launched an unusually aggressive lobbying campaign on behalf of Haspel, pushing stories about her popularity within the agency and pointing out that she would be the first female CIA director.

Democratic lawmakers say the CIA selectively declassified information about the parts of her career that are flattering and withheld potentially damaging information.

Congress wasn’t able to come up with a deal to reopen the government Sunday, meaning the shutdown will extend to the third day on Monday ― the start of the work week.

Tourist spots like the National Zoo and the Smithsonian museums remained open over the weekend, but they will be closed on Tuesday, if the shutdown continues. Sightseers who haven’t been following the news will be left locked out and disappointed.

Thousands of federal workers will also be forced to go without pay. Haspel confirmed on Wednesday that she was involved in decisions about which parts of her record to declassify — but said she followed standard guidance. PAUL J. RICHARDS via Getty Images

Gaffney has claimed in the past that the Muslim Brotherhood has infiltrated every level of the federal government. He once called for a “House of Anti-American Activities Committee” to root out these alleged subversives.

In 2015, Bolton spoke at multiple “National Security Action Summits” organized by Gaffney’s Center for Security Policy. In 2006, Bolton accepted the CSP’s Freedom Flame Award.

Bolton has also appeared multiple times as a guest on Gaffney’s “Secure Freedom Radio” podcast ― most recently in July, when he agreed with Gaffney that the Muslim Brotherhood should be designated a terror group. (The idea of labeling the MB a terror group is widely frowned upon in foreign policy circles; national security experts believe such a designation would mainly serve to provide cover for prosecuting and harassing American Muslim civil rights groups.)

On Thursday, Gaffney seemed enthused about Bolton’s new career opportunity.

.@RealDonaldTrump has replaced an insubordinate National Security Advisor with a loyal, competent one: John Bolton.

While the CIA has highlighted the parts of her career that were unrelated to the interrogation program, the president has suggested that he chose her, in part, because of her role at the black sites.

The day before her confirmation hearing, Trump tweeted in support of Haspel, saying she “has been, and always will be, TOUGH ON TERROR!”

Haspel received a boost after the hearing on Wednesday when Sen. Joe Manchin (D-W.Va.), a vulnerable red-state Democrat up for re-election this year, announced he would support her nomination to lead the CIA.. woman to land a triple axel at the Olympics, helping team USA win bronze in the team skating event in the process. America fell in love with the “Shib Sibs,” the U.S. brother-sister duo who took second place in the team short dance. The U.S. women’s hockey team survived a brief scare in its opening game. Luger Chad Mazdzer won silver at the Olympics, taking home the first medal for an American man in the event. But really, Leslie Jones’ Winter Olympics Twitter game might be the true star. [HuffPost]

MIKE PENCE: THE U.S