President Donald Trump on Thursday canceled a scheduled June 12 summit in Singapore with North Korean leader Kim Jong Un after recent sparring between the two countries over the planned nuclear talks.

“Sadly, based on the tremendous anger and open hostility displayed in your most recent statement, I feel it is inappropriate, at this time, to have this long-planned meeting,” Trump wrote in a letter to Kim, which was sent to reporters.

Read Trump’s letter (story continues below):

Trump Letter by Anonymous FBZLGr on Scribd

South Korean officials appeared blindsided by the announcement. “But instead, she uses her platform to remind audiences around the globe that intolerance is unacceptable.”

The crowd seemed legitimately shook to be in Spears’ presence.

“We are attempting to make sense of what, precisely, President Trump means,” said spokesman Kim Eui-kyeom, according to The Washington Post’s Anna Fifield.

South Korean President Moon Jae-In urged both Trump and Kim to hold direct talks, South Korea’s Yonhap News Agency reported.

It’s also unclear whether State Department officials were aware of Trump’s decision before he released the letter. When asked if the announcement came as a surprise, a staffer in the office that works on North Korea issues said he had to check with State Department spokeswoman Heather Nauert.

Speaking at the White House later Thursday, Trump said he had just spoken with military officials, as well as the leaders of South Korea and Japan. They are “ready for foolish or reckless acts be taken by North Korea,” he said, adding that “an unfortunate situation is forced upon us.

“A talking fridge that adjusts its energy use to be less intensive and helps you better manage your food so you have less food waste would be extremely useful,” said Whelan of NYU.

The challenge is what happens to the fridge when it is done talking.

Clarification: Language paraphrasing Goss’s remarks on the production cycle and obsolescence have been amended to reflect that the author, and not Goss, was suggesting that this results in more devices being thrown away.

For more content and to be part of the “This New World” community, join our Facebook Group.”

“Hopefully positive things will be taking place with respect to the future of North Korea. If they don’t, we are more ready than we have ever been before,” he said, apparently a threat of military action.

On a call with reporters, a senior White House official asserted that Trump “had constant communication with our allies,” but did not explain why U.S. allies were caught off guard. The official did not say whether Trump and Kim had spoken directly.

Of the letter, the official said Trump had “dictated every word himself.”

Trump’s announcement came hours after North Korean officials threatened to cancel the summit, angered by recent comments from Vice President Mike Pence and national security adviser John Bolton, who compared North Korea with Libya.

North Korean leader Kim Jong Un speaks at a meeting in Pyongyang on May 18. KCNA KCNA / Reuters

North Korean officials view Libya as a cautionary tale and called Bolton’s remarks “awfully sinister.” After Libyan dictator Muammar Gaddafi gave up his nuclear weapons program in 2003, an armed revolution aided by a U.S. and NATO military intervention ousted him in 2011. Rebel forces captured and brutally killed Gaddafi during the conflict.

“World knows too well that our country is neither Libya nor Iraq which have met miserable fate,” a senior North Korean official said in a statement this month.

Earlier Thursday, North Korea announced that it had destroyed tunnels at what they say is the country’s only nuclear test site. Trump did not acknowledge the concession in his letter. If they can’t catch up before layoffs hit, there will be political pressure to follow the new path that other states have taken to reduce benefits.

“Isn’t that the end of this case?” Kennedy said.

Liberal Justice Elana Kagan stressed how disruptive a ruling against the unions would be, leading to thousands of labor contracts being renegotiated and striking down laws in more than 20 states.

“When have we ever done something like that?” Kagan asked.

Dueling groups of protesters gathered outside the white marble courthouse ahead of the scheduled one-hour argument.

Union-backed protesters held signs saying “America needs union jobs,” while those supporting the challengers had signs saying “stand with Mark,” a reference to the plaintiff in the case, Illinois state worker Mark Janus.

Two dozen states require payment of these so-called agency fees, covering roughly 5 million public-sector workers. A Supreme Court ruling disallowing these fees would deal a setback to American organized labor at a time when the movement already is in a reduced state compared to the past.

Depriving unions of agency fees could undermine their ability to spend in political races. They typically back Democratic candidates over Republicans.

SIMILAR CASE IN 2016

The justices considered a similar case in 2016, and after hearing arguments appeared poised to overturn a 1977 Supreme Court precedent that let unions force non-members covered by contracts negotiated by organized labor to pay fees in lieu of union dues to help cover non-political union expenditures.

But the death of conservative Justice Antonin Scalia the following month left the court with an even split of conservatives and liberals, and its 4-4 decision in March 2016 failed to settle the legal question. The Monday’s argument did not illuminate whether Gorsuch will, as expected, join his conservative colleagues in ruling against the unions.

Republican President Donald Trump’s appointment of Gorsuch last year restored the Supreme Court’s conservative majority.

The 2016 case was brought by non-union California public school teachers. Janus, the plaintiff in the current case, is a child-support specialist for the state of Illinois who opted not to join the union that represents employees like him, the American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees (AFSCME). Lawmakers in Kentucky, which has a poor solvency rating, are currently considering proposals to make the state’s unemployment system more like Florida’s, currently one of the worst.

It’s an old pattern. After the recession of the early 1980s, changes in state benefits helped reduce the proportion of unemployed workers receiving compensation from 50 percent in 1980 to 37 percent in 1990, according to political scientist Paul Pierson’s 1994 book Dismantling the Welfare State?

Josh Bivens, an economist with the Economic Policy Institute, a liberal think tank, said the country isn’t well prepared for the next recession.

The senior White House official said there was no way to confirm whether the tunnels had been destroyed because only a select group of foreign journalists had witnessed the process. No nuclear experts or monitors were present to inspect the site.

If he had decided to run, he would have faced Democrat Randy Bryce who has quickly racked up a considerable amount of campaign funding, though has been considered a long-shot candidate.

AdvertisementJoe Raedle/Getty Images

By Teresa Wiltz

Fifty years ago, just a week after Martin Luther King Jr. was assassinated and cities went up in flames — President Lyndon B. Johnson signed the Fair Housing Act. For the first time, housing discrimination was illegal.

The law also did something else: It required cities to “affirmatively further fair housing” — that is, to actively eliminate segregation in their communities.

Civil rights advocates hoped the law would be the key to finally ending the extreme racial segregation around the country. But enforcement of the law was sporadic at best, and a half-century later, segregation remains deeply entrenched in the United States. In fact, some of the nation’s most diverse cities — those with large non-white populations — are among the most segregated.

To remedy this, the Obama administration in 2015 approved stringent guidance that gave communities a blueprint for addressing racial segregation aggressively — and threatened the denial of millions of federal dollars if they failed to do so.

Cracks began to emerge in plans for the summit last week, after North Korea threatened to call off the meeting if the Trump administration demanded the country completely denuclearize. Trump appeared to soften his rhetoric toward North Korea this week, saying that a more gradual option of denuclearization was a possibility.

But he teased the summit’s uncertain fate.

“We’re moving along. We’ll see what happens. There are certain conditions we want to happen. I think we’ll get those conditions. And if we don’t, we won’t have the meeting,” Trump told reporters Tuesday, without specifying what those conditions would be.

The next day, Trump told Fox News there was a “good chance” the summit would take place. Trump, in his remarks Thursday, suggested that the summit could still happen “at some later date.” “Hopefully everything will work out well with North Korea,” he said. “A lot of things can happen.” Trump had touted the renewed diplomacy with North Korea as a triumph for his administration, suggesting that he should win a Nobel Peace Prize for his efforts. The White House push for negotiations in recent months was a dramatic shift from Trump’s initial posture toward North Korea. Last year, Trump and Kim were locked in an escalating battle of insults, which included Trump threatening North Korea with “fire and fury” if the country took action against the United States. Jessica Schulberg and Akbar Ahmed contributed reporting.

Advertisement