Mark Harris, right, talks with Jahnmaud O.S. government leaders often has been apparent.

Last year, Secretary of State Rex Tillerson announced his commitment to diplomatic efforts to ease tensions with North Korea, even though Trump tweeted he was “wasting his time trying to negotiate with Little Rocket Man” Kim Jong Un.

I told Rex Tillerson, our wonderful Secretary of State, that he is wasting his time trying to negotiate with Little Rocket Man... — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) October 1, 2017

National Security Adviser H.R. McMaster said at the conference Saturday that with Special Counsel Robert Mueller’s indictments against 13 Russians “the evidence is now incontrovertible” that Russia interfered in the U.S.com/S4ANuSAQJy — The Hill (@thehill) February 16, 2018

This month, a new digital billboard in Orlando paid for by the Florida Democratic Party is attacking Republican Gov. Rick Scott’s lack of action on gun control.

A second billboard with a similar message was scheduled to go up Sunday in Tallahassee.

Florida Democratic Party

Last month, a blank billboard in Kentucky was vandalized to read: “Kill the NRA.” A Las Vegas billboard advertising a deal at a local shooting range was also altered to read: “Shoot a school kid only $29.” Activist group INDECLINE claimed responsibility for that change.An impromptu “Practical Magic” reunion took place at the Oscars Sunday when Nicole Kidman joined her co-star in that 1998 film, Sandra Bullock, on the red carpet.

Bullock was being interviewed by ABC when Kidman appeared from behind. The Oscar winners shared a warm embrace before recalling their experience playing witch sisters Gillian (Kidman) and Sally (Bullock) Owens 20 years ago.

“We were talking about when we shot together and we asked her to get the tequila,” Bullock, who looked stunning in a black-and-gold Louis Vuitton gown, said. Gesturing toward Kidman, she added, “She came back with her own tequila but we drank it anyway. We were a little drunk. Lane during an election party in Raleigh, North Carolina, on Tuesday. Robert Willett/Raleigh News & Observer via Getty Images

Mark Harris, a Baptist pastor with a long history of social conservatism, won the GOP primary in North Carolina’s 9th Congressional District on Tuesday night, ousting Rep. Robert Pittenger.

He was a major player in Xi’s battle against corruption, with dozens of senior officials jailed during his tenure as the top graft-fighter, including the fearsome domestic security chief Zhou Yongkang, now serving life in jail.

Zhao Wanping, a delegate from the central province of Anhui, told Reuters Wang’s election was in line with the will of the people, pointing to his anti-corruption efforts.

“Our country needs someone like him who will continue to step out and shoulder responsibilities for the people,” he said.

Last Sunday, parliament voted to amend the constitution, which removed presidential and vice-presidential term limits, meaning Xi can stay in power indefinitely, a move the government has presented as widely welcomed despite criticism that has evaded the censors and seeped onto Chinese social media.

The party’s People’s Daily hailed Xi’s unanimous re-election in an editorial on its WeChat account, using language once more associated with Mao Zedong to say he was a “leader loved and respected by the people” and the “helmsman of the country”.

Wang’s appointment has the potential to reshape what has traditionally been a ceremonial role.China’s relationship with the United States is likely to be a key part of his remit, according to diplomats and sources with ties to the leadership.

“The vice president position in the PRC is not a very powerful one, but it depends who fills the job,” said Jean-Pierre Cabestan, a China expert at Hong Kong Baptist University, referring to the country’s formal name, the People’s Republic of China.

Pittenger is the first congressional incumbent of either party to lose a primary this cycle.

Harris’ upset victory could make it easier for Democrats to pick up the seat in November. The 9th District is on the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee’s list of targets. Dan McCready, a former Marine Corps captain who founded a solar farm company, easily won the Democratic primary.

The district, which Trump won by 12 percentage points in 2016, stretches through the central part of North Carolina’s southern border. Republicans have held the seat since 1963. But McCready has nearly $1.2 million in his campaign account.

Pittenger and Harris sparred over each other’s relationship with the president, with Harris alleging Pittenger falsely claimed the president’s endorsement and Pittenger accusing Harris of trying to deny Trump the nomination during the 2016 presidential primaries.

This was Harris’ second attempt at defeating Pittenger. He lost by just 134 votes in 2016 in the closest congressional primary of the election cycle.

In 2012, Harris led Vote for Marriage NC, which successfully pushed a state constitutional amendment defining marriage in North Carolina as between one man and one woman.Sports news juggernaut ESPN is doing away with a role designed to be a liaison between the public and the newsroom. Mike Segar/Reuters

The role of the public editor, an independent voice who acts as a liaison between readers and the newsroom and may weigh in on editorial decisions, has “outlived its usefulness, largely because of the rise of real-time feedback of all kinds,” Kevin Merida, the sports network’s senior vice president, said in his announcement.

“While ESPN has valued the input and dedication shown by everyone who held the position, we too have seen how access to the Internet and its social platforms has created a horde of watchdogs who communicate directly with us to share observations and questions,” he said, noting that the recommendation to discontinue the role was handed down by ESPN’s editorial board, which he chairs.

ESPN’s last public editor, Jim Brady, stepped away from the role in March. As he departed, he emphasized his desire for ESPN to maintain the role.

I very much enjoyed my two-year term in this role and, as I wrote in my final column, I hope ESPN continues to have a public editor. — ESPN Public Editor (@ESPNPublicEd) March 22, 2018

Brady caught flak for one of the last controversies he addressed as public editor: ESPN anchor Jemele Hill calling President Donald Trump a white supremacist on Twitter last fall, which resulted in her two-week suspension. (Hill now works for The Undefeated, a site owned by ESPN.)

Brady wrote in his column that Hill had “made an error in judgement” because her tweets constituted an opinion. He cited ESPN’s rules that any opinion its public faces express on social media “should be related to a current issue impacting sports” and “should be thoughtful and respectful” without “personal attacks and inflammatory rhetoric.

“It is crucial that the laws of the republic make it clear that it is not allowed to harass or intimidate women ... whether in the public space, on public transport or online,” Schiappa told a news conference. “There can be no lawless zones.”

Incredulous, Koscinski shared pictures of the censored cake on Facebook. “I seriously couldn’t make this crap up!!!!” she wrote. “Funny ― not funny.”

The law has wide popular backing, an Ifop opinion poll showed.

Ninety-two percent of those surveyed agreed with extending the statute of limitations, 90 percent backed punishing harassment on the streets and 69 percent supported setting at 15 the age for sexual consent, the poll carried out on March 1 and 2 for viehealthy.com website showed.”

When feedback on his column was harsh, Brady tried to clarify his position on Twitter but ended up having a meltdown on the site as he engaged with critics.