President Donald Trump's longtime personal attorney, Michael Cohen, set up a shell company that major companies paid into. Spencer Platt/Getty Images

Donald Trump’s longtime personal lawyer convinced major corporations to pay into his shell company by promising access to the president, according to one firm that doled out the cash.

Shortly before Trump became president, Michael Cohen set up Essential Consultants LLC, a shell firm that eventually paid porn star Stormy Daniels to stay quiet in the run-up to the 2016 election about her alleged affair with the president.

But this week, it was revealed that the financiers for Cohen’s company included major corporations, including Korea Aerospace Industries, the pharmaceutical company Novartis and AT&T. Quantum Corporation made data storage products there in the 2000s before it outsourced.

Pool said some companies insist on setting up a facility in a foreign trade zone but then never apply to use the zone designation. From an economic development perspective, he said, a new company benefits the community even if it doesn’t officially use the zone.

Troy McCue, executive director for the Lincoln County Economic Development Corporation, stands surrounded by gas stations, fast-food restaurants and hotels close to Limon, Colorado. Local economic development officials such as McCue hope that the foreign trade zone will attract new businesses to the area. Sophie Quinton/The Pew Charitable Trusts

Rural Communities Hold Out Hope

Kicking back in one of Limon’s fast-food restaurants on a recent day, McCue outlined the economic challenges faced by the rural community.

“Limon can’t be the next Parker,” McCue said, naming a booming Denver suburb. “We can’t do that because we don’t have the water.” It’s so dry out on Colorado’s eastern plains that Lincoln County likely can’t support more than double, maybe triple, the 5,000-odd people who live in the county now, he said.

Towns in the area have always been small, and they’re shrinking as farming jobs vanish. Their size puts limits on their growth: Limon doesn’t have sufficient electricity, water or wastewater infrastructure to recruit many companies, McCue said.

In a tweet, French President Emmanuel Macron said he was appalled by Knoll’s murder and expressed his “absolute determination to fight against anti-Semitism.”

Rodan-Benzaquen, director of AJC Europe, said that while these declarations for politicians help French Jews “feel less lonely,” more needs to be done by French citizens and society at large. She called on all Parisians to march on Wednesday for “our assassinated grandmother.

Limon isn’t the only rural community or small town to seek a foreign trade zone designation. In recent years counties have established zones in upstate New York, Mississippi and Vermont, as have economic development organizations in northwest Iowa and coastal Maine. Some of those zones are active, some are not. Significantly, it also received money from Columbus Nova, a New York investment firm with close ties to billionaire Russian oligarch Viktor Vekselberg, who has been questioned by special counsel Robert Mueller.

The payments were significant. They have no place in Australia in 2018.”

A survey of 160 riders in Australia by the Transport Workers Union found that while 26 percent worked the equivalent of full time ― more than 40 hours a week ― more than 76 percent earned less than the $24 per hour minimum they would earn if properly employed as bike couriers. Some riders were paid as little as $6.67 per hour, according to the union.

“We put our life at risk and are pressured to get the delivery done quickly but we are putting our lives at risk in the rain,” one Deliveroo rider, age 24, told the union.

In Australia, Uber Eats riders are paid $5.50 per pickup, $3.50 per dropoff, and $2.20 per kilometre ridden. This payment structure was instituted in February 2017, effectively lowering the former pay of $11 per delivery. In London, the minimum payment for each delivery is £5.33, minus a service fee collected by Uber, while riders in other areas of the United Kingdom appear to receive lower amounts, according to Uber’s website. Australian Deliveroo riders earn between $9 and $10 per delivery, a company spokeswoman told HuffPost.

“Having hourly rates would actively negate the flexibility that riders want, because it would enforce working for a single company in mandatory shifts ― essentially forcing the work to no longer be on-demand,” Deliveroo said in a statement, claiming that the average Deliveroo rider earns more than the minimum wage. Novartis paid $1.2 million for “healthcare policy matters.” KAI said it needed help on U.S. accounting standards, and Columbus Nova said it paid a “consulting fee” that had nothing to do with Vekselberg.

AT&T, in a memo to staff Wednesday, explained that it needed to “understand” how the Trump administration would approach issues like tax reform and antitrust regulations. It portrayed paying into the shell company of a president’s personal lawyer as routine: “Companies often hire consultants for these purposes, especially at the beginning of a new Presidential Administration, and we have done so in previous Administrations, as well.

“Unfortunately this Target movement is centered around consumerism, so I can’t say for sure if it’s good or bad,” Morelli told HuffPost.

But Touré-Tillery believes those concerns don’t really apply to a brand like Target.

“I think if we were talking about a luxury brand that sells thousand-dollar shoes, then that would be more relevant to the discussion. But Target is not a luxury brand. You’re going to buy toilet paper and yogurt because you need those kinds of things. And if you can go there and feel good about yourself and have fun in the process, it really doesn’t get better than that.”

A Supportive Community

To say it all boils down to materialism also ignores another big appeal of the Target experience, something money doesn’t necessarily buy: community.

Overworked parents ― particularly moms, who still bear most of the burden when it comes to household responsibilities ― find comfort in knowing they aren’t alone and tend to seek a sense of community

“Let’s face it. Moms still do most of the shopping, so it makes sense that they would be the ones to have this fun [Target fan] club,” said Touré-Tillery. Because women tend to be more active on social media than men are, it also makes sense that the social media component of Target fandom would seem more mom-focused.”

But an official with one of those companies, who requested anonymity to speak openly, was more blunt. The official said Cohen “was promising access to Trump and members of the administration, positioning himself as a lobbyist.”

One big question surrounding this controversy is how the companies came to know about Cohen and his shell company.

A Novartis employee told STAT, a news outlet that covers health and medicine, that Cohen reached out to them. His promise of access was enticing because the company was “trying to find an inroad into the administration” ― which tended to have fewer people known in Washington political circles.

But apparently, Cohen proved to be a disappointment. In a statement, Novartis said it entered into its one-year agreement with Cohen in February 2017. In March, it had its first meeting with him.

“Following this initial meeting,” the statement read, “Novartis determined that Michael Cohen and Essential Consultants would be unable to provide the services that Novartis had anticipated related to US healthcare policy matters and the decision was taken not to engage further.”

KAI paid Cohen’s firm $150,000, Columbus Nova paid $500,000 and AT&T gave $600,000.

Rudy Giuliani, Trump’s new personal lawyer, told HuffPost on Wednesday that the Cohen news has absolutely nothing to do with the president.

“There’s not involvement of the president in any of that,” he said. “We can’t be responsible for what Michael Cohen is doing.”

S.V. That’s what I think is going on in Chicago and Illinois at the present time ― as well as the country. Date contributed reporting. This article has been updated with more recently reported figures for the amount paid to Cohen by AT&T.