“Cocaine Mitch” had the last laugh.

Team Mitch, the official campaign Twitter feed of Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.), made it snow after former coal baron Don Blankenship lost the Republican primary for U.S. Senate in West Virginia on Tuesday.

Blankenship’s campaign was marked by repeated attacks on McConnell, and at one point he called the senator “cocaine Mitch” in a campaign ad. The nickname stems from accusations that a ship owned by the company of McConnell’s father-in-law was used to carry 90 pounds of cocaine. No charges appear to have been filed, according to The Washington Post. The government told the judge that the woman was unconscious at the time, and was unable to identify Schulte as assaulting her. But prosecutors in Virginia, the federal government told the court, were evidently able to confirm that the pair of hands depicted assaulting the woman belonged to Schulte.

That led to this blow from McConnell’s campaign account after Blankenship came in third:

The pic is an edited version of an image used to promote the Netflix series “Narcos,” which is about a drug cartel in Colombia:

Netflix

The show’s official Twitter responded:

The tweet got a strong reaction, and many snorted with laughter at the reference:

2018 you’re drunk and high, go home — Roland Scahill (@rolandscahill) May 9, 2018

Cocaine Mitch is savage! — Ryan | weather.us (@RyanMaue) May 9, 2018

This may be the funniest thing Mitch Mcconnell has ever done. https://t.co/ZWMIcRMXT7 — Dana Bash (@DanaBashCNN) May 9, 2018

.”

On May 11 we learned that some of our Guests’ payment card information from certain restaurants was compromised.... and the nominees for "Tweet of the Year" are ... — Jerry Bohl, Jr. (@jr_bohl) May 9, 2018

It's literally cocaine. Get me off this planet. pic.twitter.com/hzwFNB8y2w — welp (@thisaintsobad) May 9, 2018President Donald Trump arrives for a roundtable discussion on tax reform in White Sulpher Springs, West Virginia, on April 5. At right is West Virginia Attorney General Patrick Morrissey. NICHOLAS KAMM/AFP via Getty Images

Patrick Morrisey is President Donald Trump’s new man in West Virginia.

The Mountain State Republican won a heated primary on Tuesday, defeating U.S. Rep. Evan Jenkins and Don Blankenship, the former coal baron who mounted an insurgent campaign for the nomination after emerging from a year in prison following his conviction for conspiring to violate mine safety laws. Morrisey, who has served as the state’s attorney general since 2013, picked up support early in the race from the party establishment.

In a victory speech, Morrisey said that “for too long the Washington elites have looked down on West Virginia and our values.”

“Our victory will ensure that West Virginia rises again,” he said.

Thank you West Virginia. “Elite protected him and disconnected from their responsibility to me,” Noel told HuffPost.

Another commenter, hair and makeup artist Dawn Jacobson, said she saw agencies regularly endanger models when she worked in Milan in the ’80s. According to her, companies sent young women to live in residences ― one of which was reportedly known as “Clitoride,” Italian for “clitoris” ― where they were preyed on by wealthy Italian men. “I think the agencies have massive culpability because they don’t necessarily care about anything other than who gets the booking,” the 59-year-old, who still works in fashion, told HuffPost. “It becomes a little bit of a human trafficking kind of thing. Now it’s onto defeating Liberal Joe Manchin in November. #wvsen https://t.co/IlFqJZIoBC pic.twitter.com/5CfZL74nTT — AG Patrick Morrisey (@MorriseyWV) May 9, 2018

In the days ahead of the vote, with internal polls showing Blankenship surging, the establishment mounted a last-minute effort to make sure he didn’t become the nominee. Blankenship was the chief executive of Massey Energy when the company’s Upper Big Branch mine exploded in 2010, killing 29 miners.

To the great people of West Virginia we have, together, a really great chance to keep making a big difference. Problem is, Don Blankenship, currently running for Senate, can’t win the General Election in your State...No way! Remember Alabama. Vote Rep. Jenkins or A.G. Morrisey! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) May 7, 2018

Responding to Trump’s tweet, Blankenship predicted on Monday that he would not only win the primary but that he would “beat Joe Manchin even without the support of the establishment.”

Instead, Morrisey will face two-term incumbent Sen. Joe Manchin, the president’s most dependable Democrat in the Senate, who cruised to an easy victory Tuesday over progressive primary challenger Paula Jean Swearengin to secure the Democratic nomination. Despite voting in favor of the White House’s agenda 61 percent of the time, the president has targeted Manchin, the lone Democratic senator in a state Trump won by 42 percentage points in 2016 and remains extremely popular.

Trump first waded into the race last month at a roundtable event on taxes in White Sulphur Springs. Standing beside Morrisey and Jenkins, he called on voters to oust Manchin. Blankenship did not receive an invitation.

“We have to get more Republicans in office,” Trump said. “You’re going to have a chance to get a senator that’s going to vote our program. That’s going to help you in so many ways.

AdvertisementThe FBI and the Department of Justice are investigating Cambridge Analytica, the now-defunct data firm involved in a massive data breach in March, The New York Times reported Tuesday.

News of the investigation comes roughly two months after the London-based company was accused of secretly harvesting the personal data of at least 87 million Facebook users to better identify individuals that could be targeted and influenced by specific marketing material.

Federal investigators have reportedly questioned potential witnesses, including former employees and banks that conducted business with the company, a U.S.”

Blankenship tried to paint Jenkins and Morrisey as establishment pawns, while mainstream Republican groups poured money into the race in hopes of keeping Blankenship off the ticket.

Because the president spoke of “chain migration” in such a derogatory way, anti-Trump liberals immediately assumed that the phrase was inherently insulting. MSNBC correspondent Joy Reid typically charged that “the president is saying that the only bill he will approve of must end what they call ‘chain migration’ which is actually a term we in the media should just not use! Because quite frankly it’s not a real thing, it’s a made up term... [and] so offensive! It’s shocking to me that we’re just adopting it wholesale because [White House adviser] Stephen Miller wants to call it that. Upper Big Branch had made Blankenship the face of greed and recklessness for many West Virginians. A group with ties to Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell aired anti-Blankenship advertisements, and McConnell prodded Trump to get involved and weigh in on behalf of Jenkins and Morrisey. Blankenship had dubbed McConnell “Cocaine Mitch” and created a firestorm when he referred to the Kentucky senator’s father-in-law as a “Chinaperson” and later defended his use of the racist term. McConnell’s political team trolled Blankenship late Tuesday, posting a graphic of the senator in a cloud of cocaine with the words, “Thanks for playing, Don.”

If Morrisey wins on Nov. 6, it would mark a milestone in the president’s takeover of what was once known as the bluest state in America. The state’s other senator, Shelley Capito, is a Republican who worked closely with the White House on rolling back environmental regulations to bolster coal. Last August, Gov. Jim Justice, a billionaire coal executive, announced his decision to switch parties and become a Republican at a rally with Trump. All three of the state’s U.S. representatives are Republicans. The GOP commands majorities in the state Senate and House of Delegates, and it controls five of six offices of the executive branch.

But Morrisey faces a formidable opponent in Manchin. The 36-year veteran of West Virginia politics has served as governor and secretary of state and enjoys the advantage of incumbency and the biggest war chest in the race. Manchin handily defeated his primary opponent, progressive activist Paula Jean Swearengin, on Tuesday and raised nearly $6 million by last month. That’s far ahead of Morrisey’s $1.9 million.

Vice President Mike Pence was among those who congratulated Morrisey on his victory. “The great people of [West Virginia] need a senator who supports the #MAGA agenda,” he posted to Twitter.

Congratulations to @MorriseyWV on his victory tonight. @RealDonaldTrump and I look forward to working with him. The great people of WV need a senator who supports the #MAGA agenda. — Mike Pence (@mike_pence) May 9, 2018