WASHINGTON ― President Donald Trump’s decision to withdraw from the Iran nuclear deal will weaken U.S. relationships around the world and create problems that U.S. foreign policy will be grappling with for years, but it’s also a boon for the U.S. rival that American intelligence said helped Trump get elected: Russia.

Trump’s move will likely lead toward progress on Russian President Vladimir Putin’s two chief goals: splintering the U.S.-led alliance of democratic powers that currently dominates global affairs and fortifying Russia’s alternative network, which includes Iran and its partners across the Middle East. They didn’t just see it as gay love. They saw two men they could look up to, capable of loving one another fully despite the adversities that they have faced.



In which ways do you see your relationship as a queer couple represented in conversations about black love, if any?



Kellan and I speak about this often when it comes to our parents, our friends and the media. We are the only black gay couple our friends know. They tell us quite often.

A split between the U.S. and its three most powerful allies — France, Germany and the U.K. — was clear immediately after Trump’s announcement. The leaders of the latter three countries issued a joint statement expressing “regret and concern” and saying they want to sustain the Iran agreement, which promised Iran some freedom from international sanctions in exchange for limits on and guarantees of transparency about its nuclear development. They reiterated what Trump’s own military advisers and new secretary of state have said: Iran is abiding by the deal.

“America moves further away from our key allies, which has implications that are extremely important and detrimental,” said Rep. John Garamendi (D-Calif.), a prominent member of the House Armed Services Committee.

The U.S. committed to the 2015 nuclear agreement with Iran, Germany, France, Russia, China and the U.K. All the other countries plan to stay in the accord.

The U.S. and Europe have always had disputes. But the worry is that something fundamental is shifting.

Trump’s reneging on past U.S. commitments on Iran and climate change, along with his willingness to wage a trade war with Europe and continuously misrepresent NATO, has made it hard for America’s foreign partners to think he truly sees them as friends.

That the president made his Tuesday announcement despite warnings from his own party’s top national security voices and independent experts reminds other countries that they can’t assume that U.S. supporters of traditional diplomacy and international norms will be able to keep American relationships on track. The implicit promise of an experienced, largely bureaucratic foreign service is that it brings professionalism and longterm thinking to whatever policy an elected official wants to pursue ― and on Tuesday, U.S. diplomats didn’t even have a plan for next steps after Trump’s speech.

The Europeans would prefer that the U.S. continue to operate as it traditionally did, said Federiga Bindi, a former official in the Italian government and a senior fellow at Johns Hopkins University’s School of Advanced International Studies. “I think with [the Iran deal announcement] they start to see who Trump really is. The U.S. is never going to recover from that.”

The Trump administration did try to soften the blow of the announcement. The president spoke of developing future Iran policy alongside foreign partners. And a White House statement said foreign companies that began work in Iran under the terms of the accord ― including some huge European firms ― would have a grace period to exit before potentially being hit with U.S.

This could all have gone wildly awry; a script is only as good as the actors who bring it to life. Often Lifetime movies are fronted by former teen soap stars who check only one acting skill box, like “sexy squinting” or “natural-seeming laugh” or “looks like she’s really drinking coffee even though it’s an empty cup.”

But Parisa Fitz-Henley, as Meghan, and Murray Fraser, as Harry, are top-shelf Lifetime talents.

(Fun aside: Fraser is only 23, just a couple of years out of the London Academy of Music and Dramatic Art. Fitz-Henley is 41! Talk about goddamn female empowerment. Let’s cast more movies in which the woman is decades older than her male costar.)

When Harry and Meghan engage in first-date banter about his showing up 40 minutes late, it could easily have been a cringingly wooden exchange of quips. I mean, “It would really hurt my street cred to be seen in public with a guy who can’t tell time” is barely even a joke. But Fraser and Fitz-Henley deliver their lines like two people actually trying to impress each other on a date, not like two community theater actors doing a first table read, and I ate up every second of it. When they laughed, I laughed. When they caught their breath and leaned in for a kiss, I caught my breath and leaned toward the TV, which was unreceptive to my advances.

Or maybe it was the wine.

Look, “Harry and Meghan: A Royal Romance” is the type of movie best enjoyed with basement-level expectations.”

Ultimately the film “explores the ups and downs of the parent-child relationship through the colorful, rich, and tasty lens of the Chinese immigrant community in Canada,” the statement says.

Domee Shi, the director of the short, is an immigrant herself. She was born in Chongqing, China and lived in Toronto, Canada, for much of her life. The story, the release notes, draws from Shi’s experiences as an only child living in Toronto’s Chinese community.

AdvertisementKeiynan Lonsdale has followed up his already acclaimed performance in the movie “Love, Simon” by releasing a new song with a similarly queer-inclusive theme.

Lonsdale told Billboard that “Kiss the Boy” ― which debuted Wednesday on YouTube, Spotify and other streaming platforms ― was inspired by “Kiss the Girl” from Disney’s “The Little Mermaid,” as well as his role in “Love, Simon.”

The 26-year-old actor-singer plays Bram, a high school soccer jock and one of several possible love interests for the movie’s closeted gay protagonist, Simon (Nick Robinson). sanctions that Trump wants to reapply.

But that only underscored how U.totally predictable given acceptance rates.) https://t.co/wflA4hWHXY — Laura Ingraham (@IngrahamAngle) March 28, 2018

Lauren Hogg defended her brother:

How low are your ratings @IngrahamAngle that you have to start attacking my brother’s grades to get attention? If you ask me, he is more articulate than you and has far better character. Man, that’s real low even for you. Coming from a 14 year old, please grow up.S. priorities now diverge from those of its longtime allies. European leaders are committed to the Iran deal because they believe it prevents the spread of nuclear weapons and they know Iran will not stay in unless it receives some economic benefit. So now those same leaders, Bindi said, must try to shield their companies from U.S. sanctions by, for instance, helping them create ways to do business in Iran that can’t be disturbed by American regulators. But there’s only so much time in the day. It’s unlikely that European officials will focus much on trying to craft the “better deal” Trump pledged, particularly because the president didn’t seem to care about the months of work they and their American counterparts put into negotiations for side agreements that he had suggested might help convince him to stay in the deal.

Meanwhile, in Moscow, Putin began his fourth term in office this week with a chance to show that unlike the U.S., Russia does abide by international promises like the Iran agreement.” - Eszter Imrényi, a 25-year-old student

This is Hungary’s second general election since Orbán’s government changed the election law to switch from two rounds of voting to just one, making it more difficult for voters who oppose Fidesz to rally around a single opposition candidate.

Orbán relies on strong support in rural areas and on the votes of hundreds of thousands of ethnic Hungarians living in neighboring countries, whom he granted voting rights following his election win in 2010.

“This was the first government that gave us the same rights as the natives,” said Orsolya Laura Peterfy, a 35-year-old English teacher who was born in Romania. “This government helped us with money and support.”

People wait in line to vote during Hungarian parliamentary elections at a polling station in Budapest, Hungary, on April 8, 2018. Bernadett Szabo / Reuters

Even among voters who oppose Orbán, few believed this was a vote he could lose. Instead, they hoped that this vote would limit his power and send a message that many in the country don’t support his rule.

“This election is not about to win over Fidesz, because we don’t have a chance,” said Gabor Bone, a 45-year-old chef lining up to vote on Sunday afternoon.

“It’s just to make sure in four years time we have the chance to vote again, and that time we’re gonna win.”The number of Facebook users whose data political research firm Cambridge Analytica obtained “absolutely” could be higher than Facebook’s recent estimate of 87 million, according to whistleblower Christopher Wylie.

Wylie, who helped found Cambridge Analytica and worked at the firm until 2014, said some news outlets were “playing it safe” when initially reporting that 50 million Facebook users’ data had been improperly shared with the company.

“When you’re working with The Guardian and New York Times, for example, they are very thorough with making sure that anything they publish is checked, double-checked, and if there’s any questions about a number ― for example, how many records ― they’ll go with the most conservative estimate,” Wylie told NBC’s Chuck Todd during a Sunday appearance on “Meet The Press.

The accord was useful for Russia because it wanted to avoid more countries gaining nuclear weapons and thereby making one of its own assets less valuable. “It never really was comfortable with Iran’s potential for breakout,” said Michael Stephens of the Royal United Services Institute in London.

But a world in which U.S. credibility is in the gutter and the deal is in tatters is hardly a nightmare scenario for Putin.

As the U.S. puts more economic pressure on Iran, the Islamic republic will find it harder to acquire friends. That leaves Tehran with Moscow. Though the two are uneasy partners, they have cooperated to combat international initiatives that might challenge their own interests. In Syria, for instance, they fight side-by-side and present a united front in global organizations to defend their mutual friend Syrian President Bashar Assad.

Hard-liners in Tehran want to deepen that relationship. In the process, they seek to boost the sense of righteous resistance to the West that keeps aggressive nationalism strong among their base and ensure that their country remains a Putin-style autocratic society, rather than gaining more exposure to the Western liberties that many ordinary Iranians have clamored for.

A more isolated and paranoid Iran means “the Russians gain geostrategically,” said Reza Marashi, the research director at the National Iranian American Council and a former State Department official.

The United States, he added, is helping reinforce a perception that the Russians want to strengthen: that today Washington may hold sway in the southern half of the Middle East, but the north ― including key areas in Syria, Iraq, Iran and Turkey ― is under Moscow’s influence.