New York gubernatorial challenger Cynthia Nixon took more swipes at incumbent Gov. Andrew Cuomo (D) this week and even introduced a catchy phrase: “Vote for the homo, not for the Cuomo.”

On Tuesday, Nixon gave her rebuttal to the annual Legislative Correspondents Association dinner in a speech replete with snarky comments and witticisms about Cuomo.

“Cuomo thinks that I should stick to acting, but after seeing Cuomo try to play the part of a progressive, I think he should stick to politics,” said the former “Sex and the City” star.

“His performance has not been very convincing of late.”

My friend and I went to the #BlackPanther premier and he was brutally beaten for “not belonging there” by an angry group who did not have tickets. Very sad, night ruined pic.

“We have accepted Mr. Allman’s resignation, and his show has been canceled,” a Sinclair spokesman told The Washington Post on Monday.

Allman, former spokesman for the St. Louis Archdiocese, also hosts a radio show on KFTK, a conservative station.

Since the mass shooting, Hogg has become an advocate for gun control, which has led to both conspiracy theories and personal attacks from the right.

On March 28, Fox News host Laura Ingraham mocked him for not getting accepted into four of the colleges he had applied to (one of which has since accepted him).twitter.com/Con2bmU2Ag — . (@WHIT3IV3RS0N_) February 16, 2018

In multiple cases, people lying about attacks have been easily exposed by tools like reverse image searches, which can reveal whether a particular picture has appeared online before and in what context. You can conduct a reverse image search on Google Images by uploading an image there, dragging and dropping an image into the search bar, pasting an image URL in the search bar, or right-clicking on a photo and selecting “search Google for image,” depending on what internet browser you’re using.

Another good resource is TinEye, which lets you upload an image to determine where it first appeared online and how the image may or may not have been modified from the original.The president's new Twitter banner is a photo of him smiling and giving a thumbs up while meeting tonight with police officers who responded to the massacre of 17 people, most of them students, at a high school in Parkland pic.twitter.com/3NoH95CqKQAmerican alpine skier Lindsey Vonn sent a message to the internet trolls who bombarded her with abuse after she missed out on a Winter Olympics medal on Saturday. You might say he’s an unqualified thespian,” Nixon added.

Her comment was a nod to former New York City Council speaker and mayoral candidate Christine Quinn’s dismissal of Nixon as an “unqualified lesbian.” Quinn later apologized, but the phrase lives on.

Drew Angerer via Getty Images

Nixon also dinged Cuomo for appearing to change his stances on climate change, restoring voting rights, banning plastic bags and more since she announced her candidacy.

“It’s called the ‘Cynthia Effect’... Before this campaign is over, he’ll be getting arrested, protesting his own administration,” she quipped.

But none of Nixon’s remarks got as much applause as her “Vote for the homo, not for the Cuomo” line, which has historical precedent. During the 1977 New York City mayoral campaign, when Ed Koch ran against Cuomo’s father, Mario Cuomo, flyers appeared that read, “Vote for Cuomo, Not the Homo.”

Nixon ended her remarks by suggesting that the younger Cuomo come out of the closet ... as a Republican.Ontario-born filmmaker Joshua M.twitter.com/f6d5bN2EHq — Gwen C. Katz (@gwenckatz) March 30, 2018

Whitney Reynolds, the host of a podcast called “I Haven’t Seen That” caught wind of Katz’s post and posed this question on Twitter: “describe yourself like a male author would.”

new twitter challenge: describe yourself like a male author would — Jonathan Franzia (@whitneyarner) April 1, 2018

Needless to say, the responses were excellent. Women wrote descriptions inspired by authors such as George R.R. Martin (“Her small breasts moved freely beneath a painted Dothraki vest”), Jack Kerouac (“Her breasts stuck out straight and true; her little flanks looked delicious”) and many, many, many others.

Here is a sampling of their poignant brilliance:

I had big honking teeters, just enormous bosoms, and I thought about them constantly as I walked down the street, using my legs (thick, with big shapely calves), but never not thinking about my enormo honkers, https://t. Ferguson was the province’s first known recipient of a non-binary birth certificate last week. Kathryn8 / Getty Images

In what’s being hailed as a milestone for transgender rights, residents of Ontario, Canada, can now identify as “male,” “female” or “X” on their birth certificates or remove the gender designation altogether.

Ontario-born filmmaker Joshua M. Ferguson was the province’s first known recipient of a non-binary birth certificate last week. Ferguson, who does not identify as a man or a woman and uses the gender-neutral pronouns “they” and “their,” received their birth certificate ― which features an “X” instead of an “M” or “F” ― on May 4.

Ontario’s government said its revised birth certificate policy aims to “recognize and respect all transgender and non-binary people” and “give all Ontarians access to identification that matches their gender identity,” according to ServiceOntario’s website. The province issued its first gender-neutral driver’s licenses and health identification cards last year.

Ferguson hailed the news as “a victory for me and the community” in a Twitter post on Monday.

I've now received my non-binary birth certificate from Ontario! It's a victory for me and the community! Service Ontario's new two-fold policy for birth certificates sets a historic precedent and is now available: https://t.

Pennsylvania also lags behind in its female representation at the state government level, with women comprising just 19 percent of the members of its legislature.Oprah Winfrey is continuing to rally behind the young survivors of this month’s deadly school shooting in Parkland, Florida, calling them “warriors of the light” and comparing them to the activists of the civil rights movement.

Winfrey made that powerful comparison on Saturday when asked about the students’ determination to end gun violence in schools and push for stricter firearm regulation following the Feb. 14 attack at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School that left 17 people dead.

“It’s a proud moment; it’s an evolving moment for our country,” she told The Associated Press of the students’ persistence for change. “These young people get to be literally warriors of the light.”

Similar determination for change, Winfrey noted, was seen in the 1950s and ’60s during the civil rights movement.

“Young people said, ‘We will not tolerate what our ancestors have tolerated. We’ve had enough and we’re willing to fight for it and we’re willing to march in the streets for it and, if necessary, die for it,’” Winfrey said.

Oprah Winfrey has compared the young survivors of this month's school shooting in Parkland, Florida, who are pushing for social change to the civil rights activists in the 1950s and '60s. Steve Granitz via Getty Images

Winfrey said she hasn’t decided whether she will attend the March 24 March for Our Lives demonstration in Washington that the students are organizing. She said she wants the students to “be the leaders of this march.”

“You want to hear from them,” she said.”

“Heimbach’s politics aren’t easy to fit into the usual left-right spectrum; he is a self-proclaimed revolutionary and the socialist in the National Socialist — i.e., Nazi — mode.”

If there were any plans for community engagement beyond those rallies, they were either abandoned or kept under wraps.

After hours of standing in the cold while police waved each individual rallygoer through a metal detector at the event in Shelbyville — where the standard white nationalist fodder was barely audible over speakers blaring Martin Luther King Jr.’s “I have a dream” speech from the counterprotesters across the street — I drove 40 or so miles to Murfreesboro to find that no one from the TWP nor any of the other groups in attendance had even bothered to show up at the second event.

Heimbach was back on the road the following day, heading home to Indiana before flying off to Europe to speak to a nationalist group in the Czech Republic.

Heimbach takes an expansive view of his place on the world stage. He’s established ties to nationalist groups from other countries, like the Russian Imperial Movement, the Czech Workers’ Party, and Greece’s far-right nationalist party Golden Dawn. In 2015, he was personally banned from entering the United Kingdom for promoting neo-Nazi and segregationist views. He seems eager to attend any and all events that promote his ideology, from the annual Stormfront summit in Tennessee; to a meeting of the Aryan Terror Brigade, a small, racist skinhead group; to picketing outside the W­­hite House alongside Richard Spencer.

In 2016, Heimbach teamed up with Jeff Schoep, commander of the neo-Nazi National Socialist Movement, to form the Nationalist Front, a coalition of white nationalist groups. Members of the alliance organized rallies in Pikeville, Ky., and Shelbyville, Tenn., last year, and attended the Unite the Right Rally in Charlottesville, Va. “This is their march.”

She said she will do whatever she can to support them.co/sMabJn79Mn pic.twitter.com/KcVb7hlgNL — Joshua M. Ferguson (@joshuamferguson) May 7, 2018

“I am so relieved, because I know this policy will save lives,” they said in an accompanying video, which can be viewed above. “I want trans kids and trans adults to know that you matter. You deserve respect, and you deserve to be officially recognized in Canada.”

Ferguson, 35, initially filed an application for a non-binary birth certificate in May of last year, CBC News reports. Toronto’s ServiceOntario office, however, delayed the request, prompting them to file a complaint with the Human Rights Tribunal of Ontario, arguing that their rights had been violated under the Ontario Human Rights Code.

They expressed their frustrations over the legal battle in a blog post for HuffPost Canada in October, writing, “These delays and denials of our right to correct identification are dangerous for non-binary people and for society as a whole.”

As I stood at the Canadian Tribute to Human Rights monument this morning at a press conference for my non-binary birth certificate, I felt hope in my heart for the time when all of us are valued and respected as human beings. It’s what truly matters. pic.twitter.com/3TQ9lPps4l — Joshua M. Ferguson (@joshuamferguson) May 7, 2018

“As non-binary trans people, we will continue to fight and our conviction is strong,” they added, “but we need our governments to stand up, to join us in this fight and to protect us not in the future, but now.”

Ferguson’s victory follows that of transgender activist Gemma Hickey, who was the first Canadian to receive a non-binary birth certificate, in Newfoundland and Labrador in December, according to CBC.