For over 32 years, CSE Talent has prided itself on our moral and ethical standards and have built a solid reputation within the industry. We take pride in working with people who represent these values.

Eventually, the damp 40-year-old took home a $10,000 check for The Rape Foundation, a group dedicated to helping victims of rape, sexual assault, and child sexual abuse.Michael Bonfigli / The Christian Science Monitor

WASHINGTON ― Former Attorney General Eric Holder, who Republicans portrayed as anti-law enforcement for discussing police racial bias and investigating troubled police departments, said GOP attacks on the FBI and the Justice Department show the Trump administration’s claimed support for law enforcement is hollow.

“I would hope that people will remember the way in which this administration has talked about, has treated the men and women in law enforcement during the Trump investigation, so that when they claim they are pro-law enforcement, that will be seen as the lie that it is,” Holder told HuffPost following the Christian Science Monitor Breakfast on Wednesday.

President Donald Trump and Republicans on Capitol Hill have launched sweeping attacks on the FBI and the Justice Department in an attempt to undermine Special Counsel Robert Mueller’s investigation into the Trump campaign. While some Republicans insist they’re only conducting routine oversight, others have compared the FBI with Russia’s KGB, and said investigators are worse than Watergate. Trump has accused an FBI agent of treason, and a Republican House member has called four top law enforcement officials “traitors to our nation” who should face charges.

Holder, who was attorney general under President Barack Obama, said his work at the Justice Department aimed to rebuild trust between law enforcement and the public by acknowledging and fixing longstanding problems.

The uncharacteristic weather for the city stems from a massive cold front moving over Europe, dubbed by much of British media as “The Beast From the East.com does not have an entry for the word “Yanny,” but HuffPost can confirm that, spelled a little differently, the definition is this:

This is the musician Yanni, with an “i,” not a “y.” YASSER AL-ZAYYAT via Getty Images

The reason the audio sounds slightly distorted is because it’s a recording of the Vocabulary.com’s recording, according to Buzzfeed.

Reddit user RolandCamry posted a short video clip including the audio on the subreddit r/blackmagicfuckery this week. The clip was actually a video of an Instagram poll asking users to vote on which word they heard. It went mega-viral after popular YouTuber Cloe Feldman tweeted it on Monday — sparking the greatest debate of the past three years, right after The Dress debacle of 2015.” The chilly temperatures span from the U.K. to Moscow, and nearly five feet of snow has fallen in areas of Croatia.

A car carrying Swedish Prime Minister Stefan Löfven skidded into a guardrail north of Stockholm during a blizzard, but no one was hurt.

The cold snap is expected to continue for the next few days, peaking on Thursday, U.K. Met Office meteorologist Becky Mitchell told CNN.

The wintery scenes in Rome have made for gorgeous pictures in photos and videos that have been cropping up all over, with the city’s most scenic and historical locales ― the Colosseum, the Vatican, etc. ― often serving as the backdrop.

Two canines get acquainted in front of Rome's Arch of Constantine. But the current attacks by Republicans in service of a political cause will do lasting damage to law enforcement, he said.

It’s unfortunate that CSE Talent aligned itself with someone who didn’t uphold these same standards and therefore we chose to terminate with cause Wood’s employment.Amy Jayne Everett killed herself last week after being cyberbullied, her parents say. Akubra

The suicide of a 14-year-old girl who was once the face of iconic Australian outback hat maker Akubra has left the nation shocked. Her grieving family has launch a campaign to raise awareness of cyberbullying.

Amy “Dolly” Everett, who at 8 years old was an Akubra model, took her own life last week. Her family said her death came after she was victimized by cyberbullies.

A national anti-bullying campaign has been launched in the wake of Dolly’s death, and thousands have paid tribute on social media under the hashtags #doitfordolly.

Her parents, Tick and Kate Everett, thanked the community for its response to their grief and asked for time to celebrate her life.

“This is all we are capable of at the moment and ask for your respect to give us time to grieve,” the family said in a statement to the Australian Broadcasting Corp.

“Our daughter Dolly was the kindest, caring, beautiful soul, and she was always caring for animals, small children, other children at boarding school who were less fortunate than herself.”

A national anti-bullying campaign has begun following the sudden death of a teenager, who was once the face of Akubra. Amy Jayne Everett was better known as Dolly. Her father has posted on social media that bullies convinced his daughter to end her life. #AntiBullying #7News pic.twitter.com/4eoHV3auD9 — 7 News Sydney (@7NewsSydney) January 10, 2018

In an earlier Facebook post, Tick Everett challenged Dolly’s harassers to come to her memorial service later this week “and witness the complete devastation you have created.”

“If we can help other precious lives from being lost and the suffering of so many, then Doll’s life will not be wasted,” he said.

Akubra said in a statement on Facebook that the company was shocked. When Dolly was 8, she was in Christmas advertisements for Australia’s unofficial national hat.

“Dolly chose to end her life last week due to bullying. She was not even 15 years old,” the company said. “To think that anyone could feel so overwhelmed and that this was their only option is unfathomable.

Jenner turned heads (and diverged from the night’s theme) in an Alexander Wang getup complete with tiny sunglasses.

Kylie Jenner and Travis Scott attends Heavenly Bodies: Fashion & The Catholic Imagination Costume Institute Gala at Metropolitan Museum of Art. Jackson Lee via Getty ImagesColumbia's provost issued a letter to the school community on Tuesday saying the university would dispute the legitimacy of its graduate student union in court. Eduardo Munoz / Reuters

Columbia University’s graduate students voted overwhelmingly to unionize in late 2016, in an election certified by the federal government. But as far as the Ivy League school’s administration is concerned, the whole union thing was just a grad student fantasy ― one that President Donald Trump may help dissipate.

In a letter Tuesday, Provost John H. Coatsworth told the school community that Columbia does not recognize the union’s legitimacy and intends to fight it in court. The school has dragged its feet on bargaining with the union, and Coatsworth’s letter makes clear Columbia will take the fight as far as it can, regardless of any damage the university’s reputation may suffer.

Coatsworth acknowledged the decision to challenge the union wouldn’t be a popular one among students and alumni.

“Bullying of any type is unacceptable. It is up to us to stand up when we see any kind of bullying behaviour.”

According to the National Centre Against Bullying, 1 in 5 Australian children reported being bullied in the past 12 months. The Australian Institute of Family Studies says about 10 percent to 20 percent of children and young people have been cyberbullied.

The family of 14-year-old Amy Everett, nicknamed Dolly, who took her own life last week after being the victim of cyberbullying, are paying tribute to her saying she was a "caring, beautiful soul." #Studio10 pic.twitter.com/ojKClxKHfp — Studio 10 (@Studio10au) January 10, 2018

In response to a post about Dolly, Australia’s internet safety commissioner, Julie Inam-Grant, said her office is committed to fighting online bullying.

“This is a global fight and we need to figure out the best strategies to call out abuse and disrespect when we see it and encourage young people to report and seek help,” she said on Twitter.

“They are not alone - there is a Global alliance of people that want to help support & empower.

Walker’s assessment of Florida’s system was scathing. He wrote that Florida’s system for choosing which felons got the right to vote back was “worse than a coin flip.” He noted the board had been more favorable in some cases to those who had conservative views than those who had not, a violation of the First Amendment’s guarantee of free speech and the 14th amendment’s guarantee of equal protection under the law.Oklahoma Gov. Mary Fallin (R) is facing criticism after she likened teachers who are demanding raises and improved education funding to a teenager asking for a new car.

“Teachers want more,” Fallin told CBS News on Tuesday as thousands of striking educators descended upon the state Capitol in Oklahoma City. “But it’s kind of like having a teenage kid that wants a better car.”

We are like teens who want a better car right? pic.twitter.com/CmO4QX81C8 — Nicky Logue Ryan (@only1mrsryan) April 3, 2018

Hey @GovMaryFallin I would love a new car but all I really want is funding for my students. — Travis Sloat (@tstyles77) April 4, 2018

Let's be clear @GovMaryFallin – my sister wants diapers for her special education students, not a new car. #OklahomaTeachersWalkout #Oked — Shruggy Spice (@sonnijayne) April 4, 2018

Fallin’s tone-deaf remark further infuriated teachers already frustrated with state lawmakers’ failure to meet their demands.

Tens of thousands of educators across Oklahoma have been on strike since Monday. They’re seeking a $200 million bump in education funding, a $10,000 raise over three years for teachers and a $5,000 raise for support staff.”