Film director Roman Polanski during the Netia Off Camera film festival in Krakow, Poland, on May 2, 2018. NurPhoto via Getty Images

Roman Polanski thinks the ongoing Me Too reckoning is “total hypocrisy.

“You expect to use your love for me and our love for each other to actually get me to betray my nation, and I would kill you first.”

The director, who pleaded guilty to raping a 13-year-old girl in 1977, told Newsweek Polska that the movement highlighting sexual violence in workplaces around the world is “collective hysteria,” The Associated Press reported Wednesday. Polanski argued that people are embracing the Me Too movement “chiefly out of fear.” According to the AP, he “compared it to North Korea’s public mourning for its leaders that is so intensive that ‘you can’t stop laughing.’”

Polanski gave the interview a few days before the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences, which administers the Oscars, expelled him and comedian Bill Cosby, after the latter was convicted in April for sexual assault. The interview was published this week.

The 84-year-old has resided in France since he fled the U.

Judges sent Zaleha Kadir Olpin home on a recent episode of the cooking competition after the Malaysia-born chef made traditional chicken rendang ― a dish that’s typically made with stewed meat.

Food critic and show judge Gregg Wallace, who’s white and from the U.K., criticized the chicken skin in Olpin’s dish, saying it “isn’t crispy.” He also complained about the sauce on the chicken, saying he couldn’t eat the dish if it was prepared this way.

Wallace has since walked back on his comments, claiming that he didn’t mean the skin should be crispy, but rather he meant that her food “simply wasn’t cooked. It was white and flabby,” he told morning show Good Morning Britain. He added that the contestant was eliminated because “the other cooks were better.S. after pleading guilty to raping then-13-year-old Samantha Geimer. Polanski has also been accused of sexual assault by several other women. Some of those incidents allegedly occurred when the accusers were minors.Rep. Devin Nunes (R-Calif. “Tastes bitter, like the ashes of our democracy.”Life comes at you fast. In January 2018, it appeared to come even faster. Chris Wattie / Reuters

Bains said the episode occurred while he was returning to Toronto in April 2017 after an economic meeting with Michigan’s governor and Ohio’s lieutenant governor.

Bains told La Presse he was asked to undergo a swab test, an additional security procedure, after he passed through metal detectors at the airport. He said he had no issues with that. But when the officer had trouble with the machine, Bains said, he was asked to remove his turban. He refused.

“I will never be asked to take off my clothes. It’s the same thing. It’s a piece of linen,” he told La Presse, according to a translation provided by the CBC.

On Wednesday’s broadcast of “The Late Late Show,” host James Corden celebrated the end of the month by summing up its “insane” accelerated news cycle.) is a longtime investor in a winery that was sued in 2016 for auctioning off a yacht party that allegedly involved cocaine and prostitutes, The Fresno Bee reported.

Alene Anase, a former employee of Alpha Omega Winery, said the company had auctioned a 2015 cruise aboard its yacht for charity. Anase was asked to serve the 25 winning bidders, who were all men, according to court documents the Bee posted online. No owners or investors were on the cruise, the winery told the Bee.

According to the lawsuit:

“Plaintiff realized that the men had brought prostitutes, hard liquor, and what appeared to be cocaine onto the Yacht. Plaintiff was extremely disturbed by the presence of the prostitutes, especially because it appeared that some of the girls were too young to consent to sexual activity.”

Anase’s lawsuit was eventually settled for an undisclosed amount, according to the Bee. The suit included six allegations, including sexual harassment, emotional distress and retaliation.

The men aboard the yacht “consumed large quantities of alcohol and a white substance Plaintiff understood to be cocaine,” the suit alleged, saying that at least one of the men approached Anase for sexual services and stated that she feared being sexually assaulted.

According to the lawsuit, when Anase complained, the company’s marketing director allegedly ordered her to “‘lie low’ and try to do as little as possible in order to avoid harassment. “They’re putting people that are here illegally over our troops.”

Republicans control only 51 seats in the Senate, and the funding bill needed 60 votes to pass, so Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.) needed at least nine Democrats to vote for the bill ― and probably more, since several Republicans, including Graham, had said they opposed the House bill on the grounds that it only funded the government for four weeks. Late Friday, 44 Democrats and five Republicans voted no on the stopgap measure; 45 Republicans and five Democrats voted for it. Sen. John McCain was not present for the vote.

In other words, it wasn’t just Senate Democrats who didn’t support the Republican bill to keep the government from shutting down.

Republicans argued that Democratic DACA demands were extraneous to the continuing resolution to fund the government, which was true in the sense that the immigration policy is unrelated to spending levels. But along with tax reform and military spending, immigration has easily been one of the top policy debates on Capitol Hill for months ― and it is ostensibly a shared priority of both parties. It didn’t come out of nowhere.”

The suit also claimed that Anase received counseling for psychological trauma, took medication for anxiety and depression, and suffered from panic and sleep problems, all as a result of the cruise.

Wine Business reported on the lawsuit in 2016 and said Alpha Omega Winery had continued to auction cruises for charity after the incident.

“We refined our policies for the charitable donation of the yacht immediately upon learning of the incident and before a lawsuit was filed,” winery spokeswoman Kelly Carter told the website at the time.

Robin Baggett, whom the Bee describes as a friend of Nunes, owns Alpha Omega Winery. It’s not clear how big of a stake Nunes has in the business, but the Bee reported that he is one of at least 50 investors, investing between $50,000 and $100,000 after selling his dairy farm in 2006 and earning between $2,501 and $5,000 from his investment in 2016.

The House Intelligence Committee chairman has not spoken much about the winery publicly over the years. However, when Time asked in 2010 what he would be doing if he wasn’t in politics, he said, “I’d be making wine and cheese.”

He did not comment on the yacht allegations, according to the Bee.