

Facebook first learned in 2015 that Cambridge Analytica was harvesting users’ data but failed to follow up after the firm allegedly promised to delete the information, Sheryl Sandberg, Facebook’s chief operating officer, said in April.A first kiss with a romantic partner is a important rite of passage for anyone, but the significance is even greater for LGBTQ people who are coming to terms with their sexuality or gender identity.A producer of Childish Gambino’s “This Is America” music video revealed new details about its much-discussed meanings and hidden references.”) Markle has been to various regions of the country, but, according to an archive of The Tig on Wayback Machine, she wrote, ”And perhaps at the top of the list for Italy’s bragging rights is The Amalfi Coast.”

Jamaica

DeAgostini via Getty Images Jamaica's beaches are nice (and that's putting it mildly), but Markle might not want to honeymoon on the island since it was reported she married her first husband, Trevor Engelson, here.

Last year, Harry brought Markle along as his date to a friend’s wedding in Jamaica. Some sites reported that the couple were the butt of jokes from their friends that they were next to walk down the aisle. (Boy, were they right.) This destination might actually be a no-go, though, since it was reported that Markle married her first husband, Trevor Engelson, in Jamaica. Maybe she’s ready to put it behind her?

New Zealand

DeAgostini via Getty Images Hahei Beach could be a lovely place for the newlyweds to hang.

According to Wayback Machine, Markle blogged about her experience exploring New Zealand while traveling in a camper van for a couple of weeks.

“With a landscape that ranges from stunning lakes, welcoming wine country, glaciers, forest, farmland and beaches, New Zealand is undoubtedly spectacular,” she wrote.

Harry has also visited while performing his royal duties, so he’ll probably have recommendations, too. Why? Because we’ve come much too far from where we started. You see, nobody ever told us that our roads would be easy, but I know ... our God didn’t bring us this far to leave us.

Ibra Ake, a writer for FX’s “Atlanta” and the creative director for Childish Gambino, whose real name is Donald Glover, opened up about the viral video in an interview Tuesday with WNYC radio.

“We try to make stuff in a vacuum in a way where we’re not influenced by what was made before us, which usually ― in the media specifically ― comes from a white world and a white infrastructure,” Ake told Tanzina Vega, host of WNYC’s “The Takeaway.”

“This Is America,” which has been viewed more than 50 million times on YouTube since its Saturday debut, has been dissected over and over again by hordes of fans, art critics and activists. Many viewers applauded the video for its powerful commentary on black oppression and gun violence in America.

“We reduced it to a feeling ― a very black feeling, a very violent feeling, but also a very fun feeling,” Ake said of the video, which features Childish Gambino and a crew of schoolchildren Gwara Gwara dancing as the world literally burns in the background.

“If you’re at the club and there’s a shooting outside, you still have to go get food afterwards and you have to compartmentalize that,” Ake said about the video’s vacillation between chaos and joy, violence and dance. “Being marginalized is compartmentalizing trauma to exist in the world. I cant stop being black because of trauma and discrimination. I still have to live life and forge on.”

“Being marginalized is compartmentalizing trauma to exist in the world. I cant stop being black because of trauma and discrimination. “If you say your city is going to grow, that means you need another fire station, more schools, more staff. I still have to live life and forge on.” - Ibra Ake, "This Is America" producer and "Atlanta" writer

Ake discussed some under-the-radar references, like Childish Gambino’s facial expressions being partially inspired by Jim Carey in 1994′s “The Mask.” He also confirmed some of the more popular theories about references to Jim Crow and the late Fela Kuti, the legendary Nigerian musician whose look and dance moves were heavily incorporated in the video.

″Our goal is to normalize blackness,” Ake said. “This is how we would like to dance, but we have to be aware of the danger and the politics of how we’re perceived and the implications of the history of how we were treated.”

“There’s all this math you’re constantly doing expressing yourself,” he continued. “We’re trying to not have to explain ourselves to others and just exist, and not censor what our existence looks like as people.”

Although Childish Gambino has been called a genius and one of the most important voices of our generation for “This Is America,” some have criticized the video for its depiction of violence against black people.D. Gordon, who was the Trump campaign’s director of national security, told media outlets including Reuters in November that Sessions strongly opposed Papadopoulos’ proposal and said no one should speak of it again.

I just don’t find depictions of graphic trauma/ violence particularly artful, esp in the context of state/ hateful violence against Black people, esp in a short form music video. My PTSD is real, but even if that weren’t a factor, I’m not sure I’d be able to stomach it. — Brittany Luse (@bmluse) May 6, 2018

I just don’t find depictions of graphic trauma/ violence particularly artful, esp in the context of state/ hateful violence against Black people, esp in a short form music video. My PTSD is real, but even if that weren’t a factor, I’m not sure I’d be able to stomach it. — Brittany Luse (@bmluse) May 6, 2018

Ake responded to Luse’s comments Tuesday.

“I definitely feel her,” Ake said. “I think that’s just the nature of where we are and we don’t control that. I [know] a lot of people of color who, when we’re seeing a lot of images of violence ― especially against us ― have to take a break and cry in the bathroom and go back to work. That’s just part of life in America.”