Illustration: Damon Dahlen/HuffPost Photos: Getty

Terry Crews is not here for any macho-man bullshit.

What’s your experience been like as a straight black man, coming forward as a sexual assault survivor?

Well, it’s really, really hard because you’re going up against a mindset that has been ingrained in our culture for a long, long time. The big thing I’ve encountered is that people expect a guy like me to always be tough. But, the thing is, as a black man, the only time you’re really recognized as being victimized is when you’re dead. Otherwise you don’t get hurt, you don’t get tired ... it’s like people think you’re supposed to jump through the air and dunk from one place to the next.

One thing I’ve realized is that, as George Orwell said, “In times of universal deceit, telling the truth becomes a revolutionary act.” I’m just telling my truth. I’m saying what happened to me. I’m not speaking for anyone else. I’m just saying that this is ridiculous, and this is not acceptable. No one ― no man, no woman, no child ― should ever put up with being treated less than human. Ever.

“As a black man, the only time you’re really recognized as being victimized is when you’re dead.” - Terry Crews

America’s full of conspiracy theories, but you can never really prove a conspiracy. But complicity ― complicity is a whole other matter. You can prove complicity. Complicity is a system. Complicity is when you look the other way. Complicity is when no one steps forward, no one actually does anything about these wrongs. That’s a complicit system. That is what we have.

At the Women in the World conference a few weeks ago, you said “masculinity can be a cult.” Can you talk to me a bit more about that?

I love being a man. I’m a dad. I’m a husband. I love what being a man is. But when you’ve twisted up the definition, when all of a sudden I have to do everything you say in order to be a man ― that’s a cult. ’Cause cults are about control. If you step out of line, you’re drinking Kool-Aid and we’ll kill you. That’s the whole point of a cult. Anybody who steps outside of what they deem as this definition of manhood you’re gonna find yourself in the cross-hairs.

I’m guilty of it, too. I’m not here pointing fingers at anybody. I was a card-carrying member, and all the sudden I had the wake-up call of my life. I said to myself, “You got all of this wrong.” I feel like I dodged a bullet because I easily could have lived and died as a member of this thing. I had to be deprogrammed, so to speak.

What do you think are the next steps in the Me Too movement for men, whether as survivors or allies?

Men are scared. Men are very, very scared right now. My thing is to concede. We need men to concede. We need men to say, “You know what? We’re wrong, we goofed that up.” I tell people I think it’s gonna be messy. This is not gonna be a neat, clean transition.

Yeah, these systemic issues are going to take a long time to correct.

Exactly. air attacks under Trump’s new policy for the 16-year-old war.

Taliban militants, fighting to restore their version of strict Islamic law to Afghanistan, announced their usual spring offensive last week and there has been heavy fighting in several areas of the country since.

Police officers help journalists who were injured in the second Kabul blast on Monday, April 30, 2018. Omar Sobhani / Reuters

Islamic State claimed responsibility for the two blasts in the capital, which killed at least 26 people, including four police, and wounded 49 seriously, Hashmat Stanekzai, a senior police official, said. It’s going to take a while because we’re talking about people’s mindsets. We’re talking about very, very strong mindsets.

“I think about it like a wall crumbling,” Bock said. “In terms of ‘Black Panther,’ no studio can say again, ’Oh, black movies don’t travel, overseas interest will be minimal.’”

Stars of the film, including Chadwick Boseman, Lupita Nyong’o and Danai Gurira, have spoken out about the importance of representation in the movie. “Black Panther,” which is set in the fictional country of Wakanda, shows the possibilities of an African society untouched by colonialism and gender inequity.

“I think there’s a thirst for these images,” Boseman told NBC. “There’s a real thirst for black superheroes.”A nun involved in a legal battle over Katy Perry’s bid to buy a Los Angeles convent collapsed and died during a Friday court appearance related to the dispute.

Sister Catherine Rose Holzman, of the Sisters of the Most Holy And Immaculate Heart of the Blessed Virgin Mary, was 89, according to ABC 7. Her cause of death was not immediately clear.

Holzman was among the nuns fighting for the ability to sell their former hilltop convent in Los Feliz to local businesswoman Dana Hollister — a desire in direct opposition to the Archdiocese of Los Angeles’ wish to sell the property to superstar Katy Perry.

The nuns, who haven’t lived in the property since 2011, sold the convent to Hollister in 2015. The L.A. It’s good that we’re talking about it, though. Ten years ago you couldn’t even bring this stuff up. The next generation is learning so young, my son and my daughters are growing up in a different world than their dad did.

What are your thoughts on R. Kelly and the recent campaign to get justice for his victims, specifically justice for black women?

The thing is, there are black men at the Black Lives Matter rally that are looking at a woman and saying, “Bitch, sit down.” And it’s like, wait a minute, this is about equality. But they don’t see women as equal within their own community. So, the R. Kelly thing was like, “Hey man, he’s just being a man.” He’s doing what you do as a guy, if you can get over on ’em do it.

“Men need to be deprogrammed.” - Terry Crews

It’s so crazy to me because, again, men need to be deprogrammed. It’s like this cognitive dissonance that occurs. Women have been saying this forever. Unfortunately, what we need is a man to say stop this. Men have to call out other guys on these issues. Their was no Collusion and there was no Obstruction (the word now used because, after one year of looking endlessly and finding NOTHING, collusion is dead). This is an American disgrace! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) February 3, 2018

The views of these Republicans not only put them at odds with Trump, but also with many of their House colleagues and prominent Fox News hosts who the president relies upon for political insights.

House Speaker Paul Ryan (R-Wis.) also tried to separate the memo from the Mueller probe last week, even as some members of his caucus accused top DOJ and FBI officials of committing treason against the U.S. Speculation continues that the memo will give Trump political cover to have Mueller fired and squelch the probe that has already seen charges brought against four of his campaign aides.

But Gowdy, who was closely involved in drafting the memo, listed a number of aspects of the investigation that have nothing to do with putting Page under surveillance based on the Steele dossier, which was funded by Democratic interests.

“The dossier has nothing to do with the meeting at Trump Tower. The dossier has nothing to do with an email sent by Cambridge Analytica. The dossier really has nothing to do with George Papadopoulos’ meeting in Great Britain.”

Gowdy was referring to Donald Trump Jr.‘s meeting at New York’s Trump Tower during the campaign with a Russian lawyer who promised dirt on Clinton, the Trump campaign’s dealings with Cambridge Analytica, a data firm that may have helped the Russians spread fake news and the disclosure by Trump campaign aide George Papadopoulos’ disclosure to Australia’s top diplomat in Britain that the Russians had negative information on Clinton.

Gowdy also said the memo “doesn’t have anything to do with obstruction of justice” ― possible efforts by Trump and others in his administration to stymie Mueller’s probe.

Women need allyship.

Right. We need someone from the offending party to wake up and say, “We gotta stop this. Henry J. Kaiser Family Foundation

Something else happened instead.” I feel like there are a lot of guys that are now starting to get it, but we need more. I think the most important thing we need to do is to continue to talk. We need to continue this conversation.

After I told my story, I have had thousands and thousands of men, either online or in person, who tell me, “Dude, that happened to me.com/fHJBcjrj52 — ANI UP (@ANINewsUP) April 10, 2018

Six police officers have reportedly been suspended, and a number of other men, including Sengar’s brother, Atul Singh Sengar, have been arrested in connection with the man’s death.

Pappu Singh’s family has called for justice this week, and people across India have reacted with fury to what has been described as a cover-up by law enforcement officials of Sengar’s alleged crime and a failure of the state to protect the teenager and her family.

BRK: BJP MLA Kuldeep Singh Sengar, who has been accused of rape by a Unnao woman, reached UP secretariat to meet CM. Defends himself over allegations pic.twitter.com/TtCWyq6mcr — Rohan Dua (@rohanduaTOI) April 9, 2018

“The police facilitated the beating to death of the father of the girl,” Vrindra Grover, an Indian supreme court lawyer who specializes in sexual assault cases, told Al Jazeera.” They’re like, “Man, thank you, thank you, thank you for saying something.” And that’s how I know I’m doing the right thing.

Advertisement