A Fox News judicial analyst had a warning Wednesday for President Donald Trump: Be careful.

Former Judge Andrew Napolitano referred to recent news reports that the president’s personal lawyer Michael Cohen had accepted about $500,000 worth of payments to a shell company he created from a firm with ties to a Russian oligarch.

“Why was a Russian billionaire giving a half-a-million dollars to the president’s lawyer at the time the lawyer was paying not only Stormy Daniels but, according to Rudy Giuliani, other women to remain silent about their relationships to the president?” Napolitano asked, adding that an indictment could be imminent.

“The president’s lawyer getting indicted can’t be good for the president,” he said.

Napolitano then directed his remarks at Trump: “When the government is attacking your lawyer, it’s attacking you. Mr. President, please be wary of all of this.”

In the past day, more reports have surfaced that major companies, including AT&T and pharmaceutical giant Novartis, gave Cohen’s shell company large sums of money for reasons ranging from “insights” into the new administration to “healthcare policy matters. I’ve given amazing leadership to this agency.”

Israel has been outspoken in his criticism of Florida lawmakers ― many of whom are Republican ― who refuse to push for stricter gun laws.

“If you’re an elected official, and you want to keep things the way they are ― if you want to keep gun laws as they are now ― you will not get re-elected in Broward County,” Israel said earlier this month at a vigil to honor the Parkland victims.

A representative for the Broward County Sheriff’s Office did not immediately respond to HuffPost’s request for comment.

The Florida Department of Law Enforcement (FDLE) announced Sunday that Scott had directed the agency to “investigate the law enforcement response” to the Parkland shooting.

Gov. Rick Scott wants the Florida Department of Law Enforcement to investigate the police shooting response to the Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School shooting pic.twitter.com/OZHBaucxPc — Marc Caputo (@MarcACaputo) February 25, 2018U.S. Olympian Gus Kenworthy on Sunday issued a dig at Ivanka Trump colder than snow on which he skied during the Winter Games. “I can do a little hip-hop, I can do a little trap or whatever, but I’m more of an urban pop [artist].

“So proud of all these people,” he tweeted as Team USA prepared to participate in the closing ceremony for the 2018 Olympics Pyeongchang, South Korea. Kenworthy, who came in 12th place in the slopestyle final, noted that “everyone has worked so hard to make it to the Olympics.”

“Well .”The Rev. Patricia A. Davenport (left) and Rev. Viviane Thomas-Breitfeld are the first African-American women bishops of the Evangelical Lutheran Church in America. Courtesy of The Evangelical Lutheran Church in America

America’s largest Lutheran denomination made history this weekend with the elections of two African-American women as bishops.

The Rev. Patricia A. Davenport holds the distinction of being the first African-American woman bishop in the 3.5 million-member Evangelical Lutheran Church in America (ELCA). Her election on Saturday made her the bishop of the ELCA’s Southeastern Pennsylvania Synod, a region that includes the city of Philadelphia.

One day later, the ELCA’s South-Central Synod of Wisconsin elected Rev. Viviane Thomas-Breitfeld as bishop.

Members of the church and observers hailed the elections as a positive move for the ELCA, which is one of the least racially diverse religious groups in the U.S. Only 2 percent of members identified as black in a 2014 Pew Research Center survey, compared to 96 percent who identified as white.

Davenport was the first African American woman to be a bishop in the ELCA. Courtesy of The Evangelical Lutheran Church in America

The ELCA’s Presiding Bishop Elizabeth Eaton said she hoped the elections are the start of a new chapter for the denomination.

“This is good news for the ELCA,” Eaton told HuffPost in an email. “Both women are leaders who have served our church for years. I think God is opening our eyes to see the giftedness of people of color. I am excited and honored to serve with them.”

The denomination formed in 1988 as the result of a merger between three American Lutheran churches. It traces its roots back to the mid-17th century, when Lutherans from Europe came to America to settle in the Virgin Islands and in the New York area. Further back, the framework for Lutheran beliefs was laid out by the German theologian Martin Luther, a pivotal figure in the Protestant Reformation.

Like other mainline Protestant churches, the ELCA has seen its membership shrink in recent years. She can’t stick her nose outside. She’s much more constrained than I am. Me, every day, I’m out in Paris.”

No wonder she appears to look so grim, Brigitte Macron said. “Everything is interpreted, over-interpreted,” she added, perhaps referring to scrutiny by the media and the public. “She’s a woman with a lot of character but tries to hide it. We didn’t have anything.”

She was able to turn nothing into something that she now says she’s extremely proud of. Young says he’s proud, too, even if he’s a little scared about the Netflix release.

“It’s great that people are accepting it in this age of film,” he said. “Things are so different. I told Daryl this is a palate cleanser between two superhero movies.”Brian Acton, co-founder of WhatsApp Mike Blake / Reuters

A high-profile tech industry billionaire has lent his voice to the #deleteFacebook hashtag in the wake of the Cambridge Analytica data scandal ― Brian Acton, the co-founder of messaging platform WhatsApp, which was bought by Facebook for $19 billion in 2014.

Acton and business partner Jan Koum, former Yahoo employees, founded WhatsApp in 2009. The messaging app, one of the most popular apps in the world, allows users to place phone calls, and send and receive messages free over the internet. Facebook purchased the app in 2014 in a deal of cash and stock worth $19 billion, Facebook’s largest acquisition. Koum remains with the company, but Acton left WhatsApp in 2017 to start his own nonprofit foundation “focused at the intersection of nonprofit, technology and communications.”

On Tuesday, Acton published a short message on his Twitter account:

It was unclear whether he was advocating for others to delete their own accounts or if he was announcing that he would delete his account. Nonetheless, his contribution is just the latest to the #deleteFacebook hashtag, which has exploded this week following damaging revelations that data of 50 million users from the social media platform had been harvested by Cambridge Analytica, a political data firm with links to President Donald Trump’s 2016 campaign. She laughs very easily about everything but shows it less than I do.”

The two first ladies got along swimmingly, said Macron. Melania was “really fun,” she said. “We have the same sense of humor. We laugh a lot together.

Watch a video message from Rev. Patricia A. Davenport below.

Thomas-Breitfeld, 65, was the interim pastor of St. Paul Lutheran Church in Beloit, Wisconsin, and a graduate of Chicago’s McCormick Theological Seminary. She told the Wisconsin State Journal that she hopes she can help the ELCA become more open to change and more relevant to minorities and young adults.

“I think that, sometimes, our beloved ELCA is stuck on just being, ‘Oh, this is the way it is.’ There’s a reason we look the way we look. It’s because we have not valued those who don’t look like us,” she said.“The United States shares the United Kingdom’s assessment that Russia is responsible for the reckless nerve agent attack on a British citizen and his daughter, and we support the United Kingdom’s decision to expel Russian diplomats as a just response. This latest action by Russia fits into a pattern of behavior in which Russia disregards the international rules-based order, undermines the sovereignty and security of countries worldwide, and attempts to subvert and discredit Western democratic institutions and processes. The United States is working together with our allies and partners to ensure that this kind of abhorrent attack does not happen again.”Ricardo Moraes / Reuters

Marielle Franco, a Rio de Janeiro city councilwoman who had become a symbol of hope for many of the city’s poorest residents, was shot and killed Wednesday night in an attack police are preliminarily calling an assassination.

Franco, a black woman from the Socialism and Liberty Party, or PSOL, was a fierce critic of the role of Rio’s police in outbreaks of violence that have gripped the city for the last two years ― there were more than 5,000 homicides in 2016, according to federal data, and police killed more than 900 people that year. She was also opposed to President Michel Temer’s February military intervention, which put the armed forces in control of security across the city.

The murder of a popular advocate for the city’s most vulnerable citizens suggests that an already fraught situation in Rio is about to get even worse.

Franco’s election ― she won the fifth-most votes in 2016′s city council race ― turned her into a beacon of hope for residents of Rio’s favelas, and especially for black women and youth.

Davenport, 63, currently serves as her synod’s director for evangelical mission. She is a graduate of the Lutheran Theological Seminary at Philadelphia.

The pastor told HuffPost that she believes “systemic racism and socio-economics” have contributed to ELCA being one of the least diverse American religious groups. She said it was difficult for the ELCA to sustain congregations in poorer and urban communities. Davenport added a lack of accessibility to higher education among low-income communities limits the pool of pastoral leaders of color.

“And there is White privilege that does not permit equal opportunities for people of color to serve in all three expressions of our denomination: congregations, synods and the national office,” the pastor wrote in an email.

Davenport added she hopes these elections become a “tipping point” for the ELCA.

“I was the first of two African Descent women who have pushed through the door marked ‘for Whites only’ for 30 years too long,” she wrote. “Change has come because people of color will be at the table, even more so because we are resilient, equipped and willing to live into the Prophet Micah’s call, ‘To act justly and to love mercy and to walk humbly with your God’ on behalf of those who have elected us to serve.”