U.S. Border Patrol agents have resorted to troubling tactics toward unaccompanied migrant children including abuse, neglect and harassment, a report about complaint records shows.

The American Civil Liberties Union and the International Human Rights Clinic at the University of Chicago Law School published their findings Wednesday after gaining access to more than 30,000 pages of records pertaining to complaints filed between 2009 and 2014.

The report, titled “Neglect and Abuse of Unaccompanied Immigrant Children by U.S. Customs and Border Protection,” highlights systematic patterns of mistreatment toward the minors, who by law should be granted special protection. CBP says the accusations are “baseless.”

One 16-year-old filed a complaint alleging that a Border Patrol agent “threw him down and smashed his head into the ground with his boot,” according to the report. “The child also reported that as the same agent walked him to a Border Patrol vehicle, he told the child that he would ‘fuck [him] up’ if he tried to run away.”

Other accounts point to the use of kicking, pushing, tasering, yelling and verbal abuse. Some complaints documented sexual abuse, including the touching of young girls’ buttocks and private parts. “He was soon engulfed in many other interviews and projects. 26. Taylor Hill via Getty Images

During her conversation with Stern, the “Red Sparrow” actresses also revealed that she auditioned for “Twilight,” but the odds weren’t in her favor at the time (like they later were for Katniss Everdeen).

“I didn’t really know what it was,” she said, laughing. “When you audition when you’re like a run-of-the-mill actor ― you know we’re all auditioning for all sorts of things ― you just get like five pages and they’re like, ‘Act monkey.’ When it came out, I was like, ‘Hot damn! Whoa!’”

The actress said she wasn’t jealous she didn’t land the “Twilight” part.

If she did, the “Hunger Games” series would be entirely different, as would Lawrence’s life. That’s the role that changed the actresses’ career trajectory forever, and inspired her to speak up about the pay disparity between men and women in Hollywood.

“I knew it was gonna be a life-changer,” Lawrence told Stern. “I knew.”

Listen to more of Lawrence’s interview with Stern below:Robert Downey Jr. in "Avengers: Infinity War." Marvel

The Avengers are assembling a week earlier than expected.

Marvel Studios announced Thursday that the highly anticipated superhero team-up movie “Avengers: Infinity War” will hit theaters on April 27, instead of its original May 4 premiere date.

The film studio’s official Twitter account revealed the news in a playful back-and-forth with Robert Downey Jr., who plays Tony Stark, aka Iron Man, in the franchise. Some soon to be announced including a book about President Trump as an entrepreneur.”

Yet it was pretty clear from the get-go that there was no real plan for the Scaramucci Post.At a Thursday event on gun violence in Atlanta, young students of color spoke out about how often the issue affects their communities ― and how little the country pays attention.

“Parkland, it was a tragedy,” 18-year-old Shatony Rivers, a senior at Turner Tech High School in Miami’s Liberty City neighborhood, said at the Urban Gun Violence Town Hall. “But we have the same situation going on in our hood every day.

ISABELLA CARAPELLA / HUFFPOST

From the documents, Sanders learned that Perez was a seasoned informant who had been cooperating with law enforcement on various cases for more than a year in hopes of reducing his own time behind bars. The notes Perez kept on his conversations with dozens of inmates ― a project he called “Operation Daylight” ― proved just why prosecutors found him so valuable. He quickly built trust with his targets, consistently detailed what he learned, and was eager to please the police and prosecutors.

However, Rackauckas and his prosecutors maintained that Perez had come forward of his own volition, having become so personally troubled by Dekraai’s revelations that he felt compelled to speak up. They also claimed that the gang leader had recently retired as a snitch and that his long history with the department hardly mattered. It was pure coincidence, they said, that the two inmates ended up in nearby cells.

But Sanders wasn’t buying it. And, increasingly, neither were Wilson and Webb.

‘Anybody Following This Case… Could See They Cheated.’

Sanders spent months studying the thousands of documents and hundreds of hours of jail recordings regarding Perez. And we don’t get the same response from media, officials or government.”

The town hall, which was held at Atlanta’s historic Ebenezer Baptist Church and live-streamed on Facebook, was organized by anti-gun violence groups from across the country as part of a new National Black and Brown Gun Violence Prevention Consortium. Held two days before the March for Our Lives ― a protest organized by student survivors of the high school massacre in Parkland, Florida, last month ― it was meant to “center children of color in gun violence post-Parkland,” according to a release.

Over 100 attendees came from as far New York, California, Illinois and Minnesota, an organizer told HuffPost. A panel of young gun violence activists and students, from communities affected by gun violence in Miami and Chicago, spoke. The teens from Miami had arrived on buses as they headed to the March for Our Lives in Washington, D.C., which will be Saturday. In addition, detained children reported the denial of clean facilities as well as food, water and medical care.

The agency, the report added, didn’t properly investigate the complaints it received. Although the Department of Homeland Security completed an investigation after complaints first surfaced in 2014, the ACLU argued that the practices didn’t change in the aftermath. “They’re not sending their finest,” he said Friday of migrants apprehended at the border. “That I can tell you. We’re getting some real beauties in here.”

Trump wants to end the diversity visa lottery, which allows many people from African countries to move to the U.S., and to limit family-based migration, which he derisively refers to as “chain migration.” He is also seeking policy changes that would allow the government to detain and deport more people who seek asylum at the border, rather than releasing them into the U.S. while their cases are being heard.

CBP characterized the accusations as “unfounded and baseless.”

“The ‘report’ equates allegations with fact, flatly ignores a number of improvements made by CBP as well as oversight conducted by outside, independent agencies,” CBP spokesman Dan Hetlage said in a statement.North Korean leader Kim Jong Un met with Chinese President Xi Jinping for the second time this week in the Chinese city of Dalian, Chinese media reports.

They held talks about Chinese-North Korean relations, according to CNN’s Will Ripley. The discussions likely centered around the diplomatic push to keep North Korea free of nuclear weapons.

According to North Korean state media, Kim said he is “very pleased” with how the relationship between North Korea and China is progressing, Reuters reported Tuesday.

Regional powers and the United States are seeking to prevent North Korea from obtaining nuclear weapons. Kim held a historic meeting last month with South Korean President Moon Jae-in, and Xi and Kim first met secretly in March.

U.S. President Donald Trump, who is set to meet with Kim sometime in the coming weeks, tweeted Tuesday that he plans to catch up with Xi. “Relationships and trust are building” with North Korea, he said.Amir Cohen/Reuters

Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu has gone to great lengths to make his opinions about Iran’s nuclear program known, often through visual demonstrations. In the past, these efforts have largely been ridiculed or dismissed ― but his latest presentation clearly reached the person it was meant for.

In 2012, while speaking at the United Nations General Assembly, Netanyahu pulled out a drawing of a cartoon bomb with a lit fuse to illustrate the dangerous progress Tehran was making with its uranium enrichment program. The drawing became the subject of endless jokes, and was unofficially dubbed the “Bibi Bomb.”

Then last month, Netanyahu delivered a presentation complete with props and a large screen, on which he spelled out one key message in letters almost as tall as himself: “Iran lied.” He said the display included details from secret documents that proved Tehran had pursued nuclear weapons in defiance of the Iran nuclear deal.

Experts quickly noted that much of the material from the presentation predated the nuclear agreement, which the U.S. and other world powers established in 2015 to prevent Iran from developing a nuclear bomb in exchange for sanction relief.

But U.S. President Donald Trump, an outspoken critic of the deal who watched “a little bit” of Netanyahu’s presentation, interpreted it as confirmation that his views on Iran were “100 percent right.”

Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu points to a red line he drew on the graphic of a bomb used to represent Iran's nuclear program as he addresses the United Nations General Assembly on Sept. 27, 2012.

What was the scariest part of this: the writing, acting or directing?

I guess it’s the combination of acting and directing at the same time. It wasn’t scary so much as frustrating, because I love visuals so much that I really wanted to be behind the monitor watching everything that was going down the lens. Being in the scenes meant I couldn’t just sit behind the monitor. That provided an interesting form of directing, because instead of coming in with notes for the actors, I could just say to them, “Be responsive to what I’m giving you.” I provoked emotions within rather than discussing it beforehand, which feels a little more organic.

Karen Gillan and Lee Pace in "The Party's Just Beginning." Edd Lukas/Tribeca Film Festival

Was it then odd to direct yourself, jumping in front of and then behind the camera?

As an actor, I’ve made so many self-tapes ― which is something we just do now instead of auditions if we can’t get there ― and so I’ve developed, like most actors, this skill of knowing when you got it and when you don’t. So for myself, what I did was I gave myself options. I would do multiple takes and each one would be different so I could sit in the edit and pick and choose the performance.

What was the process like finding a producer to back the project?

I didn’t know how any of this stuff worked. I wrote this script in the U.K. and then I moved to America to do this film called “Oculus,” a horror movie. I showed the script to the director [Mike Flanagan] and he was like, “I know the producer who needs to make this movie.” And I was like, “Um, amazing! Bring me to her!” And then he’s like, “Actually, she’s right here. Lucas Jackson/Reuters

“Prime Minister Netanyahu just gave a very ― I don’t know if everybody’s seen it, but I got to see a little bit of it ― and that is just not an acceptable situation,” Trump said hours later. “I think if anything, what’s happening today and what’s happened over the last little while and what we’ve learned, has really shown that I’ve been 100 percent right.”

Little more than a week later, Trump announced that the U.S. would withdraw from the deal, which is known as the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action. The highly controversial move comes in defiance of U.S. allies’ pleas to save the agreement from collapse, and leaves an uncertain future for Iran’s nuclear program. Trump also said he will reinstate the sanctions on Tehran that had been lifted under the JCPOA.

While making the announcement on Tuesday, Trump hailed Netanyahu’s presentation as “definitive proof” that Iran was indeed lying about its nuclear ambitions.

“At the heart of the Iran deal is a fiction, that Iran only desired a peaceful nuclear energy program. Today we have definitive proof that this Iranian promise was a lie,” Trump said. “Last week Israel published intelligence documents, long concealed by Iran, conclusively showing the Iranians’ regime and its history of pursuing nuclear weapons.”

However, just last month, Trump’s own Secretary of State Mike Pompeo testified before Congress that there was no evidence of Iranian noncompliance with the JCPOA.

Netanyahu praised Trump’s “bold” decision Tuesday afternoon, even as messages of condemnation poured in from other world leaders.