A post shared by segevmoshe (@segevmoshe) on May 2, 2018 at 1:04pm PDT

An Israeli celebrity chef is accused of stepping out of line after serving Japan’s Prime Minister Shinzo Abe dessert out of a metal shoe during a formal dinner with Israel’s Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu last week.

Abe and his wife, Akie Abe, were guests of Netanyahu and his wife, Sara Netanyahu, at their residence when chef Moshe Segev served chocolates in faux footwear.

Many saw the shoes’ use as serving dishes, though perhaps avant-garde, as being in extremely poor taste, since it’s a popular Japanese custom to remove shoes before entering homes, temples and certain restaurants for sanitary reasons.

A post shared by segevmoshe (@segevmoshe) on May 6, 2018 at 10:57pm PDT

“There’s no culture in the world in which you put shoes on the table,” Israel’s daily newspaper Yediot Aharonot quoted an unidentified Japanese diplomat as saying, according to a translation by The Washington Post. “What was the distinguished chef thinking? If it was humor, we don’t think it is funny; we were offended on behalf of our prime minister.”

Yediot Aharonot also quoted an unidentified senior Israeli official as calling the object’s choice “insensitive.”

“There is nothing lowlier than a shoe in Japanese culture. Not only do they not wear shoes at home, you also won’t find shoes in their offices. This is disrespect of the first order,” the paper said.

Segev showcased his work on Instagram, and some commenters branded his use of the ersatz brogues “disgusting” “uneducated” and “ignorant.”

He chose the shoes from British interior design company Tom Dixon Studio, which describes them on its website as cast aluminum and suggests employing them as doorstops.

A post shared by Tom Dixon Studio (@tomdixonstudio) on Mar 5, 2016 at 11:30pm PST

A spokesperson for Segev defended the dessert in question in an emailed statement to HuffPost on Wednesday.

“The dessert was served inside a sculpture by international artist Tom Dixon, whose works are displayed in major museums around the world and for the first time was displayed in Israel at a meal,” the statement said. “The two prime ministers and their wives were very enthusiastic about the meal and the dessert in particular, applauded and cheered the chef. The Japanese prime minister even went so far as to invite the chef to cook in Japan.”

Segev is known to give an artistic flair to his culinary work.

A year ago, he created edible chesspieces as part of the dessert for the Netanyahus, President Donald Trump and Melania Trump during a formal dinner. Those pieces were served on plates that featured the two leaders’ silhouettes.

Whether Segev knew about the taboo involving shoes at a dinner table is not known. His restaurant did not immediately respond to a request for comment on Tuesday.Iranian President Hassan Rouhani on Tuesday vowed to stay in the Iran nuclear deal shortly after President Donald Trump announced that the U.S.-based advocacy group Pueblos Sin Fronteras, which organized the caravan, addressed the migrants to discuss a plan to cross the main pedestrian bridge into the United States together on Sunday.

Tensions flared after a Mexican immigration official suggested they go in smaller groups to the border station before the migrants had a chance to meet later in the week with immigration lawyers organized by Pueblos Sin Fronteras.Wahlberg with "All The Money In The World" co-star Michelle Williams at the premiere on Dec. 18, 2017, in Beverly Hills, California. Kevin Winter via Getty Images

Mark Wahlberg knows we still have a “long way to go” before women and men are paid equally. will withdraw from the multinational pact, a decision that ignited outcry and concern from fellow world leaders.

Rouhani, in a blistering televised address, criticized the U.S. as a country that “never adheres to its commitments” and accused its people of having “always adopted a hostile approach.”

“By exiting the deal, America has officially undermined its commitment to an international treaty,” he said.

President Donald Trump on Tuesday announced that the U.S. will withdraw from the Iran nuclear deal. Jonathan Ernst / Reuters

Rouhani said his country will continue to work with other nations that are part of the agreement, though it will resume its nuclear activities if the deal’s goals are not met.

“If we achieve the deal’s goals in cooperation with other members of the deal, it will remain in place,” he said.

Iranian state television also called Trump’s decision to withdraw “illegal, illegitimate and undermines international agreements,” Reuters reported.

Turkish Economy Minister Nihat Zeybekci said his country will continue its trade with Iran and not answer to anyone else on the matter.

Iran’s president Hassan Rouhani to address nation following Trump's announcement on JCPOA https://t.co/rTtwSCLejm — Press TV (@PressTV) May 8, 2018

“From now on, we will carry out our trade with Iran, within the possible framework, until the end, and we will not give account to anyone for this,” Zeybekci said in an interview with broadcaster CNN Turk.

Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, who has long opposed the deal, appeared to be one of the few international leaders to immediately applaud Trump’s decision. In a short televised address on Tuesday, he said the deal with Iran was “a disaster for our region, a disaster for the peace of the world.”

Thank you President Trump for your bold decision and your commitment to prevent Iran from ever getting nuclear weapons. @realDonaldTrump pic.twitter.”

Stories of inappropriate advances and sexual misconduct have already forced the resignations of numerous state politicians across the country, roiling statehouses in Texas, Florida and Missouri. It just isn’t clear how much it will all translate into electoral victories or tangible legislative changes.

“Ultimately, stories of sexual harassment are not a surprise to women, who have lived their whole lives as women,” one female source familiar with how the movement is playing out in Illinois told HuffPost. “The voters who would be moved by these stories of harassment already are motivated to turn out in this election by any number of issues, from Republican attacks on women’s access to health care to Donald Trump’s tiny, overzealous Twitter fingers.”

This source pointed to how politicians have used allegations against some staff members of Illinois state House Speaker Mike Madigan to rally against the divisive Democrat. And while those who were already convinced Madigan needed to resign have used these stories against some of his staffers to renew those calls, the allegations don’t seem to have moved many voters.com/F8lldwqhID — Benjamin Netanyahu (@netanyahu) May 8, 2018

Key players in the race to prevent Iran from acquiring nuclear weapons have meanwhile reacted with alarm and concern to Trump’s announcement.

British Prime Minister Theresa May, German Chancellor Angela Merkel and French President Emmanuel Macron released a joint statement that expressed disappointment in Trump’s decision to withdraw from the agreement known as the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action, or JCPOA.

“Together, we emphasise our continuing commitment to the JCPoA.

Yonhap cited a South Korean lawmaker as saying the spy agency had told lawmakers it was working with foreign intelligence agencies to beef up foreign nationals’ identity checks as an anti-terrorism plan for the Olympics.Fans in Philadelphia promptly took to the streets on Sunday night after the Philadelphia Eagles defeated the New England Patriots, 41-33, for the team’s first Super Bowl championship.

Fans shot off fireworks, climbed poles ― despite the fact that many had been greased ― scaled buildings, marched, chanted and made a whole lot of noise.

But there were also reports of small fires and at least one overturned car, as well as smashed windows, damage to stores and poles being completely removed out of the ground.

Three people were arrested during the rowdy celebrations, a spokeswoman Mayor Jim Kenney’s office on Monday.

“Tens of thousands came out and celebrated this amazing victory last night, and but for a handful of bad actors the celebration was peaceful and jubilant,” according to the statement. “We’re thankful for our PPD for their assistance in getting the crowds dispersed and people home safely.”

Police have not yet released specific figures such as the number of injuries.

“We have had several acts of vandalism where windows have been smashed, and some injuries have been reported around light poles that have been pulled down,” the Philadelphia Police Department said in a statement to The New York Times. This agreement remains important for our shared security,” the statement read.

Prime Minister @Theresa_May has made a joint statement with President Macron and Chancellor Merkel on the Iran nuclear deal: https://t.co/gpLevdyu65 — UK Prime Minister (@10DowningStreet) May 8, 2018

“According to the [International Atomic Energy Agency],” an agency that has monitored and verified Iran’s nuclear-related commitments, “Iran continues to abide by the restrictions set out by the JCPoA, in line with its obligations under the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons. The world is a safer place as a result,” the statement continued.

“The nuclear non-proliferation regime is at stake,” he said, adding that France will work on a broader agreement to cover Iran’s nuclear activity, ballistics program and regional activities.

France, Germany, and the UK regret the U.S. “We don’t want to add to that feeling of distress when you are trying to make ends meet.”

If Congress were to impose additional budget cuts and restrictions on federal funding for social programs, it would hit West Virginia particularly hard. The state has the fourth-highest percentage of people on food stamps, and the seventh-highest rate of Medicaid enrollment, with about 30 percent of residents receiving coverage from the program.

Courtney Powell, a 29-year-old single mother of three living in Wheeling, depends on Medicaid to finance medical coverage for her 4-year-old son who has a rare form of hemophilia.

Powell has foregone work to care for her son, who needs round-the-clock attention and is frequently hospitalized. Federal disability benefits for his condition allow Powell to make ends meet.

“If he didn’t have this diagnosis and they could take it away, there’d be nothing I wouldn’t do for him,” Powell said, imagining the opportunity to put in an 80-hour week. “But right now, the ‘nothing I wouldn’t do’ is being there for him and doing his meds daily and being his advocate for all of his medical problems.”

Now, Powell is worried that as an adult who is technically able-bodied, she could be targeted by Medicaid cuts. decision to leave the JCPOA. The nuclear non-proliferation regime is at stake. — Emmanuel Macron (@EmmanuelMacron) May 8, 2018

Former President Barack Obama and Former Secretary of State John Kerry also chimed in, with Obama defending the JCPOA as a pact that was “working.”

“The JCPOA is in America’s interest ― it has significantly rolled back Iran’s nuclear program. And the JCPOA is a model for what diplomacy can accomplish ― its inspections and verification regime is precisely what the United States should be working to put in place with North Korea,” the former president’s statement said. “Indeed, at a time when we are all rooting for diplomacy with North Korea to succeed, walking away from the JCPOA risks losing a deal that accomplishes ― with Iran ― the very outcome that we are pursuing with the North Koreans.”

There are few issues more important to the security of the US than the potential spread of nuclear weapons or the potential for even more destructive war in the Middle East. Timberlake didn’t bring Jackson out to sing, despite rumors that she might join him on stage.

Timberlake performed "Rock Your Body," which he sang with Jackson during their infamous 2004 Super Bowl show. Christopher Polk via Getty Images

Timberlake then got the crowd riled with “SexyBack” and “My Love.” He later played “Cry Me A River” before he and his dancers broke it down on the field. He also sang “Suit and Tie” while accompanied by a band, before playing “Until the End of Time” on the piano.

Timberlake then dedicated a song to Minneapolis, playing “I Would Die 4 U” while a projection of Prince played ― not quite the rumored hologram that caused trouble prior to the show.

Many were still upset with the Prince tribute, given that Timberlake and the late singer had a contentious history. Today’s decision to put the JCPOA at risk is a serious mistake. My full statement: https://t.co/4oTdXESbxe — Barack Obama (@BarackObama) May 8, 2018

Kerry also lamented Trump’s decision in his own statement, saying it “weakens our security, breaks America’s word, isolates us from our European allies, puts Israel at greater risk, empowers Iran’s hardliners, and reduces our global leverage to address Tehran’s misbehavior, while damaging the ability of future Administrations to make international agreements.”

My thoughts on President Trump’s Iran statement: pic.twitter.com/E5A12PKnnx — John Kerry (@JohnKerry) May 8, 2018

Macron and his fellow European co-signatories had taken turns trying to convince Trump to remain committed to the deal. In addition to reports of diplomatic wrangling between Europe and the U.S. over the past few weeks, U.K. foreign secretary Boris Johnson traveled to the U.S. Monday, hammering home his position in a media blitz.

Johnson insisted in an op-ed for The New York Times that leaders could work on the deal’s flaws. On the president’s morning cable news show of choice, “Fox & Friends,” Johnson urged Trump not to “throw the baby out with the bathwater.” He then told Sky News that Trump would be worthy of a Nobel Peace Prize if he could fix the deal.

Johnson expressed his upset over Trump’s decision on Tuesday but affirmed that the “U.K. remains strongly committed to the JCPOA.”

Deeply regret US decision to withdraw from the Iran nuclear deal. UK remains strongly committed to the JCPoA, and will work with E3 partners and the other parties to the deal to maintain it. Await more detail on US plan. — Boris Johnson (@BorisJohnson) May 8, 2018

Both Merkel and Macron also traveled to Washington in recent weeks to have similar conversations with Trump.

Macron said France doesn’t plan to leave the agreement but is happy to work with Trump in crafting a new, more comprehensive deal that addresses some of the issues that both countries feel were left out of the current version. French officials made it even more clear that they’re committed to the existing deal in the lead-up to Trump’s announcement.

Trump greets Germany's Chancellor Angela Merkel during a joint news conference at the White House last month. Kevin Lamarque / Reuters

“We are determined to save this deal because this accord safeguards against nuclear proliferation and is the right way to stop Iran getting a nuclear weapon,” French Foreign Minister Jean-Yves Le Drian said Monday.

Netanyahu pulled out the big guns last week in his push to get Trump to scrap it altogether.

“Iran lied, big time,” he said in a speech delivered in English.

Iranian President Hassan Rouhani, seen last month, had said that if the U.S. left the nuclear deal it would be a "historic" mistake. ATTA KENARE via Getty Images

Iran has made clear that it has no intention of renegotiating or forging a new deal.