Tom Williams via Getty Images

WASHINGTON ― Don Blankenship may not win Tuesday’s Senate GOP primary in West Virginia, but that uncertainty didn’t stop his would-be colleagues in the nation’s capital from already giving him the cold shoulder.

Blankenship, a former coal company CEO who served prison time for his responsibility in the deaths of 29 workers in a 2014 mining disaster in his home state, reportedly has seen his support surge in the primary race after generating media attention with overtly racist and controversial statements.

He attacked Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.), using the slur “Chinaperson” to describe the lawmaker’s father-in-law and then standing by his remark when called on it. He also argued in a campaign ad that McConnell “has created millions of jobs for China people.”

McConnell’s wife, Transportation Secretary Elaine Chao, was born in Taiwan and her parents are Chinese.

In one TV ad, Blankenship even dubbed McConnell “Cocaine Mitch” on the dubious basis that the drug was found on one of the cargo ships owned by Chao’s family several years ago.

McConnell demurred on Tuesday when asked whether he would support Blankenship in the general election against Sen. Joe Manchin (D-W. Va.) if the former business executive defeats Rep. Evan Jenkins and Attorney General Patrick Morrisey for the GOP nomination.

“Looking at friends who are out on a Friday night while I’m in bed scrolling through my news feed alone didn’t make me feel like I was living,” she said.

She’s now using social media less and less. “I find spending time with people in my real life is more important than watching from the sidelines,” Salerno said.

Wiercyski’s advice for others dealing with social anxiety in a technology-centric world: “Like most things in life, the basic rule is, if it’s not making you feel better, or you find it’s all you can think about, it’s time to take a break,” she said.

If you realize you’re feeling worse after using social media, or you simply don’t like how much time you’re spending on it, those are red flags you might want to cut back, Rodebaugh said. But know that reducing your social media dependency (just like quitting sugar, alcohol, or cigarettes) is not an easy task, Pavkovic said.

First and foremost, focus on “reconnecting with humans and nature,” she suggests. “Start off by arranging to spend quality one-on-one time with a friend, even if it’s just one friend a time.”

Next, try out some science-backed “brain hacks” that may help reduce your device usage, Pavkovic said. Some examples: Turn off all notifications to avoid those distracting “pings,” change your phone screen to greyscale to reduce the visual stimulation, or keep the phone in an adjacent room so that it doesn’t lure away your attention (even when it’s off!).

Finally, Pavkovic highly recommends deleting all social media apps from our phones, which prevents you from mindlessly opening the apps whenever you need a “quick fix.”

Wiercyski said that a few times a month, she’ll notice an anxious feeling while scrolling through her Instagram feed and comparing what she sees to her own life.

“We’ll wait and see who wins in West Virginia and we’ll have more to say on it tomorrow,” the Senate majority leader told reporters.

But some of his GOP colleagues were less hesitant to speak out against Blankenship who, if he emerges as the nominee, will spur a barrage of question about what that says about the their party.

“I just don’t see a scenario where that’s a positive projection of the Republican brand,” said Sen. Thom Tillis (R-N.C.”

105. On whether presidential lawyer Ty Cobb helped draft his statement: “I don’t know. “I do know of two nurses who have stolen IV and PO pain medications for themselves. I do not know if they were ever impaired while working, but they were both caught and neither will ever be a nurse again.”

Bonus Scenario 2: Tell Us About The Ghosts

In Season 5 of “Grey’s,” Izzie, hallucinating thanks to a brain tumor, strikes up a romance with a ghost version of her late fiancé, the adored and never forgotten Denny Duquette (Jeffrey Dean Morgan). Yes, this is 2018. [HuffPost]

MONTANA IS THE FIRST STATE TO SET NET NEUTRALITY RULES “We can’t wait for folks in Washington to come to their senses,” Montana Gov. Steve Bullock said. [HuffPost]

GEORGE PAPADOPOULOS’S FIANCEE WARNS THE WHITE HOUSE: ‘A LOT TO COME’ She likened her fiance to John Dean, the White House counsel for President Richard Nixon during the Watergate scandal who ultimately cooperated with prosecutors. (This whole storyline was reportedly concocted to give Heigl the “Emmy-worthy material” she wanted. Instead, it led some viewers, and Heigl, to quit the show.”

106. On where he was at the time of the 2013 Miss Universe Pageant in Russia: “I don’t know.”

107. On whether Russians or former “Soviet Republic” investors are involved in any of his licensing deals: “None that I can recall, but there may be small — we’re not in charge of who does financing for what.”

108. On how he first met real estate developer Felix Sater: “I don’t remember.”

109. On whether he knows who approached whom when he did first meet Sater: “I don’t.”

110. On whether Sater was a principal at Bayrock Group: “I don’t know their financial structure.”

111. On whether he recalls who brought a particular Fort Lauderdale deal to the Trump Organization: “No, I don’t.), the vice chair of the National Republican Senatorial Committee, a group dedicated to electing GOP Senate candidates. He added that he would not personally support Blankenship if he wins the nomination.

Sen. Jim Inhofe (R-Okla.) said he’d “have a hard time” backing Blankenship, citing some of the comments he has made.

“He’s not my favorite person,” Inhofe said.

Sen. John Thune (R-S.D. Election Day is March 13.

Although the contribution is relatively small, it could kick off larger contributions from big donors and outside groups.

The National Republican Congressional Committee, which elects House Republicans, responded on Friday with a $300,000 ad buy of its own. The GOP group blocked out broadcast space from Monday through Election Day to air the campaign spots.

Democrat Conor Lamb drew a crowd of about 85 people at an American Legion post in Houston, Pennsylvania, on Jan. 13, 2018. Jeff Swensen/Getty Images

Lamb, a 33-year-old former assistant U.S. attorney and veteran of the Marines, has thus far mounted his underdog bid against Republican Rick Saccone, a 59-year-old conservative state representative, without any meaningful backing from the national party.

Lamb has nonetheless attracted the endorsement of the federal PAC End Citizens United and Daily Kos, a liberal site through which he has raised nearly $49,000.

The two candidates are vying to fill a seat vacated by Tim Murphy, an anti-abortion Republican congressman who resigned in October following revelations that he asked a woman with whom he was having an extramarital affair to have an abortion.), the No. 3 Senate GOP leader, said it was too early to say whether he could support Blankenship. But he added that he did not view the controversial candidate as not a good representative for the Republican Party.

Even Sen. Shelley Moore Capito (R-W. Va.) seemed less than enthusiastic about the prospect of Blankenship as her state’s other Senate member.

She declined on Tuesday to tell reporters who she voted for in an early ballot she cast last week. “I had a written record [of it], and luckily nobody else can see it but me,” she said.

Retiring Sen. Jeff Flake (R-Ariz.) made clear in a Monday Twitter post his view of Blankenship.

The problem isn’t that Don Blankenship can’t win a general election in West Virginia, it’s that he shouldn’t win a general election in West Virginia. #CountryOverParty — Jeff Flake (@JeffFlake) May 7, 2018