S. military invaded and, since 2002, America has pumped $8.7 billion in counternarcotics funding into that country. “It will lead to security, certainly for those who have been affected, and it is the kind of inclusive prosperity for which we stand as Commonwealth peoples.”

May herself apologised over the harsh treatment of the so-called “Windrush generation,” whose parents were invited to Britain to plug labour shortfalls after World War Two, later to be caught up in a tightening of immigration rules overseen by May in 2012 when she was interior minister.

EDUCATION COMMITMENT

Although there is no Commonwealth free trade bloc and member states buy less than 10 percent of Britain’s exports, ministers in London see the group and its 2.4 billion residents as an important part of their post-Brexit strategy.

Commonwealth membership stretches from large developed economies like Australia and Canada to tiny island states like Nauru in the Pacific. On Thursday, leaders of almost all states will convene for talks on the future of the network, looking to agree trade, environmental and developmental goals.

The government is lobbying for Prince Charles to succeed his mother, Queen Elizabeth, as head of the organisation, despite reported unrest at that prospect among other members. The issue is expected to be discussed on Friday.

May committed 212 million pounds ($304 million) to try to make sure children living in developing Commonwealth countries receive 12 years of quality education. A report issued late last month by the Special Inspector General for Afghanistan Reconstruction detailed the results of anti-drug efforts during CENTCOM’s 16-year-old war: “Afghanistan’s total area under opium cultivation and opium production reached an all-time high in 2017,” it reads in part.twitter.com/z4xfZTqaJS — GOP (@GOP) February 24, 2018

“The President is listening,” the tweet read. “Let him know your priorities here.”

It invited people to click on a link to the GOP’s official website, where they could fill in a 32-question survey featuring questions such as: “Are you concerned by the potential spread of Sharia Law?” and “Is Russia a concern to you?”

On completing the questionnaire, it linked to a donation page on Trump’s official website, which asked folks to “please take the next step and consider making a contribution to help us enact our America First agenda and fend off vicious attacks.”

A screenshot from the website. Donaldjtrumpcom

Trump likely won’t be focusing on any of the suggested priorities anytime soon:

Impose the sanctions on Russia that congress approved pic.twitter. “Afghanistan remains the world’s largest opium producer and exporter, producing an estimated 80% of the world’s opium.”

In many ways, these outcomes mirror those of the larger counterterror efforts of which these anti-drug campaigns are just a part. In 2001, for example, U.S. forces were fighting just two enemy forces in Afghanistan: al-Qaeda and the Taliban.The top law enforcement official in New York resigned Monday night, just hours after The New Yorker published a stunning report in which four women accused him of violent physical abuse, revealing a damning discrepancy between Attorney General Eric Schneiderman’s private behavior and his public support of women amid the Me Too and Time’s Up movements.

A chief example was Schneiderman’s pursuit of legal action against disgraced Hollywood producer Harvey Weinstein in recent months.

Schneiderman’s resignation, effective Tuesday, does not appear to directly affect his office’s efforts to investigate sexual misconduct allegations against Weinstein, state officials and advocates suggested.

In February, Schneiderman’s office filed a civil rights lawsuit against Weinstein’s former company. He had also ordered that any deal to purchase The Weinstein Co. should include a compensation fund for sexual harassment victims and release employees from the nondisclosure agreements that kept them from speaking out about Weinstein’s behavior.

New York Attorney General Eric Schneiderman, whose resignation was effective Tuesday, speaks at a news conference on his office's civil rights lawsuit against Harvey Weinstein's company in February. Brendan McDermid / Reuters

In response to pressure from the Time’s Up movement, New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo (D) in March called on Schneiderman to lead an independent investigation into why Cyrus Vance Jr.R. McMaster and former chief economic advisor Gary Cohn, put it in a Wall Street Journal op-ed in May 2017, “The world is not a ‘global community’ but an arena where nations, nongovernmental actors, and businesses engage and compete for advantage.” Thanks to the Trump team, the international community is quickly devolving into World Wrestling Entertainment.

At first, the new president’s global belligerence had a certain unifying effect. Even as the United States withdrew from the Paris climate accord, for instance, the last two holdouts (Syria and Nicaragua) signed on and the rest of the world’s nations recommitted themselves to achieving the agreement’s goals without U., the Manhattan district attorney, failed to prosecute Weinstein in 2015 when police gathered evidence of the producer harassing and assaulting model Ambra Battilana Gutierrez.

Acting Attorney General Barbara Underwood, the state’s solicitor general, who will fill Schneiderman’s post until the state legislature decides on a replacement, affirmed in a statement Tuesday that “our work continues without interruption.”

Representatives of the Time’s Up movement said on Twitter that “we fully expect the investigation to proceed as expeditiously as possible,” citing reports last week that Schneiderman had planned to appoint a special deputy to oversee the probe.

The Office of the New York Attorney General has promised to appoint an independent special assistant to investigate recent sexual assault investigations conducted by the Manhattan DA's office & NYPD's SVU. We fully expect the investigation to proceed as expeditiously as possible. — TIME'S UP (@TIMESUPNOW) May 8, 2018

The New York attorney general’s office did not respond to multiple requests for comment on any updates on the special deputy.

During a news conference on Tuesday, Cuomo also suggested the work would continue, saying that the office of Schneiderman’s successor “could be a very important vehicle right now on this sexual harassment chronic issue.”

The governor acknowledged that appointing Schneiderman to look into how Vance handled the Weinstein case was “a potential complication,” but he did not elaborate further.

In another twist, Vance’s office late Monday announced an investigation into Schneiderman’s alleged domestic abuse. Sonia Ossorio, the president of the National Organization for Women’s New York City chapter, said it was “a conflict of interest” for Vance and called for a special prosecutor.

Manhattan DA Cy Vance, who is under investigation by NY AG office for not prosecuting Weinstein abuse, can’t investigate Schneiderman abuse. It’s a conflict of interest. A special prosecutor is needed. — Sonia Ossorio (@soniaossorio) May 8, 2018

Cuomo suggested to a reporter that Vance should consider recusing himself. He proposed that district attorneys in other counties where some of the domestic abuse incidents occurred could investigate the claims and potentially recommend criminal action — stressing that the prosecutors should have “not even the whiff or perception of any conflict” and would be “wholly impartial.”

By Tuesday night, the governor appointed a special prosecutor to look into the claims involving Schneiderman.

The continuing investigation demonstrates that the movement is “bigger than any one person” and “an important reminder that no one is beyond reproach by virtue of what they say in public,” Emily Martin, the general counsel at the National Women’s Law Center, told HuffPost, saying that she was not concerned that Schneiderman’s abuse allegations would mar the credibility of the investigation.

“It’s not about Eric Schneiderman,” Martin said. “It is about a much larger movement to ensure accountability, and that is beyond the power of Eric Schneiderman to impugn.”

“I would hope that the new acting attorney general really recommits and redoubles the office’s efforts to address these allegations against Weinstein and others,” she said. “Part of making clear that gender-based violence is unacceptable is by demonstrating that Eric Schneiderman’s resignation in no way weakens the state of New York and the office of the attorney general’s commitment to pursuing justice in these matters.” And then you get him to go about that business, and you concentrate on trying to be good in the scene. All of those actors have different ways of working. They all have different energies, and then I’ve got my own thing going, and so does Brian. So it was more about how we fit into the room, you know? That was the joyful thing. And when you would really feel it sing and you would hit it, it was just brilliant. I knew in the shooting of it that I would like the film, which I never know.

You’ve never felt that on anything else?

I knew I would like “Anna Karenina.” I knew I would like “Ex Machina.” I didn’t know whether anyone else would like them, but I knew I would. For some reason, those are the three things. Oh, and “Frank,” [directed by] Lenny Abrahamson.

You’re in Lenny’s next movie, “The Little Stranger,” based on the Sarah Waters novel. As a horror fan, I can’t wait.”