WASHINGTON (Reuters) - President Donald Trump will announce on Tuesday whether he will pull out of the Iran nuclear deal or stay in and work with European allies who have struggled to persuade him that it has successfully halted Iran’s nuclear ambitions.

Trump has consistently threatened to pull out of the 2015 agreement because it does not address Iran’s ballistic missile program or its role in wars in Syria and Yemen, and does not permanently prevent Tehran from developing nuclear weapons.

European leaders have warned that a U.S. withdrawal would undo years of work that led to and sustained a landmark deal that has kept nuclear weapons out of Iran’s hands.

It could also ratchet up tensions in a region riven with interrelated conflicts, including the multi-layered conflict in Syria where Iran’s presence has brought it into conflict with Israel. It will also impact oil markets due to Iran’s role as a major exporter.

“This deal ... is a factor of peace and stabilization in a very eruptive region,” French Defense Minister Florence Parly told RTL radio.

President Trump plans to announce whether he will pull the United States out of the Iran nuclear deal on Tuesday. PA Wire/PA Images

Trump, in a tweet on Monday, said he would make the announcement at 2 p.m.

At Goldman, 83 percent of the top-paying jobs are held by men, the company’s data showed. At Barclays, men represent 81 percent of the bank’s top earners. Even at the U.K. (1800 GMT) on Tuesday.

Iran suggested its economy would not be hurt whatever happened, but its rial was near record lows against the dollar in the free market as Iranians tried to buy hard currency, fearing financial turmoil if Trump quits the deal. But she repeatedly dodged the question of whether it was appropriate.

According to CNN, Haspel refrained from doing so in the public portion of her hearing because “she did not want to be seen as publicly criticizing her colleagues at the CIA.”

Haspel’s reluctance to condemn the interrogation techniques spurred Republican Sen. John McCain, who was tortured while in captivity during the Vietnam War, to announce his opposition to her nomination. McCain made the announcement from his home in Arizona, where he is battling brain cancer.

McCain’s move, in turn, prompted an embarrassment for the Trump administration when a White House aide at a private meeting jokingly dismissed the senator’s opposition because “he’s dying anyway.” The White House has resisted calls for a public apology over the remark.

In her Monday letter, Haspel said that she would refuse “to undertake any proposed activity that is contrary to my moral and ethical values.” The statement appeared to be aimed at skeptical senators who asked Haspel whether she would restart the program if ordered to do so by Trump.

“We are prepared for all scenarios. If America pulls out of the deal, our economy will not be impacted,” central bank chief Valiollah Seif said on state television. I’m 25 years old. I’m going to say this in the most humblest way: I’m a millionaire. And I’m prepared for this.

She went on a little later:

I see a lot of women online like, ’Oh, I feel sorry for you, oh your career is over.′ And it’s like, why can’t I have both? As a woman, why can’t I have both? Why do I gotta choose a career or a baby? Like, why can’t I have both? I want both.

Cardi’s frustration is understandable, but so, too, is the public preoccupation with her rise to fame. For the first time there was tension in what had been an unprecedentedly sunny relationship between Cardi and her fans, and it told us something about stardom based the sort of authenticity Cardi embodies. People cherish authenticity in a celebrity, it seems, until the celebrity is too authentically a person of her own.

The affection for Cardi isn’t hard to understand. Everybody loves an underdog story. In fact, there’s a science behind our need to root for the underdog, the unlikely hero, the rags-to-riches story. Psychological studies exploring this phenomenon, specifically in sports, have found that people are more likely to root for teams they perceive to be putting in “more effort with less ability,” because it creates a compelling narrative.

A post shared by Black Ink Crew Chicago FanPage (@blackinkcrewchicago) on Apr 9, 2018 at 10:38pm PDT

Cardi B is the ultimate underdog.

“One man in one country might create some problems for us for a few months, but we will overcome those problems,” President Hassan Rouhani said in televised remarks.

‘STAND ON OUR OWN FEET’

“If we are under sanctions or not, we should stand on our own feet. This is very important for the development of our country,” Rouhani said.

A senior U.S. official close to the process said France, Germany and Britain had moved significantly to address Trump’s concerns over the ballistic missile program, the terms under which international inspectors visit suspect Iranian sites and “sunset” clauses under which some terms of the deal expire.

But it was not clear whether those last-ditch efforts had made enough progress to persuade Trump to stay in the pact.

A senior French official appeared unconvinced about a possible meeting of minds between Trump and the Europeans.

“I think in Washington it was quite clear the president was convinced that Trump was heading to a negative decision so we have been preparing more aggressively the hypotheses of a partial or total pullout”, the official said.

The Iran deal, negotiated during the administration of Trump’s Democratic predecessor, Barack Obama, eased economic sanctions on Iran in exchange for Tehran limiting its nuclear program.

Trump has called it the “worst deal ever negotiated” and he wants Britain, France and Germany - which also signed the pact along with Russia and China - to toughen up the terms.

In the past few weeks, the Republican president has consulted either in person or by telephone with leaders of all three countries.

British Foreign Secretary Boris Johnson made the rounds in Washington on Monday, including talks with Vice President Mike Pence and Secretary of State Mike Pompeo.

Still, European diplomats privately said they expected Trump to withdraw from the agreement.

Two White House officials and a source familiar with the debate inside the administration said last week Trump had all but decided to pull out.

Under the deal, known as the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA), the United States committed to ease a series of U.S. sanctions on Iran and it has done so under “waivers” that effectively suspend them.

WAIVERS

Trump has until Saturday to decide whether to extend the waivers or withdraw and reintroduce sanctions related to Iran’s central bank and Iranian oil exports.

That would dissuade foreign companies from doing business with Iran because they could be subject to U.S. penalties.

Iran has said it will not renegotiate the accord and threatened to retaliate if the United States pulls out, although it has not said how. Diplomats and military experts say Tehran could seek to resume its nuclear arms program or step up its military involvement in Iraq, Syria, Yemen and Lebanon.

The Kremlin said on Tuesday the withdrawal of the United States from the Iran nuclear deal would have harmful consequences.

Rouhani suggested on Monday that Iran might remain in the nuclear deal even if Trump abandons it and imposes sanctions. But he also warned that Tehran would fiercely resist U. Bob Menendez (D-N.J.) also criticized Carson for failing to take full responsibility, confronting him with emails reported by CNN that appear to contradict a spokesman’s previous assertion that Carson and his wife were not involved in the $31,000 purchase. Carson later stated he does “not intend to be responsible for what anybody else said.

The Senate’s inaction comes after a string of lawmakers resigned over allegations of sexual misconduct, including Reps. John Conyers (D-Mich.), Trent Franks (R-Ariz.) and Blake Farenthold (R-Texas), and Sen. Al Franken (D-Minn.). Rep.”

Menendez called it “an extraordinary statement because everyone is responsible for what our spokespeople say.”

“If he was wrong, he or you should have had the record set straight,” the senator added.

Following questioning by Sen. Tim Scott (R-S.C.), Carson eventually admitted he was responsible for the chair incident.

“Even though I wasn’t aware of the $5,000 requirement I still take responsibility,” Carson said.

The housing secretary also faced heated questions during the hearing over a proposed budget that would increase HUD-subsidized rent for low-income households.This article originally appeared at TomDispatch.com.S. efforts to limit its influence in the Middle East.

Israel is widely believed to be the only nuclear-armed state in the Middle East, although it neither confirms nor denies possessing atomic weapons.

Financial markets are also watching Trump’s decision closely. On Tuesday, oil retreated from 3-1/2 year highs as investors waited for Trump’s statement.

Advertisement