Several politicians called for New York Attorney General Eric Schneiderman (D) to resign after an explosive report detailed women’s allegations that he’d physically abused them.

In a New Yorker article published on Monday, four women accused Schneiderman of misconduct that included slapping and choking them.

“The violent actions described by multiple women in this story are abhorrent,” Sen. Kirsten Gillibrand (D-N.Y.) said in a statement Monday. “Based on this extensive and serious reporting, I do not believe that Eric Schneiderman should continue to serve as Attorney General. There should be a full and immediate investigation into these credible allegations.”

New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo (D) said he would be asking an “appropriate” district attorney to begin an investigation into the allegations.

“No one is above the law, including New York’s top legal officer,” Cuomo said in a statement calling for Schneiderman to resign. Heidi Gutman via Getty Images

Daniels says she and Trump had the affair in 2006, and Trump attorney Michael Cohen arranged the payout to Daniels just before the 2016 election to silence her ― an exchange that may be illegal. Now, Daniels is fighting in court to get out of the agreement.

The adult film star, whose real name is Stephanie Clifford, told Penthouse Magazine that if she wins, she’ll give the money to the family planning organization in Trump and Cohen’s names, according to The Daily Beast. Penthouse will feature Daniels in an in-depth interview titled “Getting Intimate With The Most Wanted Woman In America,” which hits newsstands on May 8, the Daily Beast reported.

Late Monday, shortly after the report came out, Schneiderman resigned.

“It has been my great honor and privilege to serve as Attorney General for the people of the State of New York,” Schneiderman said in a statement. “In the last several hours, serious allegations, which I strongly contest, have been made against me. While these allegations are unrelated to my professional conduct or the operations of the office, they will effectively prevent me from leading the office’s work at this critical time.”

Two women who dated Schneiderman between 2013 and 2017, Michelle Manning Barish and Tanya Selvaratnam, told the New Yorker that Schneiderman had “repeatedly hit them, often after drinking, frequently in bed and never with their consent.” Manning Barish said that at one point Schneiderman had told her that “if you ever left me, I’d kill you.”

Schneiderman denied any assault took place.

“In the privacy of intimate relationships, I have engaged in role-playing and other consensual sexual activity,” he said in a statement. “I have not assaulted anyone. I have never engaged in nonconsensual sex, which is I line I would not cross.”

Throughout his career ― as New York state senator from 1998 to 2010 and later as state attorney general ― Schneiderman had been known as a champion of women. In recent months, he’d been a vocal supporter of the Me Too movement against sexual abuse, with his office filing a suit against Hollywood mogul Harvey Weinstein over sexual misconduct.MSNBC’s Joe Scarborough ruthlessly mocked President Donald Trump on Tuesday for adding former New York mayor Rudy Giuliani to his legal team.

“Donald Trump said during the transition that Rudy Giuliani was losing it, that he was a couple of steps behind, that he was falling asleep five minutes into meetings,” Scarborough said on MSNBC’s “Morning Joe.”

“Everybody around Donald Trump said [Giuliani] was drinking too much ― Donald Trump suggested as much,” Scarborough continued. “That was two years ago.

#SchumerShutdown ― the hashtag that GOP leaders and the White House are using to accuse Democrats of causing the shutdown ― on Sunday night became the top trending hashtag being promoted by Russian bots and trolls on Twitter, according to the Alliance for Securing Democracy, a project led by former top national security officials from both parties.

Here’s a chart by Alliance for Securing Democracy, last updated at 10 p.m. Sunday, showing the #SchumerShutdown hashtag blowing up among Russia-linked influence networks.

Alliance for Securing Democracy

#SchumerShutdown has surpassed #ReleaseTheMemo as the highest trending hashtag among Russian influence campaigns. They seized on that hashtag earlier this month in an effort to pressure Republican lawmakers to release a classified memo written by House GOP aides that allegedly describes abuses in FBI surveillance practices. Conservative organizations like Breitbart and the Daily Caller have given major coverage to the memo, but Democratic lawmakers have denounced it as deeply misleading.

Alliance for Securing Democracy tracks activity from 600 monitored Twitter accounts linked to Russian influence operations. And the fact that Donald Trump brought this guy in two years later despite his own reservations about him ... it’s not 3D chess. That’s not even checkers. That’s a monkey throwing poo against the wall, and it doesn’t usually turn out well.”

Giuliani made waves last week when he revealed Trump reimbursed personal attorney Michael Cohen for a $130,000 payment to adult film actress Stormy Daniels (whose real name is Stephanie Clifford).

Trump denied knowledge of the payment and suggested Friday that Giuliani didn’t have “his facts straight.” Giuliani continued his media blitz over the weekend with a bizarre interview on ABC’s “This Week,” in which he hinted that Cohen may have made payments to other women on behalf of Trump. “I fear getting killed by an angry white guy. That is much more likely to happen.”

It’s here in a trailer in this town of 20,000 people that three white men — fueled by a steady diet of anti-Muslim online memes and conspiracy theories, and captivated by presidential candidate Trump, who proposed a Muslim ban and proclaimed that “Islam hates us” — appeared to discuss a plot to massacre Somali Muslim immigrants who lived and worked nearby.

Somali men gather outside the International African Grocery Store in Liberal, Kansas. Employment at the local National Beef plant has brought a wave of Somali immigrants to southwest Kansas. Christopher Smith/The Washington Post via Getty Images

Patrick Stein, 49, Curtis Allen, 50, and Gavin Wright, 52, are accused of plotting to bomb an apartment complex that housed many Somalis and its on-site mosque. The three are believed to have gathered fertilizer to make a bomb while they added to their arsenal of weapons and ammunition. But the FBI says it foiled their plans with arrests four weeks before the 2016 election. The men have been in jail ever since.

Their trial began last month. They face up to life in prison if convicted on charges involving weapons of mass destruction and civil rights violations.

Evidence presented in the trial painted a picture of an all-American brand of homegrown terrorism: angry white men radicalized by Islamophobic memes and fake online news articles whose path to violent extremism was accelerated by a divisive election cycle and a candidate who sounded like them.

For the last five weeks, the defendants have shuffled into a federal courthouse in Wichita shackled at the ankles. They’ve listened day in and day out as their own attorneys called them “knuckleheads” whose talk of mass murdering Muslims was just bluster.

Still, Giuliani said he was happy with his explosive media tour.. Eisenhower spoke out with far more vigor against the corruptions of war and the perils to a democracy of an ever more powerful military, though such sentiments are seldom heard in this country today. Instead, America’s leaders insist that other people judge us by our words, our stated good intentions, not our murderous deeds and their results.

Perpetual Warfare Whistles Through Washington

Whether in Iraq, Afghanistan, or elsewhere in the war on terror, the U.S. is now engaged in generational conflicts that are costing us trillions of dollars, driving up the national debt while weakening the underpinnings of our democracy. They have led to foreign casualties by the hundreds of thousands and created refugees in the millions, while turning cities like Iraq’s Mosul into wastelands.

In today’s climate of budget-busting “defense” appropriations, isn’t it finally time for Americans to apply a little commonsense to our disastrous pattern of war-making? To prime the pump for such a conversation, here are 10 suggestions for ways to focus on, limit, or possibly change Washington’s now eternal war-making and profligate war spending:

1. Abandon the notion of perfect security. You can’t have it. It doesn’t exist.

Simona Meiler (Switzerland, snowboarding): Meiler finished 22nd in snowboard cross.

Kim Meylemans (Belgium, skeleton): Meylemans finished 14th in skeleton.

Sarka Pancochova (Czech Republic, snowboarding): Pancochova finished 16th in slopestyle and 19th in big air.

Eric Radford (Canada, pairs figure skating): Radford and skating partner Meagan Duhamel won a bronze in pairs and helped Canada win a gold in the team event. And abandon as well the idea that a huge military establishment translates into national safety