Rudy Giuliani and Donald Trump at the Trump National Golf Club in November 2016.

He has been the subject of scrutiny in special counsel Robert Mueller’s Russia investigation and other congressional probes for revising his SF-86 form used to gain a security clearance and retroactively reporting interactions with foreign officials, including Russians.

“With respect to the news about his clearances, as we stated before, his application was properly submitted, reviewed by numerous career officials and underwent the normal process,” Abbe Lowell, a personal attorney for Kushner, said in a statement. “Having completed all of these processes, he’s looking forward to continuing to do the work the president has asked him to do.”

The White House did not immediately respond to a request for comment.

White House officials stripped Kushner’s top-secret-level clearance in February, in response to a scandal over former staff secretary Rob Porter. Porter, who resigned after allegations surfaced that he had abused his two ex-wives, also had been granted a temporary clearance pending the completion of a prolonged FBI background check.

Scrutiny over the White House’s handling of Porter’s abuse allegations exposed that numerous other officials also had only temporary clearances. DON EMMERT via Getty Images

WASHINGTON — President Donald Trump’s newest lawyer said Tuesday that his previous lawyer Michael Cohen knows nothing damaging about Trump and therefore is of little value to federal prosecutors investigating him.

“He possesses no incriminating information about the president,” Rudy Giuliani told HuffPost, adding that any charges that may be filed against Cohen are unfortunate for him but would not affect Trump. “It’s of no consequence to the president.

“TESS is going to dramatically increase the number of planets that we have to study,” TESS principal investigator George Ricker of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology told reporters in a pre-launch briefing on Sunday.”

Giuliani said he nevertheless feels bad for Cohen and others, such as former Trump campaign chairman Paul Manafort, for the “storm trooper tactics” prosecutors and the FBI have used when carrying out search warrants against them.

Cohen is under investigation by federal prosecutors in the Southern District of New York. Manafort is accused of money laundering and making false statements by the office of special counsel Robert Mueller, who is investigating possible collusion between the Trump campaign and Russian intelligence agencies.

Giuliani, who was once the U.S. attorney for the same office investigating Cohen and later became New York’s mayor, acknowledged using predawn raids to execute search warrants — such as the one he claimed was used for Manafort — but never against white-collar suspects.

“I did that in organized crime cases. I did that in terrorism cases. I did that in murder cases,” Giuliani said. Arguably, a President Gore would have been less likely than President Bush to insist on invading a country that had played no part in the al-Qaeda conspiracy. Had the U.S. not embarked upon a preventive war against Iraq ― had this Original Sin of the post-9/11 era not occurred ― a Trump presidency would have been far less likely.

2003: Congress Rolls Over. To its perpetual disgrace, Congress assented to Bush’s demands to invade Iraq. It did so less because its members, including presidential aspirants like Senators Hillary Clinton and John Kerry, were persuaded that Iraq posed a threat to national security (it did not) than because they sought to insulate themselves from the political consequences of opposing a president hell-bent on war. For decades, Congress had allowed presidents to encroach upon its constitutional responsibility to declare war, but this would be the last straw. Supine legislators became complicit in a disaster that to this day continues to unfold. A Congress with gumption might have averted that disaster, recovered its cojones, and left us with a legislative branch willing and able to fulfill its constitutional responsibilities.

2003: GM Kills the EV1 Electric Automobile. In the 1990s, General Motors produced the first viable electric car. Drivers loved it, but GM doubted its potential profitability. Shareholders were more likely to make money if the company focused on manufacturing vehicles powered by gasoline engines. “I didn’t do that with respectable people.”

(In a court filing last month, Mueller’s office described the warrant as having authorized a search between 6 a.m. — Jim besenfelder (@Jimbesenfelder1) February 9, 2018

I prefer Charmin but in a pinch Trump magazine would work! pic.twitter.com/Yb4bom8cdV — Joe Weathers (@not2deepNu) February 9, 2018

Does the cover of each issue always feature a phallic symbol? Seems an appropriate analogy for the Trump name. — John Weir (@TheRealWeir) February 9, 2018

Since it’s still hot off the press, can we remold it into something different? Please??? — stevie (@steviespapa) February 9, 2018

This isn't an actual magazine, right? Like, it's an annual ad for your family's truly ridiculous towers and resorts, not a monthly magazine with any non-Trump content?



I am asking only because your family has already tried and failed at, what? Two Trump magazines? Three? — Nobody (@N__Who) February 9, 2018

Is it a comic book? — Surly (@Pulpiteer) February 9, 2018

No one reads this vanity publication. — Tom Egly (@TEgly) February 9, 2018

Still hocking Trump goods on Twitter? Tacky — Grams67 (@melissabloww55) February 9, 2018

Looks like the building is giving everyone the finger. Who thought this design was a good idea? — Wayne Lee Harrison (@WayneHarrison) February 9, 2018The Cannes Film Festival audience did the right thing at the premiere of Spike Lee’s “BlacKkKlansman” Monday, showering the director with a 10-minute ovation, according to The Hollywood Reporter. and 10 p.m., which it said it complied with.)

He scoffed at the notion that the investigation into Manafort was a counterintelligence investigation, not a run-of-the-mill fraud probe. “In your dreams,” he said.

Cohen, after inquiring about the topic of questions from HuffPost, did not respond to follow-up queries.

He remains at the center of an investigation of how a porn star, Stormy Daniels, received $130,000 to remain quiet about an affair she said she had with Trump a decade ago. The payment came just days before the 2016 presidential election but was never reported as a campaign expense by Cohen or Trump. That payment has spawned a string of contradictory statements from Cohen, Trump and, in the past week, Giuliani.

Cohen originally claimed that he paid Daniels using his own money to protect Trump’s reputation.

“I think what [Jomama]’s asking us to do with this show is to take a very clear look at what’s at stake ― what we’re dealing with emotionally, internally, personally ― and what we might put forward as the questions or the options in front of us,” Jones said. “So it’s kind of a meditation on the crossroads right now.”

“It’s been an interesting journey for me in terms of gender expression. I have Daniel, and then I have Jo who comes, and when she comes, I make way for her.” - Daniel Alexander Jones

Jones first began developing ― well, channeling ― his alter ego for 1996’s “Blood: Shock: Boogie.” Jomama, he said, was initially borne out of his nostalgia for “Soul Train” performances of the past, and took cues from Ross, Turner and Warwick, as well as Sade and disco queen Donna Summer.

Still, Jones was adamant that Jomama sing original music, not cover songs. He worked with Bobby Halvorson, Laura Jean Anderson, Dylan Meek and Josh Quat to write 12 new songs for “Black Light.”

“She has things she wants to express in her own way,” Jones said.

Since the debut of “Blood: Shock: Boogie,” Jones has recorded three independent albums as Jomama, including 2017’s “Flowering.” He said his Fordham students love Jomama’s music and are “incredibly supportive” of their professor’s glamorous, downtown persona.

“They get her,” he said. “Some were like, ‘Can she come teach our class instead?’ They don’t need to put her in a box; they don’t need to put me in a box. Trump told reporters aboard Air Force One last month that he did not know where the money had come from and suggested asking Cohen, whom Trump described as his lawyer.

But in a Fox News interview last week, Giuliani revealed that Trump repaid Cohen, arguing that it therefore could not have been a campaign finance violation. Trump followed up with series of tweets, in which he said the money came from a monthly retainer he paid Cohen.

Giuliani then told NBC News that Trump may not have known at the time of the payments to Cohen what the money was for, and in a subsequent interview with ABC News, Giuliani said Cohen may have similarly paid off other women too, although Giuliani said he did not have knowledge of that.

Michael Avenatti, the lawyer for Daniels who is suing Trump to break the 2016 hush agreement, said he finds Giuliani’s comments about Cohen perplexing.

“Michael Cohen served as the personal attorney for Donald Trump for upwards of 12 years,” Avenatti said. “The idea that nothing improper that he did in that time period could blow back on Mr. Trump is absurd.”

Giuliani said he is pushing to wrap up the Russia probe by figuring out how best to have Trump respond to Mueller’s questions. Giuliani said a May 17 date he mentioned earlier was not a hard deadline for that decision but a goal. “We need some sort of deadline for this. It’s gone on forever,” he said. “It’s hurting the country.”

He said the only reason that Mueller was even appointed special counsel was that former FBI Director James Comey “illegally leaked” memos he wrote to a friend, making the whole investigation suspect, in Giuliani’s view. “Memos he writes are FBI property,” he said of Comey.

Trump fired Comey a year ago. The White House at first claimed that the reason was his improper conduct during an investigation into Democratic presidential nominee Hillary Clinton’s use of a private email server when she was secretary of state. But Trump soon told NBC News and top Russian diplomats visiting the Oval Office that he fired Comey because of the Russia investigation.

Because Attorney General Jeff Sessions had recused himself from that investigation, Comey’s firing led Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein to appoint Mueller as a special counsel.

Giuliani said Tuesday that Trump was too busy for any extended interviews with Mueller’s investigators, given important negotiations regarding North Korea, Iran and China. “The president is pretty darned tied up right now,” Giuliani said.

On a broader level, notwithstanding the recent conflicting statements about Cohen and Daniels, Giuliani said he will have a much better relationship with Trump than his previous lawyers, some of whom were reportedly frustrated by his unwillingness to follow their advice.

“They didn’t know him for 30 years like I do. They didn’t help him get elected,” Giuliani said. “I know how to deal with him, and he knows how to deal with me.”