 Senate seat.

“The party is confident that 2018 could be a big year for Arizona,” said Drew Anderson, spokesman for the Arizona Democratic Party.

Democrat Hiral Tipirneni is running in an April 24 special election in Arizona's 8th Congressional District. Hiral for Congress

Arizona’s 8th Congressional District is composed of suburbs north and west of Phoenix. The district is home to a large number of retirees: More than one-fifth of residents are 65 or older.

In 2016, President Donald Trump defeated Democratic rival Hillary Clinton in the district by 21 percentage points. That same year, the district re-elected Franks by an even wider margin, but his main opponent was from the Green Party, not the Democratic Party.

Other parts of Arizona, including adjacent areas of the Phoenix metropolitan area, have been trending more Democratic.President Donald Trump broke the news to French President Emmanuel Macron that he was planning to withdraw from the Iran nuclear agreement in a call on Tuesday morning, The New York Times reported.

The U.S. president plans to reinstate all of the sanctions that had been waived as part of the deal while also slapping on new “economic penalties,” a person briefed on the conversation told the news outlet. Sources also told The Associated Press on Tuesday that the U. retailers who launched an ad on Monday inspired by a scene from the cult classic “Ferris Bueller’s Day Off.”

Economist and actor Ben Stein ― “Ferris Bueller’s” memorably impassive teacher ― stars in the new ad, explaining that tariffs are “B-A-D economics.”

A “student” in the ad, which you can watch above, suggests that Trump’s tariffs will “raise prices on everything from clothes to cars. I guess it’s pretty serious.”

The ad by the National Retail Federation ends: “Tell Washington: tariffs are B-A-D economics.”

The ad began airing Monday on “Fox & Friends,” and will air this weekend on NBC’s “Saturday Night Live” and ABC’s “Roseanne.”

The Trump administration has already imposed tariffs on steel, aluminum and newsprint that have raised costs for newspapers and a variety of manufacturers. Experts predict that higher prices will affect all consumers.

Matthew Shay, CEO of the retail federation, warned that a trade war will erase the benefits of tax cuts “and result in higher prices for a wide range of consumer products.S. will violate the deal but did not share any details.

France, the U.K. and Germany, the three European co-signatories on the deal, have been working with the Trump administration in recent weeks in an attempt to change Trump’s mind.

Officials from all three countries visited Washington, D.C., to make their appeals in person, to no avail. The discussions fell apart, a second person familiar with the negotiations said, around limits on Iran’s nuclear output after 2030.

The president has been critical of the 2015 agreement meant to curb Iran’s nuclear program, calling it “one of the most incompetently drawn deals I’ve seen” last October.

According to NBC and the Times, Trump administration officials have begun to alert congressional leaders of his plans..I think I have now handled the problem. What a waste of 3 hours to handle...but thank you @Twitter for helping me — Greta Van Susteren (@greta) January 17, 2018Alex Wong via Getty Images

I announced yesterday that I would not be attending the State of the Union this year. I join other distinguished members, including Rep. John Lewis, in refusing to dignify a president who has used the platform of the Oval Office to fan the flames of racism, sexism and hatred — most recently with his vulgar condemnation of Haiti and other African countries. The president is expected to make a formal announcement on the agreement at 2 p.

Thirty-eight states require candidates to collect a certain number of signatures to get on the primary ballot, a mandate designed to weed out unserious candidates. In other states, candidates can reach the ballot by collecting signatures, paying a fee, or qualifying through a party convention. States also differ on whether candidates must collect a defined number of adult signatures, or whether they must get a certain percentage of registered voters.

The issue is especially relevant now, as record numbers of candidates, especially women, rush to compete in the 2018 midterm elections. In some states, election officials are receiving more petitions than ever before. But people have been forging signatures for as long as there have been petitions.

Earlier this year, a judge in Tarrant County, Texas, and a district clerk in Webb County, Texas, dropped out of their respective races because of accusations they forged signatures. In Utah, authorities charged two residents with felonies, accusing them of forging signatures for voter initiative petitions.

In Maine, state officials in April found that U.S. Senate candidate Max Linn’s campaign had forged hundreds of voters’ signatures, some of whom were deceased, to get onto the Republican primary ballot. Secretary of State Matthew Dunlap disqualified enough signatures that Linn fell below the 2,000-signature threshold for statewide office. Funny n sad but stone cold truth. NRA going away — Michael Langan (@righthooker) March 4, 2018

Wow. Lethally funny.

As in most states, it’s “an eyeballing process” for Maine, said Kristen Muszynski, the communications director for the secretary of state. Local clerks look over petitions, looking to see whether the voters listed are registered, whether their addresses are correct, whether their signatures match ones housed in the state’s voter registration database, and whether there are any duplicates.

Mary Jane White, the city clerk for Bath, Maine, acknowledges, though, that she doesn’t check every signature she sees on candidate petitions.m. ET Tuesday at the White House.The Association of Legal Aid Attorneys, along with dozens of union and immigrant rights organizations, held a rally on Dec. 7, 2017, in Brooklyn, New York, to call for a policy to prohibit Immigration and Customs Enforcement agents from entering state courthouses. Erik McGregor/Pacific Press/LightRocket via Getty Images

Lora Livingston, a district judge who handles civil and family court cases in Travis County, Texas, was in her chambers on a Friday last spring when a court staffer called her to tell her that an Immigration and Customs Enforcement agent was in the building.

After some confusion, the agent realized he had mistakenly gone looking for an undocumented immigrant in the civil-family courthouse instead of the criminal court, which is about 100 yards away. But by the time the family courts had resumed for the afternoon, the word about the agent’s presence had spread. No one showed up for court.

“Our child protective services docket just crumbled,” Livingston said. “He wasn’t even looking for anyone in this building, but his mere presence created an atmosphere of anxiety and fear, and that led to the docket falling apart.”

With the Trump administration continuing to crack down on undocumented immigrants across the country, a new survey of judges, prosecutors, law enforcement and advocates suggests immigrant victims are less willing to report crimes or go to court because they fear they’ll be deported.

More than 750 people participated in the survey from the National Immigrant Women’s Advocacy Project. It is the first to simultaneously seek out the perspectives of judges, police, prosecutors, victim advocates and attorneys on questions related to their interactions with immigrant crime victims.

For example, the survey found that:

• About a third of the 108 judges and court staff surveyed said someone’s lack of immigration status was being used more often in 2017 than in 2016 by an opposing party in a protection order or custody case. Nearly a quarter said it was happening more often in divorce cases. Almost 40 percent said it was happening more often in criminal cases.

• About 40 percent of the 50 prosecutors who participated in the study said that in sexual assault and domestic violence cases, immigrant victims were less likely to work with prosecutors in 2017 than in previous years.

• About 40 percent of the 232 law enforcement officials who responded to the survey said they believe federal immigration policies have affected their relationships with immigrant communities in 2017 compared with 2016.

Some of these survey findings were published in a recent report by the ACLU.

Increased courthouse immigration enforcement, in particular, was an area of concern for court officials. Though immigration authorities had sometimes visited courthouses in the past, recent dramatic arrests at courthouses, in particular, have attracted widespread media attention.

Although these incidents have stoked fears around deportation within immigrant communities, it’s unclear how Immigration and Customs Enforcement’s courthouse practices have changed under the Trump administration because it does not track where arrests are made.

So the survey asked judges, and immigration attorneys and advocates to report the number of cases they have handled that involved courthouse enforcement in 2016 and 2017.

According to the report:

• The judges who responded to the survey reported an uptick in immigration enforcement in their courtrooms from 2016 to 2017, from a total of 19 cases to 28 cases.

• The 389 immigrant advocates and attorneys who responded to the survey said their clients had been involved in a total of 51 instances of courthouse immigration enforcement against victims, though they did not report an increase from 2016 to 2017. (Immigration enforcement at courthouses is generally considered fair game in criminal courts, and as of January, ICE said it avoided areas of the court not related to processing crimes.)

• Although the Violence Against Women Act of 2005 generally prohibits immigration enforcement at rape crisis centers, domestic violence shelters and other types of victim or family centers, advocates and lawyers reported an additional 87 cases of immigration enforcement that took place at these locations. (If immigration arrests are made in these places, officials need to provide proof that they did not rely upon perpetrator-provided information.)

• Advocates and lawyers said their clients had also been arrested at places the Department of Homeland Security considers “sensitive locations,” such as schools, hospitals and places of worship. There were 23 incidents reported.

Last January, ICE issued a memo clarifying its position on courthouse enforcement. It said that, although courthouse enforcement would continue in places like criminal courts, ICE agents have been directed to avoid making arrests in places dedicated to noncriminal matters, such as courthouses where people go to seek domestic violence restraining orders or for child custody cases.

Sarah Rodriguez, an ICE spokesperson, said that the agency “will not make civil immigration arrests inside courthouses indiscriminately” and that arrests made in public places based on probable cause “is legally permissible.”

“Courthouse arrests are often necessitated by the unwillingness of jurisdictions to cooperate with ICE in the transfer of custody of aliens from their prisons and jails,” Rodriguez said in a statement. “Civil immigration enforcement actions taken inside courthouses can reduce safety risks to the public, targeted alien(s), and ICE officers and agents.”

ICE pointed out that the arrests reported in the survey are unconfirmed and that other agencies, such as the Customs and Border Patrol, can make immigration-related arrests.

Leslye Orloff, the lead author of the survey report and a law professor at American University, said that these incidents of immigration enforcement against immigrant crime victims at courthouses and sensitive locations could indicate that in some cases authorities have violated federal statutes and Department of Homeland Security policies.

“Immigration officials were right in issuing its policy in 2018,” Orloff said. “Along with federal laws, it should substantially make a difference in ending courthouse enforcement against immigrant crime victims and assuring that courthouses will once again be safe places where immigrant victims can turn to for help.”

Livingston, the judge, said that the incident in her courtroom illustrated how anxieties around immigration enforcement affect the legal system’s ability to process cases.

“We don’t want to interfere with the Department of Homeland Security’s ability to carry out their mandate, and we don’t want them to interfere with our ability to carry out our mandate,” she added. “When these important family court hearings don’t happen or deadlines are missed or postponed, it wreaks havoc for the kids and it’s difficult for us in moving forward in a child’s best interest.”

Bernice Yeung is a reporter for Reveal and the author of In a Day’s Work: The Fight to End Sexual Violence Against America’s Most Vulnerable Workers. She can be reached at byeung@revealnews.org. Follow her on Twitter: @bmyeung.