 At 92Y, the “Charmed” actress said she’s ready to name another high-profile Hollywood abuser ― although there’s no telling when she’ll do so.

After touching on the actress’ earliest experiences with sexual assault, as detailed in her heavy memoir, Farrow asked McGowan about a “statutory rape by a prominent man in Hollywood” that she told him about previously.

“Yes, and I didn’t process that, actually, until ― I’ll get to him,” she began.

“Is that a story you’re ready to tell?” Farrow asked.

“Right now? Or in general? In general, sure. Right now at this moment? I’ve had a big day,” McGowan responded, revealing a few details.

92Y

“Let me tell you, he worked for my rapist and won Oscars. Let me tell you, this man picked me up when I was 15 years old,” she said. (McGowan seemed to pointedly avoid saying Weinstein’s name all evening.

There are at least four bathroom-related cases throughout the country, including Curts’, that have been dismissed by the Trump administration amid this policy change. In response to these claims ― which deal with school districts in Hawaii, Michigan, Texas and Florida ― the Education Department’s Office for Civil Rights (OCR) specifically told the complainant that the agency was no longer obligated to investigate instances of bathroom discrimination involving transgender students. The Trump administration contends that the federal education law dealing with sex discrimination does not cover gender identity.

In at least three of these districts, there continues to be either an explicit policy banning transgender students from specific facilities or a vague procedure that doesn’t necessarily give transgender students’ access to the restroom that aligns with their gender identity.

Now that the Trump administration has abandoned this issue, some students are stuck in hostile schools with little hope for change.

“It’s almost like effort going to nothing,” Curts told HuffPost of his previous legal action.

Curts’ complaint ― which was filed on his behalf by the Florida branch of the ACLU ― was submitted in May 2016, in the same week that the Obama administration released guidance calling on schools to give students access to facilities based on their gender identity.) She had landed a job at a talent agency by fudging her age, she added. When the man took her home, she said they watched “a soft porn movie he made for Showtime, under a different name, of course,” before having sex.

“And then he left me next to Cafe Tropical in Silver Lake standing on a street corner,” she said.

The actress didn’t identify the incident as statutory rape until two weeks after Farrow’s first Weinstein story was published, because she had considered the man attractive and believed she consented to the encounter, despite her young age.

“I don’t have a normal trajectory, I don’t know if you do either,” she told Farrow, son of actress Mia Farrow, who replied with a slight grin, “I do not.White House Chief of Staff John Kelly (R) and White House lawyer Emmet Flood (L) arrive to attend a briefing with members of the so-called 'Gang of Eight' at the U.S. Capitol May 24, 2018 in Washington, DC. Mark Wilson via Getty Images

WASHINGTON ― Top congressional lawmakers and a White House attorney met with Justice Department officials on Thursday to discuss classified information about an FBI informant involved in the investigation into Russia’s alleged meddling in the 2016 election. Democrats have denounced the sit-down as inappropriate and contrary to the rule of law.

Republicans had requested the information for weeks, issuing a subpoena and warning top DOJ officials that if they refused they would hold them contempt of Congress.

Emmet Flood, the White House attorney dealing with the Russia investigation, attended part of the classified briefing and was spotted leaving the DOJ headquarters alongside House Speaker Paul Ryan (R-Wis.), House Intelligence Committee Chair Devin Nunes (R-Calif.S.(negotiating), but they do..), Rep. Trey Gowdy (R-S.C.), and White House chief of staff John Kelly. None of the men took questions from a contingent of reporters standing watch.

The White House later said in a statement that Kelly and Flood made brief remarks at the beginning of the meeting to “relay the President’s desire for as much openness as possible” and departed before it actually began.

“I support access to the internet. Everyone should have it,” Young said. “[But] it’s a marketplace decision. Government should not always be the solution or the arbitrator.”

Nor does Young think the FCC ruling will have an impact on government services in Wyoming. “It might change economic models for the businesses operating in the state,” he said, “but for our operations and what we do, I don’t see that it’s going to change anything.”

Legal Fights

Many of the disputes over net neutrality likely will wind up in the courts.

Last week, a coalition of 22 state attorneys general, led by New York’s Eric Schneiderman, filed a lawsuit to block the FCC’s rollback of net neutrality regulations, which the suit called “arbitrary and capricious.” The FCC declined to comment.

Public interest groups Free Press and Public Knowledge also have filed lawsuits challenging the FCC ruling. So has tech company Mozilla, as well as the Open Technology Institute, an arm of the New America think tank.

The unusual meeting had become highly politicized in recent days as President Donald Trump, a possible subject of the probe, ratcheted up attacks against the investigation, the Justice Department and the FBI. He has claimed that the FBI had “infiltrated” and “spied” on his 2016 presidential campaign when the agency reportedly used an informant to make contact with Trump campaign advisers who allegedly had suspicious contacts linked to Russia.

The president demanded the Justice Department investigate the accusations and turn over any relevant documents to Congress. Lindsey Graham (R-S.C.) told HuffPost that the ad was “over the top,” while Sen. Lisa Murkowski (R-Alaska) said it “wasn’t helpful.”

Graham calls ad endorsed by Trump that says Democrats are culpable for murder if they refuse to support his immigration proposals “over the top” — Igor Bobic (@igorbobic) January 21, 2018

Murkowski calls ad endorsed by Trump that says Democrats are culpable for murder if they refuse to support his immigration proposals “not helpful” — Igor Bobic (@igorbobic) January 21, 2018

White House press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders on Monday further defended the ad as “absolutely appropriate” and dismissed suggestions that it would make negotiations more difficult by blaming Democrats.

“We cannot protect this country if we don’t secure our border. That’s the point the president is trying to make,” she said on ABC’s “Good Morning America.”Last winter, Erik sent a message to 20 of his least favorite porn stars, YouTube celebrities and “Insta-gays.”

“So are you like a real person or just another shallow empty fuckboy who works in an industry that props up unrealistic gay male beauty/sex standards and wouldn’t be caught dead with anyone below pornboy looks?”

Erik isn’t his real name. He’s 28 years old, he works for the government, he lives in the Midwest and that’s as specific as I’m going to get. “Speaking objectively,” he says when I ask him to describe himself, “I’m pear-shaped. I’ve got a tummy, man-titties and a big squishy butt. I also have a nice haircut, a clean face and a nice smile.”

I met Erik a few months ago, right around the time his flurry of porn-star trolling reached its zenith.

White House involvement in an investigation Justice Department investigation is rare. Trump has routinely broken norms about how the White House interacts with the Justice Department, which is supposed to have a degree of independence. While the presidency can certainly shape the direction of the Justice Department through nominations and help broadly outline priorities, the White House is not supposed to be involved in individual cases.

Typically, administrations are eager to steer clear of any actions which might give an appearance of politicization of the Justice Department.

Rep. Adam Schiff (D-Calif.), the top Democrat on the House Intelligence committee, said the meeting on the classified information had not changed his view that the FBI followed proper procedures during their investigation.

“Nothing we heard today has changed our view that there is no evidence to support any allegation that the FBI or any intelligence agency placed a spy in the Trump campaign or otherwise failed to follow appropriate procedures or protocols,” Schiff told reporters after the meeting.

Justice Department officials initially invited only Nunes and committee member Gowdy to review the classified information regarding the FBI informant and the agency’s purported monitoring of Trump campaign officials. Democrats immediately criticized the move, accusing the GOP of politicizing intelligence by initially excluding Democrats from the classified briefing.

“Never has there been anything so disrespectful of the Congress than what they’re doing today,” House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi told reporters Thursday. The California Democrat said she had directed Schiff to attend in her place so as to make sure “henchmen of the president” do not interfere with the investigation.

Justice Department officials also briefed other members of Congress ― the bipartisan “Gang of Eight” composed of congressional leaders and the top members of the intelligence committees from both parties― on Thursday afternoon. Kelly and Flood made similar remarks in that meeting as well before departing shortly after they began.

Sen. Mark Warner (D-Va.), the top Democrat on the Senate Intelligence Committee, later criticized their presence at the latter meeting.