This is a country where we’re taught to fight for things we believe in and speak for people who don’t have a voice. I’ve spoken to a number of servicemen and women who have shared that they don’t mind ― that that’s what they fought for, for us to have that platform and to have the right to do that. So long as it’s a peaceful assembly in protest, they were all for that. They also know the policies they buy will cover a set of 10 “essential” benefits, including mental health, maternity care, and prescription drugs, paying for pretty much anything that might be associated with a major illness or injury.

These protections are wildly popular and help explain why Republican efforts to repeal the law outright have repeatedly failed. But the new requirements have also made insurance more expensive, as insurers pay claims they might have avoided before. Although the ACA also created federal tax credits to cut the cost of premiums, the credits are smaller for people at higher incomes and cut off altogether for people with incomes above four times the poverty line (roughly $100,000 for a family of four).

That has created demand for cheaper alternatives, especially for people who don’t get much or any financial assistance. Christian health ministry plans are filling that demand.

These plans are not insurance and the law does not treat them that way. They are voluntary arrangements for people who agree to certain conditions, such as abiding by Christian faith, or forswearing alcohol and smoking.

I would say, too, that the first time people were protesting it brought awareness to that. Now, the second thing is, what’s the plan after that? If you’re still kneeling and there’s no plan, then you’re just kneeling to be kneeling. If there’s not a plan behind it after the first couple of times, then that’s probably not the best course of action.

I didn’t have an issue with it, because I understood why the players were kneeling.

Is it foolish to try to keep politics out of sports?

I don’t think you can. I understand the NFL doesn’t want to deal with that. Former Broncos head coach Mike Shanahan had some rules with our locker room: Two things we don’t talk about, religion and politics. And I understand, because those issues get heated.

But it’s woven into our culture now that when we do something, people [insert politics]. It’s part of where we are now. I’m not saying it’s foolish to try and keep it out, I think it’s almost impossible to keep it out.

Are you surprised Colin Kaepernick went unsigned?

No. He’s dying anyway.”

The comment was first reported by The Hill.

White House sources reportedly dismissed Sadler’s comment as a “joke,” and there has been no public mention of firing her. At Sanders’ briefing Friday, the press secretary refused to confirm or deny a “leak .. I’m not surprised. In this league, they don’t need everybody. They want you, but they don’t need you.HuffPost

Bloomberg via Getty Images

TOP STORIES

(And want to get The Morning Email each weekday? Sign up here.)

THE HOUSE HAS PASSED A SPENDING BILL, BUT THE THREAT OF A SHUTDOWN REMAINS House Republican leaders cut a last-minute deal with conservatives, but that legislation still faces challenges. Obviously the issues that were happening with him, those owners weren’t willing to take that risk. And then, not really knowing if he’s going to be a good quarterback or not. He’s better than some QBs in this league, but is it worth the risk for them? I’m not shocked he wasn’t signed. They will be more susceptible to abuse and earn lower wages.”

“It’s going to be an incredible disruption of family life and economic activity,” he added.

Salvadorans constitute a significant chunk of Washington’s construction and hospitality workforces. That means with the end of TPS, many employers will have to train new workers to fill the roles of the experienced ones they lay off. Even jobs commonly thought of as “unskilled” still require skills, and someone who has prepped and cleaned the salad bar in the Senate basement for years is probably pretty good at it.Reddit has an entire “Shower Thoughts” subreddit dedicated to “the miniature epiphanies you have that highlight the oddities within the familiar.” In honor of those weird, wonderful and sometimes profound musings, here are 25 of the best posts from the last week:“Dancing With The Stars” pro Cheryl Burke says she stands with the Olympic athletes who this week are delivering victim impact statements at the sentencing hearing for their abuser, former USA Gymnastics team doctor Larry Nassar.

“I’ve been following what has happened with the US women’s gymnastics team and wanted to take a minute to commend these young women for sharing their stories,” Burke, who was molested as a child, wrote on Instagram.

“I too have had to sit in a court room in front of the man who sexually abused me and share my experiences.”

The post was captioned "#MeToo.”

A post shared by Cheryl Burke (@cherylburke) on Jan 18, 2018 at 3:04pm PST

Burke shared her experience as a child victim of sexual abuse in a 2015 TLC documentary, “Breaking the Silence.

If you hadn’t ended up in football, what do you think you would have ended up doing?

Oh, my goodness.”

“Close to forty percent of Americans are obese,” Kelly said. “They need support, they need kindness and one thing they definitely do not need is to be body-shamed. I said something yesterday on the show that clearly struck a nerve, and I think it’s a conversation we need to have openly.”WASHINGTON, Jan 12 (Reuters) - U.S. Ambassador to Panama John Feeley, a career diplomat and former Marine Corps helicopter pilot, has resigned, saying he no longer felt able to serve President Donald Trump.

Feeley’s departure had been communicated to State Department officials on Dec. I don’t know. I don’t look at life like that. I know my first move, if I’d been cut in training camp, would have been to go back to Georgia and parlay my relationships at Georgia with alumni and maybe work in Atlanta somewhere. Maybe that would’ve been my first move, but other than that, I have no idea what my life would’ve turned out to be.

Are you concerned at all with the drop in NFL TV viewership?

I’m not. Maybe there’s a few reasons why that happened. NFL viewership has gone up every year, and at some point it corrects. And it may have plateaued this year, may have even shrunk a little bit, but I think that’s OK. It’s such a big industry, and the fan base the NFL has is tremendous.

Now ― next year, if it happens again, I think the league be saying, “OK, what’s going on now?” But I think it’s going to go up again this year.

What is the future of Thursday Night Football? It seems like it’s hated by players and fans. Do you see it going away?

I don’t see it going away anytime soon. There’s too much money the league is making on Thursday Night Football, and I know some of the players hate it, but... There’s not enough groundswell and enough people pushing back against Thursday Night Football for it to just go away. I don’t see that happening.