President Donald Trump announced on Tuesday that the U.S. will withdraw from the international nuclear accord with Iran, the landmark 2015 agreement curbing Iran’s nuclear development program in return for sanctions relief.

By ending America’s participation in the deal, Trump fulfills a major campaign promise. But the decision could set the stage for an international political crisis and uncertainty over the future of Iran’s nuclear program. When Cornish ended up walking in the room, she said, for a split second she thought he was there to kill her.

Cornish, a Republican, resigned in November after Walker and Maye Quade, a Democrat, accused him of sexual harassment. Walker said he repeatedly propositioned her for sex and Maye Quade said he often made inappropriate comments — allegations that Cornish has denied. He did not return a phone call for comment.

But that day in March, some of his former colleagues greeted him with smiles and laughter, Maye Quade recalled. The visit sent a potentially corrosive message to women in the Statehouse, Walker said — a message that nothing had changed.

Seven months after the #MeToo movement began, state lawmakers across the country are still grappling with how to root out what many say is a longstanding misogynist culture in statehouses. After dozens of sexual harassment accusations against sitting male state lawmakers, at least 16 legislators in a dozen states have resigned or been expelled, according to a Stateline tally.

In many states, accused lawmakers were knocked from leadership posts, or voluntarily relinquished them, while remaining in office. Others apologized and kept their positions, or maintain their innocence.

As many legislative sessions end, many of the substantial policy changes that state lawmakers were hoping for — such as creating a private and safe method for victims to come forward and a nonpartisan way for bad behavior to be punished — remain elusive.

Here’s what you need to know about the agreement:

The Deal

Also known as the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action, the deal is the result of a decade of international negotiations to curb Tehran’s nuclear ambitions.

Although Iran is banned from possessing nuclear weapons as a state party of the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty, it failed to disclose the existence of its uranium-enrichment program for 18 years, causing alarm when its clandestine program was revealed in 2003.

Negotiators from Iran and six other world powers, including the United Nations Security Council’s five permanent members and Germany, reached the historic agreement on July 14, 2015. It placed strict limits on Tehran’s nuclear program that were set to last for more than a decade. Jim Inhofe (R-Okla.).Oprah Winfrey is doing her part to help young black girls thrive during Women’s History Month.

While on “Good Morning America” on Wednesday, the media mogul promised to match the $50,000 one teen raised to help black girls see “A Wrinkle in Time.”

Taylor Richardson, a 14-year-old aspiring astronaut, originally raised $20,000 to allow 1,000 young girls in her hometown of Jacksonville, Florida, to see the sci-fi movie. By earlier this week, the fundraiser had hit $50,000.

Oprah, who stars in the film as Mrs. Which, surprised the teen behind the scenes of the talk show and praised her success. During Wednesday’s show, Richardson asked Oprah if she had any advice for black girls who want to change the world.

The United Nations Security Council endorsed the deal on July 20, 2015, officially agreeing to “terminate” U.N. sanctions on Iran.

Iranian President Hassan Rouhani attends a meeting with Muslim leaders and scholars in Hyderabad, India, February 15, 2018./Syracuse*

3 Michigan St.

14 Bucknell

7 Rhode Island

10 Oklahoma

2 Duke

15 Iona

SOUTH

1 Virginia

16 UMBC

8 Creighton

9 Kansas St.

5 Kentucky

12 Davidson

4 Arizona

13 Buffalo

6 Miami

11 Loyola-Chicago

3 Tennessee

14 Wright St.

7 Nevada

10 Texas

2 Cincinnati

15 Georgia St. Danish Siddiqui / Reuters

The JCPOA was a “once in a lifetime opportunity,” then-President Barack Obama said at the time it was agreed. “This is our best bet by far to make sure Iran doesn’t get a nuclear weapon,” Obama added. Tehran had always maintained that its nuclear development was only intended for energy and other peaceful purposes, but fears the Islamic Republic was working on developing a nuclear bomb had been rising in the West.

Critics of the agreement, including Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, argued that the deal at its core was not tough enough on Iran.

“Not a single nuclear facility is shut down, including the underground facilities that [Iran builds] illicitly,” Netanyahu said in 2015. “Thousands of centrifuges will keep spinning, enriching uranium. That’s a very bad deal.”

Trump has echoed these concerns, repeatedly calling it “the worst deal ever. As dangerous fossil fuel emissions from cars, trucks, trains and buses accelerate climate change and create a dire public health crisis, cities around the world are taking a stand to implement policies to create a greener and healthier future for all citizens.

It is critical that leaders take initiative to face these complex issues with innovative policy solutions, especially as new research continues to show the measurable negative effects of air pollution and fossil fuel emissions on human health.

That’s why we ― alongside mayors from 11 powerful and global cities around the world ― have come together to sign the C40 Green & Healthy Streets Declaration, a commitment to reduce the number of fossil fuel-powered vehicles on the streets, and most importantly, put people at the center of our city planning policies by making walking, biking and use of public transportation the most convenient and desirable option for all citizens.

Paris is among the cities that has joined the C40 Green & Healthy Streets Declaration. Gonzalo Fuentes/Reuters

Twelve C40 cities have already risen to the challenge: London; Los Angeles; Mexico City; Milan; Paris; Seattle; Auckland, New Zealand; Barcelona, Spain; Cape Town, South Africa; Copenhagen, Denmark; Quito, Ecuador; and Vancouver, Canada. If all C40 cities were to meet the commitments outlined in the declaration, we could potentially prevent more than 45,000 premature deaths globally per year.

In Paris alone, C40 research shows that our commitments to the Green & Healthy Streets Declaration will literally save lives. Taking the concrete and measurable actions outlined in the declaration ― including only procuring zero emissions buses starting in 2025 and ensuring that at least a major area of the city is zero emission by 2030 ― will avoid an estimated 400 premature deaths per year and add 21 days to the average life expectancy of every Parisian.

And while reducing air pollution alone can have far-reaching effects on the health and well-being of city dwellers, we must also encourage and incentivize people to actively commute to work or school. By creating public spaces and streets that are friendlier to pedestrians and cyclists, city leaders will help improve health outcomes for their fellow citizens, reducing risk of heart disease, stroke, diabetes and various types of cancer by up to 23 percent.

From left: Tokyo Gov. Yuriko Koike, Los Angeles Mayor Eric Garcetti, Paris Mayor Anne Hidalgo, New York Mayor Michael Bloomberg, Barcelona Mayor Ada Colau and Milan Mayor Giuseppe Sala pose during C40 Cities Climate summit in Paris on Oct.”

KEVIN LAMARQUE via Getty Images

What It Does

At its most basic level, the deal meant Iran agreed to put heavy restrictions on its nuclear program in exchange for world powers lifting economic sanctions that target the country. The deal lasts until 2030, with some restrictions expiring before then and other inspection measures extending years beyond that date.

Prior to the agreement, international sanctions and trade embargoes had cost the Iranian economy tens of billions of dollars.

Iran stood to benefit from a potential increase in foreign investment and access to the Swift international banking system. In return, the rest of the parties to the agreement believed they had security that Iran was always at least a year away from being able to build a nuclear weapon during the time that the deal was enforced.

Under the terms of the deal, Iran agreed to remove or reduce many of the components needed to create nuclear weapons. The country accepted a 98 percent reduction of its uranium stockpile, the removal of a reactor core used to make plutonium at the Arak heavy water plant and the reduction of thousands of centrifuges needed to enrich uranium. Iran also agreed to limit its research and development work, as well as several other restrictions.

The deal contained strict rules on monitoring and inspection of Iran’s nuclear sites. The International Atomic Energy Agency was required to extensively monitor Iran’s nuclear facilities, and IAEA workers had access to a live video stream of areas including Iranian uranium enrichment plants. Inspectors also have wide-ranging access to sites within the country that they deem necessary to investigate. While conducting this monitoring and inspection regime, the IAEA confirmed nine times that Iran was in compliance with the JCPOA.

JIM WATSON via Getty Images

The Consequences Of Scrapping The Deal

In the immediate aftermath of Trump’s announcement, European and Iranian officials condemned the U.S. decision and vowed to pursue separate negotiations to continue the nuclear deal. United Nations Secretary-General Antonio Guterres called on signatories to the deal to maintain their commitments despite the U.S. violation.

But if the Iran nuclear deal eventually falls apart as a result of Trump’s decision to pull out of the agreement, there are several potential outcomes. The U.S. and other world powers could attempt to negotiate a new deal with Iran on terms that Trump finds more favorable. French President Emmanuel Macron has floated the prospect of a new deal that would entail renegotiating certain aspects of the current agreement.

But Iran has rejected the prospect of a new deal, and experts say that Iran will have little incentive to enter into a future agreement if the JCPOA is ignored. Europe could also try to find a way to preserve elements of the deal and work around U.S. sanctions, something which Iran has signaled it is open to, but analysts say that is diplomatically risky and technically difficult. In this scenario, the European Union would take legal measures to shield European companies that do business with Iran from incurring U.S.S. Court of Appeals for the 7th Circuit, repeatedly dodged the question posed by Sen. Cory Booker (D-N.J.).

“Do you think implicit racial bias exists in our criminal justice system?” asked Booker, one of three black members to ever serve on the Senate Judiciary Committee.

“I would indicate only that I would do my very best as a judge to ensure that no biases came in,” said Brennan, who was a trial judge on the Milwaukee County Circuit Court for nine years.

“You’re aware that African-Americans are stopped more than whites for drug searches in this country?” Booker continued. “That there’s no difference between blacks and whites for using drugs or dealing drugs, but [blacks] are 3.7 times more likely to be arrested for it? You’re aware of the data, I imagine, that says African-Americans are more likely to get mandatory minimum sentences for the same crime. You’re probably aware of the data that African-Americans are more likely to serve more time for similar crimes.”

The senator asked again, “Do you think implicit racial bias exists in the criminal justice system as you know it?”

“One of the things I can say, senator, is that I want to put my pro bono efforts into …,” Brennan began. sanctions.

If there is no way to work around the deal, renewed economic sanctions on Iran would dry up foreign investment from the country.

Iran could choose to once again begin developing its nuclear capabilities. Iranian President Hassan Rouhani is already under pressure from hardliners who have tried to undermine the deal, and he said following Trump’s speech that Iran could begin enriching uranium again if talks fail.

If Iran restarts its nuclear program, it would put the country back on the path to conflict with the U.S., Israel and possibly other Western powers.