British actress Cynthia Erivo attends the 2018 Met Gala in New York City on May 7. Eduardo Munoz / Reuters

Cynthia Erivo is giving us life with her Met Gala manicure.

The British actress and singer stepped up her nail game for Monday night’s “Heavenly Bodies: Fashion and the Catholic Imagination”-themed Met Gala in New York City. With the help of iconic nail stylist Gina Oh, Erivo recreated the famous Michaelangelo Sistine Chapel painting “The Creation of Adam” with black women. (Pause for snaps, people.)

The illustration can be seen spread across three nails on Erivo’s right hand. Her middle finger depicts the historic part of the painting in which God is about to touch Adam’s finger.

A post shared by Gina Aka "The Hand" (@ohriginails) on May 7, 2018 at 11:34am PDT

A post shared by Gina Aka "The Hand" (@ohriginails) on May 7, 2018 at 11:50am PDT

A post shared by Gina Aka "The Hand" (@ohriginails) on May 8, 2018 at 5:27am PDT

“Creation of Adam,” added to the Sistine Chapel between 1508 and 1512, portrays God giving life to man. In Erivo and Oh’s version, God is a black woman and Adam, the first man to walk the earth according to the Bible, is also a black woman.

“Cynthia really wanted to incorporate this image with her nails,” Oh said. “The recreation was very meaningful because it was two women and they were African-American. It made this moment very personalized.”

A post shared by Harmonia (@honeiee) on May 5, 2017 at 12:33pm PDT

Rosales told HuffPost in an interview last year that paintings like “The Creation of Adam” really “helped to define” her understanding of the world. However, it is a great deal more common issue for babies to have heads that are flattened, typically on the back, a condition known as plagiocephaly. This occurs in up to half of infants and rates have gone up in recent years as parents have learned to diminish SIDS risk by having babies sleep on their backs. Flat spots can form at any spot of the head (known as positional plagiocephaly), but frequently flatness occurs because infants are spending too much time on their backs outside of sleeping and not engaging in enough tummy time.

“It was only later when I realized that the frame that was set by the masters excluded so much more than it included,” Rosales said. “What was included was a Eurocentric view of the world, and in this case, the heavens. What was excluded was all the rest of us.”

Scroll below to see more of Erivo’s Met Gala look.

HECTOR RETAMAL via Getty Images

Taylor Hill via Getty Images

Carlo Allegri / Reuters

Mike Coppola/MG18 via Getty Images

Carlo Allegri / ReutersWhoa.

Actors Keanu Reeves and Alex Winter are confirmed to party on with a third “Bill & Ted” movie, per The Hollywood Reporter.

Reeves will reprise his role as “Ted” Theodore Logan, and Winter will once again play “Bill” S. Preston Esq., two metalheads who use a time-traveling phone booth to go on most triumphant adventures.

The third film follows 1989’s “Bill & Ted’s Excellent Adventure” and 1991’s “Bill & Ted’s Bogus Journey.” Almost 30 years in the making, No.S. Capitol Police, confirmed that four juveniles were arrested Friday outside the office building where Ryan works. The four face charges of “crowding, obstructing, or incommoding.”

Watch a full video of the protest and the arrests below:'Stranger Things' Cast With Politicians Would Be Even Scarier See GalleryThe Minneapolis police officer who fatally shot an Australian woman in July after she called 911 for help has been charged with murder by Hennepin County prosecutors, officials announced.

Mohamed Noor, the officer who shot Justine Damond, turned himself in after authorities issued an arrest warrant Tuesday on charges of third-degree murder and second-degree manslaughter, Hennepin County Attorney Mike Freeman said during a press conference.

Noor was booked at Hennepin County Jail around 11 a.m. on Tuesday, and prosecutors requested a judge set his bail at $500,000, according to Freeman. Noor’s attorney did not immediately respond to HuffPost’s request for comment.

Damond’s family applauded the charges in a statement, calling them “one step toward justice.”

“No charges can bring our Justine back,” the family wrote. “However, justice demands accountability for those responsible for recklessly killing the fellow citizens they are sworn to protect, and today’s actions reflect that. 3 will be called “Bill & Ted Face the Music,” featuring the now middle-aged duo with families of their own and yet to fulfill their destiny.

According to the first film, Bill and Ted’s band, Wyld Stallyns, is supposed to produce music that creates a utopia and saves mankind..) ends up being speaker. Coupled with a sex scandal, that’s pretty much how now-disgraced former Rep. Dennis Hastert (R-Ill.) ascended from the chief deputy whip position to the speakership in 1999.

McCarthy, who’s already made his closeness with President Donald Trump a centerpiece of his run for the speakership, could also decide to move on from Congress after the elections, potentially taking a job as White House chief of staff or as a Cabinet secretary. Or maybe he could just decide that he, like Ryan, has had enough of Congress and finally wants to move on.

And Scalise, whose life was already turned upside down less than a year ago when he was shot during a practice for the Congressional Baseball Game, could also decide the continued headaches of leadership just aren’t worth it ― though that seems much more unlikely than McCarthy passing on a job that he already passed on once.

The point is, there are so many outcomes and moving parts to these races that it’s impossible to predict how leadership elections will turn out in seven long months. There’s no telling what Trump might do in the next week, and Ryan’s retirement announcement might embolden the speaker to actually stand up to the president (though don’t hold your breath).Environmental Protection Agency Administrator Scott Pruitt directed staff to book travel that allowed him to personally accrue more frequent flier miles, insisting on flying first class on an airline not on the government’s approved list and staying in pricey hotels, according to a bombshell new letter released Thursday by congressional investigators.

The allegations come from Kevin Chmielewski, a lifelong Republican and former Trump aide who served as the EPA’s deputy chief of staff until he was removed for raising alarm over Pruitt’s spending, and are detailed in a six-page letter signed by two senators and three House members, all Democrats. The lawmakers ―Reps. and @JordanKlepper has a very clear message for them and the politicians they support. pic.twitter.

Travel between the two Koreas has been impossible without the approval of both governments since the 1950-53 war that divided the peninsula and ended in a truce rather than a peace treaty.com/TOwUSJBaeb

Comedy Central’s “The Opposition” is off this week, but host Jordan Klepper took to Twitter with a short video created in response to Wednesday’s mass shooting at a Florida high school. And he has just one question for the NRA. But in the upcoming “threequel,” we learn that the two San Dimas slackers are still struggling to write a good song ― much less the greatest song ever.

“[They’re] having that moment in their life of going: ‘Do we try to get there, or give up the dream?’” Winter told Entertainment Weekly in March of the script that “Bill & Ted” creators Chris Matheson (“Imagine That”) and Ed Solomon (“Men in Black”) reportedly began writing in 2010.

“Of course, there is a little caveat, in that someone comes from the future and says: ‘Not only do you have to save the world, you have to save everything,’” Reeves added.

Dean Parisot (“Galaxy Quest”) is confirmed to direct, and Steven Soderbergh will serve as an executive producer alongside Scott Fischer, John Ryan Jr., and John Santilli, Deadline reports.

Winter, for his part, seems completely amped for the upcoming movie.