But it didn’t help. The former New York City mayor sounded wackier than ever in an ABC interview over the weekend.

On Monday night’s broadcast of “The Daily Show,” host Trevor Noah shared a clip from that exchange. And when George Stephanopoulos reminded Giuliani that he said Trump knew about the $130,000 hush money payment to Daniels and reimbursed Michael Cohen for it, Giuliani’s response was: “Well, maybe I did. But I ... right now, I’m at the point where I’m learning, and I can only ... I can’t prove that. I can just say it’s rumor. I can prove it’s rumor, but I can’t prove it’s fact.”Janet Jackson will be honored at the 2018 Billboard Music Awards this month.

Billboard announced on Monday that the superstar will receive the coveted Icon Award at this year’s annual ceremony, on May 20 in Las Vegas. Jackson, 51, will be in good company. Other artists who have received the award include Stevie Wonder, Prince, Cher and Celine Dion. Jim Jordan (R-Ohio), left, of the House Freedom Caucus walks with the caucus's chairman, Rep... I mean dollars .. Correction: awesome company.

If that news weren’t amazing enough, she will also perform at the ceremony. It will be her first televised performance since the American Music Awards in 2009.

“Can’t wait! Thank u @bbmas,” Jackson wrote in an Instagram post on Monday.

A post shared by Janet Jackson (@janetjackson) on May 7, 2018 at 10:01am PDT

Jackson was nominated for 18 Billboard Music Awards from 1990 (the first year the ceremony aired) to 2001, winning 10 times. She has a busy summer planned, with scheduled performances at the Essence Festival, Panorama and Outside Lands, and she recently added 11 dates to her “State of the World” tour.

The Billboard Music Awards will be held in Las Vegas on May 20, 2018, and will air on NBC at 8 p.m. ET.President Donald Trump on the South Lawn as he returns to the White House from Cleveland on Friday. The White House is set to propose two huge sets of spending cuts. YURI GRIPAS via Getty Images

WASHINGTON ― The White House is preparing to send Congress a roughly $15 billion package of spending cuts Tuesday using an obscure budgetary process to rescind so-called unobligated funds while also preparing another package that would take money from the recently passed government funding bill. Even the most basic requirements to receive compensation, like reporting the crime to law enforcement, can deter victims, especially those from neighborhoods where distrust of the criminal justice system runs high.

Most vexing, advocates say, is that state laws that govern compensation programs can ultimately exclude people at the highest risk of being shot. While black men disproportionately experience violence, they are also more likely than whites to have been convicted of a felony, which in some states can disqualify people from receiving funds.

Victim compensation “is set up to really help victims, and yet it’s ironic, because it often really adds to the pain that they are going through,” said Alicia Boccellari, a clinical psychologist and founder of the University of California-San Francisco’s Trauma Recovery Center, which provides mental health services and case management for violent crime survivors. “It puts a lot of expectations on them, when they really have so few inner resources to deal with all this. Sometimes the victim ends up feeling further victimized.”

As part of my ongoing reporting on gun violence, I interviewed more than two dozen gunshot survivors and loved ones of homicide victims to better understand how the compensation system fit into their experiences. About half had not applied for compensation in the first place.

A senior administration official told reporters on a conference call Monday that this would be the first of two packages ― with the White House expecting lawmakers to approve these recommended cuts before tackling another bundle of reductions directed at the omnibus spending bill passed in March. However, while the House looks apt to approve the package ― which would cut roughly $7 billion from the Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP), $4.3 billion from a government vehicle loan program and more than $100 million in unspent funds to address Hurricane Sandy damage ― the White House said it looked forward to having a “conversation” with the Senate.

“How many times have you seen young lovers walk across campus in just such a pose? Does it look to you like two lovers out for a stroll?” Pattis asked the jury.

Doe testified that she went to a sexual assault counseling center following the alleged incident and then to a hospital to be tested for venereal disease. Hospital photos of bruises on Doe’s legs were shown in court.

“What transformed that night from happy into a nightmare was she miscalculated her own tolerance for alcohol,” Supervisory Assistant State’s Attorney Michael Pepper said in his closing arguments.

Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.) has indicated he would oppose cuts that go back on the March agreement, but he may be open to a package like this one that targets money that simply hasn’t been spent. Among those “unobligated” funds, the White House wants to rescind $800 million from an Affordable Care Act study of innovative health care payment programs, $252 million in funds never spent on addressing the Ebola outbreak, $123 million in leftover money from a railroad workers’ benefit program and $148 million from an animal inspection account.

Meanwhile, Democrats will likely oppose these first cuts, particularly because they go after the CHIP program.

The White House contends its CHIP cuts won’t affect the health care program, noting that $5 billion were funds for a program whose authorization has expired and $2 billion is from a contingency fund that isn’t expected to be used. But Democrats see the proposal as a clear swipe at the Children’s Health Insurance Program and are likely to point out that Republicans are trying to balance the budget ― at least to again give the impression that they’re trying to balance the budget while the deficit increases ― on the backs of children.

Because of that political argument, even with a sizable GOP majority in the House, the cuts are not a sure thing in either chamber, particularly the Senate. Under budget rules Congress approved in 1974, the package requires only a simple majority in both chambers and can’t be filibustered in the Senate. Funds proposed for rescission are also frozen for 45 days or until Congress acts, which would come at the end of June.

Lawmakers do have the ability to pare back the package, but they don’t have the authority to add any more cuts in authorized spending to the proposal, and scaling back the rescissions would spoil the White House’s talking point that this is the largest single rescission package ever sent to Congress.

The second package of cuts would be an even heavier lift in both chambers.

While conservatives welcome a plan that reduces the $1.3 trillion in spending in the March omnibus bill, Democrats see any attempt to take money away from that agreement as a clear breach of a hard-fought deal. With the threat of a second package on the way, Democrats may resist going along with the appropriations process for this year, which could again derail the spending process and force Republicans and Democrats to govern by approving another series of stopgap spending bills until a government funding bill is pushed to the brink.

Still, the White House is moving forward with the plan, if only to appear serious about fiscal conservatism while it adds massive amounts of money to the national debt. This sequence had LEVELS!

I’m nerding the fuck out but I loved this scene. I really did.

Taryn: THAT PART. It was truly a great scene! And you know I live for when folks nerd out, so I’m enjoying this. And shoutout to Tracy for stealing one of their guns while he’s on probation at that. I’m still mad at him but that made me happy.

Julia: That offbeat lean wit it, rock wit it took me tf out too.