George Zimmerman, the Florida man acquitted of murder in the Trayvon Martin case, is facing charges of misdemeanor stalking after he allegedly threatened and harassed a private investigator in December.

A news release from the State Attorney’s Office for Seminole County, Florida, said Zimmerman was being investigated by the county sheriff’s office over allegations that he stalked Dennis Warren late last year.

Warren was hired to find people who might be interested in participating in “Rest in Power: The Trayvon Martin Story,” a documentary series about the African American teenager who was fatally shot by Zimmerman, a white man acting as a neighborhood watch volunteer, in 2012.

Warren contacted Zimmerman in September and gave him information on how to contact Michael Gasparro, the series’ executive producer.

Zimmerman called Gasparro, and they talked about the documentary series, which will focus on the life and death of Martin, according to the Florida Sun-Sentinel.

Warren told deputies he did not hear from Zimmerman again until December, when Gasparro told him an “extremely agitated” Zimmerman was sending threatening messages, according to deputies who requested a warrant. “He said, ‘Oh I have a different figure in mind.’”

Cherlee Rohling, a 28-year-old Chamblee resident who is engaged to be married, said she thinks the pay gap sometimes favors young women because they’ve had to work hard for the success they get. An operations manager for a manufacturer, she makes more than her fiance.Credit: Shutterstock

Whether it’s scrolling through Instagram or constantly refreshing your Facebook feed, social media can eat up hours of your day. But if you find it particularly hard to stay away from social media, your personality may be partly to blame.

According to a new study, people with certain personality traits are more likely to develop a social media addiction.

“There has been plenty of research on how the interaction of certain personality traits affects addiction to things like alcohol and drugs,” study co-author Isaac Vaghefi, an assistant professor of information systems at Binghamton University in New York state, said in a statement. But relatively few studies have looked at how personality traits may affect tech addiction, including addiction to social media, the researchers said.

In one of those texts, Zimmerman allegedly threatened that Warren would be eaten by an alligator:

“[The private investigator] is a [expletive] WHO BOTHERED MY UNCLE IN HIS HOME. Local OR former law officer He’s well on his way to the inside of a gator as well. 10-4?”

Warren told investigators that he received 55 phone calls, 67 text messages, 36 voicemails and 27 emails from Zimmerman between Dec. 16, 2017, and Christmas Day.

Some of the messages Zimmerman allegedly texted included “Answer your phone (expletive)” and “I’ll see you before you realize it,” according to WKMG-TV in Orlando.

Records show that when Warren asked Zimmerman to stop, he texted “NO!” and then “Pursue charges,” according to Spectrum News 13 in Orlando.

During this period, Zimmerman also allegedly threatened to “beat Jay-Z,” an executive producer on the series, which is scheduled to premiere later this summer.

Zimmerman told The Blast news site that “anyone who fucks with my parents will be fed to an alligator.”

Records show that when Warren asked Zimmerman to stop, he texted “NO!” and then “Pursue charges,” according to Spectrum News 13.Tom Williams via Getty Images

Newly released Environmental Protection Agency documents attempt to justify administrator Scott Pruitt’s frequent use of first-class and business-class travel with a claim that fellow passengers were “lashing out” at him.

The 87-word memo, dated May 1, 2017, was drafted by Pasquale Perrotta, who recently quit as head of Pruitt’s personal security detail. Perrotta wrote that he had noticed “lashing out from passengers which occurs while the Administrator is seated in coach with [his security detail] not easily accessible to him due to uncontrolled full flights.”

“We believe that the continued use of coach seats for the Administrator would endanger his life and therefore respectfully ask that he be placed in either business and or first class accommodations,” the memo concludes.

The justification reportedly allowed the scandal-scarred EPA head to fly in premium cabins, often costing taxpayers thousands more than seats in coach. One trip to Italy cost more than $7,000, The Washington Post notes.Fanny Romero, a sex worker in southern Mexico, allows acquaintances to rent out her apartment when they have no other place to meet clients. Katie Schlechter

TUXTLA GUTIÉRREZ, MEXICO — Sitting at the kitchen table in her friend’s apartment, Fanny Romero flicked her fingers across the screen of her smartphone, scrolling through seemingly endless WhatsApp messages from men inquiring about her availability for the night.

Huddled up to her, Anyela Zuniga scrutinized the names flying by on the screen. “Ugh, I blocked that guy, too. He gave me the creeps,” she told her friend, pointing at one name as the scrolling came to a halt.

Both transgender women, Romero and Zuniga are sex workers in the city of Tuxtla Gutiérrez, the humid capital of Mexico’s southern state of Chiapas. They work for themselves, communicating with clients through Facebook and WhatsApp and deciding their own hours and rates. Their occupation involves many risks and challenges ― the biggest of them all simply staying safe while on the job. And though he was initially sympathetic to her situation, something quickly changed, according to Pulizzi’s lawsuit. Wilkinson stopped returning her calls and emails, she told HuffPost. He also gave Pulizzi a poor performance review after working with her for only a few months, possibly at Kenneally’s urging, according to the suit.

It’s upsetting that the company replaced one man, credibly accused of sexual harassment, with another man who enabled that behavior, Pulizzi told HuffPost.

“It tells me nothing’s changed at Monster,” she said.

Still, Pulizzi and Zeringue are hopeful that by speaking up about their experiences, something will change.

“In the last week, we have heard from scores of Monster employees who are too afraid to speak up,” Zeringue said. “We hope that our continued attempt to seek justice ― will help alleviate their fears.”.

In 2012, Mexico passed a law to combat human trafficking. Yet sex workers and their advocates say that the legislation actually hurts the people it’s intended to protect, pushing an already stigmatized profession deeper into the shadows and making people working in the country’s sex industry more vulnerable to violence and disease.

“It’s very difficult because you see that in the streets we are exposed,” Romero said from her kitchen table. “We are exposed to the possibility that a psychopath arrives and hires you, takes you to a motel, and you don’t know what kind of feelings he may have toward you.”

To have someone close in case anything goes wrong, Romero and Zuniga work out of their homes ― for Zuniga that’s the apartment she shares with two roommates, for Romero the apartment where she lives with her two chihuahuas. Romero also rents out her home to friends and acquaintances who don’t have a safe space to meet with their clients. That, however, puts her at risk of arrest, prosecution and imprisonment for up to 30 years. Are you a man or a woman? Like, who cares? Have good time out here.

The full interview is set to air on SiriusXM on Thursday.

PREVIOUSLY:

Since the beginning of the “Star Wars” saga, we’ve wondered whether LGBTQ characters exist in George Lucas’ galaxy far, far away.

Up until 2018, there had been little to no queer representation in his decades-old franchise. And then “Solo: A Star Wars Story” happened. This effectively preserves the deductibility of her state income taxes.

A neat side benefit of going this route is that it effectively makes the tax deductible on income taxes even for people who don’t itemize. That would be a pure gain for people in states like California and New York. We can also leave a portion of the income tax in place for very higher earners and have a lower cutoff under which the tax is not collected to preserve progressivity.Left to right: Greg Edward, Susan Wild and John Morganelli are Democratic frontrunners for Pennsylvania's 7th Congressional District. The primary is on Tuesday. Congressional campaigns/Facebook

FOGELSVILLE, Pa. ― Some 60 suburbanites, mostly women, gathered in a swim and tennis club outside Allentown on Sunday to hear from six Democratic candidates vying for an open Lehigh Valley congressional seat.

When it came time for the hopefuls to stake out their highest priority, two of the top candidates ― former Allentown city solicitor Susan Wild and Northampton County District Attorney John Morganelli ― agreed that it was strengthening gun safety regulations.

“If we don’t do it with these high school students, with these millennials who are speaking out, then I fear that we will never do it, and it absolutely has to happen,” said Wild, a mainstream liberal.

Morganelli, a self-described moderate who complained in 2008 when the NRA gave him an “F” rating, now wears the gun group’s negative review like a badge of honor.

Greg Edwards, an African-American pastor running for the seat with the blessing of Bernie Sanders, identified a corrupt campaign finance system as a higher priority, because it lurked behind the lack of progress on a range of issues, gun policy chief among them.

The leading candidates’ comments reflect the national dynamics at play in Tuesday’s primary for Pennsylvania’s 7th Congressional District.

The film centers on a young Han Solo (Alden Ehrenreich ) and his associates Chewbacca (Joonas Suotamo) and Lando Calrissian (Donald Glover). “Solo” gives fans the Millennium Falcon backstory they had been pining for, with plum new defining character details. One of the more notable ones: Lando appears to be pansexual.

Lando’s sexual preferences ― possibly including men, women and droids ― are the subject of more than a few lines of dialogue in “Solo.” For example, the banter between Lando and Han Solo has been interpreted as flirting by some critics who have seen the film before its May 25 release (and many others who’ve watched only the trailers). Even Lando’s droid L3-37 (Phoebe Waller-Bridge) makes a joke about Calrissian’s teasing dynamic with Han in the film.

Lando to Han: "You might want to buckle up, baby"

Me: *indiscernible homosexual screeching* pic.twitter.com/PyW4CRzlby — MJ Franklin (@heyitsfranklin2) April 9, 2018

Lando might have romantic feelings for his droid too. For the record, L3 would not reciprocate those hypothetical feelings, but as she tells Qi’ra (Emilia Clarke), “it” would “work,” physically speaking. Another to Morocco cost more than $16,000.

The travel memo obtained by the Post was among thousands of EPA documents released to media outlets on Monday in response to Freedom of Information Act requests. Many show efforts by Pruitt’s staff to limit his encounters with the public. Pruitt is facing 11 investigations into his spending, management practices and ethical lapses. Pruitt’s travel preferences are under investigation by the EPA’s office of the inspector general.

The documents also reveal Pruitt’s practice of ducking interactions with average Americans, The New York Times reported on Monday, citing emails in a 10,000-document cache the EPA surrendered in response to a Freedom of Information Act request.

EPA officials choreographed appearances so Pruitt wouldn’t face questions from the public, worked to limit social media postings during his trips to keep them private, and often arranged events in secret to avoid reporters.

“He didn’t want anybody to question anything,” Kevin Chmielewski, Pruitt’s former deputy chief of staff for operations, told The Times. Chmielewski, who said he was pushed out of the agency for questioning Pruitt, said the EPA boss “just doesn’t understand what it’s like to be a public figure.”

The EPA has maintained that Pruitt has gotten far more threats than his predecessor, justifying his large security detail and extravagant travel arrangements. The Times notes that there were 33 threat investigations underway as of mid-March. Ten of those involved Pruitt himself, including a message on a “threatening postcard,” missives posted to Twitter and emails and phone calls.

BuzzFeed notes that three investigations have been launched this year involving Pruitt, but all have been closed due to lack of evidence that the administrator faced serious harm. One such incident, closed due to a lack of an “overt” threat, involved a Newsweek magazine cover that someone drew a mustache on and taped to an EPA elevator.

The release of Perrotta’s travel memo comes several months after the EPA said Pruitt was booked into premium cabins because members of the public yelled at him too much. The agency’s Office of Criminal Enforcement told Politico in February that the administrator was “approached at the airport numerous times, to the point of profanities being yelled at him.”