Greg Pence on Tuesday won the Republican primary for Indiana’s 6th Congressional District ― a seat his younger brother, Vice President Mike Pence, held for almost a decade, according to The Associated Press.

Greg Pence, a former Marine and the owner of two antique malls, ran a campaign that echoed his brother’s conservative values. He described himself as a “pro-life, pro-Second Amendment, and faith-driven conservative” on his campaign website.

The businessman’s campaign was in many ways reminiscent of the agenda the Trump administration has pursued.

“I love my brother Michael and there is no daylight on issues between him and me,” Greg Pence said in a recent email to The Indianapolis Star.

Pence, a Catholic, has voiced his support of “conservative values” while courting the evangelicals who have remained faithful to his brother.

“I think what we have seen in this country ― knocking other people’s values, how they practice, how they want to serve God ― I’ve always had a real problem with that,” Pence said in one of his campaign videos.

Greg Pence wins GOP nomination for Indiana US House seat once held by brother, Vice President Mike Pence. @AP race call at 7:17 p.m.

Facebook’s size and complexity enabled Zuckerberg to elude numerous questions. If a senator slipped up and said that Facebook sold data to advertisers, Zuckerberg pounced to explain that Facebook does not sell data. (It sells space on its website targeted to the users of the advertisers’ choosing, based on that data.) At times, it was not even clear that senators and Zuckerberg were using the same definitions for words.

Sen. John Kennedy (R-La.) asked whether a user could be on Facebook and not have their data shared. Zuckerberg’s said, “People can sign on and choose to not share things and just follow some friends or some pages and read content if that is what they want to do.” Essentially, you can choose not to have your data shared if you don’t ever post anything on Facebook. (This ignores the fact that Facebook tracks users across the web and collects data on them even if they don’t post anything.)

“The repeated confusion over how Facebook operated was not simply due to senators’ ages or lack of tech-savviness. .. EDT. #Election2018 #APracecall pic.twitter.com/naU234lkUs — AP Politics (@AP_Politics) May 8, 2018

Pence, who has no previous political experience, beat out four other Republican candidates in the primary race. He raised nearly $1.2 million in campaign funds, according to Federal Election Commission records, dwarfing his competitors.” He sent condescending emails to a female colleague, reprimanding her in almost comically sinister terms: “We will have no more insubordination.”

Despite these outbursts, former colleagues say Koprowski enjoyed protected status in the office because of his friendship with Joseph Morris, a conservative Chicago lawyer who is also a major fundraiser for Heartland and a close ally to its chief executive, Joseph Bast.

HuffPost spoke to three former staffers who confirmed these accounts, but requested anonymity for fear of retribution or jeopardizing future employment in the libertarian policy community.

“This isn’t about politics, it’s about Texas receiving its fair share of resources and representation. It is not a Democratic issue or a Republican issue ― it’s a Texas issue,” Democratic state Rep. César J. Blanco, who represents an area of El Paso, said in a statement on Tuesday. He called on Gov. Greg Abbott (R) to join the lawsuit against the Trump administration.

Texas GOP strategist Matt Mackowiak acknowledged a possibility that a citizenship question in the 2020 census could negatively affect the state. But he argued that “the upside of getting a more accurate count [of the state’s population] outweighs the downside of risking a new congressional seat.

Heartland, they said, fostered a culture that allowed Koprowski, 52, to relentlessly harass a female subordinate half his age ― to the point where she took out a restraining order against him in October 2015. And though Koprowski was apparently fired sometime after the woman complained to human resources, her former colleagues say his termination came in response to other misbehavior ― not his repeated, undesired romantic pursuit of the woman who reported to him.

Even after he was allegedly fired, Heartland kept the former executive in its protective orbit, former staffers say. Morris, who is listed on Heartland’s website as a policy adviser, is defending Koprowski in court against charges racked up when he contacted the woman over and over again, violating the protective order. Some of those charges were dropped in December, days after the Illinois Supreme Court ruled that a cyberstalking law used to charge Koprowski was unconstitutional, but the case is ongoing.

The previously-unreported case of alleged stalking comes to light just as Heartland has become more powerful than ever. The think tank transformed itself over the past two decades from a defender of the tobacco industry ― under the banner of “smokers rights” ― to a leading proponent of climate change denial and champion of fossil fuels. Since the Trump administration came to power, Heartland has enjoyed unprecedented influence at the Environmental Protection Agency, and works closely with hard-line science skeptics in Congress such as Rep. Lamar Smith (R-Texas) and Sen.

A small portion of that money includes contributions from the Great America Committee, a political action committee created by the vice president to “advance President [Donald] Trump’s agenda day in and day out.

That agenda includes issues such as “securing our borders,” “repealing and replacing Obamacare” and “restoring the American economy.”

Pence’s campaign drew on his business and military background. In an April Facebook post, he expressed his support for building a wall along the U.S.-Mexico border to “prevent the flow of illegal drugs, illegal immigrants.”

Pence has advocated for tax cuts, Obamacare repeal and less federal control over Second Amendment rights. The businessman called Obamacare, formally known as the Affordable Care Act, an “attack on the middle class.”

“Obamacare is no good. It’s shot, it’s broke, it’s not working,” Pence said in another campaign video. “[The] Trump-Pence administration tried to do something ― Congress didn’t help them. I want to help them.”The U. Make your voice count. — Carmen Yulín Cruz (@CarmenYulinCruz) January 31, 2018

Just to be clear: Trump brought out a grieving family to use as a part of a political performance meant to demonize immigrants as being inherently violent when the research clearly shows that immigrants, both documented & undocumented, commit less crime than native born Americans — Clint Smith (@ClintSmithIII) January 31, 2018

All immigrants have merit and all immigrants have need. No one leaves their home frivolously and everyone deserves a chance at what we were lucky enough to be born into. — Jesse Thorn (@JesseThorn) January 31, 2018

I reject this administration's bigotry.



I believe in a kinder America, where immigrants are welcomed and embraced, and are free to pursue the American dream.



If you do too, please support @UNITEDWEDREAM: https://t.co/RMhKLqrpuU #StateOfTheDream pic.twitter.com/DIyWzmC86l — Alyssa Milano (@Alyssa_Milano) January 31, 2018

We have become numbed to the vileness of Trump's anti-immigrant rhetoric--but it's pure racism & deeply un-American.S. Marine Corps has launched an investigation into the activities of an avowed white supremacist in the military whom ProPublica and PBS’ Frontline linked to neo-Nazi assaults.

Lance Corporal Vasillios Pistolis, 19, is stationed at North Carolina’s Camp Lejeune and assigned to logistics. He has been active with a number of neo-Nazi organizations, according to ProPublica and Frontline, which have linked six other current and former members of the military to neo-Nazi groups.

“We’re looking into the allegations,” Naval Criminal Investigative Service spokesman Adam Stump told ProPublica. Stump would not discuss any details while the investigation is ongoing. NCIS typically investigates potentially felony-level offenses involving personnel in the Navy or Marines.

The media investigations linked Pistolis to hate groups though records, photos and his own online comments to assaults during last summer’s deadly “Unite the Right” rally in Charlottesville.

He bragged about the assaults online and was photographed appearing to beat a counter-protester. “Today cracked 3 skulls open with virtually no damage to myself,” Pistolis wrote online after the August rally, Frontline reported.

6/ In private online chats with other Atomwaffen members he talked about his desire to assault a gay man in Charlottesville and use his military training to kill his opponents “if shit goes down.” https://t.co/7d4tG3MEzX — ProPublica (@ProPublica) May 3, 2018

Pistolis has also been linked to the notorious Atomwaffen Division, an American neo-Nazi group that aims to incite a race war. Atomwaffen members, who idolize Adolf Hitler and Charles Manson, have been tied to five murders in the U.S. over a span of eight months, beginning last year. The group’s chat logs revealed chilling praise for the murder of 19-year-old gay Jewish college student Blaze Bernstein early this year.

2/ He also acted as a leader in the Atomwaffen Division—a secretive neo-Nazi group that talks abt overthrowing the US gov't & igniting a race war. You go by Ted. Your middle name is Edward ― that’s an anglicized version of it. He went the other way, and has a more ethnic version of his name,” Cuomo pointed out.

“Why go after it? You’re both doing the same thing,” he added.

“You’re absolutely right. My name is Rafael Edward Cruz,” the senator said, before launching into a story about his father, who was an immigrant from Cuba.

Earlier this week, Cruz appeared on conservative radio host Hugh Hewitt’s program and warned listeners that Republicans could lose the U.S. Senate and the House in November’s midterm elections.

“If conservatives are complacent ― and mark my words, we are going to see historic turnout from the extreme left in November ― which means if conservatives stay home, we have the potential, we could lose both houses of Congress,” Cruz said. Here’s a Tweet Pistolis sent. He pulled down his Twitter after @ProPublica & @FrontlinePBS contacted him. https://t.co/7d4tG44frv pic.twitter.com/SEeSWK49A9 — ProPublica (@ProPublica) May 3, 2018

Rep. Keith Ellison (D-Minn.) wrote a letter to Defense Secretary James Mattis on Friday, urging him to launch an investigation into Pistolis and any other members of hate groups who serve in the military.

Ellison also called on the Defense Department to provide information to Congress detailing how the military screens for white supremacists or other hate group members before they join.

“The involvement of service members in white supremacist or other hate groups is cause for significant concern, particularly given their combat and weapons training,” Ellison wrote. The news reports may indicate a “broader problem within the military,” he warned.

Pistolis told ProPublica and Frontline that NCIS had questioned him about his activities months ago, but the investigation was apparently dropped. Sources told the media organizations there was an earlier investigation.