Rudy Giuliani attends the Conference on Iran on May 5th. Tasos Katopodis via Getty Images

WASHINGTON ― After weeks of describing June’s planned meeting with North Korea as all-consuming, President Donald Trump’s lawyer said the canceled summit does not mean Trump will soon be speaking with prosecutors investigating his campaign.

“No,” Rudy Giuliani said with a laugh. ... I get where [the criticism’s] coming from but is it warranted? I don’t know. For me, I always play these characters as if they’re just a version of myself 15 years ago.co/LUaMQBShpG#DuckTales pic.twitter.com/8rwvNAYwNy — Tim Nydell (@SaturdayRewind) April 9, 2018

Sad news has just reached us that Chuck McCann passed away today. Chuck was a great man and was loved by many fans around the world.

Look, to be honest, when certain movies like “Ninja Assassin” came out, that had a sexy, sexy Asian man with a six-pack, that made some people think, “Maybe I should go out there and date an Asian dude.” And that did pretty good for us in a way of representation. But if you look at it, any TV show, let’s just talk about white people ― there’s a whole gamut of white people. “It means he can talk to me.”

He said the cancellation of the Singapore meeting that had been set for June 12 gives him more time to work with Trump to decide next steps.”

A Day In The Life Of Marlon Bundo is available from Amazon, Audible and BetterBundoBook.com.The jewelry store Claire's says it's pierced over 100 million ears worldwide. PA Archive/PA Images

First Toys R Us, and now Claire’s. Mainstay institutions within malls across America are entering a new chapter in life: bankruptcy.

Cheap jewelry giant Claire’s filed for Chapter 11 on Monday, hoping to rid itself of substantial debt, the company announced. Claire’s maintained that it was approaching the bankruptcy filing from a position of strength, using Chapter 11 to restructure its budget sheet, not its operations.

“We could probably decide by June 12 whether to testify,” Giuliani told HuffPost on Thursday.

That decision, though, will apparently hinge on whether Trump is given whatever report is produced following a Justice Department probe of the FBI’s use of an informant to learn about his campaign’s contacts with Russia. Trump demanded the review on Sunday following a coordinated effort by his Capitol Hill allies and conservative media to discredit the informant.

“Are we going to get a report on ‘spygate’?” Giuliani said, using the term Trump invented this week.

Giuliani allowed that, as U.S. attorney for the Southern District of New York, he never would have turned over all of his investigatory material to a potential target in that manner.

“But I wasn’t investigating the president,” he said, justifying the demand for the FBI informant details. “You cannot compel criminal process on the president.”

“It’s one of the reasons I’ve become so aggressive, so his tweeting would be confined to the subject that we’ve chosen for the day.” - Rudy Giuliani on President Donald Trump

Giuliani said he still would prefer for Trump to avoid Mueller completely.

“I would not like to talk to Mueller at all,” he said. “I don’t see what you gain from that.”

But, Giuliani added, Trump himself has the opposite opinion. “He has a strong view that he should testify,” Giuliani said. “He believes he’s telling the truth: He didn’t collude with the Russians and he didn’t obstruct justice.”

Giuliani conceded that Trump’s habit of saying false things on a near-daily basis could create a problem for him. But, he added, that could be avoided if Trump had enough time to prepare for a session with Mueller.

“If we sat him down for an interview, we would be careful that it would be a solid explanation,” Giuliani said.

He added that he has not asked Trump to stop issuing tweets about the investigation ― based on his unsuccessful attempts to persuade Trump to stop tweeting during the 2016 campaign. “No use,” he said. “Didn’t work.”

But Giuliani has come up with a strategy he thinks might be working: taking a higher profile with inflammatory public comments of his own.

“It’s one of the reasons I’ve become so aggressive, so his tweeting would be confined to the subject that we’ve chosen for the day,” he said.

Giuliani said the cancellation of the trip to Singapore next month opens up more time for him and Trump to plan strategy, in addition to the daily or twice-a-day phone calls they have been sharing. He said he met Trump for half an hour Wednesday evening in New York City, where Trump had traveled for a fundraiser. “That half hour was devoted to the investigation,” Giuliani said.

The U.S. intelligence community concluded during the 2016 campaign that Russia was interfering in the U.S. election, and was actively trying to help Trump and hurt Democratic nominee Hillary Clinton.

The FBI began its probe of possible collusion between the Trump campaign and the Russians well before Election Day. Control of the investigation was shifted to special counsel Robert Mueller after Trump fired then-FBI Director James Comey in May 2017. Soon after, the president told NBC News, as well as senior Russian officials visiting the Oval Office, that he had done so because of the investigation.

“The fact that he did it because of the Russian investigation is not obstruction of justice,” Giuliani said. “If he did it for that reason, that would be a legitimate reason to fire [Comey]. He works at the will of the president. While that may be technically true, it would allow agencies to reject couples “in accordance with their beliefs” ― that is, because those couples are in the LGBTQ community.

“Rather than stand up to religious fanaticism, the governor has chosen to reinforce the delusions of those who confuse discrimination with liberty,” Oklahoma ACLU external affairs director Allie Shinn said. “This measure serves no legitimate policy purpose.”Ja Rule branded 50 Cent a “pussy” and “power bottom” in a fiery, obscenity-laced Twitter tirade last week that will no doubt reignite the long-simmering feud between the rival rappers.

The two men, who both hail from Queens, New York, have had an adversarial public relationship for nearly two decades, with each attempting to overtake the other in interviews, “diss tracks” and even alleged physical altercations.”

Mueller’s investigation has so far resulted in the guilty pleas of five individuals, including three former Trump campaign staffers, and the indictment of 14 other people and three companies. That total includes 13 Russians, Trump’s former campaign chairman Paul Manafort, and the Internet Research Agency “troll farm” that was used to create and disseminate propaganda to help Trump win. He had sex with a minor, all right. That’s not rape.

A related investigation by Giuliani’s former office is examining the dealings of longtime Trump lawyer Michael Cohen. A former business partner has agreed to cooperate in that probe and plead to New York State charges.

Giuliani, though, said Mueller’s investigation thus far has been tangential to Trump, and asserted that none of those who have pleaded guilty or are under indictment have any information that can hurt Trump.