“I said, ‘Ms. Sanders, with all due respect, if you ever need me to stand next to you in those press briefings, I will volunteer to do that. And, if somebody gets out of line, I will tell them exactly what I think of their behavior.’”The arrivals area for the Metropolitan Museum of Art Costume Institute Gala to celebrate the opening of "Heavenly Bodies: Fashion and the Catholic Imagination." Brendan McDermid / Reuters

As celebrities and designers descended on The Metropolitan Museum of Art for one of the biggest nights in the fashion world, one Catholic priest managed to turn heads by simply showing up.

Rev. James Martin, a Jesuit priest and author, was one of several Catholic leaders who attended the museum’s Costume Institute Gala on Monday in New York. This year’s exhibit, “Heavenly Bodies: Fashion and the Catholic Imagination” was the fruit of a long collaboration between the museum’s Costume Institute and the Vatican, which loaned some of its priceless artifacts for display.

It was fitting that Martin was there for the big night. The priest, a consultor to the Vatican’s Secretariat for Communications, had reviewed plans for the exhibit to help curators understand how Catholics might respond to the various displays, and to help the museum make contacts at the Vatican.

But what Martin may not have expected from the gala is that his own clothes would draw some curious remarks.

On Monday night, the priest tweeted about some of the comments he received about the priestly clothes he was wearing.

Actually said to me at the #MetGala tonight:

"I love your costume.

“Almost two weeks ago our community suffered an unimaginable loss,” Robert Fisher, Belmont’s president, told the audience. “While our hearts were broken, today we have the chance to celebrate DeEbony’s life together.

It’s a problem that especially hurts the world’s most vulnerable groups, including children in developing countries like Bangladesh and Somalia, where air pollution is linked to over one in four deaths.”

Di'Angelo Groves is embraced by his mother, Shirl Baker, before accepting his own diploma on Saturday. Channel 5 News

Baker marched across the stage to a standing ovation as she received her late child’s diploma, after briefly comforting her grieving son, the first graduate to walk.

DeEbony Groves was in her senior year studying social work when authorities said she was fatally shot at random alongside her friend, 23-year-old Akilah DaSilva, in the early morning hours of April 22.

DeEbony Grove's mother, Shirl Baker, accepted her late daughter's diploma on Saturday. Channel 5 News

At her funeral, Waffle House CEO Walt Ehmer recounted hearing from survivors how DeEbony had spent her last moments singing gospel songs inside the restaurant. The last song that DeEbony and her friend had been heard singing was “Jesus Loves Me,” Ehmer said.

Fisher mentioned that singing during Saturday’s commencement ceremony, suggesting that she had made it to “heaven’s gate.”

In her honor, Belmont has announced that it is renaming a social work scholarship after DeEbony Groves.

DeEbony Groves, 21, was one of four people who lost their lives in the April 22 shooting. FacebookOhio voters will decide Tuesday whether to reshape the way congressional lines are drawn in the state.

They’ll be considering Issue 1, a ballot measure to amend the state constitution that would make it much harder for state legislators to draw congressional districts to egregiously benefit whichever party is in power.

Proponents concede the plan isn’t perfect, but say it would be a vast improvement over the current system, which essentially lets the majority draw the map."

"Is that, like, for real?"

"Funky outfit!"

"You're the best dressed dude here, bro." (High fives me.)

"You look just like the real thing."

And, truly: "I love that you got dressed up as a sexy priest." — James Martin, SJ (@JamesMartinSJ) May 8, 2018

And because real life can be quite surreal, he followed up:

Those are verbatim. it’s absurd,” added Molly, who said she saw one of her friends get arrested Saturday.

The rally in Newnan was the latest, and one of the most pitifully attended, neo-Nazi events to be held in the South since the deadly “Unite The Right” rally in Charlottesville last August, when a neo-Nazi drove his car into a crowd of anti-fascist protesters, killing one person and injuring 19 others.

Certain seemingly innocuous items, including balloons, were not allowed at the rally. But Georgia has an open carry gun law, so people could bring their weapons; HuffPost saw one neo-Nazi and one anti-fascist protester carrying semi-automatic rifles.

The Newnan rally was organized by the National Socialist Movement, an older neo-Nazi group that favors explicit Third Reich iconography over the more coded racist memes of the so-called alt-right. Fewer than 30 NSM members, along with a small contingent of the white supremacist group League of the South, showed up for the event. Six university employees had been fired, he added, although he did not name them.”

DeVos took questions for about 30 minutes. Not all teachers had the opportunity to have questions answered.

Representatives from the Department of Education did not respond to requests for comment.

The city granted NSM a permit to hold the rally at Greenville Street Park, and security and police presence for the event is expected to cost taxpayers thousands of dollars.

NSM members arrived about an hour late for their rally. Then they stood on a stage in the park, looking out over hundreds of counterprotesters yelling from behind a fence some 100 yards away as police helicopters and drones circled overhead.

Jeff Schoep, the so-called commander of the NSM, rambled about the need to keep Confederate statues. He referred to himself and his companions as “Alpha males” and complained about men who look like “homosexuals” by wearing skinny jeans. He also lashed out against the “Zionist media” for portraying NSM as a hate group.

NSM members flanking him threw up Nazi salutes.

Schoep then left the stage to address a gaggle of reporters. When asked by HuffPost about NSM members throwing up Nazi salutes, Schoep claimed they were actually “Roman salutes. — James Martin, SJ (@JamesMartinSJ) May 8, 2018

“Occasionally, I meet people who don’t seem to run into priests in their lives,” Martin told HuffPost in an email about the remarks. “As a result, they don’t know what to say. So I try to take it in stride, and I give them the benefit of the doubt.”

Martin is already a star in his own right within Catholic circles. He’s the editor-at-large for the Jesuit magazine America, a bestselling author of books on Catholicism, and a regular commentator on religion news, including appearances on Comedy Central’s “The Colbert Report.”

Although the celebrities and bold fashion choices were a draw for many, Martin seemed to be there for the art and the celebration of Catholic spirituality. He said the best part of the Met Gala for him was a surprise performance by the Sistine Chapel Choir.

“The event was overall enjoyable, and raised a good deal of money for the Met,” Martin said. “They obviously can’t control how everyone dresses, and only a few of the costumes were over the top, but overall it was a pleasant night.”

Advertisement