Jimmy Kimmel reached across the country’s political divide Monday to present a viral dog video.

The clip is titled “This Dog Will Heal Our Nation” on the YouTube channel for “Jimmy Kimmel Live.” The host spared no hyperbole about the footage on the air. “This video is what is going to heal the United States of America,” he said.

Watch above as the pooch, Tasha, plays a kick-ass game of hide-and-seek, repeatedly ducking her head behind a large planter every time her owner calls out to her and popping back up after he closes a sliding glass door.Bank of America has been accused of breaking a promise to stop lending money to companies that sell military-style firearms to civilians after news that the bank agreed to provide critical financing to bankrupt gunmaker Remington.

The North Carolina-based bank is among seven financial institutions that have committed to provide Remington, which filed for bankruptcy in March, with an almost $200 million lending package, reported Reuters on Sunday. Bank of America, Wells Fargo and Regions Bank each are forking out $43.2 million in loans to help put debt-plagued Remington on “stable footing,” Reuters said. The gunmaker’s bankruptcy exit plan was recently approved by a Delaware judge.

Terms of the loan agreement were drawn up in late March — a few weeks before Bank of America pledged to stop underwriting or financing businesses that manufacture military-style weapons for civilian use. The bank said it made the promise after “intense conversations” with its gun-manufacturer clients ― a dialogue prompted by the February massacre at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Florida.

“We want to contribute in any way we can to reduce these mass shootings,” Anne Finucane, the bank’s vice chairman, told Bloomberg TV on April 11.

Remington makes Bushmaster assault-style rifles. In 2012, one of them was used by a gunman to kill 20 children and six teachers at Sandy Hook Elementary School in Connecticut. Families of the victims sued Remington to hold the gunmaker accountable for the damage caused by the weapon. “They got felt up in his office. Girls probably see better, but he can probably be seen as a not very pleasant man. If he felt you up, if he harassed you, why were you silent?”WASHINGTON (Reuters) - An American academic who supports U.

The bank chose to abide by its loan commitment to Remington because it predated the April pledge, which was meant to kick in on a “go forward” basis, a person familiar with Bank of America’s thinking told HuffPost on Tuesday. The team fared better against OAR, convincingly outscoring the Russians 5-0 last Tuesday.

One. Obstacle. Left.@TeamUSA @usahockey's women have topped Finland and are moving on to the gold medal game! #WinterOlympics pic.

Remington’s financing plan was submitted to the bankruptcy court in March, said the person, who requested anonymity because of the bank’s policy of not discussing client details. “But it had been in the works for weeks, if not months.”

Bank of America could legally back out of its agreement to Remington if it wanted to, according to New York Business Journal; it would just have to find other lenders to cover its commitment.

The person familiar with Bank of America’s decision pointed out that other financial institutions were reluctant to provide loans to the struggling gunmaker. Reuters reported that 30 potential lenders had refused requests to help Remington in the weeks leading up to the company’s bankruptcy.

Finance experts also questioned why Bank of America did not use the loan package as leverage to push Remington to stop manufacturing military-style guns.

Fred Guttenberg, the father of a 14-year-old girl who died in the Parkland, Florida, school shooting, skewered the bank on Twitter Monday for lying to the public, and encouraged people to “stop doing business with them.”

Bank Of America lied. They were supposed to stop doing business with the gun industry. They got the good press for it.

“So I predict, as we saw with Paul Manafort, that if they decided they had enough evidence to engage in a very aggressive move, then the likelihood that Michael Cohen is going to be charged is high,” he said, without elaborating on what those charges might be.

The Washington Post reported Cohen is under investigation for potential bank fraud, wire fraud and campaign finance violations.

The U. Looks like I will stop doing business with them. I suggest you do the same. They got together to sue the company for back pay. But when they consulted a lawyer, they learned they couldn’t take Murphy Oil to court as a group because they had already agreed to arbitration when they accepted their jobs., as someone who spilled information on persecution or just someone who tried to get out can make them a target.

Erika Lopez, a case worker at International Institute of Los Angeles who helped parents apply for the program for their children, said some of them told her their children had been threatened and extorted since their cases were closed.

She doesn’t know what to tell them. The Trump administration said it would send further instructions to individuals with pending applications who had not been interviewed, but they only received notices that their cases had been closed, Lopez said.

Many people don’t fully seem to understand or accept that the program is shut down, said Lisa Frydman of Kids in Need of Defense, or KIND, a nonprofit that largely works with children who come to the U.S. as unaccompanied minors.

Now they’re stuck, and the government is threatening those who seek help through other means, such as Central Americans who traveled to the U.S.-Mexico border in a caravan to request asylum.

“They’re shutting all of the doors,” Michelle Brané, director of migrant rights at the Women’s Refugee Commission, said, using a metaphor of a house on fire. “They’re taking away the ladder and then punishing people for jumping out the window.”Marco Rubio may have committed the ultimate heresy for a Republican: The senator from Florida admitted that recent corporate tax cuts are doing little to help American workers and that increased public spending might be in order.

In an interview with the Economist, Rubio said he doubts that the tax cuts or Trump’s “America first” protectionism will stop people from losing their jobs to automation.

The National Labor Relations Board, the independent agency that enforces collective bargaining law, argued that the forced arbitration clause interfered with Hobson’s right to join together with other employees to improve their working conditions. The Obama White House agreed, filing a brief with the Supreme Court in support of Hobson.“I want to thank the White House Historical Association and all of the people that work so hard with Melania, with everybody, to keep this incredible house or building, or whatever you want to call it — because there really is no name for it; it is special — and we keep it in tip-top shape.https://t.co/YgT7L2EZuM — Fred Guttenberg (@fred_guttenberg) May 8, 2018

Since the Parkland shooting, several financial institutions have moved to distance themselves from the gun industry.

Citigroup, for instance, said in March it would prohibit new retail clients from selling guns to customers who are under 21, and would prevent them from selling so-called bump stocks and high-capacity magazines.

BlackRock, the world’s largest asset manager, recently announced that it had created new investment products for clients who are keen to specifically avoid investing in companies that make or sell firearms.