Daniel K. Isaac (left) and Juan Francisco Villa star as William Inge and Tennessee Williams in "The Gentleman Caller," which opens May 10 in New York. Maria Baranova

In “The Gentleman Caller,” Daniel K. Isaac and Juan Francisco Villa portray two legendary playwrights of the 20th century.

Oh, it brings us more joy than you can know, sister.

Check out their heavenly feed below!

Sr Mary firing up the grill for #SuperBowlSunday (I’m a little concerned about her use of lighter fluid on a gas grill tho... Though the story they’re depicting is over 70 years old, both actors hope that audiences see their off-Broadway dramedy as anything but a historical slice of life.

The play, which opens Thursday at New York’s Cherry Lane Theatre and is produced by the Abingdon Theatre Company, is a fictionalized take on the complex real-life relationship between playwrights William Inge (Isaac) and Tennessee Williams (Villa). Working as a drama critic for a St. Louis newspaper, Inge invites Williams, who is gearing up for the 1944 premiere of “The Glass Menagerie,” to his apartment for an interview.

That interview really did take place, and Inge later acknowledged Williams as a mentor who inspired his own decision to write for the stage. For “The Gentleman Caller,” however, playwright Philip Dawkins researched memoirs, journals, newspaper articles and personal correspondence to depict what he believes may have happened between the two gay artists in private. In his version, their meeting of minds evolved into a rivalry that was ripe with sexual tension.

“The substance had arrived by mail and it was addressed to Donald Trump Jr.,” said New York Police Department spokesman Carlos Nieves.

Vanessa Trump, the daughter-in-law of U. (Given Williams’ romantic history, literary scholars have speculated that he and Inge were lovers; questions over the nature of their relationship also formed the basis of the 2017 play “Billy and Me.”)

Playwright Philip Dawkins sees the relationship of iconic playwrights Inge (Isaac) and Williams (Villa) as being fraught with sexual tension.

Maria Baranova

Much of the comedy in “The Gentleman Caller,” directed by Tony Speciale, is driven by the characters’ contrasting temperaments. Villa plays Williams as unapologetically crass, while Isaac’s Inge is a deeply conflicted introvert. That contrast allows the actors to present two very different takes on how gay men might have grappled with their sexuality at a time when same-sex relationships were still illegal in the U.S.

“Tennessee Williams talked about everybody and everyone he slept with.” Phones and other electronic devices are to be locked in a secure pouch upon entry to the venue, while official tour photographers will post photos to White’s website and Instagram, which fans can use and repost on their own platforms instead of taking their own pictures and videos.

“Repost our photos & videos as much as you want and enjoy a phone-free, 100% human experience,” White said in a statement.Sutton Foster's new album, "Take Me to the World," is due out in June. Ghostlight Records

Sutton Foster sees her new album, “Take Me to the World,” as the celebration of a deeply personal milestone.

The “Younger” star said she hoped to capture the joy of new motherhood for posterity on the long-anticipated follow-up to her debut studio effort, 2009’s “Wish.” She and her husband, Ted Griffin, adopted daughter Emily Dale last year.

Foster said she and musical director Michael Rafter “always knew we wanted to do another album, but we had no idea what it sounded like or what it was. It wasn’t until the arrival of my daughter that we felt like we had the new album.”

“Take Me to the World,” the Tony Award-winning singer-actress told HuffPost, is “a little time capsule of where I am as an artist and a person in 2018. A lot of it is influenced by being a mom.”

HuffPost got an exclusive first listen to the album with the above track, a mash-up of “I’m on My Way,” the traditional Gospel tune, and “On My Way,” from Foster’s most recent Broadway outing, 2014’s “Violet. He gossiped about everyone he ever encountered,” Isaac, best known for his recurring role on Showtime’s “Billions,” told HuffPost during rehearsals. “But Inge was very private and closeted and tried to keep a remove [between] his work and his private life.”

“The Gentleman Caller” had its world premiere last month in Chicago, starring Curtis Edward Jackson as Inge and Rudy Galvan as Williams. That production earned respectable reviews, with the Chicago Tribune calling it “engrossing” and “a carefully researched affair.”

The Abingdon Theatre Company’s production, however, breaks away from its predecessor by casting actors of color to play both of the historically white figures (Galvan is of Mexican descent). Villa is of Colombian descent, and Isaac is Korean American. Both actors believe the casting will “inform, enhance and deepen” the experience for a New York audience.

“We portray them as artists in their 30s who are dealing with the problems that artists in their 30s deal with, and not as the icons that we know them to be,” Villa (left, as Williams) told HuffPost. Maria Baranova

“Philip wanted to look at who these two artists would be today, and our casting reflects that,” Villa, whose credits include “Madam Secretary” and “The Blacklist: Redemption,” said. “We portray them as artists in their 30s who are dealing with the problems that artists in their 30s deal with, and not as the icons that we know them to be.”

While “The Gentleman Caller” may not be as overtly political as those plays, Isaac believes his show’s casting is, effectively, a statement in its own right.

“I think homosexuality or otherness has been explored through a white lens for the majority of the time," Isaac said. "While these are historically white characters, we are getting to see their story portrayed through two people of color.” Maria Baranova

“I think homosexuality or otherness has been explored only through a white lens for the majority of the time. While these are historically white characters, we are getting to see their story portrayed through two people of color,” he said. “That’s something to be said about the bravery of the artists we’re working with.”

Ultimately, Isaac sees “The Gentleman Caller” as portraying “two queer people trying to create a safe queer space for each other, before queerness and queer safe spaces existed.” Its message of inclusivity, he added, will resonate deeply at a time when many in the LGBTQ community believe their rights are in danger.

“I’m a strong believer that community and family doesn’t necessarily come from blood relations, it’s created. While it may not have been true for their entire lives, these two did create it for a moment in time,” he said. “That was a revolutionary act when the world and society was conspiring against them. “Our communities live in these neighborhoods and in turn, felons are our families.”

Refugee communities ― which by definition take shape amid struggle, confusion and loss ― need equal access to the formal economy, Tan said. This means assistance and services in languages, like Khmer, that are not often available. There’s also a need for mental health resources attuned to the particular needs of this community, which is marked by intergenerational trauma.

Advocates also say refugees need better access to information on immigration policies. Anadolu Agency via Getty Images

Medical charities say more than a dozen hospitals were hit, making it nearly impossible to treat the wounded. Often, refugees do not understand the importance of naturalization and the added rights that come with citizenship status, Mariategue says. Here we are in a world that I think has turned to conspire ― at least very recently ― against otherness. So it feels urgent again, which is all the more reason to tell this story.”

“The Gentleman Caller” opens May 10 in New York.