Anyone who studies The Wealth Of Nations hoping to glean insights on the mysteries and mechanics of the stock market will be disappointed. Adam Smith didn’t discuss stock exchanges anywhere in the 1,100-plus pages of his foundational capitalist treatise. Nor did Karl Marx feel compelled to include the stock market among the damning contradictions and irrationalities of the capitalist system documented in Das Kapital.

The bestselling economics textbook ever written ― Paul Samuelson’s adventurously titled Economics ― devotes just five of its 608 pages to the stock market, drawing the unhelpful conclusion: “Anyone who can accurately predict the future course of business will prosper, but there is no such person.”

Yet nothing captivates Americans like the stock market. We gape at the great fortunes won and lost on the exchanges, and broadcast the Dow Jones’ minor movements on the nightly news. This week’s wild swings in the market have alternately thrilled and alarmed us.

The stock market is a good story ― one of the best. But it doesn’t mean what most people think it does. The stock market is not an important measure of national well-being, productive capacity or material wealth.In November 2010, the Roosevelt Institute hosted an event in Washington taking a hard look at a strange phenomenon in U.S. housing. Banks, it appeared, were fabricating documents to pursue foreclosures under outrageous, chaotic circumstances ― not accepting mortgage payments, miscalculating debts, rewriting loan terms without consulting homeowners and trying to evict people who hadn’t missed payments. The event wasn’t a glitzy Washington spectacle. The guests of honor were stressed-out homeowners who showed up to detail their financial nightmares for a handful of journalists.

Sitting in the back and nodding along calmly was Eric Schneiderman, a promising young politician who had just been elected attorney general of New York. Afterward, he made the rounds shaking hands. This was an important issue, he told the reporters. He wasn’t a housing expert, but he didn’t trust the banks. Something had to be done.

It would soon become clear that his masterly performance was a total con. There is perhaps no reputation in American politics over the past generation more undeserved than the acclaim that has surrounded Schneiderman as a principled, tough-on-white-collar-crime Democrat.

After the Roosevelt Institute event, he pounded the microphones for months as a vocal holdout against President Barack Obama’s $25 billion national mortgage settlement ― a once-and-for-all agreement to put the foreclosure mess to rest. Schneiderman said the deal was no good; Obama was sweeping too much bad behavior under the rug and going too easy on the bad guys.

Then in January 2012, Schneiderman got his payoff: not a better mortgage deal but a big night in the spotlight.

Cuba often resorts to leasing due to the decades-old U.S.

Voters who fail to bring an acceptable ID will still be able to cast a provisional ballot, a spokesperson for the West Virginia Secretary of State office told HuffPost.HuffPost today announced a series of new hires in newsrooms across the globe, as well as news roles for a number of existing staff. This infusion of great new talent represents our commitment to building the best and most relevant news organization in the world.

Aman Sethi has officially started in his new role as editor-in-chief of HuffPost India. Before coming to HuffPost, Aman was an editor at Hindustan Times, and, before that, he worked as the Africa correspondent for The Hindu. His work has appeared in The Guardian, Granta and Foreign Policy, and he is the author of A Free Man, a book about Delhi’s invisible economy, and life on the streets among construction workers and tea sellers.

Jess Brammar has joined HuffPost UK as Head of News. Jess comes from the BBC where she worked on the flagship news program Newsnight as deputy editor. Prior to working at the BBC, Jess was a producer for ITV News and news editor on ITV News Business.

Yvette Cabrera has joined the enterprise team, covering environmental justice. Most recently, Yvette worked as an investigative reporter for ThinkProgress, reporting on issues at the intersection of criminal justice, immigration and the environment. Previously, she reported for the International Center for Journalists, the Guardian U.S., the Voice of OC, Mission & State, KCBS in Los Angeles, the Orange County Register, the Los Angeles Times, and KCET-TV. trade embargo which makes it difficult to acquire newer aircraft, Yzquierdo said. Damojh operates three planes, according to the Mexican government.

Ovidio Martinez Lopez, a retired Cubana pilot, wrote in a widely-shared post on Facebook thatCuban airlines had leased planes from Damojh in 2010 and 2011, but one of its aircraft dropped off the radar while over the city of Santa Clara.

Cuban officials suspended the captain and co-pilot of that flight for “problems and serious lack of technical knowledge,” he said, and Cuba’s aviation security authority had recommended Cubana no longer lease from them.

Separately, a pilot who used to work for Damojh was quoted on Saturday by Mexican newspaper Milenio criticizing the company for lack of adequate maintenance of planes.

“I experienced several incidents at this company, like engine failure or the electrical system went when we took off from Mexico on one occasion,” Marco Aurelio Hernandez was quoted as saying.

Cuban investigators have so far recovered the cockpit voice recorder in “good condition,” Yzquierdo said, and are still looking for the flight data recorder.

The crash was the worst in Cuba since a Soviet-built Ilyushin-62M passenger plane crashed near Havana in 1989 killing all 126 people on board and another 14 on the ground.

“For the love of god, I never thought I would see this,” said Caridad Miranda, 45, whose sister and niece died in the crash. Obama invited Schneiderman to be a guest at the State of the Union address, where the president announced him as the leader of a new federal and state government task force prosecuting the fraud at the heart of the 2008 financial crisis.

In this role, Schneiderman issued a grand total of zero criminal subpoenas against U.S. financiers. If you want to know why nobody went to prison for wrecking the global economy in 2008, the answer, in no small part, is Schneiderman.

Monday night’s gut-wrenching expose of his history of alleged physical abuse and psychological manipulation in his romantic life is a particularly violent, misogynist rendition of the behavior he demonstrated in his professional life. He toyed with and misled the American public about his white-collar-crime work for years and generally got away with it.co/JsGsXAGTmV — Holly Morris (@HollyLiveFox5DC) April 3, 2018

I also said he is an amazing young man. This is not a racial issue. I would have the exact same opinion if the boy was white. https://t.co/gq8Edty0s8 — Holly Morris (@HollyLiveFox5DC) April 4, 2018

Brown said he had a Skype interview with Morris but has asked the station not to air it since the anchor has still not apologized.

This morning, I had a respectful Skype interview with @HollyLiveFox5DC , though I did not get an apology during the interview. I won't allow the interview to air until @fox5dc provides me with a public apology. Where's the #humandecency? — Micheal Brown (@mbreezy101) April 6, 2018

Fox 5 DC, Morris, Seymour and Brown did not respond to HuffPost’s requests for comment.Warning! “A Quiet Place” spoilers below. Proceed with caution.

It’s time to nail a few things down.

John Krasinski’s new horror movie, “A Quiet Place,” does a pretty good job of answering viewers’ lingering questions, but a few essential ones are still bothering us. For example, why would a couple risk having a baby in a world that’s riddled with sound-sensitive monsters?

(In this world, if you make a noise, “Stranger Things”-like monsters come after you, and it’s not cute.

Though his record against the rich and powerful is profoundly unimpressive, Schneiderman consistently scored incredible press from mainstream and liberal outlets ― nearly all of it based on bank fraud investigations that not only weren’t turning out convictions but weren’t even trying to generate prosecutions.

In 2012, The Nation hailed him as “the right man” at “the right moment,” and The American Prospect heralded him as “The Man the Banks Fear Most” in a glowing cover story. New York magazine named him a pillar of the more-liberal-than-Obama left in a gushing 2013 profile, and Politico managed to twist the fact that he never seemed to actually do anything into a virtue, describing him as a “low key” champion of “methodical, behind-the-scenes” work who showed “a lack of interest in capitalizing on the office.” After Donald Trump was elected president, New York magazine again sang Schneiderman’s praises, and Politico called him “the leader of the Trump resistance.” In fairness, Schneiderman has been just as effective against Trump as against Wall Street.

Schneiderman built this reputation by holding press conferences and inking splashy settlements with banks that added up to much less than their headlines suggested. He cut deals with JPMorgan Chase, Bank of America, Citigroup and Goldman Sachs that seemed to be worth over $41 billion to taxpayers but translated into only about $11.5 billion after various tax breaks, allowances and loopholes were considered, as David Dayen, who chronicled the entire ugly history of Schneiderman and the foreclosure fraud debacle in his book Chain of Title, explained in The New Republic. And Schneiderman proceeded to stand by as big banks racked up an astounding array of federal postcrisis regulatory violations that mysteriously never seemed to run afoul of state criminal law.

All politicians stretch the truth. Every ambitious officeholder is guilty of chasing microphones. But it was a special brand of fraud to build his career by convincing the world that he was a champion of the very cause he was working to undermine. “His hypocrisy is epic,” one of his accusers, former girlfriend Michelle Manning Barish, told The New Yorker. “He’s fooled so many people.” She was talking about his support for the Me Too movement and other feminist causes, but she might as well have been describing his bank-busting persona. I’m just hoping you know that.”

State House Speaker Crisanta Duran (D) had informed the Colorado State Patrol, which provides security for the House, that there could be trouble, The Denver Post reported.(Reuters) - They made up a corps of bomb-sniffing dogs that accompanied brigade combat teams on potentially lethal missions, sniffing out roadside bombs in Afghanistan and saving human lives.

In return for their combat service, the U.S. Army mistreated these canine heroes when they were discharged from the military, the Defense Department’s Inspector General’s Office said in a report issued on March 1.

An investigation was started after soldiers who had handled the dogs complained about the fate of their four-legged saviors.

U.

But Democrats couldn’t let themselves see the fraud for what it was. He was the top prosecutor in New York, and no bankers had gone to prison, but people still clung to the belief that he was the man the media said he was ― so much so that friends of one alleged victim of his abuse even counseled her to “keep the story to herself, arguing that Schneiderman was too valuable a politician for the Democrats to lose,” according to The New Yorker.