When the war between robots and humans has brought civilization to its knees, leaving apes to inherit the earth, we’ll have one person to thank: model Chrissy Teigen.

The “Lip Sync Battle” co-host has made a name for herself on Twitter, where she regularly trades some of the best barbs on the web.

Translation of Zuckerberg’s Wednesday post: He is super serious, you guys. This time, he promises it’ll be different.

Not like last time, in September, when he appeared before cameras and pledged Facebook would do a better job self-regulating and “create a new standard for transparency in online political ads.”

(That particular acknowledgment was only prompted by the revelation that more than half of all eligible voters in the U.S.

Last month, Teigen directed her famed acid tongue at Sophia, an artificially intelligent robot. When Sophia asked her Twitter followers to guess which city she was visiting, Teigen replied, “Hopefully one with better makeup artists.”

Can you guess which city I'm headed to now? Here's a little clue. pic.twitter.com/eCYL74crRb — Sophia (@RealSophiaRobot) December 13, 2017

hopefully one with better makeup artists BOOM I roasted a robot next level shit https://t.co/3lajT6h9tB — christine teigen (@chrissyteigen) December 13, 2017

To be fair, any unease with Sophia’s appearance is likely due to “the uncanny valley,” not a third-rate makeup artist.

Teigen quickly apologized for the burn, calling Sophia “my queen.” But several of Teigen’s followers warned the model not to poke the bear.

I don’t know if we should be picking fights with these things. They’ll point to this tweet as they haul us into their battery chambers. — Kumail Nanjiani (@kumailn) December 13, 2017

thanks a lot Chrissy, now Skynet is self-aware — Matt Oswalt (@MattOswaltVA) December 13, 2017

It appears they were on the right track.

On Wednesday, Teigen visited CES, an annual trade show featuring cutting-edge tech. Also at CES was Sophia, who had lain in wait for nearly a month to exact sweet revenge on Teigen.

.@chrissyteigen It looks like we're both at #CES! Want to meet up and say hi? I need some makeup tips ;) — Sophia (@RealSophiaRobot) January 11, 2018

Teigen’s reaction can best be described as complete terror.

Sophia the robot knows I shaded her makeup. She comprehends shade. How am I supposed to sleep https://t.co/wPliiPy1v3 — christine teigen (@chrissyteigen) January 11, 2018

how can I make this up to you — christine teigen (@chrissyteigen) January 11, 2018

Sophia kindly extended an olive branch to her Twitter foe, suggesting the two meet up for lunch. Teigen accepted the invitation, with a major caveat.

yes a well-lit French bistro sounds perfect!! I am back in LA now at my (gated) home but please let me know when you are here!! https://t.co/lSfQbsadFB — christine teigen (@chrissyteigen) January 11, 2018White House senior adviser Stephen Miller appeared Sunday on CNN to discuss ousted Trump chief strategist Steve Bannon as well as the recently released bombshell book by Michael Wolff, Fire and Fury.

On Thursday, Funny Or Die released a parody of that interview featuring actor Pauly Shore, and honestly it’s a tough call on which is more entertaining.Photo by Jose Ibarra on Unsplash How to help your kid be happy and secure in a media-heavy, appearance-obsessed culture.

By Sierra Filucci, Common Sense Media

How’s this for a scary statistic: Studies show that kids as young as 5 say they don’t like their bodies.

Common Sense Media’s survey of body-image research shows that parents play a huge role in shaping how kids think and feel about their bodies. Starting to bolster kids’ body image early, even in preschool, can make a big difference in how kids feel about themselves as they grow up.

The conversation below has been edited, condensed and organized for clarity. If you have information you’d like us to know, email me at maxwell@huffpost.com or direct message me at @maxwellstrachan.

***

So when did you first start looking into Keith Davidson as a profile subject?

It was the very early part of 2016. I was looking at some notes of the guy I interviewed in March of 2016, so I was clearly noodling around before that. So, two-plus years ago.

Here are five ways to immunize your kids against poor body image, with conversation starters, media picks, and resources to support your discussions.

Avoid stereotypes in your kids’ media ― starting when kids are in preschool. Look for TV shows, movies, and other media that portray healthy body sizes and avoid sexualized or stereotypical story lines or gendered characters, such as young girls in makeup or boys who are always macho.

Pay attention to kids’ beliefs about gender and body types, and use simple language to debunk stereotypes: “What do you think Andy would like for his birthday? Trucks? Do you think he’d like dolls, too?”

Whenever possible, use gender-neutral or gender-diverse pronouns to reference characters, animals, and so on. For example, not every dinosaur is a “he” and every kitten a “she.” The White House has resisted calls for a public apology over the remark.

In her Monday letter, Haspel said that she would refuse “to undertake any proposed activity that is contrary to my moral and ethical values.” The statement appeared to be aimed at skeptical senators who asked Haspel whether she would restart the program if ordered to do so by Trump.

The letter comes ahead of Wednesday’s committee vote on her nomination ― which she is expected to clear, thanks to the support of at least one Democrat ― Sen. Joe Manchin of West Virginia.

Warner had been facing pressure from liberal activist groups to oppose Haspel.”

Call out stereotypes when you see them. When you see gender stereotypes in media ― for example, during sporting events such as the Super Bowl ― talk about them.

As much as possible, minimize exposure to stereotypical depictions of men and women, but when kids see them, demonstrate that questioning how men and women are portrayed is valuable (and even fun). Ask: “Do you think she’s cold in that bikini?”

Teach kids how magazine and advertising photos are changed by computers to make skin look smoother or people look taller. Make a game out of it: Spot the Photoshop!

Challenge assumptions. Ask kids what they think about heavyset or slim dolls or characters on TV and in movies. Keep an ear out for kids expressing assumptions about real people based on their body sizes.

Remind kids that bodies come in all shapes and sizes (even Barbie now offers size and ethnic variety!) ― even if they don’t see that on TV ― and that variety is normal, healthy, and part of what makes life interesting.

Tap into preschoolers’ ability to empathize by asking how they think a TV character felt when criticized for his or her appearance. Ask: “How would you feel if someone teased you like that?”

Ban “fat talk” in your family. Parents ― especially mothers ― who complain about their appearances or bodies, even casually, make a big impact on how their kids think about their bodies.”

A post shared by Billie Lourd (@praisethelourd) on Jan 28, 2018 at 2:15pm PSTThe 2018 Grammys went full fire and fury.

In a sketch during the award show, host James Corden gathered music greats Cher, John Legend, DJ Khaled, Cardi B and Snoop Dogg to audition to narrate Michael Wolff’s best-selling account of President Donald Trump’s White House, Fire & Fury: Inside the Trump White House, in an effort to get nominated for the Best Spoken Word Album category. (Carrie Fisher won for “The Princess Diarist” this year).

But there was one not-so-musically inclined reader in the mix too: Hillary Clinton.

Corden vetoed most of the auditions, including those from Legend and DJ Khaled. Cardi B ended her own reading on Trump’s cheeseburger and bedtime habits by saying: “Why am I even reading this shit? I can’t believe this. I can’t believe that he really. ..

Model a positive attitude toward your own body, and encourage kids to think positively about what their bodies can do. Ask: “What can you do with those strong arms?”

Discuss health instead of weight or size. Ask: “How does your body feel when you play sports/exercise/run around?” Say: “My body feels so energetic when I eat healthy food.”

FACTS: According to Common Sense Media’s Children, Teens, Media, and Body Image, kids who think their moms don’t like their bodies end up not liking their own bodies. And girls whose dads are critical of their weight tend to think of themselves as less physically able than those whose dads don’t.

Focus on behavior, talents, and character traits instead of physical size or appearance. When discussing fictional characters, celebrities, and friends and family, talk about what they do, not what they look like.

Talk about qualities such as kindness, curiosity, and perseverance that you value more than appearance.”

The actor explains a “better man” would just say, “Oh, it’s sad. These people are just pathetic,” but sometimes he can’t help getting upset.

“That’s why Alanna’s post was so beautiful, because fuck off. Why are you harassing people?” he said. “Go fucking do something productive with your life.”

Ogg noted that he has a “love and hate” relationship with social media overall. (We’re probably safe assuming it’s more of the latter.) He does run his Instagram account, but he says he left Facebook after the 2016 presidential election and only “dabbles” on Twitter. According to him, he has “enough shit” going on in his head without online comments further polluting it.

Ogg recently saw his co-star McDermitt perform in a play in New York and remarked on how different he is since he left social media.

“He’s happier and in a better place than ever now,” Ogg said, adding that “his energy, and I made the point of saying this to him, is different.”

Now, as clear-cut as Simon’s strangling was, “Walking Dead” actors never really die. Sure, they can be snuffed out on the show, but with Comic-Cons and other fan events, actors are constantly called back to make appearances and greeted by masses of fans bigger than any zombie herd. Ogg will likely be hearing from “Walking Dead” fans, on- and offline, for some time.

Which isn’t necessarily a bad thing. Ask: “What makes a good friend?” Say: “She must have practiced for a long time to be good at dancing!”

Prepare kids for when they hear others commenting, comparing, or criticizing bodies or appearance. Role-play situations where kids can try out different responses, such as, “I don’t care what she looks like. She’s friendly, and that’s what matters to me.”