Before there was Will Smith and Jada Pinkett Smith ― just try and imagine, OK? ― the “Fresh Prince of Bel Air” star was married to his now ex-wife, Sheree Fletcher, with whom he shares a son.

Pinkett Smith recently revealed that she began dating the actor before he and Fletcher officially divorced, which has been a sore spot in the family ever since. All these years later, the “Girls Trip” actress is now sitting down with Fletcher for her new web series “Red Table Talk” to have a candid conversation about the challenges of marriage and motherhood they overcame together.

Pinkett Smith said that in hindsight, “because I did not understand marriage, I did not understand divorce ...

The two tied the knot in 2012 in Hawaii and have three girls together.

“This behavior is unacceptable from the leader of our nation,” Love, whose parents immigrated from Haiti to the U.S., said in a statement Thursday.

“My parents came from one of those countries but proudly took the oath of allegiance to the United States and took on the responsibilities of everything that being a citizen comes with,” she added. “They never took a thing from our federal government.”

Rep. The youngest, Minnie Theodora, was born in February, according to Page Six. The others are Pearl Clementine, 5, and Andy Rose, 2.

The breakup comes just days after Jack Osbourne posted a Mother’s Day tribute to his wife on Instagram, which can be seen below.

Still, it may have been inevitable, according to Entertainment Tonight, which quotes a source who said the couple has had problems since the beginning.

“We all kind of thought it would go this way,” the source said, according to ET, though things seemed to get better after they had the children. “They seemed so happy.”

Sources told Page Six that the couple has been fighting badly for about nine months and that Jack Osbourne has been staying with other family members.

A representative for Jack Osbourne did not immediately respond to a request for comment.

This is a developing story.Former CIA chief John Brennan did not mince his words when taking aim at President Donald Trump on Saturday morning.

In a blistering tweet, Brennan blasted Trump for celebrating the dismissal of former FBI deputy Director Andrew McCabe. I probably should have fell back.

AdvertisementPresident Donald Trump enjoyed his visit to Saudi Arabia last spring. MANDEL NGAN via Getty Images

WASHINGTON ― The Trump administration and GOP leadership started lobbying against a bipartisan resolution questioning the U.S. role in the civil war in Yemen before Sens.”

“You think?” Fletcher fired back with a smile.

Will Smith and Fletcher’s son, Trey Smith, grew up alongside Pinkett Smith’s kids, Jaden Smith and Willow Smith ― the children are often pictured at events all together. But Fletcher admitted that initially, she wasn’t on board with the idea of one big, happy family.

The former reality TV star said that one of the most difficult moments came when Trey Smith met Pinkett Smith for the first time.

“So Trey comes home and I said, ‘How did you like Miss Jada?’ He said, ‘I really liked her, mommy,’” Fletcher recalled.

Pinkett Smith immediately began to cry, exclaiming, “Oh my God,” before Fletcher reached out her hand and thanked her “for loving my baby.”

Red Table Talk

After Smith and Fletcher’s divorce was finalized in 1995, the two women eventually overcame their differences and learned to co-parent. Will Smith and Jada Pinkett Smith have now been married for 20 years, while Fletcher wed football player Terrell Fletcher in 2007.

Trey Smith is now a working DJ who performs under the name DJ AcE.

Trey Smith, Willow Smith, Jaden Smith, Jada Pinkett Smith and Will Smith pictured together in 2016. Jason LaVeris via Getty ImagesMark Hamill may have just let the cat out of the bag on a major “Star Wars” actor appearing in the upcoming Han Solo film, “Solo: A Star Wars Story.”

“Tony Daniels is so happy ’cause he’s in every single ‘Star Wars’ movie. Every single one. All the prequels. (At the State Department, only a small number of officials were cleared to receive the most sensitive information on the Russian hack; this group included Secretary of State John Kerry; Tony Blinken, the deputy secretary of state; Dan Smith, head of the department’s intelligence bureau; and Jon Finer, Kerry’s chief of staff.)

For the usual interagency sessions, principals and deputies could bring staffers. Not this time. He’s in ‘Rogue One,’ He’s in ‘Solo,’” Hamill told the Washington Post’s Cape Up podcast. “Whoops! I hope that’s not... ”

Whoops, indeed.

Hamill was referring to Anthony Daniels, the actor who portrays the iconic droid C-3PO. Plantagon hopes to reverse this trend and turn a profit.

The firm’s recent crowdfunding campaign raised 4.4 million Swedish krona ($559,000) that will help its ambition to install up to nine more urban farms across Stockholm over the next three years. The inaugural farm, which cost about $863,000, was backed by a group of private investors.

Plantagon also has a charitable arm, which owns 10 percent of the business and commits to invest in innovative for-profit companies that seek to address societal challenges. People can invest in “generation shares” in the charity that cannot be cashed for seven generations.

The firm’s confidence that it can be profitable rests in part on reducing expenses, with lower costs for energy and water, and savings on rent. Plantagon has negotiated a three-year, zero-rent deal in exchange for the heating and clean air that its farm provides to the building.

“Most [indoor farming] projects are difficult to make economically viable because they tend to focus only on the technology and the growing. You also need to find a business model that works,” says Pettersson.

Keeping operations hyper-local will help meet that requirement, the startup says. As Hamill noted, Daniels has appeared in every “Star Wars” movie to date, but his possible role in “Solo” had never been made public.

“That’s not such a reveal,” Hamill said, perhaps in an attempt at intergalactic damage control. “All ‘Star Wars’ fans expect him to be in every movie.”

Well, they do now.

Hamill’s comments come at a little after the 1:19:00 mark:

Hamill didn’t specifically mention that Daniels would be playing C-3PO in “Solo” so there’s always a chance he could take on a different role. It wouldn’t be the first time. While Daniels appeared in “Episode II: Attack of the Clones” as C-3PO, he also had a blink-and-you’ll-miss-it role as a human character in the film’s club scene.

“Solo: A Star Wars Story” opens on May 25.