Seth Meyers on Monday explored the shifting stance of President Donald Trump and Co. on his alleged affair with porn star Stormy Daniels.

“Trump and his inner circle are serial habitual liars,” the host explained in “A Closer Look” segment on “Late Night.” “They lie constantly and they do it on purpose.”

Nothing funny about that. But Meyers launched quite a zinger at one particular Trump about-face.

Remember when the president told reporters aboard Air Force One last month that he was unaware of personal attorney Michael Cohen’s $130,000 hush payment to Daniels? Trump now asserts he said nothing of the sort.

We’ll let Meyers handle this, with a sharp nod to Alec Baldwin.Chrissy Teigen relished the news that President Donald Trump may no longer block people on Twitter, following a federal judge’s ruling on Wednesday.

The supermodel and cookbook author, who POTUS famously blocked back in July 2017 after she told him that “no one likes you,” shared this video in response:

well well well we meet again @realDonaldTrump pic.twitter.com/WajEXiAQVi — christine teigen (@chrissyteigen) May 23, 2018

Trump has blocked dozens of critical tweeters from his @realdonaldtrump account, including author Stephen King and comedian/talk show host Rosie O’Donnell. Every person Trump blocked was then unable to view his posts or profile.

Dozens of other Twitter users, including Mexico’s former president Vicente Fox, also poked fun at Trump over the development:

Yass! @realDonaldTrump, I just want to say: every step you take, every move you make … I'll be watching you. https://t.co/aIDBaxYvU7 — Vicente Fox Quesada (@VicenteFoxQue) May 23, 2018

hahahahahahah everyone on twitter can block people except @realDonaldTrump, sucks you be you man — Shuja Haider (@shujaxhaider) May 23, 2018

Can we get some footage of his tiny fingers unblocking us? https://t.co/dNbKBO1kxR — Brandon Neely (@BrandonTXNeely) May 23, 2018The identification of a suspect in the decades-old Golden State Killer case using public genealogy databases has authorities in California hoping the same method can be used in the so-called Zodiac Killer murders in the 1960s and early 1970s.

According to the Vallejo Police Department, in the San Francisco Bay area, they have evidentiary items believed to contain the unknown serial killer’s DNA. That evidence has been sent to a lab for extraction to generate a profile of a suspect. Police plan to compare that profile to samples used for genealogy research. Nunes appeared on Hannity on Monday night, claiming that the Hillary Clinton campaign had “colluded with the Russians.” A spokesman for Nunes did not respond to a request for comment.

The airing Fox News has given to Jarrett’s initially single-sourced claim about the deputy attorney general raises a broader issue with Fox News’ coverage of the Justice Department, which suffered a big blow when Bret Baier falsely reported on a “likely indictment” of Clinton just ahead of the 2016 election. (Baier subsequently apologized.)

These days, the most explosive and unsubstantiated claims getting aired on Fox News aren’t coming from its national security reporters, such as Catherine Herridge. Instead, they’re coming from figures like Jarrett and Fox News contributor Sara Carter, who appears to be in close contact with the House Intelligence Committee and currently posts her stories on SaraACarter.com. Neither typically appears on the programs Fox News considers hard news.

Last week, after the release of the Nunes memo, Rep. Paul Gosar (R-Ariz.

While it’s unlikely Zodiac will be found in the database, there is a real possibility that a genetic match could be identified, which would enable investigators to create and follow a family tree directly to a suspect.S. government militarizes the border, thousands of his supporters would protest by forming a “big human chain of Mexicans for peace.”

Some members of Congress said they were uncomfortable with the idea of using the military at the border.

Democratic Senator Brian Schatz said Trump should have to seek approval from Congress for any such troop deployment.

Police used the technique last month to identify relatives of Joseph James DeAngelo Jr., a former police officer who’s since been charged in two cold cases that had been attributed to the Golden State Killer and the East Area Rapist. The cases involve at least a dozen deaths and nearly 50 rapes that were committed from 1976 to 1986.

“It really comes down to DNA. Without it, you have nothing.” - Vallejo Police Detective Terry Poyser

Zodiac terrorized Northern California from 1968 to 1970. The killer sent cryptic letters and notes to police and newspapers, which were signed “Zodiac,” a moniker that was adopted by police and the media.

The Vallejo Police Department, the agency handling the DNA evidence in the Zodiac case, did not return multiple calls for comment from HuffPost on Monday. In an interview with The Associated Press, Detective Terry Poyser said his team is hoping to know something within the next few weeks.

“It really comes down to DNA,” Poyser said. “Without it, you have nothing. It’s a 50-years-old case.“

Las Vegas criminologist Scott Bonn, who has spent years studying and interviewing some of the most notorious criminals, said he’s excited about the prospect of police finally cracking the cold case.

“It will be great if this works a second time,” Bonn told HuffPost. “We could finally have answers to one of the greatest whodunits of all time.”

San Francisco police had circulated this composite of the Zodiac Killer. At left is a drawing from witnesses in the slaying of a cabdriver. The amended drawing on the right was based on further questioning of witnesses. Bettmann via Getty Images

Zodiac used the cryptic notes and letters to taunt police and boast of his crimes, claiming credit for dozens of murders.

“I like killing people because it is so much fun,” reads a deciphered message that police attribute to Zodiac. “It is more fun than killing wild game in the forest because man is the most dangerous animal of all. To kill something gives me the most thrilling experience.”

The letters were often marked with a cross-hair symbol, which police believe represents a gun sight.

By his own account, Zodiac claimed to have killed more than 30 people. However, police say they believe he’s actually responsible for six homicides and two attempted slayings.

A copy of the white envelope in which Zodiac included a bloodstained piece of shirt torn from one his victims. Bettmann via Getty Images

It’s believed Zodiac committed his first two murders on Dec. 20, 1968, when he shot high school students David Faraday, 17, and Betty Lou Jansen, 16. Their bodies were found along a lover’s lane near Vallejo.

About six months later, Zodiac struck again. Starting in 2019, people buying such plans wouldn’t have to worry about paying the individual mandate penalty, since the GOP’s new tax legislation reduces that penalty to zero.

These steps could help split insurance markets into two ― one with relatively cheap, skimpy short-term plans that would be available to people who are in good health, and one with highly expensive comprehensive insurance that would be available to anybody, regardless of pre-existing conditions.

People who bought the short-term plans would frequently save money, as long as they didn’t get sick and find themselves on the hook for bills the short-term plans don’t cover. But premiums for those comprehensive policies could get even higher than they are now.

The majority of people buying coverage on their own are eligible for tax credits that offset premiums, which get bigger as premiums go higher. In general, they won’t have to pay more for coverage, even as it gets more expensive. But people who earn too much to qualify for the tax credits ― anybody with income above four times the poverty line, or $98,400 for a family of four ― would bear the full brunt of those higher premiums.

It’s a problem that already exists in some states, like Iowa and Tennessee, but it could get worse and affect even more Americans if the Trump administration regulations go into effect, especially if the new measures cause more insurers to abandon markets altogether.

Just how big a difference this regulation would ultimately make is difficult to say. In a fact sheet accompanying the proposed regulations, HHS said that for 2019 it expects 100,000 to 200,000 people to drop traditional coverage and buy short-term policies instead.

According to police, it was just before midnight on July 4, 1969, that Darleen Ferrin, 22, and Michael Mageau, 19, stopped at a park just four miles from the scene of the first killings. The couple were sitting inside Ferrin’s car when they were shot multiple times. Ferrin was killed in the attack, but Mageau, who was shot in the face, chest and neck, survived.

It’s believed the killer waited roughly three months before striking again.

A knife was the killer’s weapon of choice in a Sept. 27, 1969, attack in Napa County. Police say Pacific Union College students Bryan Hartnell, 20, and Cecelia Shepard, 22, were picnicking by Lake Berryessa when they were approached by a man wearing a black hood. The two were stabbed multiple times with a knife. Hartnell survived the attack. Shepard later died, but not before giving police a description of the assailant.

Murder victims Betty Lou Jensen, David Faraday and Darlene Ferrin. Bettmann via Getty Images

On Oct. 11, 1969 ― two weeks after the attack on Hartnell and Shepard ― cabdriver Paul Stine, 29, was shot and killed after picking up a passenger near San Francisco’s Union Square. A letter about the killing was sent to a San Francisco newspaper. The envelope contained a blood-stained piece of Stine’s shirt, police said.

Investigators consider Stine’s homicide the last committed by Zodiac. However, the killer has been considered a possible suspect in other unsolved cases from the same time, including a handful of similar homicides and at least one disappearance and attempted abduction.

Authorities also believe Zodiac last communicated with them in 1974, when he sent a letter saying he’d found “The Exorcist” to be “the best saterical comidy [sic] that I have ever seen.”

There has been no confirmed communication since that time or an unsolved homicide believed connected to the killer. The killing spree, it seems, stopped just as suddenly as it began.

“There’s a good chance that something happened in his life back then that caused him to stop,” Bonn said. Her story is far from unique: Many freelancers from Paste dealt with long wait times on payment, vague promises and a lack of communication from the company in 2017.

The problems are partly due to an expansion in coverage at the magazine. Paste’s politics vertical became popular in late 2016, at the height of the election. “He could’ve been arrested on unrelated charges, he could’ve died or maybe even aged out of his crimes, especially if he was middle-aged.“

A letter that Zodiac sent to the San Francisco Chronicle in November 1969. Bettmann via Getty Images

There was once hope that a sketch of the killer could crack the case. The sketch was based on descriptions provided by surviving victims and witnesses who reported seeing the killer near a crime scene. He was described as a stocky middle-aged male with a receding reddish-brown crew cut. “You are almost taking [land] out of this capitalist regime to bring it into indigenous ownership.”

The Bay Area first showed up on European maps amid an imperial scramble to control the Americas’ indigenous lands, lives and resources. Between 1776 and 1833, the Spanish built 21 Catholic missions in California to claim Native lands and convert Native souls. By the end of their reign, Franciscan missionaries had baptized 81,586 California Indians and buried some 62,600, who perished from disease, displacement and starvation. Gould’s ancestors were among them.

Under Spanish, Russian and Mexican rule, California’s Indian population fell by more than half, from 310,000 in 1776 to 150,000 when the United States annexed California in 1848. Coastal populations like the Ohlone were particularly devastated.

As indigenous humanity was denied so too were indigenous land rights. California was the only part of the United States declared terra nullius, a legal term meaning “nobody’s land.” All up and down the Golden State, Native communities were left without title to their lands. By 1910, the Bay Area’s Native population numbered just 184. Survivors went into hiding, adopting Hispanic identities to avoid persecution.

Still, indigenous people persisted. A few dozen Ohlone and Miwok, Gould’s ancestors among them, established a small settlement in the 1870s called “Indian Town” in present-day Pleasanton. It’s believed he wore glasses. The sketch, despite mass distribution by national media, failed to lead to an arrest.

Now, with advancements in DNA testing and a multitude of databases available, police might have a chance of determining the identity of Zodiac. While it’s unlikely he’s still alive, a positive identification would allow authorities to close the book on an infamous serial killer who once terrorized citizens of California.

“And regardless of the outcome in this case, these new avenues of investigation have great potential,” Bonn said. “Think of how useful these ancestry DNA databases could be in solving other unsolved cases.”