The mayor of Oakland, California, Libby Schaaf, warned residents that federal immigration officers were planning raids. She reminded them of their rights under a new California sanctuary law. A new report documents the struggle between immigrant-friendly cities and the federal government over arrests and deportations. Ben Margot/AP

By Tim Henderson

BALTIMORE — One recent early morning, as the sun rose, a young mother knocked at the Sacred Heart Parish rectory door.

In a cramped study, she told the church pastor, the Rev. Bruce Lewandowski, what had happened. Feeling ill, she had come home early from her overnight job cleaning offices and found a relative sexually abusing her handicapped daughter. She had gathered up the child and her other children and brought them to the church.

“Why didn’t you call 911? You have to call 911,” the pastor told her. The woman, he recalled later, broke down. “If I tell the police, they’ll arrest me, too,” she said. As an unauthorized immigrant, she was terrified of talking to the police despite a city policy that bars officers from asking anybody about their immigration status.

A year and a half of struggle between the Trump administration and immigrant-friendly states and cities has led to a stalemate: So-called sanctuary cities and states are reducing deportations, but raids aimed at stirring fears are having their intended effect, according to a new yearlong study by the nonpartisan Migration Policy Institute. Federal immigration officials told the authors of the report that in places where local law enforcement won’t help them deport immigrants who have landed in jail, their alternative is to look for such people on neighborhood streets.

ICE officers said that to the extent jurisdictions do not cooperate their agency has little choice but to carry out enforcement activities in neighborhoods and other community locations, even though it is not as efficient a use of their time or resources. — Migration Policy Institute study

Stymied by local resistance, the Trump administration may never get deportations back to the recent high of 200,000 in 2010, under President Barack Obama. But highly publicized raids in sanctuary cities are taking a toll on immigrants’ peace of mind.

“They’re sending a message. And the message is being received,” said Randy Capps, director of research for the Migration Policy Institute, a think tank based in Washington, D.

While Shep is a friend with political views I do not share, and great at breaking news, he is clueless about what we do every day. Hannity breaks news daily-Warrant on a Trump assoc, the unmasking scandal, leaking intel, Fisa abuse, HRC lawbreaking, dossier and more REAL NEWS! 9p https://t.co/zJpnnyFTtP — Sean Hannity (@seanhannity) March 16, 2018

But Hannity himself is clearly conflicted about whether or not he’s a newsman or an entertainer.

OK, so now, tell me what you think the Cambridge Analytica scandal is.

Lamb occasionally faltered in his attempts to balance the priorities of his liberal base and the swing voters he needed to win. Following the mass shooting at a high school in Parkland, Florida, Lamb sparked progressive ire with what sounded like Republican talking points. He warned that the “emotions that a lot of us are feeling right now” were not a good reason to adopt new gun restrictions. He favors expanded background checks, but not an assault weapons ban and other more stringent measures.

At the same time, Lamb ran as a pro-union economic progressive, promising to protect Social Security and Medicare, shore up coal miners’ distressed pensions and defend collective bargaining rights. Lamb told the progressive Social Security Works PAC that he supported expanding Social Security and Medicare. And while he stopped short of endorsing single-payer health care, Lamb supports empowering Medicare to negotiate lower prescription drug prices.

Lamb likewise stuck to his support for abortion rights, despite his personal view that life begins at conception and the district’s large Catholic community.

Republican Rick Saccone speaks during a campaign event in Elizabeth Township, Pennsylvania, on Monday, March 12, 2018. Brendan McDermid / Reuters

With a population that is 93 percent white, Pennsylvania’s 18th is not representative of the country, let alone the districts in which Democrats must generally compete.

But in the larger national debate over Democrats’ best routes to victory, Lamb’s win has a little something to offer multiple sides. Like most of the victorious Democratic candidates in recent elections in Virginia and Alabama, Lamb’s base of support is in the educated and affluent suburbs, a locus of Democratic activists and moderate Republicans disgusted with Trump.

Well, the main problem, I guess, is that they got permission from different people on Facebook to use their information — I think they used it for targeted ads. Like, this company wanted to use it for targeted ads, so they got permission. I think it was using an app — at least, that’s what I heard on TV. And these people downloaded the app, and they gave permission for Ana ― whatever, Cambridge Analytica — to use their information. On his own radio show in 2016, he declared: “I’m not a journalist; I’m a talk show host.” That was his explanation after he was criticized for going too easy in an interview on then-presidential candidate Donald Trump.

He told The New York Times the same year: “I never claimed to be a journalist.”

The next year, he said he was a journalist — with an explanation.

Hezbollah and other Iranian-backed militias have a large military presence in Syria and are well entrenched in central and eastern areas near the Iraqi border.

Deputy Hezbollah leader Sheikh Naim Qassem told pro-Syrian government television channel al Maydeen he expected a reaction to the death of at least seven Iranian military personnel during a missile strike earlier this month on the T-4 airfield near Homs, which Iran blamed on Israel

“The deliberate Israeli slaying of Iranians in the T4 base will have a response but we don’t know its nature or its details,” Qassem said in the television interview.

The heavily armed and Tehran-backed Shi’ite movement has been a vital military ally of President Bashar al-Assad in the seven-year-old Syrian war.

Hezbollah, which last fought a major war with Israel in 2006, has however said it would not open a new front against its arch-foe from Lebanon.

Qassem said the powerful militia did not fight in all the main battles in Syria but was present in any area that was needed. He did not elaborate.Photo by Getty Images

This story originally appeared on Outsports

Russia’s law prohibiting what it calls the promotion of homosexuality is one factor some World Cup fans are staying away from the event in that country this summer. “I’m an advocacy journalist, or an opinion journalist,” he told the Times. That wouldn’t fit Smith’s definition of a journalist.

Laura Ingraham, another of the hosts on the Fox News opinion side of Smith’s ledger, also piped in with a dig at Smith, calling his comments “inconsiderate” and “inaccurate.” She said people on her program, “Ingraham Angle,” do “real reporting” and “score big interviews.”

Always liked Shep, but his comments were inconsiderate & inaccurate. The hard working team at the Ingraham Angle does real reporting, develops impt sources and scores big interviews. Very proud of them. https://t.C. “When we were on the street in Chicago,” he said of the sanctuary city, “we heard the same expressions of anxiety as we did in places like Houston and suburban Atlanta, the fully cooperative jurisdictions.”

That fear and anxiety has caused unauthorized immigrants to retreat from public life in many cities, immigrant-friendly or not. Immigrants already are more reluctant to report crimes and to use health services and other benefits, the report concluded.

In many cities, crime reports by Hispanics fell after the start of the Trump administration, especially for sexual assault and abuse cases, even as reports by non-Hispanic people rose.

The Migration Policy Institute report underscores the unevenness of immigration enforcement. The U.S. Department of Justice has threatened legal action against many cities that don’t cooperate with ICE, and Texas has curbed sanctuary policies in Travis County, home to Austin. At the same time, California is facing pushback from San Diego and Orange counties as it implements a statewide sanctuary policy.

A protester stands outside the Immigration and Customs Enforcement building in Portland, Oregon. Roughly one third of hospitalized gunshot patients are uninsured.

A resource does exist to help vulnerable crime victims, including gunshot survivors, though many never tap into it. Victim compensation programs in every state reimburse victims and their families for expenses like medical bills, mental health counseling, lost wages, and funeral costs. Revenue for the state-run programs comes from offender fees and fines, along with federal grants under the Victims of Crime Act, or VOCA. In 2016, compensation programs paid more than 250,000 claims totaling more than $348 million, according to federal data.

Victim advocates, anti-violence activists, and social workers interviewed by The Trace said that victims of violent crime face numerous hurdles in applying for the funds. They say that for traumatized victims, the eligibility criteria can be daunting, the applications toilsome, and processing times long. Alex Milan Tracy, Sipa USA via AP

Chicago and other immigrant-rich sanctuary cities, along with California, have been able to control deportations over minor crimes by refusing ICE access to local jails through so-called detainers seeking to take custody for possible deportation.

In cities that are cooperating with federal immigration authorities, even a traffic arrest can expose an immigrant to deportation, especially if a court has ordered deportation or the individual has returned after a previous deportation.

“About 1 in 10 unauthorized immigrants is in this situation where they’ve already exhausted their rights under the legal system,” said immigration attorney Simon Sandoval-Moshenberg of the Legal Aid Justice Center in Falls Church, Virginia. “They’ll be deported basically as soon as ICE can arrange a flight.”

Local raids can help federal authorities recover some of the potential prisoners lost to sanctuary policies, but not many, the study found. Six percent of prisoners freed because jails declined an ICE request, or “detainer,” are later arrested by ICE.

That’s frustrating to the immigration officials the Migration Policy Institute interviewed for its study.

“To the extent jurisdictions do not cooperate,” ICE officers told MPI, “their agency has little choice but to carry out enforcement activities in neighborhoods and other community locations, even though it is not as efficient a use of their time or resources, nor does such enforcement yield the numbers that can be identified by screening cases in local jails.”

Such raids also result in the arrests of bystanders, called collateral arrests, if officers come across other unauthorized immigrants while looking for those targeted for crimes or immigration-related offenses. More than two-thirds of the 650 arrested in one major operation were collateral arrests of people who were not targeted, many simply bystanders, according to the MPI study.

Such arrests can spread fear but don’t necessarily mean immediate deportation. An unauthorized immigrant without a deportation order is entitled to a court hearing. They may wait years to get one because court dockets are so full, said Sandoval-Moshenberg, who represents a dozen people arrested as bystanders during raids last year in Virginia.

“They stop you and say, ‘Have you heard of so-and-so?’ You say no and then they say, ‘What about you — do you have papers?’” Sandoval-Moshenberg said. None of his clients have been deported, he said, and some won’t even face court hearings until after the 2020 election.

Such raids, and the actions of enforcement-friendly states and cities, have increased arrests and deportations in the short term. Deportations overall remain low compared with the early years of the Obama administration. Arrests and deportations by ICE remain about half what they were in 2010 and 2011, when there were about 300,000 immigration arrests and 200,000 deportations a year.

Immigration and Customs Enforcement officers make an arrest in New York. Richard Drew/AP

Without local officials feeding arrestees to ICE through detainers and other methods of cooperation, the Trump administration does not have the manpower to get those numbers back up to Obama-era levels. California, home to a fifth of the nation’s estimated 11 million unauthorized immigrants, reduced cooperation to a new low last year by banning any communication with ICE about suspects charged with minor crimes.

“The great variation in how states and localities cooperate with ICE,” the study says, “means that the fortunes of an unauthorized immigrant in Texas, Tennessee, and Georgia, where the mere act of driving can result in arrest and deportation, are entirely different than in California, Chicago, and New York, where immigrants can be arrested for a variety of crimes and still not be taken into ICE custody.”

If stress is unpredictable even in sanctuary cities, the same is true for strict-enforcement areas such as Prince William County, Virginia, a suburb of Washington, D.C. The county gives full cooperation to ICE and detainer requests were up 16 percent between 2016 and 2017, but they are still down by a third from 2013, according to the Migration Policy Institute.

Dimas Navarro, a middle-aged heating and air-conditioning worker from El Salvador who lives in Prince William County with legal work permission, said crackdowns come and go in the immigrant community.

In the past, Navarro said, hostility drove Central Americans to neighboring Maryland, where they were more welcome. But today Navarro thinks they’re starting to return to Virginia, driven by plentiful work in construction.

“There’s good times and bad times. It depends on who’s in power,” Navarro said on a recent day. “They were stopping everybody checking papers for illegal immigrants. Now, no. Now everything is OK. You never know when it’s going to change, though.”

Navarro said he was only stopped by police twice while driving, once for not coming to a full stop at a stop sign, but had no trouble since he has a driver’s license. The MPI report found that suburban police were more likely to use traffic enforcement to target immigrants. Gwinnett County in suburban Atlanta, for example, held as many as 184 immigrants for ICE in a month last year — most had been arrested on traffic charges.

“Our clients are getting arrested for things they should not be, or that white people would not be arrested for,” said Lisa Johnson-Firth, an immigration attorney in Manassas, Virginia.

Jessica Vaughan, director of policy studies at the Center for Immigration Studies, a think tank that favors less immigration, defended the ICE practice of arresting people in the community during raids.

“ICE’s goal in making arrests is not to sow fear but to arrest and remove deportable criminal aliens who have no right to be here,” Vaughan said, adding that they “should not be allowed to remain at large to prey on new victims.” ICE did not immediately reply to a request for comment.

In Baltimore, Lewandowski said he was able to calm his parishioner and get police to investigate the sexual assault without questioning the woman’s immigration status. But not all his parishioners have been so lucky: Recently a young man, a husband and the father of small children, was pulled over by ICE after buying supplies at a lumberyard.

“He said, ‘How did you know I was here?’ and they said, ‘Oh, we’ve been following you for a couple of weeks, but your family was always with you and we didn’t want to have to arrest them.’