Hattie McDaniel, the first black person to win an Oscar, is reportedly the subject of a forthcoming biopic.

Producers Aaron Magnani and Alysia Allen have obtained the rights to Hattie McDaniel: Black Ambition, White Hollywood, a biography Jill Watts published in 2007, Variety reported earlier this week. McDaniel won the Oscar for Best Supporting Actress in 1940 for her role as the house servant “Mammy” in “Gone With The Wind.” It wasn’t until 1964 that the next black actor, Sidney Poitier, would win an Academy Award.

“Gone With The Wind” won eight Oscars, but all of its black actors ― including McDaniel ― were prohibited from attending the movie’s premiere in Georgia.

McDaniel, a native of Wichita, Kansas, was born in 1893 to parents who were freed slaves. She started her career in entertainment as a vaudeville performer, which was a community of entertainers that appeared in variety shows around the U.S. just seems like a bad fit,” he said on “The Ellen DeGeneres Show” earlier this month. “I feel like the Olympics is all about inclusion and people coming together, and it seems like it’s not really doing that.”

Kenworthy, along with figure skater Adam Rippon, are the only two openly gay men competing for the U.S. at the Winter Games.

Rippon has also spoken out about Pence’s anti-gay stance, as well as the vice president’s efforts to extend an olive branch to the queer athlete.

“You mean Mike Pence, the same Mike Pence that funded gay conversion therapy?” Rippon told USA Today in January, referring to a dangerous and medically bogus treatment Pence once suggested could help people change their sexual behavior. in the late 19th century. She appeared on a radio show in the 1920s, making her one of the first black women to do so, and made her film debut in “The Golden West” in 1932.

McDaniel in the 1939 film "Gone With The Wind," alongside British actress Vivien Leigh. Silver Screen Collection via Getty Images

Civil rights groups criticized the actress for commonly taking on roles portraying domestic workers such as cooks and maids, and the NAACP said her characters often embodied negative racial stereotypes.

“I have never apologized for the roles I play,” she wrote in a 1947 article later published in The Hollywood Reporter.

She added that she was happy about winning her Oscar, writing:

“My own people were especially happy. Karen Pinchin

According to a recent report from Ryerson University’s Brookfield Institute, 62 percent of resource-sector jobs, including those in the fisheries, are vulnerable to automation. While profoundly needed by most production-oriented industries, that isn’t always a good news story in a small town like Neguac, says Creig Lamb, a study co-author. They felt that in honoring me, Hollywood had honored the entire race. That was the way I wanted it. This was too big a moment for my personal back-slapping. I wanted this occasion to prove an inspiration to Negro youth for many years to come.”Trump told the Journal that the explosive book on his administration, Fire and Fury, showed the need for new libel laws but that Congress doesn’t have the “guts” to do so. There are currently no federal libel laws in the U.S. that Congress could re-examine, as the criteria for libel is typically left to each state to decide.

The president’s interview doubles down on comments he made to the press on Wednesday during a public Cabinet session.

“Our current libel laws are a sham and a disgrace, and do not represent American values or American fairness,” Trump said.

Caila: It was well thought-out. I think it was my favorite moment of the episode. And we just haven’t seen a real conversation of someone thinking through their emotions in the same depth. So, kudos to Jacqueline.

Claire: Yeah, it’s not common that someone has the wherewithal to really be like, “I don’t know what my feelings are. I don’t know if they’re related to the process or if they’re related to this guy.” She really thought it all through.

And Arie’s like, “I really like you, I don’t want this to be over. “So we’re going to take a strong look at that. We want fairness. But now it seems like they never have any of the films I’m looking for. I have Amazon Prime, but any of the movies I really want to see inevitably require that I pay extra to rent them. The number of B and C-grade movies that are on these services is quite remarkable. You can’t say things that are false — knowingly false — and be able to smile as money pours into your bank account. We’re going to take a very, very strong look at that. And I think what the American people want to see is fairness.”

It is unlikely that Congress could actually do anything to change libel laws as they stand, or make it easier for Trump to successfully sue Fire and Fury author Michael Wolff for defamation.

Public officials and figures must prove actual malice in libel cases, meaning that false statements about officials are protected unless the reporter published the information with reckless disregard for the truth. “Imagine the outcome of World War II if the Greatest Generation had been raised by these politically correct bedwetters. You’d be reading this in German. The Supreme Court established the actual malice criteria in 1964 with the landmark New York Times v. Sullivan case.

Trump also discussed his relationship with North Korea in the interview.

“I probably have a very good relationship with Kim Jong Un,” Trump told the Journal. “I have relationships with people. I think you people are surprised.”

The president framed his use of Twitter to spread derogatory names for North Korean leader Kim Jong Un, such as “rocket man,” as part of a strategy.