Seth Meyers isn’t afraid to ask the tough questions. Well, kind of.

On Wednesday’s broadcast of “Late Night,” the comedian used a spoof press conference to grill White House press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders. He then cut in her “responses” to amusing effect.

Meyers quizzed Sanders on Donald Trump’s favorite part of being president, what Trump’s sons Eric and Donald Jr. actually do at the White House and why first lady Melania Trump has looked “so unhappy” since the election.

He also asked Sanders what she most liked about her role.

“Purposefully misleading the American people,” she replied.

Check out Sanders’ other “responses” in the clip above.President Donald Trump fired off a series of tweets Thursday that appeared to undermine his own administration’s position on surveillance legislation.

While live-tweeting during his preferred morning show, “Fox & Friends,” Trump railed against a 2008 amendment to the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act ― even as his staffers were working to reauthorize it.

Disproven and paid for by Democrats “Dossier used to spy on Trump Campaign. Did FBI use Intel tool to influence the Election?” @foxandfriends Did Dems or Clinton also pay Russians? Where are hidden and smashed DNC servers? Where are Crooked Hillary Emails? What a mess! — Donald J.m., Quinn had been released from the company. James Bennet, the Times’ editorial page editor, told HuffPost:

“Despite our review of Quinn Norton’s work and our conversations with her previous employers, this was new information to us. Based on it, we’ve decided to go our separate ways. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) January 11, 2018

“House votes on controversial FISA ACT today.” This is the act that may have been used, with the help of the discredited and phony Dossier, to so badly surveil and abuse the Trump Campaign by the previous administration and others? — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) January 11, 2018

Section 702 of the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Amendments Act, which was passed in 2008 and was set to expire Wednesday unless reauthorized, allows the government to spy on the electronic communications of non-U.

BREAKING: Scene at Jakarta stock exchange now. Floor collapse. Many casualties pic.twitter.com/n21IclcgWq — Adam Harvey (@adharves) January 15, 2018

Photos and video posted on social media revealed extensive damage to floors and walls at the exchange, with debris strewn throughout the building. Dozens of people were reportedly evacuated.

Journalist Adam Harvey, the southeast Asia correspondent with the Australian Broadcasting Corporation, posted photos of people crowding around what appeared to be a large hole in the floor. He reported that a worker in the building had heard a loud “thud” before being evacuated.S. citizens located outside the United States.

Critics of the Section 702 amendment argue that its language also intentionally enables the government to spy on Americans who communicate with non-U.S. citizens under surveillance. Libertarians and progressive lawmakers attempted to pass an amendment to Section 702, known as the USA Rights Act, on Thursday. The provision would require the government to obtain a warrant before collecting information about Americans.

White House press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders said Wednesday that the Trump administration was against the USA Rights Act and that it supported the reauthorization of Section 702 as it was written.

“The Administration strongly opposes the ‘USA Rights’ amendment to the FISA Amendments Reauthorization Act, which the House will consider tomorrow,” Sanders told reporters. “This amendment would re-establish the walls between intelligence and law enforcement that our country knocked down following the attacks of 9/11 in order to increase information sharing and improve our national security. The Administration urges the House to reject this amendment and preserve the useful role FISA’s Section 702 authority plays in protecting American lives.”

Nonetheless, Trump bashed Section 702 on Thursday morning and linked it to conspiracy theories that claim Hillary Clinton, his opponent in the 2016 presidential campaign, and Democratic lawmakers used it to influence the election. Hours later, the president appeared to recognize his mistake, telling his Twitter followers to “get smart” about Wednesday’s vote on Section 702 and the USA Rights Act.”

So why did a black woman from the American South, a person for whom King put his life on the line, want him dead?

Curry, who grew up outside Adrian, Ga., harbored paranoid delusions about the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP). She reportedly wrote unhinged letters to the Federal Bureau of Investigation claiming it was a Communist front that was actively trailing her. She blamed the NAACP — rather than her deteriorating mental state and unsettling behavior — for sabotaging her attempts to find steady employment.

With that being said, I have personally directed the fix to the unmasking process since taking office and today’s vote is about foreign surveillance of foreign bad guys on foreign land. We need it! Get smart! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) January 11, 2018

Despite the president’s mixed messages, the House of Representatives voted against the USA Rights Act on Wednesday. It then voted for the reauthorization of Section 702.

During a news briefing Thursday afternoon, Sanders said Trump “fully understands” the FISA provisions and that she didn’t believe his tweets were in conflict with his administration’s stance on Section 702.

“The president fully supports the 702 and was happy to see it passed the House today,” Sanders said. “But he does have some overall concern with the FISA program more generally. The president doesn’t feel we should have to choose between protecting American citizens and protecting their civil liberties. He wants to do both. ... Many of these individuals only recently gained health insurance through the Affordable Care Act’s Medicaid expansion. I fear these policy changes will deny the dignity of access to health care to millions of poor adults.

Linda does work, like the majority of able-bodied adults on Medicaid, and she developed the pain in her heel after many long days on her feet. Her employer does not offer health insurance, so she relies instead on Medicaid. Almost 1 in 5 able-bodied adult Medicaid beneficiaries are unable to work outside the home because they are primary caregivers for family members or are attending school.

“The second floor of the building has collapsed,” said Vindy, a personal assistant to the exchange’s President Director Tito Sulistio, per Reuters. A small portion of the remaining able-bodied Medicaid beneficiaries do not work - and in the majority of cases research shows that they simply cannot find a job.

In another era, a sitting president and a former president celebrate the signing of the bill that created Medicaid. LBJ Photo Library

Precisely how officials will distinguish between these groups – those deemed “deserving” of health care and those deemed “undeserving” – is not clear. Medicaid experts fear that the vague guidance provided by The Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services will result in vulnerable Americans such as those living in economically depressed communities, those suffering from substance use disorders, and those remaining at home to care for young children or aging parents being deprived of Medicaid coverage because of burdensome documentation requirements and bureaucratic hurdles.

Kentucky, one of the first states to apply for permission from the federal government to erect such barriers to Medicaid, is projecting that construction of the bureaucratic apparatus necessary to process and enforce work requirements will cost US$187 million. Kentucky officials also calculate that the program changes would ultimately lead to savings of $2.4 billion over the ensuing five years, due to individuals dropping off of the Medicaid rolls because they cannot keep up with newly required documentation or simply no longer qualifying for the program.

Legal scholars question whether policies that so nakedly aim to reduce access to benefits are even legal, given that the Medicaid Act calls for all eligible beneficiaries be offered necessary “medical assistance. We don’t see any contradiction or confusion in that.”

Advertisement