Hugh Grant is candid about his thoughts on former co-workers. Mike Blake / Reuters

Hugh Grant has co-starred with many amazing actors and actresses over the years, but only one has wanted him dead.

Grant revealed that Robert Downey Jr., whom he starred with in the 1995 film “Restoration,” wanted to kill him.

“He hated me,” the actor recently told People. “He took one look at me and wanted to kill me.”

The 57-year-old actor told People that he’s worked with a number of other co-workers he’s liked, though you wouldn’t really know it from the way he talks about them.

Grant joked that his “Love Actually” co-star Emma Thompson is “a genius” who is “not remotely sane. She’s nuttier and nuttier as the years go.”

He basically said the same thing of his “Bridget Jones” co-star, Renée Zellweger.

“Renée loves me and I love Renée. Well, I mean she’s in the same category as Emma Thompson, in terms of lunacy, but an amazing actress of course, and very generous,” he revealed to People. “She once sent me a fabulous huge volume of beautiful photography, including a lot of semi-undressed women. The film sparked conversations about the future of the character and the importance of representation in television... pic.twitter.com/ypBaddy7qK — Josh Billinson (@jbillinson) May 4, 2018

“So let’s talk about guns, shall we?” Trump said to the NRA crowd in Dallas. France has strict gun control laws, the president said, and that’s why terrorists were able to kill 130 people and injure hundreds more on Nov. 13 three years ago.

On Tuesday’s broadcast of “The Late Show with Stephen Colbert,” Azaria said he was “perfectly willing and happy to step aside” from voicing the role of Springfield’s Indian Kwik-E-Mart owner.

Azaria told Colbert that “the idea that anyone young or old, past or present, being bullied based on Apu really makes me sad.”

“I’ve given this a lot of thought, really a lot of thought, and as I say my eyes have been opened,” said Azaria. And He’s allowed me to go up to the mountain. And I’ve looked over, and I’ve seen the Promised Land. I may not get there with you. But I want you to know tonight, that we, as a people, will get to the Promised Land!”

In the decade between Curry’s assassination attempt and that speech, King persevered through cross burnings, bomb scares and a shotgun blast into his home. One day after that speech, King was shot dead on the balcony of the Lorraine Motel. Fifty years later, his message is still relevant, but his mission isn’t complete.

According to Carson, King mentioned his mortality on numerous occasions, but this reference is remembered because it was included in a great speech, which starts off with King revisiting the meaning of his life, a more common theme in his late speeches. Carson said the importance of King not reaching the Promised Land has less to do with the possibility of an early death than that he might never see his dreams fulfilled — whether or not he reached old age.

“Even if he lived he wouldn’t get there, because his goals were much broader than just civil rights reform. “And I think the most important thing is we have to listen to South Asian people, Indian people in this country and they talk about what they feel and how they think about this character and what their American experience of it has been.”

Azaria, who voices numerous other characters on Fox’s animated comedy, including Moe Szyslak, Chief Wiggum and Comic Book Guy, said he was willing to help the character transition “into something new.”

Advertisement. I remember it because I had just landed in Marrakesh … and the book was impounded.”

Despite his praise (if one can call it that) of Zellweger and their apparent affection for each other, Grant told Andy Cohen back in 2016 that most of his former co-stars didn’t think too highly of him.

“They all hate me, I think,” he said.“Black Panther,” the highly anticipated Marvel movie due out in February, has become a bit of a poster child for well-done on-screen representation of people of color. So Yonkers, New York, native and marketing consultant Fredrick Joseph set out to give hundreds of Harlem kids the chance to see themselves reflected in the film.

“To me nothing is more important than inclusion and representation for children,” he said. “This is such a bigger moment in time than a superhero movie.”

When first creating the GoFundMe campaign on Friday, Joseph aimed to help 300 kids see the movie. By Thursday morning he’d far exceeded his initial goal of $10,000, raising more than $35,000.

Joseph plans to partner with the Boys and Girls Club of Harlem to hold private screenings for children and chaperones the week following the movie’s release. He said any remaining proceeds will go to BGCHarlem.

For Joseph and many others, “Black Panther” is more than another installment in the superhero genre ― it’s an example of blackness existing comfortably in an increasingly white medium.

“Trump has let a lot of people down,” she said. “We have a citizen government, true, but a citizen government needs to be respectable.”

Shanna Shipman of Peoria, Illinois

Shanna Shipman. Shanna Shipman

Shanna Shipman also participated in Build the Bench in February, despite being unsure of how she could manage a potential campaign while raising four kids and working full time.

“I want these children to be able to see that people who look like them can be superheroes, royalty, and more,” Joseph wrote on the page for his campaign.

Marvel officially began teasing the film when the character of Black Panther made his first superhero movie appearance in “Captain America: Civil War” in 2016. Since then, fans and the black community at large have been rooting for the film, which is Marvel’s first full-length superhero movie with a nearly all-black cast. Centered around a prince turned king turned superhero, the movie shows blackness as multifaceted.

It also represents a big departure from the way Marvel has depicted black heroes in the past. The comic giant got flak for portraying Storm, a canonically dark-skinned superhero from a fictional African country, as a light-skinned hero with a much weaker connection to black culture.

Black Panther, on the other hand, hails from the fictional African utopia Wakanda, a country explicitly never colonized. Because of these origins, he can be seen as representing pan-African blackness, and Wakanda can even be envisioned as Africa in an alternate timeline untouched by the slave trade. In short, it’s a celebration of black people not often seen in mass media.

Joseph now hopes other people will create similar campaigns for their own communities, and has partnered with GoFundMe to encourage such projects.” He directed the government to issue guidance on addressing domestic violence in the federal workplace. That guidance is current, and every agency, including the White House, develops its own policies based on it, Lindsay Haake, a spokesperson for the Office of Personnel Management, said in an email.

“It’s a sign that you care about an issue when you apply it to yourself,” Caroline Bettinger-López, the former White House adviser on Violence Against Women in the Obama administration, told HuffPost. “Sending a message that this is not to be tolerated within the workplace, that leadership counts.”

The Trump administration has not continued Bettinger-López’s position, she said. Walters, the Trump White House spokeswoman, did not respond to questions about that position or the White House’s employment policy on domestic violence.