Musician Seal isn’t buying that Oprah Winfrey is a champion of women. But there’s plenty of material for them to work with in the Trump administration, including abuses that the Republican leadership in Congress has been unwilling to speak up against. Also expect Democrats to go after Republicans for how they, or their corporate donors, benefitted from the tax cut law.

In the 2006 elections, Democrats won back control of both the House and the Senate. Nicholas Kamm/Getty Images

Of course, many of the Democrats’ gains were short-lived. In 2010, the next midterm cycle, Republicans swept back into office in dramatic fashion, buoyed by the momentum of the tea party. They retook the House and picked up seats in the Senate.

In particular, the 2010 elections all but wiped out many of the more conservative Democrats who won in redder districts.

“It was a great short-term strategy,” one of the former NRCC aides said. “It allowed them to pass Obamacare. But the joke was up four years later.”

With Democrats competitive in more seats than usual this year, there’s concern that they could see their gains wiped out in cycles where the progressive base is less energized.

But Anna Greenberg, a Democratic pollster at Greenberg Quinlan Rosner Research, notes that the expanded map this year is different than it was in 2006.

Days after the media mogul’s powerful speech at the Golden Globes proclaimed “time is up” for men in power who silence women, Seal published a fiery post on Instagram Wednesday that included two photos of Winfrey with the disgraced producer Harvey Weinstein, whose alleged serial sex crimes sparked the #MeToo movement and a cascade of accusations of abuse, harassment and assault against powerful men.

Oprah Winfrey accepts the 2018 Cecil B. DeMille Award during the 75th Annual Golden Globe Awards on Sunday. Handout via Getty Images

Superimposed on the photos in Seal’s post are the words: “When you have been part of the problem for decades but suddenly they all think you are the solution.”

His caption alleges Winfrey knew about Weinstein’s sexual misconduct. “Oh I forgot, that’s right.....you’d heard the rumours but you had no idea he was actually serially assaulting young stary-eyed [sic] actresses who in turn had no idea what they were getting into. when it comes to policy or speak for the president on world issues, the State Department emphasized Monday.

“He speaks for himself and not on behalf of the administration on foreign policy,” State Department spokeswoman Heather Nauert told The Associated Press.

Giuliani boasted on “Fox & Friends” last Thursday that “we” have North Korean leader Kim Jong Un “impressed enough to be releasing three prisoners today.” As of Monday evening, there had been no announcement by the White House concerning any such release, nor had the prisoners been freed. Four hundred people appeared at one meeting, according to Mayor Serge Dedina. “It was the most widely attended meeting we had in our city’s history,” he said.

The real wake-up call for the city happened during the last El Niño in 2015, when the ocean was 12 inches higher than normal, said Dedina. “We really saw the future coming out at us. We saw some of the worst coastal flooding — without very big surf conditions — that we’d ever seen. In fact, in our bay front we had the worst flooding ever. ”

Imperial Beach also sued fossil fuel companies in July.

Giuliani backtracked Saturday, telling reporters he had no idea what the prisoners’ status was, adding, “I’m reading the newspapers like you are.” He said, “The less said about it right now, the better.”

He also said on Saturday that he and Trump were “committed to regime change” in Iran, Politico reported. It’s “the only way to peace in the Middle East” and “more important than an Israeli-Palestinian deal,” Giuliani told reporters after a speech in Washington hosted by the Organization of Iranian-American Communities. My bad.”

The post ends with the hashtag #SanctimoniousHollywood.

A Winfrey rep didn’t immediately respond to HuffPost’s request for comment.

A post shared by SEAL (@seal) on Jan 10, 2018 at 2:05am PST

Winfrey’s rousing Golden Globes speech on Sunday assured young girls that a “new day is on the horizon” when no one will be a victim of sexual abuse, and pointed to Hollywood’s Time’s Up initiative combatting workplace sexual harassment. Put down the soap, kids, and get a job.”“We all had the same color makeup, it was a very different time,” she recalled. “I remember saying to the makeup man one day ― because it was like putting mud on my face, it was really dark and I’m a fairly fair Hispanic ― and I said to the makeup man one day, ‘My God! Why do we all have to be the same color? Puerto Ricans are French and Spanish.’ And it’s true, we are very many different colors. We’re Taino Indian; we are black, some of us.”

“And the makeup man actually said to me, ‘What? Are you a racist?’” she added. “I was so flabbergasted that I couldn’t come back with an answer.”

CORRECTION: Due to an editing error, a previous version of this story indicated Marci Liroff was the casting director for the film’s remake. She is a casting director, but not for the film. The stirring address prompted speculation she might run for president in 2020.

“The Daily Show” host Trevor Noah said Winfrey would be the “perfect opponent” for President Donald Trump because “she’s everything that he’s not.”

Others are skeptical of another celebrity running for the presidency.

FEMA’s Wednesday statement does not explicitly say whether there will be any changes in distribution or quantity of aid for the island.

State Coordinating Officer and Secretary of the Department of Public Safety Héctor Pesquera released a statement on Wednesday addressing what occurred after initial reports said FEMA would end aid to the island.

“We immediately established communication with FEMA’s operations coordinator for Puerto Rico, Mike Byrne, to clarify the situation,” he said in statement to HuffPost. “After the conversation, both teams agreed that at no time had it been agreed upon to begin the transfer of FEMA’s responsibilities to the Government of Puerto Rico as part of the transition process from the response phase to the recovery phase.”

“We are confident that FEMA will continue to provide the help that is necessary,” he continued. “Agreements between the federal government and the local government are focused on supporting the people who remain in need after Hurricane Maria.”The comedian went live after the address to pick apart the president’s speech, which he joked had left people “barely conscious.”

And when Trump said he had “sought to restore the bonds of trust between our citizens and their government,” Colbert snarkily replied: “Well, better luck next year.”President Donald Trump didn’t even have to show up to deliver his State of the Union speech on Tuesday night.

“Oprah is beyond doubt a magnificent orator,” “Family Guy” creator Seth MacFarlane tweeted on Tuesday. “But the idea of a reality show star running against a talk show host is troublingly dystopian. We don’t want to create a world where dedicated public service careers become undesirable and impractical in the face of raw celebrity.”The State Department is now advising Americans not to travel to some crime-ridden Mexican states. Yet the safety of non-U.S. citizens seems to be less of a concern, since the Trump administration’s immigration crackdown could be sending some people straight back to these areas.

A revised State Department travel warning, released Wednesday, upgrades the Mexican states of Tamaulipas, Colima, Guerrero, Michoacan and Sinaloa to “do not travel” Level 4 ― the highest-risk category, which also includes war-torn Syria, Somalia and Yemen. Mexico as a whole is at the State Department’s Level 2, which recommends that American travelers “exercise increased caution.”

“Violent crime, such as homicide, kidnapping, carjacking, and robbery, is widespread,” the updated advisory says.

More than 20,000 people were killed in Mexico in 2016, a 22 percent rise from the previous year. Tecomán, a town in the state of Colima, was the country’s deadliest municipality in 2016, according to government data.

Mexico was just ranked the second deadliest country in the world, after only Syria. Drug trade is largely the cause. We will BUILD THE WALL! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) June 22, 2017

Yet a more aggressive approach to immigration has been a cornerstone of President Donald Trump’s time in office. The U.S. has been sending people back to Mexico and other countries engulfed by violence, and threatens to deport hundreds of thousands more.

From the time Trump took office until the end of September, Immigration and Customs Enforcement removals that resulted from an arrest increased by 37 percent over the previous year, the Department of Homeland Security said. Meanwhile, the number of people apprehended attempting to cross the U.S. southern border dropped to a historical low in fiscal 2017.

ICE agents raided almost 100 7-Eleven stores across the U.S. early Wednesday, arresting 21 people and interviewing many more about whether the chain hires people without authorization to work in the U.S.

The fate of hundreds of thousands of “Dreamers” ― the beneficiares of the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program ― also hangs in the balance. On Tuesday, a federal judge ordered the administration to halt the termination of the program, which protects and provides work authorization for undocumented immigrants who entered the country as children. The majority of DACA recipients are Mexican.