WASHINGTON, Jan 10 (Reuters) - Donald Trump is being urged by some top advisers not to bring back U.S. economic sanctions on Iran this week, a move by the president that would effectively end a 2015 deal to limit Tehran’s nuclear ambitions.

Two senior administration official told Reuters on Wednesday that Trump’s top advisers were recommending that he not reimpose sanctions on Iran that were lifted under the agreement betweenIran, the United States and other world powers.

There is work to be done.

There are songs to be sung.

Lord knows, there’s a war to be won.President Donald Trump addressed the Women’s Marches last year by suggesting that the hundreds of thousands of people who turned out should have expressed their feelings toward him at the ballot box.

“Watched protests yesterday but was under the impression that we just had an election! Why didn’t these people vote? Celebs hurt cause badly,” he tweeted, shortly before claiming to “respect the rights of people to express their views.”

This year, he tried a different, more creative approach: attempting to take ownership of the event to push his own agenda.

“Beautiful weather all over our great country, a perfect day for Women to March,” Trump wrote Saturday.

He then urged people to “[g]et out there now to celebrate the historic milestones” he said his administration had achieved, appearing to ignore that the marches largely exist to protest him, his presidency, his rhetoric toward women and his stances on a number of other issues.

Beautiful weather all over our great country, a perfect day for all Women to March. Get out there now to celebrate the historic milestones and unprecedented economic success and wealth creation that has taken place over the last 12 months. Lowest female unemployment in 18 years! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) January 20, 2018

Observers on Twitter were quick to jump in.

“Who wants to tell him?” House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi (D-Calif.

But Trump, who has previously vowed to scrap the nuclear pact, is privately expressing reluctance to heed the advisers, the officials said.

The U.S. Congress requires the president to decide periodically whether to certify Iran’s compliance with the deal and issue a waiver to allow U.S sanctions on Iran to remain suspended. The next deadline is Friday.

He finished the game with eight points on 3-of-5 shooting from the field in 11 minutes off the bench. Jonathan Ernst/Reuters

Depending on how you ask about it, Americans are either split over or modestly supportive of the Iran nuclear agreement that the U.S. will no longer be complying with, a new poll finds. And much of the U.S. public appears not to have any deeply held convictions about the deal.

But as the rest of the survey shows, it really seems to matter how the questions are worded. When half the people polled were simply asked what they thought of “the international nuclear deal with Iran,” they were about evenly split, with one-third of respondents approving, 35 percent disapproving and another 32 percent unsure.

The other half of respondents were asked a slightly more descriptive question about “the international nuclear deal aimed at preventing Iran from developing nuclear weapons.” Those respondents said they approved of the deal by a 10-percentage-point margin, 39 percent to 29 percent, with one-third unsure.

However, that variation pales in comparison to that in other surveys conducted the week before Trump announced the U.S. withdrawal from the deal.

A CNN/SSRS poll stated, “the United States and five other countries entered an agreement with Iran aimed at preventing Iran from developing nuclear weapons,” and then asked respondents their opinions of the deal.

“We had him in the scout team earlier in the year because he was still growing and was not a guy that was in our top nine,” Michigan coach Jim Beilein said of Poole after the game. over Presidents Day weekend, behind the $288 million “Star Wars: The Force Awakens” made when it opened in 2015.

The international success of “Black Panther” has challenged the myth that films with predominantly black casts don’t sell ― and it helps unravel “unwritten Hollywood rules,” Jeff Bock, a senior analyst at entertainment research firm Exhibitor Relations, told The New York Times.

“I think about it like a wall crumbling,” Bock said. “In terms of ‘Black Panther,’ no studio can say again, ’Oh, black movies don’t travel, overseas interest will be minimal.’”

Stars of the film, including Chadwick Boseman, Lupita Nyong’o and Danai Gurira, have spoken out about the importance of representation in the movie. “Black Panther,” which is set in the fictional country of Wakanda, shows the possibilities of an African society untouched by colonialism and gender inequity.

“I think there’s a thirst for these images,” Boseman told NBC. “There’s a real thirst for black superheroes.”A nun involved in a legal battle over Katy Perry’s bid to buy a Los Angeles convent collapsed and died during a Friday court appearance related to the dispute.

Sister Catherine Rose Holzman, of the Sisters of the Most Holy And Immaculate Heart of the Blessed Virgin Mary, was 89, according to ABC 7. “And the shot clock would get down and, you know, the first team’s all excited they’re going to get a stop, and he’d put in a buzzer shot.”

Davis, meanwhile, was great at the line throughout the game but missed three of his last four free throws as he finished 9-of-12 from the stripe.

It was a stunning finish that demonstrated the immense joy and devastating heartbreak the NCAA tournament is known for.

The game was tight throughout as both teams struggled to score and traded the lead 17 times. Houston shot 37 percent from the field while Michigan managed to hit 35.6 percent of its field goals.S. states to compete with other countries that have far fewer regulations, said New Hampshire state Rep. Keith Ammon, a Republican who cosponsored a money transmitter bill last year.

Ammon thinks blockchain technology will transform human interactions.

“It’s akin to Christopher Columbus discovering a new continent,” he said.

Mining Moratoriums

In Massena, there’s an advocacy group working to attract blockchain technology entrepreneurs, said Nancy Smith-Weller, a member of this group and a cryptocurrency enthusiast. But not everything is in the hands of local advocates.

The Massena Electric Department recently put a hold on new mining projects until it can figure out how to meet the demand for power. The town has a limited capacity of cheap electricity, and according to one estimate, each bitcoin transaction consumes as much electricity as a U.S. homeowner uses in a month, about 900 kilowatt-hours.

Also, in March, the New York Power Authority, which provides some of the town’s electricity, adopted a moratorium on approving cheap power rates for cryptocurrency businesses.

Junior forward Mortiz Wagner did most of the damage for Michigan with 12 points, seven rebounds and three assists while Abdur-Rahkman also logged 12 points. Charles Matthews and Duncan Robinson were the only other Wolverines in double figures with 11 points each.

Rob Gray, Houston’s leading scorer, filled up the box score with 23 points and 10 rebounds, but needed 22 shots to get there. Davis put in a productive 35 minutes, logging 17 points and seven rebounds that will be of little solace after he missed those final free throws.

Michigan will move on to face the winner of Sunday’s matchup between North Carolina and Texas A&M. The Wolverines will depend on the stifling defense that led them to the Big Ten tournament title and through the first weekend of the NCAA tournament, but will likely need more from their offense to advance to the next round.

But Saturday’s not a night for Michigan to contemplate what’s next.

Trump will seek to make a final decision on the sanctions during a meeting with national security aides on Thursday, the senior officials said.

If Trump did waive the sanctions, one official said, the administration would nevertheless impose new, targeted measure on Iranian businesses and people.

A third U.S. official said Trump was expected by some officials to renew the sanctions waivers but stressed that no final decision had been made.

Trump has gnashed his teeth at having to waive the sanctions again, believing his predecessor, Democratic President Barack Obama, negotiated a bad deal for the United States in agreeing to the accord, known as the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA).

Hailed by Obama as key to stopping Iran from building a nuclear bomb, the deal lifted economic sanctions in exchange for Tehran limiting its nuclear ambitions. It was also signed by China, France, Russia, Britain, Germany and the European Union.

Iran says its nuclear program is only for peaceful purposes. It has said it will stick to the accord as long as the other signatories respect it, but will “shred” the deal if Washington pulls out.

Trump in October chose not to certify that Tehran is complying with the deal and warned he might ultimately terminate it. He accused Iran of “not living up to the spirit” of the nuclear agreement even though the International Atomic Energy Agency says Tehran is in fact in compliance.

VIOLATION OF DEAL

The first official said a decision not to waive the sanctions would leave the United States in violation of the agreement.

“You either waive the sanctions or you don’t and if you don’t you’re in breach of the JCPOA,” the official said.

Congressional hardliners on Iran like Republican Senators Marco Rubio and Tom Cotton have called for the reimposition of sanctions, an end to the nuclear deal and the new sanctions on Iran.

But some liberal Democrats who support the deal want to pass legislation that would make it harder for Trump to pull Washington out without congressional consent.

Trump and his top advisers have been negotiating with U.S. lawmakers on Capitol Hill to try to change sanctions legislation so that he does not face a deadline on whether to recertify Iranian compliance with the nuclear deal every 90 days.

Senate Foreign Relations Committee Chairman Bob Corker has been working on amending a U.S. law to include “trigger points” that if crossed by Iran would automatically bring back U.S. sanctions.

The trigger points would address strengthening nuclear inspections, Iran’s ballistic missile program and eliminate the deal’s “sunset clauses” under which some of the restrictions on Iran’s nuclear program expire over time.

Corker told Reuters that if Trump does not listen to his team, and pulls the United States out, there is no point in pursuing the legislation.

“But most of the general view around him, with his team, with all of his foreign policy leaders, his cabinet members, is I think hoping that he’ll continue to waive sanctions and to try to support what his team has been working with us on for eight or nine months,” Corker said.