WASHINGTON — President Donald Trump’s statement via Twitter last year that “there should be no further releases” from the notorious offshore prison at Guantanamo Bay could have the ironic result of giving some of the 41 remaining prisoners there a new avenue to challenge their detention there.

Lawyers for 11 men who have been held at Guantanamo without charge for over a decade have seized on Trump’s bluster to lay out a clever new legal argument: Trump’s plan to hold Guantanamo detainees forever, regardless of circumstances, makes their detentions arbitrary and manifestly unconstitutional, and U.S. courts must order their release.

“The President has explicitly endorsed indefinite detention rather than a detention ‘informed by the laws of war,’ which was the position of his predecessors,” the detainees’ lawyers wrote in a lawsuit filed in federal court on Thursday, the 16th anniversary of the opening of the prison camp.”Stephen Colbert is still getting to grips with life in the Trump era.

So for Wednesday’s broadcast of “The Late Show,” the comedian underwent a lighthearted session of art therapy in a bid to resolve his issues.

Ostensibly inspired by Vice President Mike Pence’s wife Karen Pence, who is controversially using her status as second lady to promote the artistic form of psychotherapy, Colbert created a series of pieces for licensed art therapist Rachel Brandoff.

But his work was, well, a little bit haunting.

Colbert ended the segment by revealing how he was now auctioning off his work, with all the proceeds going to the American Art Therapy Association.

“For the record, I love my cat and art therapy is not stupid,” he clarified. “I was just working through some issues.”

AdvertisementTrump touted his “great idea” of a new branch of the military dedicated to defending the U.S. in space during a visit to Marine Corps Air Station Miramar in San Diego, California, on Tuesday.

So Meyers lightheartedly asked: “Did Trump stop off at a weed dispensary while he was in California?”

“Trump is what would happen if a 12-year-old wished on a Zoltar machine to become president,” the comedian added.“The United States shares the United Kingdom’s assessment that Russia is responsible for the reckless nerve agent attack on a British citizen and his daughter, and we support the United Kingdom’s decision to expel Russian diplomats as a just response. This latest action by Russia fits into a pattern of behavior in which Russia disregards the international rules-based order, undermines the sovereignty and security of countries worldwide, and attempts to subvert and discredit Western democratic institutions and processes.

The White House did not respond to request for comment. That bill was repealed last year after the state faced a number of boycotts that negatively impacted its reputation and economy.

On the other side, Alaska Family Action contended that allowing transgender individuals to use a restroom, locker room or dressing room that corresponded to their gender identity would threaten the privacy and safety of women and girls.

Fair Anchorage vigorously disputed that suggestion.

“In the 18 states and over 200 cities — including Anchorage — where similar nondiscrimination protections are in effect, there has not been a single uptick in public safety incidents,” the campaign said.

It further argued that transgender individuals would face a greater risk of harm if the measure passed, as other people might feel entitled to accost them and question their gender in public restrooms.

“The reality is we’re seeing these ‘bathroom bills’ come as a backlash to marriage equality and it’s become a wave across the country,” Kati Ward, campaign manager for Fair Anchorage, recently told the Southern Poverty Law Center. “As soon as marriage equality was obtained, then the bathroom bills started popping up.”

Anchorage’s police chief pointed out that his department didn’t have enough staff to post an officer at every public facility to enforce the proposed law.As a cost-cutting measure, The Denver Post moved its decimated news operation out of its old building earlier this year.

Indefinite detention is prohibited under U.S. and international law. In the past, Presidents George W. Bush and Barack Obama pointed to the 2001 Authorization for the Use of Military Force as the legal justification for detaining suspected militants at Guantanamo. Both administrations had processes in place to review whether continued detention was necessary for each prisoner — and both presidents publicly stated their intention to close the prison.

Human rights lawyers sparred with the Bush and Obama administrations over whether the review processes were sufficient — but accepted the general premise that the U. pic.twitter.com/BMNTprww57 — Ol Pejeta (@OlPejeta) March 1, 2018

At the advanced age of 45, his health has begun deteriorating, and his future is not looking bright. At the end of the 2017, Sudan developed an uncomfortable age related infection on his back right leg. — Ol Pejeta (@OlPejeta) March 1, 2018

Sudan’s death would mark a grim milestone in the story of the northern white rhino, a subspecies that numbered over 2,000 as recently as 1960. Poaching, fueled by demand for rhino horn, drove the subspecies to the brink of extinction. By 1984, just 15 of the animals were left.

When Angalifu, a male living at the San Diego Zoo, died in 2014, Sudan became the last living male of his subspecies — and a symbol for rhino conservation worldwide. To raise awareness about the animals’ plight, Ol Pejeta partnered with the dating app Tinder last year to create a profile for Sudan.

“I perform well under pressure. I like to eat grass and chill in the mud,” read the tongue-in-cheek Tinder listing.S. government planned to eventually release or charge with a crime each prisoner at Guantanamo. During his presidency, Bush released 532 detainees. Obama transferred out another 197, leaving the current population at 41 men. And some prosecutors have also expressed concern, arguing older cases can be harder to prosecute.

Since Trump came into office, there have been no prisoners released from Guantanamo. The review process to evaluate whether detainees continue to pose a threat has slowed to nearly a halt. Like the lawyers who fought Trump’s travel ban against Muslim-majority countries, the legal team representing the 11 Guantanamo detainees turned Trump’s own statements against him, using them as evidence of his intention to act in violation of the law.

The 11 petitioners come from Yemen, Pakistan, Morocco, Algeria, Kenya, Saudi Arabia and the occupied Palestinian territories. All of them are Muslim men who have filed habeas challenges in the past. The group of men includes Abu Zubaydah, a so-called “high-value detainee” who was waterboarded 83 times in one month after his capture in 2002. Two of the prisoners, Tofiq Nasser Awad al Bihani and Abdul Latif Nasser, have already been cleared for release.

“Both missed their chances at freedom by the slimmest of margins and thinnest of reasons,” the lawyers wrote, referring to al Bihani and Nasser. Toward the end of Obama’s presidency, prison officials put the two men through exit protocols, anticipating that they would be transferred to another country soon. Now, they remain in their cells with no prospect of freedom.

The 11 prisoners have been held between 10 and 16 years. John Kennedy (R-La. “Another three or seven years under President Trump may mean a death sentence for men like Sharqawi Al Hajj, who is in poor health and damaged by past torture,” Center for Constitutional Rights lawyer Pardiss Kebriaei, who represents al Hajj, said in a statement.

“Given the President’s commitment, in fulfillment of a campaign promise, not to release any detainees during his administration, they face an arbitrary additional term of detention of four, or possibly eight, years,” the lawyers wrote in their filing. “When fundamental legal principles — and human lives — are at stake, the judicial branch is compelled to act,” they wrote.