It’s been a while since our last favorite finds roundup, when we were in the thick of Black Friday and holiday shopping. Now that the gifts are given, our resolutions have been made, and we’re thinking what to get our boo for Valentine’s Day, it’s back to our regularly-scheduled programming of weekly finds we can’t wait to tell you about.Missouri Gov. Eric Greitens, a Republican who stands accused of blackmailing a woman with whom he admitted to having an affair, worked closely during his campaign with two other men accused of sexual misconduct.

Jimmy Soni and Kaj Larsen provided communications and campaign support for Greitens, respectively.

The Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program, commonly known as food stamps, gives more than 40 million Americans a monthly food allowance averaging about $125 per recipient ― less than a typical person needs for a month’s worth of food.

Republicans on Capitol Hill want more SNAP recipients to enroll in government training programs or take available jobs that are likely to pay little. Republicans in the Trump administration are considering a plan promoted by several GOP governors to have some SNAP recipients urinate in cups to prove they’re not on drugs.

The Department of Agriculture may allow states to drug test SNAP recipients, according to emails obtained and published this week by the Associated Press. The tests would be required mostly for able-bodied people who have no dependents, according to the AP.

Republican governors such as Scott Walker of Wisconsin have long wanted to drug test some food stamp beneficiaries, but had been blocked from doing so by the Obama administration.

An Agriculture Department spokeswoman said requiring drug testing for food stamp eligibility is illegal under federal law, but that some states are interested in tests for those recipients receiving additional benefits, such as work training.

“It is USDA’s responsibility to ensure that states are properly administering SNAP programs and we are reviewing guidance on this topic for states expressing interest,” the spokeswoman said.

On Thursday, Republican lawmakers formally unveiled a proposal that would reduce food stamp enrollment by requiring more beneficiaries to work or enroll in the training programs.

The bill doesn’t include a drug testing requirement, but House Agriculture Committee Chairman Mike Conaway (R-Texas), the bill’s lead author, said such a provision could wind up in a later version of the legislation. The committee will consider the bill next week.

“We have some members on the committee who have a keen interest in that,” Conaway told HuffPost. “We’ll have a fulsome conversation; does that work, does that not work.”

Both the drug testing scheme and Conaway’s training proposals face significant obstacles. Administratively greenlighting drug tests would likely result in a swift legal challenge. The political newcomer defeated Democratic candidate for governor Chris Koster in 2016 largely on a platform of ethics reform.

Anyone who does not pay their premiums or submit paperwork to show their eligibility would lose their coverage and would not be able to reapply for six months, although people who don’t pay premiums could restore coverage by completing a financial literacy course (the details of which aren’t yet clear).

The Kentucky initiative also eliminates a transportation benefit, designed to get poor people to the doctor or hospital when they don’t have the means to do so. And it ends “retroactive” eligibility, under which Medicaid covers bills from the past three months for people who sign up for Medicaid only after they’ve had a medical episode that landed them in the hospital.

Kentucky’s proposal is likely to prompt legal challenges. If it survives, then the result will almost certainly be a smaller Medicaid program. Both the state and the federal government would likely end up spending less money than they would otherwise. But fewer people would be on Medicaid: The number of beneficiaries would drop by roughly 95,000 within five years, according to official state estimates.

Of the 600 top songs in 2017, of the 2,767 songwriters credited, 87.7% were male and 12.3% were female.

The top nine male songwriters claim almost 1/5th (19.2%) of the songs in the 6 year sample.

The gender ratio of male producers to female producers is 49 to 1.

Only 2 of 651 producers were females from an underrepresented racial/ethnic group.

By comparison, Kentucky’s total Medicaid enrollment ― including kids on the Children’s Health Insurance Program ― is about 1.

Soni, a former HuffPost managing editor, worked for Greitens as his administration’s top communications adviser for around three months in early 2017, leaving his post quietly with no announcement. Months later, he drew subsequent checks for communications work from Greitens’ campaign fund totaling about $8,000, Riverfront Times reported.

Soni began working at HuffPost in 2012 before leaving the company in May 2014 following an investigation into alleged sexual misconduct involving multiple women, two sources familiar with the situation said. A Gawker report published in September of that year referenced an exchange between Soni and several editors, as told by a former staffer, in which Soni joked about using the publication’s editorial fellowship program to “find myself a wife.” In another report, a woman said she had a consensual sexual relationship with Soni when she was an 18-year-old intern and he had already been made managing editor. Other women said he had a habit of flirting with young female staffers.

His appointment to Greitens’ administration in late 2016 drew sharp criticism from Democrats over the accusations.

Larsen, Greitens’ best friend during their service as Navy SEALs, campaigned for his friend during the tail end of Missouri’s 2016 gubernatorial race, speaking about their work on the veterans nonprofit The Mission Continues. The pair helped launch the group in 2007. Around the same time, he sent emails to her father, Scott Swift, according to E! News, which cited court documents.

In January, news sites reported that Hoover faced new charges because the emails contained death threats against the singer and her family. According to the indictment, Hoover wrote: “enjoy the brain aneurysms and death.”

“Decided that we are going to end all the Swifts on one day because I can’t stand that virus shit your daughter spread,” Hoover wrote.A guest on Tucker Carlson’s Fox News show gave a shout-out to a book the Southern Poverty Law Center (SPLC) has described as a “racist fantasy.”

On Monday night, Mark Steyn plugged Jean Raspail’s The Camp of the Saints, a 1973 French anti-immigrant book that is reportedly a favorite of Steve Bannon, one-time advisor to President Donald Trump.

“A lot of people on the left don’t like it, but it actually predicted what is happening before our eyes,” Steyn said of the book, which depicts a Europe being overtaken by waves of immigrants.

Kirkus Reviews slammed the book when it was released in the United States in 1975.

“The publishers are presenting The Camp of the Saints as a major event, and it probably is, in much the same sense that Mein Kampf was a major event,” the review stated.

The SPLC also dismissed the book as “the favorite racist fantasy of the anti-immigrant movement in the U.S.,” and noted that it was “revered by American white supremacists.”

Steyn, who is from Canada, defended those same white supremacists over undocumented immigrants earlier this year.

A post shared by Kaj Larsen (@kajlarsen) on Nov 9, 2016 at 6:00am PST

In late 2017, sexual misconduct allegations against him surfaced from his time at Vice News, where he worked as the company’s Los Angeles bureau chief. A Vice producer, Phoebe Barghouty, told The Daily Beast about a series of unwanted sexual advances, saying Larsen would touch her on her lower back or bare thigh and asked her to accompany him to parties in Hollywood Hills. Once, he passed out in her car after becoming very drunk and bringing up sex, she said.



Her 2nd great-grandmother had been here for 10 yrs. Spoke no English.



Her great-grandfather's 1895 baptism from MN? Recorded in Norwegian.#resistancegenealogy #receipts pic.twitter.com/rIySFu6fvL — Jennifer Mendelsohn (@CleverTitleTK) May 13, 2018

Mendelsohn later wrote in a series of tweets that “people are people, and always have been.”

“Some of our ancestors broke laws, some were model citizens. Some never assimilated or spoke English. Some did.

KMOV, a St. Louis CBS affiliate, obtained a recording of a woman saying she had a sexual encounter with Greitens and that he had threatened to use a naked photograph of her as blackmail in 2015. According to the woman, who remains anonymous, Greitens taped her hands and blindfolded her before taking the picture.

The station says the woman’s ex-husband provided the recording, but she has not confirmed its authenticity. The couple divorced in 2016.

The ex-husband’s lawyer, Albert Watkins, confirmed to HuffPost another claim his client has made against the governor: Watkins’ client says his ex-wife told him Greitens slapped her after she told him she had sex with her then-husband.

Greitens admitted to being “unfaithful” in his marriage on Wednesday night through a statement issued jointly with his wife, Sheena.

“A few years ago, before Eric was elected Governor, there was a time when he was unfaithful in our marriage,” the statement read. “This was a deeply personal mistake. Eric took responsibility, and we dealt with this together honestly and privately.”

Through an attorney, however, the governor denied any blackmail attempt or violence, calling the claims made in KMOV’s story “outrageous.”

“Any allegation of violence is completely false. It never happened,” attorney James Bennett said in a statement. “There was never any violence. Anything reported otherwise is untrue and we will explore pursuing all legal action. This was a consensual relationship that lasted multiple months and was years ago before Eric was elected Governor.”

This story has been updated with additional information.