Drake’s new restaurant, Pick 6ix, isn’t open just yet, but that hasn’t stopped the party.

The rapper, alongside LeBron James, threw a birthday party for Dwayne Wade in Drake’s hometown of Toronto earlier this week.

The festivities happened just ahead of Thursday night’s Raptors vs. Cavaliers game.

George Dukes, Antonio Park, Drake and Chubbs. Johnny Nunez via Getty Images

Chubbs and LeBron James. Johnny Nunez via Getty Images

Drake (center) smiling at a cupcake. pic.twitter.com/1N2cO36bgTRemy Ma's song "Melanin Magic" celebrates praises dark-skinned black women, who aren't always represented in mainstream media. Gabriel Olsen via Getty Images

Remy Ma has been championing women’s empowerment through her music since the days of “Conceited,” and she has no plans on changing.

“However you are, that’s how you’re meant to be,” Remy said of the 2005 single while on the phone with HuffPost last month. “And that’s what I want people to hear when they listen to ‘Look at yourself in the mirror like what’s up.’ That’s what I’m giving them. Johnny Nunez via Getty Images

A PR rep for Pick 6ix told a Toronto blog that the “opening date has not yet been set for the restaurant” and will likely open near the end of January “at very earliest.”

A post shared by Pick 6ix TO (@pick6ixto) on Jan 10, 2018 at 2:04pm PST

Thus far, it’s unknown what the vibe of the restaurant will be, though news came out last week that Montreal chef Antonio Park will be heading up the kitchen.

As of Wednesday, the restaurant was outfitted with coverings branded by OVO Sound (the Toronto-based Canadian record label Drake co-founded in 2012).” [HuffPost]

PRESIDENT TRUMP’S VOTER FRAUD CZAR IS ABOUT TO GO ON TRIAL Along with his claims about illegal voting. [HuffPost]

THE STATE DEPARTMENT HAS SPENT NONE OF THE $120 MILLION That it got to combat foreign efforts to influence U.S. elections. [HuffPost]

A PUBLIC SCHOOL TEACHER WITH WHITE NATIONALIST VIEWS HAS BEEN “REMOVED FROM THE CLASSROOM” Following a HuffPost investigation. [HuffPost]

WHAT’S BREWING

‘BLACK PANTHER’ JUST HIT A BOX OFFICE MILESTONE It’s already notched quite a few records. [HuffPost]

OKLAHOMA COULD BE THE NEXT STATE To see teachers go on strike. [HuffPost]

THE FIRST TRAILER FOR THE ‘ROSEANNE’ REBOOT IS HERE “Why does everybody always think I’m dead?” [HuffPost]

HUFFPOST PERSONAL: MEET AMERICA’S FIRST FULL-TIME, ON-AIR HIJABI REPORTER “It gives me hope that I might be the first, but I won’t be the last.” [HuffPost]

HOW THE HOLLYWOOD MACHINE CREATED “GOOD GUY” MATT DAMON And why that image might be coming apart. [HuffPost]

FIVE THINGS EVERY MAN NEEDS IN HIS CLOSET According to “Queer Eye” star Tan France.

Drake’s Instagram photos revealed a fair amount of gold accents and velvet furniture, as do other posts on social media by lucky partygoers.

A post shared by champagnepapi (@champagnepapi) on Jan 10, 2018 at 3:00pm PSTCornell University student Letitia Chai stripped down to her underwear while delivering a presentation this week after a professor reportedly told her that her shorts were “too short” just days earlier. About two dozen of Chai’s fellow students joined in.

“This topic transcends all of our social identities and taps right into the heart of who we are,” Chai, a fourth-year student, said to a room of nearly 50 people while presenting her thesis paper on May 5, as seen in a livestream of the event.

Chai began undressing as she held back tears, first removing her shoes, then her pants and, lastly, her shirt.

“I am more than Asian. I am more than a woman. I am more than Letitia Chai.twitter.com/qFFyd6gghi — SiriusXM Progress (@SXMProgress) January 22, 2018

Lieu underscored the possible significance of the story with a telling comparison to Watergate.

“It’s ironic that when you think about Watergate, one of the lines we followed was, ‘Follow the money,’” he commented.

“He is going to testify under penalty of perjury and he is going to testify at a time when Donald Trump and his associates have abandoned Steve Bannon,” Lieu said. “I think Donald Trump and his associates are in some serious legal jeopardy.”Larry Nassar’s sexual-abuse victims are finally getting more of the attention they so rightfully deserve.

Several protest signs at the Women’s March over the weekend featured quotes from survivors of the former USA Gymnastics and Michigan State University team doctor. The comments were from last week’s victim impact statements read aloud in court during Nassar’s sentencing hearing. I am a human being,” she said while undressing. “And I ask you to take this leap of faith, to take this next step, or rather this next strip, in our movement and to join me in revealing to each other and to seeing each other for who we truly are — members of the human race.”

Then 28 of the 44 people in the room also took off their clothes, The Cornell Sun reported. Although Chai’s protest happened last week, her story didn’t hit national news until Thursday.

The protest came just days after Chai was presenting a trial run of her thesis in her class “Acting in Public: Performance in Everyday Life” on May 2. When Chai went to give her trial run presentation, professor Rebekah Maggor questioned the student’s outfit choice.

Cornell student Letitia Chai strips while giving her senior thesis presentation on May 5. Letitia Chai

“Is that really what you would wear?” Maggor asked Chai, according to a Facebook post the student wrote later that day.

Chai, who was wearing a long-sleeve button-down shirt and jean cutoff shorts, said she was “shook” by Maggor’s alleged comments.

“The professor proceeded to tell me, in front of my whole class, that I was inviting the male gaze away from the content of my presentation and onto my body,” she wrote on Facebook, noting that her professor is a white woman. “She said I was making a statement by wearing my outfit. I told her that I sure as hell wouldn’t change my statement to make her or anyone else feel more comfortable.”

According to Chai, a male international student then made a comment that a presenter has a “moral obligation” to the audience to dress conservatively, at which point Chai fled the room in tears.

“I am not responsible for anyone’s attention because we are capable of thinking for ourselves and we have agency,” Chai told The Cornell Sun, referring to Maggor’s alleged comments that her outfit would invite the wrong type of attention.

Maggor responded to Chai’s protest in an email to the Sun.

“I do not tell my students what to wear, nor do I define for them what constitutes appropriate dress,” she said. “I ask them to reflect for themselves and make their own decisions.”

After Chai gathered herself, she came back into the classroom, stripped down to her underwear and gave her full thesis presentation. In a Facebook post, Chai said she would do the same for her actual thesis presentation and encouraged others to attend and do the same.

According to a statement written by 11 of the other 13 students in Maggor’s class that day, the situation may have gone down a bit differently than Chai wrote on Facebook.

They wrote that while Maggor made “an error in phrasing,” she had “apologized on more than one occasion.” The students added that Chai’s post did not “adequately represent [Maggor’s] past and continued advocacy for women and minorities.”

“Our intention in writing this letter is in no way to invalidate any of Letitia’s experience,” the statement reads. “We strongly support and identify with Letitia’s fight for equality ... The majority of us are students of color, from multi-ethnic backgrounds, who very much relate to Letitia’s frustration with systemic oppression that is part of the fabric of this country. We do not want to discredit her narrative. Cindy Ord via Getty Images

The interview rubbed many readers the wrong way and sparked a backlash against Bateman, Cross and Hale. Bateman and Hale have since apologized to Walter.

On Thursday, New York news site Gothamist asked Cross about the criticism, and the 54-year-old said he understood why people were uncomfortable with his remarks and promised to “unequivocally apologize to Jessica.”

Yet just moments later, Cross couldn’t stop himself from pointing a finger in Walter’s direction.

“There’s never an excuse ever for yelling at somebody and humiliating them in front of other people,” Cross told Gothamist. “And there was no excuse when Jessica did it. To Jessica’s credit, she eventually apologized to the actress and felt bad about it.”

When Gothamist asked him to elaborate on Walter’s alleged outburst, Cross said there was an incident between the actress and a stand-in, “but it didn’t have the same kind of feeling that Jeffrey’s did.”

Some people on Twitter did not appreciate Cross’ tone-deaf attempt to divert attention from the issue at hand.

It’s a shitty deflection and misses the point entirely about what was so disturbing about the NYT exchange. — Jessica Valenti (@JessicaValenti) May 24, 2018

This is not the first time Cross has put his foot in his mouth while attempting to apologize for his words.TONIGHT: Tomorrow marks the one year anniversary of the appointment of Robert Mueller. How do you think he wants to celebrate? #LSSC pic.twitter. However, we feel it is important and our obligation to share our impression of Wednesday’s events to provide a fair representation of the situation.”

Below is an excerpt from the students’ statement detailing how the conversation in question happened (scroll below to read the letter in full):

Letitia stood up to give her speech. Before she began, our professor asked Letitia if she would wear “those shorts” to her actual presentation on Saturday. Our professor regularly asks all of the students, male and female, such questions to clarify appropriate attire for public speaking. Our professor went on to say that what you wear and how you present yourself make a statement. She noted that if you were to wear jean shorts to your thesis presentation, that is a statement. Her focus on attire was a means of noting the importance of professionalism in certain public speaking situations. Our professor acknowledged the discomfort of speaking overtly about attire and perception, especially for women, and encouraged us to share our thoughts and opinions. Students began discussing their beliefs on the matter. Letitia became visibly upset by our professor’s earlier comments, and after one male international student’s comment (mentioned in her post), she left the room. From the initial comments to Letitia’s exit, only a few minutes had passed, and many people were speaking at once. Tensions were high, and neither our professor nor Letitia was able to adequately defend her position. After Letitia left, our professor listened and agreed with many of the student’s comments and criticisms. She wholeheartedly agreed that her initial comment was about professionalism rather than the “male gaze” mentioned in the student discussion. She also apologized for her choice of words, acknowledging that the notion of “short shorts” on women carries a lot of cultural and political baggage. Unfortunately, because Letitia was not in the room, she was not able to hear these comments, and we believe this contributed to the miscommunication.

Maggor was unable to provide additional comment at press time, and Chai has not responded to a request for comment.

In her original Facebook post, Chai wrote why she chose to protest Maggor’s comments and the larger issue of policing people’s bodies. The district was so solidly Republican that Democrats didn’t even field a congressional candidate here in 2014 and 2016. GOP groups dumped nearly $11 million into the campaign on advertising and media messaging ― an astounding amount for a district that will not exist due to redistricting next year.

But instead, Democrat Conor Lamb gained momentum.

“This is for every Asian woman who was told to speak up lest others think she’s submissive,” she wrote. “This is for every POC man who was told to pull his pants to be taken seriously, and every POC woman who was asked to straighten her hair to seem intelligent. This is for every gay friend who was told to dress more ‘straight’ so that others didn’t feel weird around him/her/them. This is for us.”

Read the full statement from 11 of the other 13 students in Chai’s class below.

Cornell Protest by Alanna Vagianos on Scribd