Samantha Bee wants to look beyond the Fire and Fury of Michael Wolff’s new tell-all book about the Trump administration.

On Wednesday’s broadcast of “Full Frontal,” Bee said that “as fun as” Wolff’s tome was, it was also “riddled with inaccuracies, thinly-sourced and full of typos.”

“Fire and Fury is basically the book-length version of a Trump tweet,” said Bee. “Only vaguely truth-adjacent but incredibly distracting, which is too bad because while everyone on cable news was fixated on Michael Wolff’s shoddy ninth generation Xerox copy of Game Change, there were actual things happening. Like news and stuff or whatever, I don’t know, mostly to brown people.”

One such example was the Justice Department’s attempt to add a citizenship question to the 2020 census.

It was a “real racist win-win,” said Bee. “Either they get a list of undocumented immigrants or Hispanic people avoid answering the census and lose congressional representatives and funding.”

Bee said “2018 is going to be a really important year” and urged viewers to “keep our eye on the ball.”

“We can’t count on pundits to help,” she added. “They’re going to keep getting distracted by the nonsense of the day, like fruitless speculation about Trump’s mental health. No one comes to the Father except through me.’”

Franklin Graham gives remarks at the funeral of his father Reverend Dr. Billy Graham in Charlotte, North Carolina. LOGAN CYRUS via Getty Images

Graham became the de facto White House chaplain to several U.S. presidents, most famously Richard Nixon.

The evangelist found himself at times in controversy over his disapproving stand on gay rights, as well as over a secretly recorded conversation with Nixon in which the cleric complained that Jews had too much influence on the U.S. media.WASHINGTON ― Since President Donald Trump signed the Republican tax bill in December, hundreds of retail companies have announced employee bonuses totaling more than $3 billion, which Republicans have said proves them right that the new law benefits regular Americans.”The governor of Missouri became embroiled in a sex scandal this week, one involving an extramarital affair and claims of blackmail.

Missouri Gov. Eric Greitens (R) and his wife Sheena admitted in a joint statement on Wednesday that he engaged in an affair before he was elected to office. We discussed that evolution, his permanent notability as Dunder Mifflin prankster Jim Halpert, how fatherhood has (and hasn’t) influenced him creatively, and the horror movies that inspired this project.

Horror is having a moment right now. Did the “It” and “Get Out” phenomena intervene in this movie’s expectations at all?

We were shooting when “It” came out, so we were already into the movie, which is nice because, to be honest, I don’t know if I would have been strong enough to not let that influence me on the set. Also, I’m glad the studio didn’t see what “It” did and come and say, “OK, so we need a balloon.”

I wasn’t a big horror guy, but for the last year, leading up to directing this, I watched as much as I could. And the first thing I realized was how freaking ignorant I was to stay away from movies because I thought I’d be scared. It was a decision I made a long time ago, when I was a kid. The statement followed an explosive local news report that alleged the governor had threatened to blackmail the woman involved in the affair.

In a recording obtained by KMOV News 4, a woman said she had a consensual sexual encounter with Greitens in 2015, and that he took a photograph of her while she was naked, blindfolded and bound. She claimed Greitens threatened her, saying that if she spoke about the affair, “there would be pictures of [her] everywhere.”

The details were provided to the St. Louis CBS affiliate by the woman’s ex-husband. His now ex-wife didn’t know he was recording their phone conversation. The names of the woman and her ex-husband were not released in News 4′s report.

“He took a picture of my wife naked as blackmail,” the ex-husband told News 4. “There is no worse person.”

In response, the Greitens’ lawyer James F. Bennett issued a statement denying the blackmail allegation:

New statement tonight from @EricGreitens attorney: "There was no blackmail and that claim is false." #MOleg pic.twitter.com/uyUQh1X7bM — Eli Yokley (@eyokley) January 11, 2018

Earlier in the day, Greitens and his wife released their own statement, one that admitted the affair, but did not address the alleged blackmail threat:

“A few years ago, before Eric was elected Governor, there was a time when he was unfaithful in our marriage. This was a deeply personal mistake. Eric took responsibility, and we dealt with this together honestly and privately. While we never would have wished for this pain in our marriage, or the pain that this has caused others, with God’s mercy Sheena has forgiven and we have emerged stronger. He understand that there will be some people who cannot forgive, but for those who can find it in your heart, Eric asks for your forgiveness, and we are grateful for your love, your compassion, and your prayers.”

A former Navy SEAL, Greitens returned home from Iraq and founded The Mission Continues, an organization that supports veterans and their families. In 2013, he was named to Time magazine’s list of the 100 most influential people in the world. He and his wife have two young sons.

Greitens campaigned as a family man when he ran for governor in 2016. New York Times political reporter Alex Burns described Greitens as a Republican presidential hopeful:

Prior to this report, Greitens had been seen by Republicans in Washington and the states as an aspiring presidential candidate, perhaps even in '20 depending on how things go for Trump. — Alex Burns (@alexburnsNYT) January 11, 2018

Prior to the sex scandal, Greitens’ tenure in office was marked by repeated clashes with Democrats and Republicans in the state legislature.”

Miles took home the 2015 Tony for Best Featured Actress in a Musical for her performance in the revival of “The King & I.” The Broadway community tweeted messages of love and support for the longtime performer.Lisa Bonet said she never knew about any "specific actions" on the part of Bill Cosby. Danny Moloshok / Reuters

Actress Lisa Bonet has been tight-lipped in the wake of dozens of sexual assault allegations against Bill Cosby, who played her father on TV in “The Cosby Show” and “A Different World. And it wasn’t until this February that Homeland Security held its first classified briefing for state officials on election threats in 2018. The department has blamed the delay on the need to get security clearances for election officials, but California Secretary of State Alex Padilla told NBC that’s not an acceptable excuse.

Hoke and Nussbaum both said that state election officials need to more fully understand the severity of their vulnerabilities so they can better allocate resources toward improving their systems.

James Norton, a former Homeland Security deputy assistant secretary for legislative affairs in the George W. Bush administration, said the focus should be broadened to securing all state government systems, not just election ones.What will future history textbooks say about women’s activism in 2018?

That’s the question HuffPost asked 15 women currently making history in their respective fields. Everyone from House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi (D-Calif.) to Black Lives Matter co-founder Patrisse Cullors and comedian Lea DeLaria believe that women’s activism today will have a ripple effect in the movements of tomorrow.

“It’s my hope, and sincere belief, that our future history books will look back on 2018 as a year of reckoning and reform,” Congresswoman Jackie Speier (D-Calif.) told HuffPost.

And what a reckoning it has been so far.

So, to kick off Women’s History Month this March and to honor all of the badass women making herstory, we spoke with 15 women about what they think future history books will say about women’s activism today.”

That is, until now.

In a story for PorterEdit, Bonet said she had no prior knowledge of Cosby’s alleged behavior, but added that the comedian emitted some seriously negative vibes when she worked with him.

“There was just energy,” the actress said. “And that type of sinister, shadow energy cannot be concealed.”

When asked specifically if she “sensed darkness” from Cosby, Bonet said, “Always.”

Cosby, 80, and Bonet, 50, were rumored to have a bad professional relationship, and a 1986 interview Bonet did with David Letterman didn’t alleviate suspicions. The St. Louis-Post Dispatch editorial board reported last month that senior Missouri Republicans were “growing tired” of the governor and openly challenging him.

One Missouri lawmaker spoke to U.S. News & World Report senior political writer David Cantanese about the tension:

Missouri GOP lawmaker tells me:



"Eric Greitens spent a year calling every Republican in the state corrupt. I’ll be shocked if any of them stand up for him as an alleged blackmailing psychopath." — David Catanese (@davecatanese) January 11, 2018

Soon after News 4′s report, Democratic state Sen. Jamilah Nasheed called for Greitens to resign.

WE MUST END THE CULTURE OF CORRUPTION.

The goal is to “get the idle population back into the labor force,” to overcome the workforce shortages that exist in many states, said Jason Turner, executive director of the Secretaries’ Innovation Group, a coalition of about 20 human service and workforce secretaries from states with Republican governors.

Creating standard rules across welfare programs, such as work requirements, sets expectations for recipients, Turner said. The group has proposed requiring able-bodied, working-age adults without children to meet work requirements for food stamps immediately, instead of after the three-month buffer period now permitted under federal law.

The group also supports implementing certain work requirements for some parents, which more states are considering.

Maine adopted a new rule this past summer that requires parents who receive food stamps to register with a state service that can help them find a job. And Wisconsin is testing a program next year that would require parents in some regions to meet certain work requirements. Walker has proposed making those requirements permanent and statewide.

Walker also is proposing to increase the food stamp work requirement from 20 hours a week to 30.

The idea of stricter work requirements has long been pushed by the Foundation for Government Accountability, a conservative nonprofit advocacy group based in Florida with staff in 14 states. Its advocacy work, policy analysts say, is driving many of the proposals for welfare restrictions in state legislatures.

Wisconsin Republican Gov. Scott Walker this month called for greater restrictions on Medicaid and food stamps. I'm calling on Governor Greitens to resign immediately and give Missouri the opportunity to restore some dignity to the governor's office. — Jamilah Nasheed (@SenatorNasheed) January 11, 2018