A 2015 recording from a night spent strip club-hopping that Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu’s son, Yair Netanyahu, likely never thought would see the light of day has surfaced across Israeli media this week. And it ain’t pretty.

“My dad got a great deal for your dad,” Yair Netanyahu told Ori Maimon, whose father is Israeli tycoon Kobi Maimon, in the conversation captured outside a strip club. “Bro, you have to be nice to me. Bro, my dad got your dad a sweet deal, he fought for it at the Knesset, bro.”

The reference was to a proposed natural gas deal that would have split profit between state and private entities, benefiting Maimon, who owns a gas field off the coast of Israel.

The young men are also heard bickering over how much money they spent that evening on prostitutes, two of whom Netanyahu refers to as “the best.”

“If we’re already talking hookers, what’s open at this hour?” Netanyahu asked. “Do you think the waitress will play along?”

Netanyahu told Maimon’s son to stop whining over money he sought to borrow in a club. “My father arranged 20 billion dollars for your father, and you’re crying over 400 shekels [about $100] for me, you son of a bitch.”

Netanyahu even threatens to kill a bodyguard and driver accompanying them, concerned that the conversation could be leaked.

“In a night-time conversation, under the influence of alcohol, I said nasty things about women and other things that should not have been said,” the younger Netanyahu said in a statement. “These things don’t represent the person I am, the values I was educated on and what I believe.

Trump’s Taj Mahal casino in Atlantic City, New Jersey — touted as the “eighth wonder of the world” in ads — went bankrupt even though Trump’s father, Fred Trump, gave him a hand by buying $3 million in chips — and not using them — in a quiet loan, according to Trump casino executive Jack O’Donnell. The Taj was a “financial disaster,” thanks to Trump, O’Donnell says in the film.

But Trump blamed Taj CEO Stephen Hyde and COO Mark Etess, who had been killed in a helicopter crash. When O’Donnell complained, he said Trump replied, “What does it matter? They’re dead.” The documentary notes that Trump’s other two casinos in Atlantic City, the Trump Castle and the Trump Plaza Casino and Hotel, also went broke.

Throughout the 1990s for Trump, business was scarce and loans were tough to get from U.S. banks because of his bankruptcies. He made the rounds of talk shows and pitched McDonald’s burgers and Kentucky Fried Chicken in commercials. He eventually hit on the idea of selling his name to mark projects built by others around the world and began doing business with “some of the sketchiest people in the sketchiest countries,” New Yorker writer Adam Davidson explains in the documentary. Some associates were “unbelievably corrupt,” including a key investor suspected of laundering money for the Iranian Revolutionary Guard in Trump International Hotel and Tower in Baku, Azerbaijan, Davidson adds.

In 2004, Trump became the star of “The Apprentice.”

The reality TV show’s creators remade the offices of the Trump Organization for “The Apprentice,” giving it what they considered a “tongue-in-cheek” look, they note in the documentary. The offices included a boardroom set reminiscent of the one from the movie “Network,” where crazed TV anchor Howard Beale, played by Peter Finch, is lectured by the head of his company that “the world is a business.”

His family, in its own statement, denounced the release of the recording, which it claimed is fake.

“Every parent that watched the report should think how they would react if every false expression of their kids was turned into a headline on Channel 2, and every time they left the house, it was turned into an investigation and every conversation was turned into a hidden recording,” the family said.

The prime minister is already knee-deep in corruption scandals that he’s managed to keep at bay for years. He’s currently a suspect in a series of bribery, breach-of-trust, and fraud cases. He and his wife also reportedly received tens of thousands of dollars worth of gifts, in the form of cigars and champagne, from Australian billionaire James Packer and Hollywood producer Arnon Milchan.Israeli soldiers walk next to tanks near the Israeli side of the border with Syria in the Israeli-occupied Golan Heights, Israel May 9, 2018. Amir Cohen / Reuters

Israel launched dozens of rockets into Syria early on Thursday, Syrian state media reported, after Israel’s military said Iranian forces in Syria had shelled one of its outposts near the border.

The scale of Israeli fire appeared to be far higher than in previous incidents and Damascus residents described seeing a series of explosions above the city from air defense systems.

Tensions between Israel and Iran have threatened to spill over in Syria, where the Iranian military and allied Shi’ite militia are backing Syrian President Bashar al-Assad in his war against rebels seeking to oust him.

“The Syrian air defenses are confronting a new wave of Israeli aggression rockets and downing them one after the other,” state news agency SANA reported.

An Israeli tank can be seen near the Israeli side of the border with Syria in the Israeli-occupied Golan Heights, Israel May 9, 2018. Amir Cohen / Reuters

Asked whether Israel had attacked near Damascus or scrambled communications there, an Israeli military spokeswoman said, “I have no comment on that at this time. pic.twitter.com/tsowQgIG — Jessica Valenti (@JessicaValenti) December 17, 2012

To grown men, guns are marketed as the ultimate safety device, allowing them to protect themselves and, this is crucial, their families ― wives and children ― from danger.

But we know the truth: Women are in greater danger when their partner has a gun. The risk of a woman being murdered in a domestic violence situation increases 500 percent when there’s a gun in the house, according to one study.

Women would be better protected with the help of the law, not a device meant to kill.

There was a big and fairly popular attempt to pass a measure appropriately called the Equal Rights Amendment for women back in the 1970s. The gist of the ERA is simple: “Equality under the law should not be denied or abridged by the United States or by any state because of sex.” But in 1982, the amendment reached the deadline imposed on it by Congress. It fell just three states short of the 38 needed to ratify it to amend the Constitution.

While the ERA was initially popular, opponents of the amendment gained traction over the years its ratification was in play. They used arguments that now seem antiquated, such as that the ERA would mean women would go into combat (now they do), that it would make gay marriage legal (check) or that somehow women wouldn’t get a good deal out of marriage anymore (because of alimony).

Others tried to argue we don’t need explicit equal rights under the Constitution because the law already provides women with equality. This means low-income people are effectively paying for the city’s growth.

And yet, nearly every route to fixing Seattle’s tax and revenue mess is blocked. The most obvious fix, an income tax, is illegal under the state constitution (or at least the way the state Supreme Court interpreted the constitution in 1951). Last year, the City Council passed a ”high earners tax,” but a lawsuit preventing its implementation was filed about 10 minutes later.

Alongside the (high and regressive) sales tax, Seattle relies heavily on property taxes. But, thanks to a 2001 ballot initiative, those revenues aren’t allowed to grow by more than 1 percent per year. Everything the city needs (libraries, fire stations, schools) has to be individually approved by voters. Though Seattle’s property taxes are below average compared with other cities, the constant levies and add-ons contribute to a sense among Seattleites that the city is squeezing them for more money every year without keeping up its end of the bargain.

Housing built for the homeless in Seattle. George Rose via Getty Images

Homelessness is the perfect encapsulation of this dynamic. As the city has grown, it’s nearly doubled its budget for homeless services. In 2016, voters approved a $290 million affordable housing levy. The city is getting more people into permanent housing than ever before.

But living here, it is immediately and viscerally clear that these efforts aren’t enough. Rising rents are pushing people onto the streets faster than the city can bring them back inside. Tell that to Jessica Gonzales. Or to the female workers at Walmart who famously lost their fight for equal pay at the Supreme Court in 2011.”

Syrian state television was broadcasting footage of its air defenses firing at incoming rockets and playing patriotic songs.

It said Israeli warplanes were firing the rockets from outside Syria’s borders and targeting Baath City in Quneitra province.

Israel’s military spokesman Lieutenant Colonel Jonathan Conricus said earlier that Israel had retaliated for an attack on its outposts in the strategic Golan Heights plateau.J. He did not elaborate.

“With positions like those, it sounds like he’d be a better fit for San Francisco than Janesville,” deadpanned Republican National Committee spokesman Michael Ahrens.

Ferguson argued that Bryce’s progressive views at the very least are not a liability.Alton Sterling, left, and Antonio “Tony” Sterling. Reuters/Facebook

A Louisiana man found dead under suspicious circumstances has been identified as a relative of Alton Sterling, a black man whose death sparked heated protests across the country after a white police officer shot him at close range.

Baton Rouge police on Thursday said firefighters were battling an automobile blaze in a vacant lot around 4 a.m. Wednesday when they discovered the body of 34-year-old Antonio “Tony” Sterling. The body, authorities said, was found in the backseat of the vehicle.

Police spokesman Sgt. Don Coppola Jr. told HuffPost Antonio Sterling “is related to Alton Sterling.”

Sandra Sterling, an aunt of Alton Sterling, told the local newspaper The Advocate that Antonio and Alton Sterling are cousins.

Israeli media said residents of Metulla, on the Lebanese border, had been instructed to go to bomb shelters. There was no official confirmation.

Syria’s state news agency SANA and a war monitor, the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights, had reported artillery fire from Israeli-held territory at Baath City, located near the border. The Observatory said rockets were fired at military positions of the Syrian army and allied forces.

A correspondent for SANA said strikes were targeting Syrian air defense brigades and attempting to destroy radar installations.

Lebanon’s National News Agency, citing Lebanese Army Command, reported Israeli jets circling over Lebanese territory early on Thursday before exiting.

Israeli soldiers can be seen near the Israeli side of the border with Syria in the Israeli-occupied Golan Heights, Israel May 9, 2018. Amir Cohen / Reuters

MOUNTING TENSIONS

The late-night incident followed a surge in tensions between Israel and Syria, where Iranian and Lebanese Hezbollah forces have been helping Damascus beat back a 7-year-old rebellion.

Israel describes Iran as its biggest threat and Hezbollah as the biggest threat on its borders.

Fearing that Iran and Hezbollah are setting up a Lebanese-Syrian front against it, Israel has occasionally struck at their forces. Iran blamed it for an April 9 air strike that killed seven of its military personnel in Syria, and vowed revenge.

Conricus said that, in Thursday’s attack, around 20 projectiles, most likely rockets, were fired by the Quds Force, an external arm of the Iranian Revolutionary Guards Corps, at around 12.10 a.m.

“A few of those rockets were intercepted” by Israel’s Iron Dome air defense system, Conricus told reporters. “We are not aware of any casualties. The amount of damage that we currently assess is low.”

Asked if Israel retaliated for the salvo, he said, “We have retaliated but I have no further details about this.”

Expectations of a regional flare-up were stoked by U.S. President Donald Trump’s announcement on Tuesday that he was withdrawing from the Iranian nuclear deal. Hours later, Israeli rocket rockets targeted a military base in Kisweh, a commander in the pro-Syrian government regional alliance said.

The strike killed 15 people, including eight Iranians, the Observatory said. Israel has neither confirmed or denied responsibility.