The extraordinary search for missing Malaysia Airlines Flight 370 is set to resume, nearly four years after the aircraft mysteriously vanished with 239 people on board.

U.S.-based Ocean Infinity announced Wednesday that the Malaysian government had accepted its “no-find, no-fee” contract, with a reward of up to $70 million if wreckage from MH370 is located within 90 days.

Ocean Infinity describes itself as a “technology company specializing in collecting high resolution geophysical seabed data.S.” It has already dispatched a vessel it calls the Seabed Constructor with a 65-person crew to the southern Indian Ocean. The renewed quest, which will begin in mid-January, will cover a primary search area of up to 25,000 square kilometers previously identified in an international, now-abandoned effort to locate the jetliner.

The company said it will use up to eight “free flying” autonomous underwater vehicles capable of untethered search operations, allowing it “to go deeper and collect higher quality data,” according to a news release.

“Ocean Infinity will take on the economic risk of the renewed search, only receiving payment if the aircraft wreckage is located,” the release notes.

Malaysian Transport Minister Liow Tiong Lai said in a tweet that the primary mission is to locate “wreckage and/or both of the flight recorders.” Searchers “must also present considerable & credible evidence” confirming the whereabouts of these items to successfully claim the reward, he added.

Ocean Infinity CEO Oliver Plunkett said he is hopeful “that we will be able to play a part in providing some answers to the many people affected by this tragedy.”

The Boeing 777 disappeared from radar screens on March 8, 2014, less than an hour after departing from Kuala Lumpur en route to Beijing. Subsequent analysis of data transmissions led investigators to believe it had crashed off Australia’s west coast. Twelve crew members and 227 passengers from 15 countries were aboard.com that evening, they discovered it had been taken already by another developer with similar aims ― Timothy Teoh, 34.

Gan and others launched an online platform to help connect people with car rides and donations to make the journey home to vote. Abby Seiff

“A lot of people are saying on our site ‘this is my first time voting, I’m a student voter.’ Number one, it’s hard for them to take time off. Two, it’s actually very expensive to get a bus or flight back” Teoh says.

“If it wasn’t a Wednesday, would you build a website?” Gan turns to ask her co-creator.

The governments of Australia, China and Malaysia conducted a massive $160 million hunt for the aircraft above and below water ― the largest search in aviation history. The effort continued for more than 1,000 days before it was called off in January 2017. Australia led the underwater portion of the search, which scoured about 120,000 square kilometers of the Indian Ocean floor.”

Ivanka Trump, White House senior adviser Stephen Miller, deputy national security adviser Ricky Waddell and deputy director of presidential advance Jordan Karem walk across the South Lawn before departing the White House with U.

In 2015 and 2016, debris from MH370 was discovered in the Indian Ocean and along the east African coastline. Whereabouts of the remaining wreckage continues to be unknown. pic.twitter.com/Td0epMFvpw — Maggie Hendricks (@maggiehendricks) February 20, 2018

The duo made a quick recovery and finished their graceful program to John Lennon’s “Imagine” without error. The crowd cheered them on as they moved on from the mistake.

Chock later tweeted her gratitude to fans for their support, noting they received tons of kind messages after their performance.Alexander Krushelnitsky and Anastasia Bryzgalova, Olympic athletes from Russia, in the bronze medal match of the 2018 Winter Olympics on Feb. 13, 2018.Yasuhiro Suzuki has confessed to deliberately sabotaging a rival athlete's doping test, causing his competitor's suspension. KYODO Kyodo / Reuters

A Japanese kayaker and 2020 Olympic hopeful is reportedly facing a lifetime ban from competitions after admitting to spiking a rival’s drink with a banned substance, causing him to fail a doping test.

Yasuhiro Suzuki, 32, confessed to putting an anabolic steroid in fellow kayaker Seiji Komatsu’s drink during last year’s national championships, the Japan Anti-Doping Agency said Tuesday.

The agency consequently slapped Suzuki with an eight-year ban, though on Wednesday the Kyodo News agency reported that the Japan Canoe Federation is considering a life ban on the athlete, who in a statement apologized for his actions, according to Reuters.

Seiji Komatsu, seen at the 2014 Asian Games, has expressed shock and surprise after learning that a rival would spike his drink. INDRANIL MUKHERJEE via Getty Images

“Instead of working hard, I committed misconduct as an athlete and, further, as a member of society,” Suzuki said in a statement released by his lawyer.

The Japan Canoe Federation said it launched an investigation after Komatsu failed his test but denied having taken any drugs. This was about three weeks after HuffPost published its investigation, the statement points out. Monster also said that Cook is no longer with the company.

Simmons’ former boss Duck, who she said witnessed Cook’s behavior, is still working at Monster.

Through a spokesman, Monster also told HuffPost that Simmons’ account was “not accurate.

Suzuki later confessed. An investigation also found that he had made other attempts to sabotage his competitors, such as stealing equipment they used in training and competition, Kyodo reported.

Komatsu was initially suspended after failing the test but has since been allowed to resume competing for the 2020 Tokyo Olympics as a result of Suzuki’s confession.

“At first I couldn’t believe this kind of thing would happen in Japan,” Komatsu said, according to Reuters. “Until Mr. Suzuki confessed, I was in a bad mental state. I began to feel hopeless about (competing at) the Tokyo Olympics, that it was impossible.”