LONDON, Ontario (Reuters) - Canada is increasingly convinced that U.S. President Donald Trump will soon announce that the United States intends to pull out of the North American Free Trade Agreement, two government sources said on Wednesday.

The sources said they expected Trump would make his move at about the same time that negotiators from the United States, Canada and Mexico meet in late January for the sixth and penultimate round of talks to modernize the treaty.

The Canadian and Mexican currencies both weakened against the U.S. dollar after the news.

The Canadian dollar fell to its weakest level this year at C$1.2561 to the greenback, or 79.61 U.S. They drafted proposals to dump dirt on Russian websites about Putin’s money, about the girlfriends of top Russian officials, about corruption in Putin’s United Russia party — essentially to give Putin a taste of his own medicine. “We wanted to raise the cost in a manner Putin recognized,” Nuland recalled.

One idea Daniel proposed was unusual: The United States and NATO should publicly announce a giant “cyber exercise” against a mythical Eurasian country, demonstrating that Western nations had it within their power to shut down Russia’s entire civil infrastructure and cripple its economy.

But Wallander and Daniel’s bosses at the White House were not on board. One day in late August, national security adviser Susan Rice called Daniel into her office and demanded he cease and desist from working on the cyber options he was developing. “Don’t get ahead of us,” she warned him. The White House was not prepared to endorse any of these ideas. Daniel and his team in the White House cyber response group were given strict orders: Stand down. cents. The peso was trading down more than 0.6 pct at 1925 GMT, while the S&P/BM IPC stock index was down about 1.7 percent.

Trump has repeatedly threatened to walk away from NAFTA unless Canada and Mexico agree to major changes Washington says are needed to make the 1994 treaty more fair.

Canadian officials say if Trump does announce a U.S. withdrawal, it could be a negotiating tactic designed to win concessions. They also express doubt whether the U.S. Congress would approve such a move.

Canada and Mexico have rejected most of the U.S. proposals for NAFTA reforms, leaving officials with a big job if they are to bridge the large differences at the Jan. 23-28 talks in Montreal. Negotiations are due to wrap up at the end of March.Two Reuters journalists detained in Myanmar after reporting on “ethnic cleansing” of Rohingya Muslims have appeared in court, with prosecutors formally charging the pair under the country’s Official Secrets Act.

Wa Lone, 31, and Kyaw Soe Oo, 27, had been involved with Reuters’ coverage of the crisis in the state of Rakhine, where killing and abuse of the Rohingya minority have been blamed on the Myanmar army. The United Nations estimates more than 650,000 Rohingya have fled their homes in the face of what the Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights called a “well-organised and coordinated” campaign from Myanmar security forces to drive them from the country.

The U.N. High Commissioner for Human Rights, Zeid Ra‘ad al-Hussein, called the exercise “a textbook example of ethnic cleansing.”

The two journalists were detained on Dec. 12, after agreeing to meet some Myanmar police officers for dinner. The men say they were arrested upon leaving the restaurant after receiving documents from the officers. The country’s ministry of information said the journalists were arrested for “for possessing important and secret government documents related to Rakhine state and security forces,” claiming they “illegally acquired information with the intention to share it with foreign media.”

Under the country’s Official Secrets Act, the men may face up to 14 years in prison. Prosecutors formally charged the journalists under the act in court on Wednesday.

Fellow journalists appeared in the courtroom Wednesday in support of the pair.

Journalists, ambassadors, friends and family all gathering outside Insein court for the arrival of Reuters journalists Wa Lone and Kyaw Soe Oo who will learn of their charges later today. Local photographers showing their support in #journalismisnotacrime t-shirts. #Myanmar pic.twitter.com/SuZEkBG03k — Katie Arnold (@Kate_Arno) January 10, 2018

The case of the Reuters journalists has been taken up by politicians and human rights observers worldwide, including former U.S. President Bill Clinton. On Tuesday, Clinton called for the men to be “released immediately.”

A free press is critical to a free society—the detention of journalists anywhere is unacceptable. The Reuters journalists being held in Myanmar should be released immediately. — Bill Clinton (@BillClinton) January 9, 2018

Amnesty International said the men had “done absolutely nothing wrong.” James Gomez, Amnesty’s Southeast Asia director, called for the pair to be “immediately and unconditionally released.”

“This is clearly an attempt by the authorities to silence investigations into military violations and crimes against Rohingya in Rakhine State, and to scare other journalists away from doing the same,” he said.

“These arrests have not happened in a vacuum, but come as the authorities are increasingly restricting independent media. Journalists and media outlets, in particular those who report on ‘sensitive topics,’ are living with the constant fear of harassment, intimidation or arrest. This clampdown on freedom of speech must end.”

#Myanmar: Two Reuters reporters due in court have done absolutely nothing but carry out their legitimate work as journalists. They must be released immediately.

“There are so many other types of deaf stories that we’re hoping to add to the mix,” said Feldman (shown with "This Close" co-creator and star Shoshannah Stern). Sundance Now

As proud as Feldman is to have “full ownership” of Michael as a character, shooting “This Close” was “very difficult,” he said. The show’s third episode, for instance, required him to strip nude for a sex scene involving three other actors. https://t. Stress-free more than I have been in a very long time. I can’t say I’m never going to have a show again. I just don’t think I’m going to go back to the touring life.”

Avicii was quite philanthropic from a young age, partnering with his manager and executive producer Ash Pournouri in 2011 to create House for Hunger, a charity dedicated to alleviating global hunger. House for Hunger gave $1 million to Feeding America and helped fund Lauren Bush Lauren’s The Feed Foundation, which facilitated the distribution over 2 million school meals throughout Africa.A worksheet given to an eigth Roberto Livar

A charter school network has apologized for an assignment asking students to list the positive and negative aspects of slavery, calling the worksheet a “clear mistake.”

“To be clear, there is no debate about slavery,” Aaron Kindel, superintendent of Great Hearts Texas, said in a statement posted on Facebook Thursday. “It is immoral and a crime against humanity.”

On Wednesday, Roberto Livar posted a photo of a worksheet he said his son, Manu, was asked to complete in his eighth-grade American history class at Great Hearts Monte Vista in San Antonio. The worksheet is titled, “The Life of Slaves: A Balanced View.co/k1GuY3Rb1A — Amnesty UK (@AmnestyUK) January 9, 2018

Wa Lone & Kyaw Soe Oo have done nothing but carry out their work as journalists for Reuters. Detaining them is clearly an attempt by #Myanmar authorities to silence investigations into crimes against the #Rohingya, and to scare others from doing the same: https://t.co/SKfV2LDTqO pic.twitter.com/8bJPuT2203 — Amnesty UK (@AmnestyUK) January 9, 2018

The European Union’s envoy to Myanmar, Kristian Schmidt, said in a letter to the nation’s leader, Aung San Suu Kyi, that the arrest of the journalists “amounts to a serious intimidation against journalists in general,” Reuters reported.

“Journalists should . Both Parker and co-star Cynthia Nixon expressed their condolences over social media, but the two received very different responses.

Instagram

Cattrall initially thanked her “Sex and the City” co-stars and fans for their support. But in a separate post days later, she specifically dragged Parker for “exploiting” the tragedy in an attempt to “restore [her] nice girl persona.”

“Your continuous reaching out is a painful reminder of how cruel you really were then and now,” Cattrall captioned the post. “Let me make this VERY clear. (If I haven’t already) You are not my family. You are not my friend...S. President Lyndon B Johnson talk together at the Annual Presidential Prayer Breakfast in Washington, D.C., on Feb. 5, 1964. Bettmann via Getty Images President Ronald Reagan presents the Presidential Medal of Freedom to Graham at the White House. be able to work in a free and enabling environment without fear of intimidation or undue arrest or prosecution,” Schmidt wrote.

“We therefore call on your government to provide the necessary legal protection for these two journalists, to ensure the full respect of their fundamental rights and to release them immediately.”

Reuters correspondent Andrew Marshall said his colleagues “are innocent men who were arrested for doing their jobs” and also called for their release.

Reuters reporters Wa Lone (left) and Kyaw Soe Oo appear in a Myanmar court today and could be charged under a colonial-era law that carries a maximum 14-year sentence. They are innocent men who were arrested for doing their jobs. #FreeWaLoneKyawSoeOo https://t.co/ZQ4Vhjv1VB pic.twitter.com/xlq0jnRLyj — Andrew RC Marshall (@Journotopia) January 10, 2018