Nine Holocaust survivors have come together for the second year to send the world a powerful reminder to speak up against hatred.

Ahead of International Holocaust Remembrance Day, which falls each year on Jan.

Delaney Tarr, a 17-year-old student at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School, used to worry about tests. Now she worries about being shot.

“My main concerns are funerals, gun control and whether or not I’m going to be shot wherever I go,” Tarr said. “My innocence ― our innocence ― has been taken from us. I’m 17, but in a matter of days have aged decades.”

The gunman “slaughtered 17 of my people,” Tarr said. 27, the nine women joined forces in a video calling on people to remember the horror of the Holocaust and to pledge to make sure such atrocities never happen again.

Israel said all 86 countries with diplomatic missions in Israel were invited to the event, and 33 confirmed attendance. Among those present were delegates from Guatemala and Paraguay, which will open their own Jerusalem embassies later this month.

EUROPEAN RIFT

Attending the Foreign Ministry gathering were representatives from Hungary, Romania and the Czech Republic, but none from western European Union states - suggesting a rift within the bloc over Trump’s Jerusalem move.

No-show nations withheld comment on Sunday.

The EU mission in Israel tweeted on Friday that the bloc would “respect the international consensus on Jerusalem ... including on the location of their diplomatic representations until the final status of Jerusalem is resolved”.

Outside Jerusalem’s ancient Damascus Gate, Israelis danced in another celebration on Sunday, marking the capture of the Old City from Arab forces in the 1967 Middle East War.

Hundreds of Israeli rightists entered Al Aqsa mosque compound, an icon of Palestinian nationalism and a vestige of ancient Jewish temples. Witnesses said some prostrated themselves in Jewish prayer, violating religious restrictions at the site and sparking scuffles with Muslim worshippers.

Israeli police said several people were forcibly removed and questioned.

The U.S. Treasury secretary called the embassy relocation “a sign of the enduring friendship and partnership between our two countries” and also referred to the U.

“Today, we plead with you again speak up and put down signs of racism, acts of hatred,” the women said in the video posted by the World Jewish Congress on Tuesday. “Show your commitment to honor the past and protect our future.”

International Holocaust Remembrance Day falls on the anniversary of the liberation of the concentration camp Auschwitz-Birkenau. The annual day of commemoration, established by the United Nations, honors the the 6 million Jewish people who perished during World War II.

The Holocaust survivors’ video is part of a larger social media campaign by the World Jewish Congress, an international coalition of Jewish communities and organizations. This is the second year the WJC has led the initiative, which asks supporters to post photos of themselves holding a #WeRemember sign to social media.

Contributions for 2018 were pouring in on Wednesday. The WJC aims to reach 500 million people through this year’s campaign.

.@RepEdRoyce, Chairman of the US House Foreign Affairs Committee, with members of the Jewish Diplomatic Corps, WJC's flagship diplomacy program. #WeRemember together. Ryan used the “knee-jerk” argument after the California mass shooting in San Bernardino in 2015 that claimed 14 lives, and after the shooting at the Umpqua Community College in Oregon the same year, which killed nine.

One thing Ryan did express concern about is mental illness. Last year, Congress passed, and President Donald Trump signed into law, a measure that rescinded barriers to gun ownership for the mentally ill.

Ryan received $177,000 in contributions from the National Rifle Association in the 2016 campaign cycle.While you've all been talking about #GunReformNow , the @NRA is taking a well deserved break... and @JordanKlepper has a very clear message for them and the politicians they support. pic. Post your photo today. @HouseForeign pic.twitter.com/1diDnOu53U — (((WJC))) (@WorldJewishCong) January 10, 2018

Join WUJS and the @WorldJewishCong in honouring and remembering the lives of the 6 million Jews that were brutally murdered by the Nazi regime and their collaborators during the Holocaust. #JewishStudents #WeRemember pic.twitter. “He happens to dress that way, but he’s an amazing, creative, brilliant kid, which you will see, and so is the kid, Ames, who plays him.com/wa1MQgVC7C — WUJS (@JewishStudents) January 8, 2018

“Around the world today, anti-Semitism, Holocaust denial, and hatred of others continue to rear their ugly heads. We must remember because there are fewer and fewer survivors among us, and within just a few decades, all will have passed.

It’s worth noting that the student leaders of March for Our Lives have made a significant effort to make their movement inclusive and recognize other communities hurt by gun violence. As the Miami Northwestern march took place, several prominent Parkland student activists tweeted their support.

#NorthwesternWalkout because especially in communities and situations involving poc, no one should have to grown up with the fear of being shot and and in many cases survive only to be ignored. — Emma González (@Emma4Change) April 10, 2018

I’m so proud of the students from Liberty City for walking out today. We’re in this fight together.. We must remember because ‘never again’ seems to happen again and again,” WJC President, Ronald S. Lauder said in a statement. “It is now the responsibility of the younger generation to teach their friends about the horrors of hatred, and to spread the message that never again must mean never again.”

Last year, the call for contributions elicited responses from Jewish leaders and politicians, including Israel’s Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and President Reuven Rivlin, and U.S. Sen. Chuck Schumer (D-N.Y.). People from other faiths also participated, including Muslim leaders from Germany and France.Desperate Venezuelans swarmed supermarkets on Saturday in a rare chance to stock up on basic goods amid a spiraling economic crisis that has resulted in widespread poverty and food shortages.

Embattled President Nicolás Maduro, who has consistently blamed the nation’s financial woes on low oil prices and a U.S.-led plot to topple his regime, ordered grocery stores to reduce their prices in an effort to fight staggering hyperinflation (Venezuela’s inflation rate reportedly soared to 2,616 percent in 2017.)

The slashed prices prompted mobs of shoppers to flock to the stores, leaving strikingly bare shelves behind.

Maduro came under fire late last year when he was filmed eating an empanada during a live TV address, while millions of his citizens languished in hunger.