Oprah Winfrey’s speech on Sunday night at the Golden Globes has everyone talking. The stirring address focused the incredible strength of the women who have come forward to tell their stories of abuse and assault. Oprah’s words touched upon the incredible importance of those who are speaking truth to power now, and of those who did it decades ago when our society prevented victims from receiving justice. Most importantly, her speech addressed the incredible moment in history we are at right now, one in which women from all walks of life, from domestic, farm and factory workers to academics, businesswomen and politicians are coming together to demand that we are heard and have our rightful seats at the table.

Oprah’s words perfectly encapsulate the feelings of women across the United States right now and the major culture shift many of us believe is happening. So, it’s not surprising that people are talking about her as a possible future presidential candidate.

Let me first say this: I love Oprah Winfrey and everything she stands for and has accomplished in her life. She is a trailblazer and an inspiration to people across the world. Her speech was poignant, unifying and hopeful—the kind of inspiring words that we look for from our leaders. And there was a room full of background actors who had literally been paid to be there and cheer. But, take after take, when you go onstage, because your body is so dumb — or because my body is so dumb — and everyone is cheering, you feel kind of cheerful. And conversely, if you’re doing episodes where every episode something shitty happens or disappointing happens, you sort of feel dejected at the end of the day, even though it’s not real.

This is an incredibly long-winded and rambling way of saying that, yes, it’s nicer to have good news.

So, maybe there’s been a bit more internalized cheer on the set as a result.

Yes, you just said in eight words what I said in over 300.

However, in the midst of all of this excitement about Oprah, Democrats need to make sure that they don’t shift their focus from the incredible number of candidates—many women—running this year to the prospect of a potential run by Oprah two years from now. This fixation on the highest office in the land at the expense of all other levels is a trap that Democrats have fallen into before and one we would be smart to avoid this time. We have hundreds of important races that we need to focus on in 2018, long before we worry about what candidate we will nominate in 2020. Let’s not get distracted from the critical battles that we need to fight this year in order to safeguard our rights and push back against the harmful policies that are being pushed forward by the Trump administration.

Senate District 10 special election win by a Democrat is a wake up call for Republicans in Wisconsin.

This is not the first time we have allowed ourselves to focus too much on the presidency at the expense of every other level of office. From 2008 - 2016, Democrats lost 968 state legislative seats—the largest net loss of these offices since World War II. Once Republicans gained control of our state legislatures, they began to pass regressive legislation that further entrenched their own power and disenfranchised our most vulnerable communities like restrictive voter ID laws. And when Trump won the presidency, because Democrats had already lost power at every single other level of government, we had zero buffer to stop him. Republicans have more U.S. senators and representatives than Democrats, as well as more governors, lieutenant governors, attorney generals and state legislators.

In 2005, former Senator and presidential candidate Bill Bradley wrote, “if Democrats are serious about preparing for the next election or the next election after that, some influential Democrats will have to resist entrusting their dreams to individual candidates and instead make a commitment to build a stable pyramid from the base up. You got quite a bit familiar with doing that in the last year or so.

They do not faze me at all. I think it comes from having so many animals my entire life. John didn’t grow up with dogs, but through me he has quite a few. He’s very good about changing diapers. We don’t think anything of it. I think it’s funny when movies and things make such a scene out of it. Like, listen, they’re going to poop. They’re going to pee. It’s going to be fine. … It always helps when they’re distracted, I realize. I have all sorts of tricks to distract them during the diaper process. With Luna, you have to sing to her and do a jingle and hand her ..” That statement was as true then as it is today, and if Democrats want to truly build power and are committed to advancing our values of equality and fairness, it has to be with more than just the presidency and it has to start this year.

If Democrats can keep our eyes on the ball, not allow ourselves to get distracted by the shiny prospect of taking back the presidency in 2020 and focus on our candidates who are running for hundreds of critical seats this year, this could turn out to be a historic moment for our party. In October, the Campaign Finance Institute reported that 391 Democratic challengers to Republican incumbents in the U.S. House of Representatives this year had raised at least $5,000. That’s more than five times the previous high of 78 in 2009—the year before the Republican wave election of 2010. And we’re not just seeing unprecedented numbers of Democrats challenging Republican incumbents for Congress, we’re seeing it at all levels This year, Emerge America has 119 alumnae running for the state legislature. In all three HuffPost/YouGov questions, Trump voters were opposed to the Iran deal, while voters who backed Hillary Clinton in the last election supported it.

“Right, and [Jim] got teary and I thought that was amazing. I actually teared up myself,” Hudson confessed.

(We’re not crying, you’re crying.)

There’s no doubt the “Splitting Up Together” marketing team has leaned into “The Office” fandom, considering their show’s star is one-half of that beloved TV couple. But the comedy series is nothing like that Dunder Mifflin documentary ― so just put it on your easy-watching list.

As Fischer said, “Just hate-watch it and then we will win you over.”Kathryn Newton has become especially good at playing the Teen Girl.

Even in Masterpiece Theatre’s new “Little Women” miniseries, she portrays Amy, the youngest March sister in the century-old Louisa May Alcott story who burns her sister’s book in a stereotypically claws-out tantrum only teenagers on silver screens can actually get away with.

“I said I’d make you pay for being so hateful, and I have,” Amy tells her distraught sister Jo, played by the 19-year-old daughter of actors Ethan Hawke and Uma Thurman, Maya Hawke.

When Jo subsequently slaps Amy across the face, Newton delivers a high-pitched, pubescent screech like only a veteran actor could. It’s the kind of scene that makes you run to IMDB with several questions: Who is she? How old is she? The answers unfurl: She’s a 21-year-old currently on a Hollywood streak ― “Big Little Lies,” “Halt and Catch Fire,” “Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri,” “Lady Bird,” “Mad Men.”

“Last year was kind of like the magic year where I was a part of a ride .. The gap between the two camps grew significantly after they were reminded that Trump had just decided to withdraw from the agreement.

There’s not necessarily a “correct” amount of context for a survey to provide. But just because polls on a specific topic are highly divergent doesn’t make them uninformative. Rather, that’s a pretty good sign that opinions on an issue still happen to be pretty malleable.

As other questions on the HuffPost/YouGov poll also find, the majority of the public isn’t deeply tuned into the debate over the nuclear agreement. Just 36 percent of Americans said they’d heard a lot about Trump’s decision to withdraw from the deal, while 40 percent had heard only a little, and 24 percent said they’d heard nothing at all. And asked directly whether they had any strong feelings about the Iran deal, only 41 percent said they did.

The HuffPost/YouGov poll consisted of 1,000 completed interviews conducted May 8-10 among U.S. adults using a sample selected from YouGov’s opt-in online panel to match the demographics and other characteristics of the adult U.S. population. That’s not even counting the thousands of Democratic candidates that are running for local office. What’s more, a significant amount are women, who by winning, can begin to change the face of power and politics in this country long before we turn our focus to 2020.

It’s fine for us to all fantasize about what an Oprah presidency might look like. It would be incredible to see a strong, Black woman at the helm of our country. However, that woman could be Oprah Winfrey, or it could be someone like California Senator Kamala Harris, who has spent decades in elected office moving legislation and putting forward policies that improve our communities. The bottom line is that there’s still plenty of time for us to figure all of that out.