JERUSALEM/BEIRUT (Reuters) - Israel said it attacked nearly all of Iran’s military infrastructure in Syria on Thursday after Iranian forces fired rockets at Israeli-held territory for the first time.

It was the heaviest Israeli barrage in Syria since the start in 2011 of its civil war, in which Iranians, allied Shi’ite militias and Russian soldiers have deployed in support of President Bashar al-Assad.

A war monitor, the Britain-based Syrian Observatory for Human Rights, said the Israeli strikes killed at least 23 military personnel, including Syrians and non-Syrians.

Israeli Defense Minister Avigdor Lieberman said the Iranian rockets either fell short of their targets, military bases in the Israeli-occupied Golan Heights, or were intercepted.

Expectations of a regional flare-up, amid warnings from Israel it was determined to prevent Iranian military entrenchment in Syria, were stoked by U.S. President Donald Trump’s announcement on Tuesday that he was withdrawing from the 2015 Iranian nuclear deal.

The Trump administration portrayed its position against that agreement as a response, in part, to Tehran’s military interventions in the region - underpinning Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu’s tough line towards Iran.

The Golan attack was “just further demonstration that the Iranian regime cannot be trusted and another good reminder that the president made the right decision to get out of the Iran deal,” White House press secretary Sarah Sanders told Fox News.

Israel said 20 Iranian Grad and Fajr rockets were shot down by its Iron Dome air defense system or did not reach targets in the Golan, territory Israel captured from Syria in a 1967 war.

Missile fire, as seen from Damascus, Syria, on Thursday. Omar Sanadiki / Reuters

The Quds Force, an external arm of Iran’s Revolutionary Guards, carried out the launch, Israel said.

Syrian state media said dozens of Israeli missiles struck a radar station, Syrian air defense positions and an ammunition dump, underscoring the risks of a wider escalation involving Iran and its regional allies.

Russia’s defense ministry said Syria had shot down more than half of the missiles fired by Israel, RIA news agency reported.

“We hit ..” - State Rep. Nino Vitale, who opposes Issue 1

State Rep. Nino Vitale (R), who was one of just 10 members of the Ohio House to vote against putting the plan on the ballot, wrote a Facebook post last month explaining his objections. He said the proposal would likely result in new congressional maps being drawn every four years and wouldn’t reflect the most up-to-date population data since the census is only conducted every 10 years. The proposal would also allow members of the commission to do the bidding of partisan elected officials, he argued.

“If one party suspects that the plan favors one party over another, the bill will never pass and the parties will never agree, almost guaranteeing that the plan with go to the unelected commission,” he wrote. “That’s not good representative government.”

Catherine Turcer, the executive director of Common Cause Ohio who has helped lead the Fair Districts = Fair Elections coalition in Ohio, admitted that the proposal didn’t eliminate “every possible shenanigan.” But she said it would impose strict rules that would limit just how partisan a majority map passed by majority vote could be.

“You have the four-year map, but the rules then become tighter,” she said. “It goes to basically saying you need to keep these political subdivisions whole. That reins in all kinds of shenanigans.”

Plus, she added, requiring lawmakers to provide a justification for the map they adopt would make it easier to challenge the map in court if it is unfair.. almost all of the Iranian infrastructure in Syria,” Lieberman said, in a question and answer session at the annual Herzliya security conference in Tel Aviv. “I hope we finished this chapter and everyone got the message.”

Israeli military spokesman Lieutenant-Colonel Jonathan Conricus told reporters the Iranian attack was “commanded and ordered by (Quds Force chief General) Qassem Soleimani and it has not achieved its purpose”.

Conricus said Israel responded by destroying dozens of Iranian military sites in Syria, as well as Syrian anti-aircraft units that tried unsuccessfully to shoot down Israeli planes.

“We do not know yet the (Iranian) casualty count,” he said.

“But I can say that in terms of our purpose, we focused less on personnel and more on capabilities and hardware .

Liberal groups, which are deeply skeptical whether Republicans will keep their word after years of inaction on codifying protections for the undocumented young people often called Dreamers, angrily slammed Democrats ― and in particular Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer (D-N.Y.) ― for giving away leverage with no firm promise that an immigration bill would reach President Donald Trump’s desk.

“It’s official: Chuck Schumer is the worst negotiator in Washington ― even worse than Trump. Any plan to protect Dreamers that relies on the word of serial liars like Mitch McConnell, Paul Ryan or Donald Trump is doomed to fail,” CREDO Political Director Murshed Zaheed said in a statement.

“Without confession to the sin of white racism, white supremacy, white privilege, people who call themselves white Christians will never be free,” Wallis said. But her anxiety seemed far worse than what her classmates were going through.

“It felt like my body was shutting down every time I had to give a speech,” she recalled.

At the time, Trapani was in therapy for depression and general anxiety, which her doctor suspected were at the root of her pre-class illness. But Trapani began researching her symptoms and realized they might be connected to other feelings of terror she felt during everyday life.

For years she’d struggled to carry out daily activities. She’d skip appointments or cancel plans with friends after agonizing about them for hours, the pressure mounting till she broke. She’d feel blind panic strike on the bus, at a bar or in the grocery checkout.

Her symptoms are typical of social anxiety disorder, which affects 15 million American adults and causes intense fears of being judged or rejected in social situations. Despite its prevalence, it’s a misunderstood mental illness, and people who should be receiving care often fall through the cracks.

More than a third of people with social anxiety disorder experience symptoms for 10 years or more before getting help. Why?

Part of the problem is that the calling cards of social anxiety can overlap with other ailments, such as obsessive-compulsive disorder, depression or panic disorders.

“If you believe in the image of God, you will make sure there is not one vote suppressed in this next election,” he added.

People begin their silent march from the Martin Luther King Jr. Memorial on April 4, 2018.”

Photo: Bullet Blocker

The company has an in-house team that sews the bags from scratch and also retrofits existing bags, accessories such as notebooks, iPad cases, and three-ring binders, as well as clothing. For example, Curran recently outfitted a slew of Gucci products — a leather diaper bag for $3,100, a duffle bag for $4,250, and a zip-up jacket for $3,200 — a teal Hermès Evelyne III purse for $5,225, an Armani suit for $5,895, and a Saint Laurent moto jacket for $6,450.

Bullet Blocker is one of several companies specializing in bulletproof kidswear, including the Florida-based Guard Dog Security, which is donating 50 percent of its proceeds to the victims of the Parkland shooting, and a South Carolina outdoors company called Nichols Store, which sells bulletproof inserts and a class for parents on how to use them.

Curran acknowledges that his price point is high but says in the past, when parents couldn’t afford a backpack, “We took care of it.” He tells Yahoo Lifestyle, “I’m not getting rich doing this. But the peace of mind is huge.”

AdvertisementOlympians ― they’re just like us ... when it comes to their love of BTS.

Team USA ice skaters Alex and Maia Shibutani recently shared a photo of themselves holding customized Ralph Lauren hats for each member of the K-pop band. ERIC THAYER / Reuters

Organizers of the ACT to End Racism rally expect about 350 people to stay in Washington for political activism training on Thursday. Religious leaders and lay activists will be taught how to lobby their members of Congress. Participants will receive information about current legislative proposals on issues like mass incarceration, education, voting rights, health care, and immigration.

Copeland-Tune said she hopes that participants leave the anniversary rally with a deeper commitment to racial justice.A California nurse who was fired from her job after saying Stephon Clark deserved to be killed by police has raised over $20,000 from a GoFundMe campaign to pay her bills.

Faith Linthicum launched her self-promoting fundraiser over the weekend, writing: “I’m a United States Military veteran who served as a medic, and then fulfilled my dream taking care of people by becoming a nurse. I was recently fired from my job as a nurse at Kaiser Permanente for exercising my First Amendment right to free speech. I am a proud supporter of this great Country, the First Amendment, the rule of law, and law enforcement.”

Linthicum said that she’s “not a hateful or discriminatory person” and that she was fired from her hospital job “without any investigation, and without giving me an opportunity to explain or defend myself.

CREDO Action, the activist arm of the wireless phone company, advocates for progressive causes, including immigrants rights and the passage of legislation that would give Dreamers a pathway to citizenship.

MoveOn.org, one of the most influential progressive organizations in Washington, similarly panned the agreement that 33 Senate Democrats voted to advance to a final vote on Monday.

“This is a bad, outrageous deal. Trump and Republicans in Congress stood with their anti-immigrant nativist base, and too many Democrats backed down, abandoned Dreamers, and failed to fight for their values,” MoveOn.org Political Action Executive Director Ilya Sheyman said in a statement... to inflict long-term damage on the Iranian military establishment in Syria. We assess it will take substantial time to replenish.”

There was no immediate comment from Iran.

In the Golan Heights, Israeli schools opened as usual on Thursday morning, after sirens sent residents to shelters during the night.

Lieberman said Israel was not seeking escalation on the Syrian front. But Tzachi Hanegbi, a cabinet minister close to Netanyahu, cautioned that more confrontation could come.

“I don’t think I can tell you that one blow, as effective and crushing as the one they (the Iranians) received last night, is enough to convince a regime that is usually very fanatical and determined,” he said on Israel Radio.

NEW FRONT

The Israelis fear that Iran and its Lebanese ally Hezbollah are turning Syria into a new front against them. Israel says its occasional strikes in Syria aim to foil that.

Iran vowed retaliation after a suspected Israeli air strike last month killed seven of its military personnel in a Syrian airbase.

Israel regards Iran as its biggest threat and has repeatedly targeted Iranian forces and allied militia in Syria.

On Tuesday, hours after Trump’s announcement on the nuclear deal, Israeli rockets targeted a military base in Kisweh, a commander in the pro-Syrian government regional alliance said.

That attack killed 15 people, including eight Iranians, the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights said, though the commander said there were no casualties. Israel has neither confirmed nor denied responsibility.

Thursday’s conflagration came hours after Netanyahu returned from a visit to Moscow, where he discussed concerns about Syria with Russian President Vladimir Putin. Russia, like Iran, fights in Syria on the side of the Assad government.

Netanyahu said after the discussions that Russia was unlikely to limit Israel’s armed actions in Syria. The Israeli military said Israel had forewarned Russia of its strikes on Thursday.

“There should be work to de-escalate the tensions,” Russian Deputy Foreign Minister Mikhail Bogdanov was quoted as saying on Thursday by the Tass news agency. He called the situation “very alarming”.

French President Emmanuel Macron also appealed for calm.