Jason Reed / Reuters

In 2013, after months of drafting, hearings and debate, the United States Senate passed a comprehensive immigration reform bill by the staggering vote of 68-32.

FoxNews, including Trump guru Sean Hannity, provided the political space for Republicans to join Democrats.

The bill died because then-Speaker John Boehner (R-OH) was more concerned with his own job as Speaker than he was in solving a problem for 12 million residents, and for society as a whole. He would not allow a vote on the bill. Current House Speaker Paul Ryan (R-WI) favored the bill. But after a flurry of announcements at the beginning of the year, news about bonuses has seemingly dissipated. A news database search for stories in major newspapers that mentioned “tax reform” and “bonuses” turned up 169 articles in January, 82 in February and just 29 so far in March.

In a Pennsylvania special election earlier this month, Republicans all but abandoned the tax law in their talking points, apparently because it wasn’t helping. Democrat Conor Lamb ultimately won a shocking upset in a district Trump had carried easily in 2016.

Use the widget below to further explore the results of the HuffPost/YouGov survey, using the menu at the top to select survey questions and the buttons at the bottom to filter the data by subgroups:

The HuffPost/YouGov poll consisted of 1,000 completed interviews conducted March 22-25 among U.S. adults, using a sample selected from YouGov’s opt-in online panel to match the demographics and other characteristics of the adult U.S. population.

HuffPost has teamed up with YouGov to conduct daily opinion polls. You can learn more about this project and take part in YouGov’s nationally representative opinion polling.

Other than feeding at the public trough, nothing is as important to Trump as his wall. In an attempt to make it more palatable, he even suggest installing solar panels on it.

Give it to him. In exchange, just pass the 2013 bill. It has already been completely vetted and debated in the Senate. It went through “regular order,” unlike anything the Republican Congress has tried to do.

Indeed, amend the 2013 bill to include the wall and $18 billion, and the legislation is done.

Trump would go for it. He has no capacity to resist instant gratification.

If Trump goes for it, will the House balk again? Many Republicans will vote against it, but the Speaker was for it a few years ago, and he is going to retire anyhow. They then held hands and crossed back into the South, where Kim was met with an honor guard.

A coterie of senior North Korean officials accompanied Kim, including his sister, Kim Yo-jong, who has become one of the most recognizable envoys from the North after her appearance at the 2018 Winter Olympics.

The leaders then ventured into the South’s Peace House, which had been outfitted head to toe in custom furniture and artwork heavy with symbolism. Kim signed a guest book and the two leaders went in for negotiations.

“A new history begins now ― at the starting point of history and the era of peace,” Kim’s notation read, alongside his signature and the date. Bring it to the floor, and there must be at least 30 Republicans who will vote for it because Trump wants it.

Are 30 Republicans going to deny Trump his greatest victory? I think not.

Do I mind giving Trump a victory? Yes, because he is unfit to be president, and this may make it more difficult to get rid of him. But, that is very hard to weigh, and the need to resolve status for 12 million of our residents is too compelling.

Moreover, his crimes are quite separate from this.

Chuck and Nancy should trundle over to the White House with this proposal. They should emphasize (and show Trump the clips) that Hannity supported the principle. They should wrap it in all the superlatives—biggest, best, most historic—that Trump loves hearing and, in this case, would have the unique (for Trump) virtue of being true.

The stars are aligned.Help Save the Wildlife and Bushlands in Campbelltown/Facebook

A brutal heat wave that gripped much of Australia this weekend saw footpaths literally melt in the sun and 80-year temperature records tumble ― but one of its more tragic effects came when hundreds of bats in a colony in Sydney’s southwest simply dropped dead.

The environmental group Help Save the Wildlife and Bushlands in Campbelltown, based an hour outside Sydney, reported Sunday that hundreds of flying foxes have died due to the extreme heat and insufficient shade cover.

“It’s a constitutional crisis and different from anything else we’ve had to react to,” said Gilbert.

Among the coalition’s members are the American Federation of Teachers, MoveOn.org, the Sierra Club, the Center for American Progress, anti-Trump grassroots group Indivisible and the women’s rights advocacy organization Ultraviolet.

That so much activity has occurred for an event that has yet to actually transpire is indicative of the increasing organization and savvy of the protest movement against the Trump administration.

Gilbert added that people are growing more comfortable with, and accustomed to, protesting in the Trump administration.

“We’re in a new protest culture, that is just part of how we react now,” she said. Most of the dead bats were young, with adults better able to find shelter and cooler temperatures. Temperatures hit nearly 45 degrees Celsius, or 113 Fahrenheit, in the region over the weekend. Wildlife experts say any temperature over 35 degrees Celsius can be fatal for bats.

HuffPost

Gallup notes that Trump’s rise among Republicans was “coincident” with his State of the Union address touting the strength of the economy and the passage of a tax reform bill, although they stress it’s impossible to say that’s what caused the change.

State of the Union speeches tend to be well received, because they’re disproportionately watched by people already inclined to take a friendly view of the president ― and Trump’s was no exception., a onetime marketing manager who in 2015 died of colon cancer at age 32 in New Seabury, Massachusetts. “T.J. died the way he feared he would,” said Amanda Baudanza, his widow, in an interview. “He suffered a prolonged, painful death because Massachusetts denied him the option of medical aid-in-dying.” He was in hospice in the last portion of his life.

“Adults sought out shade and more shelter further up the creek resulting in many babies being left behind to deal with the heat. Many pups were on their last lot of breaths before getting much needed help by the WIRES members,” Help Save the Wildlife said on Facebook, referring to the New South Wales wildlife rescue group.

“As the dead bodies were recovered and placed in a pile for a head count the numbers had reached 200 not including the many hundreds that were still left in trees being unreachable, sadly a few adults were also included in the body count.”

A later post by the group claimed that more than 400 bats had died in the heat.

Over the weekend, volunteers tried to rescue the living bats, supplying them with water. Photos posted by the Campbelltown group show volunteers holding young bats in pillows and towels, and rigging up IV bags of fluid.

“There were tears shed and hearts sunken, it’s devastating when a colony like our local one goes down like this due to heat, this colony needs more canopy cover and shaded areas to help with our ever rising hot summers because this episode will surely not be the last,” the group said on Facebook.

Apparent temperatures in other parts of the city reached 57 degrees Celsius, or 134 Fahrenheit, such as at the Sydney Cricket Ground during a cricket match between Australia and England. (Yes, not only do Australians endure this brutal heat, we choose to spend five entire days standing and playing sport in it.)

Despite the sad day for wildlife volunteers, the Campbelltown group posted a video later that evening showing large numbers of bats taking to the skies.

The next day, the group shared images and video of volunteers trying to cool down other local wildlife, including koalas.