Why?

To say that most attendees don’t see eye-to-eye with him would be an understatement. Well, there is Israeli Prime Minister Netanyahu. After that, not so much.

Davos, you see, is the epicenter of globalism think. It is populated, for the most, part by rich, elite, liberal—to a great degree European—looking to make the world a better place. Davos Man is an archetype oft-ridiculed by Trump supporters. How do “America First” and “MAGA” fit in with Davos? They don’t.

NICHOLAS KAMM via Getty Images

One reason why Trump may feel compelled to go is as a counterpoint to last year’s top headliner, Chinese President Xi Jinping, whose keynote speech basically laid out the case for China being the leader of the new world order. Without naming names, Xi suggested that myopic nationalism was a flawed strategy and that China was open for business. Trump may use the Winter Meeting of the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland (what we call Davos) as an opportunity to fire back.

It is time to reform these outdated immigration rules, and finally bring our immigration system into the 21st century. Or not. Right now, we don’t even know if Trump is speaking. Bet the WEF folks will be working hard to get him to.

And there’s the question of who goes with Trump. We don’t know whom on Team Trump will accompany the president, but POTUS’s Goldman Sachs posse is a likely bet. The president’s chief economic advisor Gary Cohn, for instance, has attended before.

Kent is likely referring to Lawrence’s films “Mother!” and “Red Sparrow,” which both failed to make much of an impression at the box office.

She went on to reveal that her manager instructed her to take down her Twitter clapback, telling her “delete the tweet, or you delete my info for the next 24 hours, because I’m not trying to deal.”

Though Kent is no stranger to drama on the spin-off of “Real Housewives of Beverly Hills,” which follows a group of servers at Lisa Vanderpump’s restaurant, she admitted on the radio show that Lawrence hurt her feelings.Adult film actress Stephanie Clifford, also known as Stormy Daniels, speaks to media along with lawyer Michael Avenatti in Manhattan, April 16, 2018. Brendan McDermid / Reuters

WASHINGTON ― When the pre-election payment from President Donald Trump’s personal lawyer to porn actress Stormy Daniels not to discuss the affair she says she had with him first came to light, the figure cited was $130,000.

Weeks later, as Trump’s latest lawyer, Rudy Giuliani, finally acknowledged that Trump was aware of Michael Cohen’s payment and had repaid him for it, Giuliani cited $35,000 monthly payments over the course of a year ― or $420,000.

And on Wednesday, when Trump for the first time acknowledged the payment on his financial disclosure form, it was characterized as a “reimbursement” of “expenses” that Cohen incurred in 2016, with a value between $100,000 and $250,000.

So what’s going on? Why did Trump pay Cohen $420,000 for a $130,000 expense?

That remains unclear.

Giuliani, in several interviews with HuffPost over the course of a week, explained that Trump also paid enough to cover all the taxes Cohen would have had to pay to have been left with $130,000 ― the original sum he paid out of his own pocket. Giuliani estimated that this added another $70,000, plus some profit for Cohen, plus some other expenses. Ditto for Dina Powell, who’s stepping down from her role as deputy national security adviser soon. On the other hand, if Steve Bannon was still around, you’d imagine he’d pass, unless he wanted to thumb his nose at the proceedings. Guess we’ll never know about that one.

Trump’s presence will make it that much more difficult to get around Davos, a tiny, freezing-cold ski town tucked high in the Alps that is already bristling with security. There are already lots of guys with guns. Now there will be more. And who knows what this will cost taxpayers.

And sadly for the president, the town’s only McDonald’s apparently closed a number of years ago, and no wonder. According to the New York Times: “In 2000, a group of more than 1,000 demonstrators carrying signs that said ‘Against the New World Order’ smashed the windows of a McDonald’s franchise here in Davos just down the road from the conference, protesting open trade policies espoused by then-President Bill Clinton, who was speaking at the event.”Most Americans oppose federal action against state-legal marijuana operations, according to a new HuffPost/YouGov poll conducted after the release of recent Justice Department guidance that gives U.S. government prosecutors the discretion to aggressively pursue such cases. lawmakers to change the country’s gun laws, while reminding them that the rest of the world is watching.

In France, a country still reeling from a deadly shooting on Friday, a crowd of people, both French and American, gathered near the Eiffel Tower in Paris to protest.

“It’s important for Americans even overseas to make sure that Washington knows that we’re not pleased with the gun control reform and we want more,” Caitlin Waters, co-organizer of the Paris march, told CBS News.S.-backed rebels fighting the Soviets. Robert Lachman via Getty Images

His team said that Friday’s news does not show any wrongdoing.

In their own demonstration against gun violence, protesters in Tokyo stood silently while holding up the names and ages of victims killed in school shootings in the U.S.

Nathan Kawanishi, a U.S. citizen visiting Japan, photographed the event.

“Standing with all those marching today,” Kawanishi wrote on Instagram.

A post shared by Nathan Kawanishi (@ao_nathan) on Mar 24, 2018 at 7:00am PDT

See how the rest of the world joined America in a massive protest against gun violence below.

London

Stefan Rousseau - PA Images via Getty Images

NurPhoto via Getty Images

Berlin

Sean Gallup via Getty Images

Adam Berry via Getty Images

Copenhagen

Munich

NurPhoto via Getty Images

NurPhoto via Getty Images

Paris

Owen Franken - Corbis via Getty Images

Owen Franken - Corbis via Getty Images

Amsterdam

KOEN VAN WEEL via Getty Images

KOEN VAN WEEL via Getty Images

Brussels

NurPhoto via Getty Images

NurPhoto via Getty ImagesDemonstrators in France, Germany, Spain and Tokyo were among those who took to the streets as part of the push for stricter gun control in the U.S.

Hundreds of international protesters urged U.

A majority of the public, 56 percent, say they’d oppose federal efforts to stop the sale and use of marijuana in states where it’s been legalized, with 44 percent expressing strong opposition, the survey found. Just 30 percent of Americans would support such action, while another 14 percent said they were not sure.

On Thursday, Attorney General Jeff Sessions, a frequent critic of marijuana, rescinded a set of Obama-era memos that had effectively discouraged federal prosecutors from targeting cannabis operations that were in compliance with state law. A total of eight states have now legalized marijuana for recreational use.

Sessions replaced that policy with new guidance giving U.S. attorneys ― the chief federal prosecutors in each of the nation’s 94 federal districts ― the go-ahead to enforce federal law, which still holds marijuana to be a Schedule I substance, alongside substances like heroin and LSD. It’s not yet clear how U.S. attorneys will proceed under the new policy, but the HuffPost/YouGov survey suggests any targeting of state-legal cannabis would be unpopular and could carry significant political risks.

Critics quickly assailed the Sessions decision as a violation of President Donald Trump’s campaign promise to respect states’ rights on marijuana. White House press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders appeared to make this shift official last week, when she said Trump now “strongly believes” federal law should be enforced when it comes to cannabis.

The poll, however, shows that the public is more likely to believe the issue should be left up to the states. A total of 47 percent of Americans believe laws governing the use of marijuana should be determined at the state level, while just 32 percent said they should be determined at the federal level. Another 22 percent said they were unsure.

That’s long been the case. As far back as five years ago, a majority of Americans believed adults should be exempt from federal drug laws on marijuana as long as they were following state law, according to a 2012 YouGov survey.

The preference also holds across party lines. In the most recent poll, Democrats favor a state-centric approach over a federal one by an 18-point margin, Republicans by a 15-point margin and independents by a 13-point margin.

But it’s also clear that there’s still some confusion about the state-federal divide on marijuana. Although the GOP often portrays itself as the party of states’ rights, Republican respondents were by far the most likely to express support for a federal crackdown on state-legal cannabis operations. More than half said they’d support such action, compared to less than a quarter of either Democrats or independents.

Overall, 55 percent of Americans back legalization of marijuana both nationally and in their own state.

Other recent surveys have found support topping the 60 percent mark. A record-high 64 percent majority of Americans, including slightly more than half of Republicans, backed legalization in Gallup’s most recent tracking poll.

Use the widget below to further explore the results of the HuffPost/YouGov survey, using the menu at the top to select survey questions and the buttons at the bottom to filter the data by subgroups:

The HuffPost/YouGov poll consisted of 1,000 completed interviews conducted Jan. 5-6 among U.S. adults, using a sample selected from YouGov’s opt-in online panel to match the demographics and other characteristics of the adult U.S. population.

Noor, who was put on paid administrative leave following the shooting, did not provide a statement to the Minnesota Bureau of Criminal Apprehension, which conducted an investigation and gave its findings to the Hennepin County Attorney’s Office in September.

“There is no evidence that Officer Noor encountered a threat, appreciated a threat, investigated a threat, or confirmed a threat that justified his decision to use deadly force,” Freeman said Tuesday. “Instead, Officer Noor recklessly and intentionally fired his gun from the passenger’s seat.”

The officers’ body cameras were only activated after the shooting, Freeman said.

“Officer Noor recklessly and intentionally fired his gun from the passenger’s seat.” - Hennepin County Attorney Mike Freeman

Damond’s death sparked protests across Minneapolis.

HuffPost has teamed up with YouGov to conduct daily opinion polls. You can learn more about this project and take part in YouGov’s nationally representative opinion polling. More details on the polls’ methodology are available here.