Rep. Mark Meadows (R-N.C.), chairman of the conservative House Freedom Caucus, warns that President Donald Trump could lose conservative support if he backs immigration reforms. Drew Angerer via Getty Images

WASHINGTON ― During a televised meeting with lawmakers at the White House on Tuesday, President Donald Trump seemed to endorse a number of controversial immigration positions that are giving conservatives on Capitol Hill some cause for concern, particularly a taboo term among Trump’s base: “comprehensive immigration reform.”

If Trump moved forward with just a “clean” deal on the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) immigration program, House Freedom Caucus Chairman Mark Meadows told HuffPost on Tuesday, it would be one of the few ways by which Trump “could lose the conservative base.”

“It’s untold damage that it would create among the conservative base,” the North Carolina Republican said.

Tuesday night, Rep. Louie Gohmert (R-Texas) took to the House floor to denounce even the talk of a DACA deal, saying any time people in Washington start discussing “amnesty” for undocumented immigrants in some form, “there is a fresh surge across our border.”

Trump being Trump, he didn’t quite say he would support a clean DACA deal (one not tied to other immigration issues) ― or, if he did, he quickly backtracked.

“I think a clean DACA bill, to me, is a DACA bill, but we take care of the 800,000 people,” Trump said. “But I think, to me, a clean bill is a bill of DACA, we take care of them, and we also take care of security.”

What exactly Trump means by ”clean” or “security” is anyone’s guess, but lawmakers jumped at the chance Tuesday to define those terms for the president.

“Clean DACA meant what he said, which is these three other things,” Rep. Raul Labrador (R-Idaho), who was at the meeting, said. Trump did mention that, alongside DACA, he wanted border security, the end of so-called chain migration (when relatives legally in the U.S. sponsor family members who immigrate) and the end to the diversity visa lottery program.

Trump also suggested “border security” didn’t just mean more border agents or resources along the U.S.-Mexico border. “If you don’t have the wall, you can’t have security,” he said.

Trump, however, struck a much more conciliatory tone than his campaign rhetoric that had suggested Mexican immigrants were criminals and rapists. On Tuesday, he said he wanted “a bill of love.”

The White House also tried to clean up some of Trump’s remarks later Tuesday, with press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders telling reporters that the president’s definition of “clean” would also include “closing the loopholes and making sure we have a solution on that front so we don’t create a problem and find ourselves right back where we started in one, two, three years later.”

But conservative lawmakers couldn’t help but notice that Trump was playing fast and loose with a third-rail term in the Republican Party: “comprehensive immigration reform.”

“The word ‘comprehensive’ ― I’ve used it ― and it’s like nails on a chalkboard to many conservatives, because it brings up ideas of the Gang of Eight bill in the Senate,” Meadows said, referring to a controversial 2013 immigration bill that failed.

“The comprehensive immigration reform and what it means to the conservative base, and the context in which the president used it today, are probably not congruent,” Meadows added.

Either way, it got the attention of lawmakers.

“I don’t think he probably realizes what that sounds like to many Americans based on the last big conversation,” conservative Rep. Scott Perry (R-Pa.) said of Trump’s use of “comprehensive.” “So, to him, it’s just a term that seems to make sense.”

Conservative Rep. Walter Jones Jr. (R-N.C.) told HuffPost that Trump’s use of that word was “very confusing, especially to his base.”

“With President Trump, until I can read it, I don’t know,” Jones said. I admire that fortitude. I wish I had her grace and strength.

A post shared by BeBe Zahara Benet (@bebezahara) on Mar 6, 2018 at 11:43am PST

“Drag Race”’s fanbase is more toxic than ever. This episode made subtle points about the ways de facto segregation creates obstacles for people of color starting from childhood, but we’ll get to all that later.

Julia: Yes! And then for Van to say that the private schools are white but thus better and then say that’s why Earn chose Princeton? WHEW. I mean, I went to UNC because it had resources other schools in the state didn’t.

Taryn: Chile. Shameless plug for the op-ed on why HBCUs aren’t inferior that I wrote yday because . “We all have our different definitions.”

Immigration activists in Congress, particularly the Republican ones, have learned to avoid phrases like “comprehensive immigration reform.”

“I won’t use those terms, because I know that ‘comprehensive’ is one of those terms, or ‘amnesty,’ or ‘path to citizenship.’ You know, we all know what all those are that have different definitions to different people,” Rep. Mario Diaz-Balart (R-Fla.), who supports immigration reform, said Tuesday. “Remember: The president is not a political animal that’s been doing this for a million years.”

(Even if Trump hasn’t been doing this “for a million years,” immigration was a signature issue of his year-and-a-half presidential campaign, and, if Trump is so unfamiliar with the meaning of “comprehensive immigration reform,” it’s curious that he used that exact phrase.)

Still, Diaz-Balart said no one should get “stuck in semantics.” He praised the president for holding the meeting, which he called “exceedingly helpful.”

But it’s anyone’s guess how the DACA immigration matter will play out. Labrador, who’s been writing a DACA bill in the Judiciary Committee, expects his bill, or legislation like it, to soon come before the House and pass with Republican support. Democrats have little incentive to vote for a measure like the one Labrador is proposing. His bill would end chain migration, which Democrats oppose doing, and institute other changes they don’t want.

Democrats believe they have the leverage on the DACA issue, as Republicans still need Democratic help to keep the government open past Jan.

During an interview with “Entertainment Tonight” in 2017, reporter Nischelle Turner asked the comedian if he’d want to bring the show back.

“Why?” Seinfeld asked, before adding, “Maybe it’s nice that you continue to love it instead of us tampering with something that went pretty well.”The envelope containing a nonhazardous white powder resembling anthrax addressed to Donald Trump Jr. included a letter full of personal insults, according to New York media.

Trump’s wife, Vanessa, was taken to a hospital on Monday after opening the envelope in her mother’s Manhattan apartment.

“You are an awful, awful person,” the letter read, NBC affiliate News 4 New York reported, citing officials familiar with the case. “I am surprised that your father lets you speak on TV. You the family idiot. Eric [another of President Donald Trump’s sons] looks smart. This is the reason why people hate you. 19. It’s just unclear whether Democrats are truly willing to enter a government shutdown over DACA. Thus far, Democrats have agreed to a number of short-term spending extensions without a DACA agreement, and the prospect of yet another extension looms large as time runs short.

But as conservatives express some uneasiness over Trump’s latest immigration comments, liberals are suddenly expressing cautious optimism.

Rep. Luis Gutiérrez (D-Ill.), perhaps the most pro-immigration Democrat in Congress, had some reluctant praise for Trump’s meeting Tuesday.

“I’m happy it took place. I’m hopeful,” Gutiérrez said..

Trump was in the midst of criticizing past administrations for their failure to denuclearize North Korea while complimenting his intention to meet with that country’s leader, Kim Jong Un. He referred to a 1999 appearance he made on “Meet the Press,” which he told the crowd is now hosted by “sleepy eyes Chuck Todd.”

“He’s a sleeping son of a bitch, I’ll tell you,” Trump added.

The president has attacked the NBC host as a purveyor of “fake news” and with the same “sleepy eyes” insult multiple times in the past. “Late Night” host Seth Meyers last year came to Todd’s defense, accusing Trump of looking like he “drank a bottle of NyQuil in the sauna.”

Todd light-heartedly referenced the president’s insult in a Saturday night tweet, encouraging viewers to tune into the program.

Don’t miss @MeetThePress tomorrow! I know folks may be tired in the morning due to springing forward, so set those clocks and DVRs now before your eyes get too sleepy. — Chuck Todd (@chucktodd) March 11, 2018

Sunday morning, he put Treasury Secretary Steve Mnuchin on the spot about Trump’s comments.

“Many people, including myself, raise their kids to respect the office of the presidency and the president of the United States,” Todd told his guest. If someone pretends to be a cop and rapes someone, that’s something else entirely.”

Sex worker advocates say that ultimately the crime of impersonation ― and the oft ensuing crime of sexually exploiting vulnerable women ― can be attributed to the long-accepted culture of law enforcement not taking violence against sex workers seriously. Maggie Mayhem, Bay Area-based former Sex Workers Outreach Project-USA Board member, pointed to the case of William Suff, a California man who impersonated a California Highway Patrol officer and murdered more than a dozen sex workers over a span of six years, from 1986 to 1992.“The Voice” has a long history of LGBTQ inclusivity, even winning a GLAAD Media Award in 2012. Openly gay singers regularly compete on “The Voice,” and on last season’s finale, a Christian drag queen, Chris “Nedra Belle” Weaver, stole the show. But Monday, we had a “Voice USA” first: the series’ first transgender contestant, Angel Bonilla.

(International trivia alert: Jordan Gray was the first trans contestant to compete on “The Voice U.K. “When he uses vulgarity to talk about individuals, what are they supposed to tell their kids?”

Todd was not only referring to himself ― the president also went after Rep. Maxine Waters (D-Calif), attacking the prominent lawmaker as a “low-IQ individual.”

Mnuchin dismissed Trump’s personal attacks, instead telling Todd that the press should focus on covering the administration’s policies.Kathy Griffin is staging a comeback.

The comedian announced her first U