″#Janethevirgin Add another Latina director to that list,” Rodriguez wrote in the caption.

“Jane The Virgin” is currently on a midseason break but is expected to return to The CW on Jan. 26. Dawson is the latest addition to the show’s cast. Earlier this month the network announced the “Daredevil” star would have a multi-episode arc this season.

Dawson seems to have arrived on set just in time for the boricua’s big debut behind the scenes. The star helped Rodriguez celebrate the big moment with a gif shared via Instagram on Wednesday.Twitter users couldn’t contain their glee after the news broke on Tuesday that President Donald Trump’s ex-chief strategist had resigned from the far-right media outlet. It came following the release of Michael Wolff’s tell-all book about the Trump administration, Fire and Fury, in which Bannon reportedly made derogatory comments about the president and his family.A White House official told a federal judge Tuesday that President Donald Trump’s now-defunct voter fraud commission plans to delete the voter data it collected from about 20 states and contradicted the administration’s public statements saying the Department of Homeland Security would take up the panel’s work.

Trump suddenly dissolved the commission Wednesday but said its work would be moved to DHS. White House press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders said the agency would take up the panel’s “preliminary findings,” and Kansas Secretary of State Kris Kobach (R), the panel’s vice chair, said DHS would run voter information against databases of immigrants to try to find voters illegally on the rolls.

But Charles Herndon, the director of White House Information Technology, said in a sworn court declaration filed Tuesday that that wasn’t the case. Herndon said the panel “did not create any preliminary findings.” He added that “no Commission records or data will be transferred to the DHS or another agency,” except for the National Archives and Records Administration.

Herndon also said no commission member ever had access to state voter data.

The declaration came in a lawsuit by Maine Secretary of State Matthew Dunlap (D), a commissioner, who sued the panel alleging he was being excluded from crucial communications and planning.

Syreeta Steward, center, is pictured with twin daughters Zhane, left, and Jholie Moussa. Salman’s defense team contends that the sites Mateen visited earlier in the night had tighter security, which made them more difficult targets.

Jose Ramirez, a survivor of the Pulse massacre, reacts as he visits the site one year after the shooting. Joe Raedle via Getty Images

Prosecutors are also expected to argue that Salman helped Mateen hide his deadly plans from his family by concocting a cover story.

The shooting occurred during Ramadan, and Mateen’s mother believed her son would come over for dinner that night. Prosecutors claim Salman texted her husband and instructed him to tell his mother he was out with “Nemo,” a friend of his. Salman’s lawyers counter that she was simply repeating the instructions Mateen gave her about what to say to his mother if she called.

Prosecutors may also try to prove that Salman knew about her husband’s planned attack because of the unusual financial activity that took place in the weeks before it. Mateen bought her a diamond ring, earrings and lingerie from Victoria’s Secret, and added her as the death beneficiary of his bank account. Her defense team says that Mateen explained the extra money to his wife by saying he had been accepted into a police training program, and would soon be making a higher salary.

Salman was “afraid to either question or contradict his actions,” her attorneys wrote in a court filing. They will likely argue that Salman’s behavior on the night of the massacre does not align with that of a wife looped into her husband’s murderous plans.

After Mateen left around 5 p.m. she went to Applebee’s with her 3-year-old son, and then bought her husband a Father’s Day card and a T-shirt with the slogan ’World’s Greatest Dad,” on it. She also called her family in California to let them know she’d be making a trip to see them later in the summer. Syreeta Steward

Steward told HuffPost last week that her daughter was last seen after the mysterious Snapchat session. She said she was stepping out and would be right back, according to the mom.

About 8 p. Dunlap filed a motion in court earlier Tuesday to block the panel from transferring any information from its activities until he had a chance to review it.

Austin Evers, the executive director of the watchdog group American Oversight, which is representing Dunlap, said Herndon’s statements raised questions about what the Trump administration was planning to do to investigate voter fraud.

“Either the White House just admitted it lied to the public in an official statement or it just misled the court. Robot (@soyluluuu) February 16, 2018

So Brad and Jen are totally getting back together, right? #exofmyexismyex pic.twitter.”

But in the end, DeeDee is relieved that he’s now able to be open about his faith.

“I’m out. My nightmare’s over,” he said, adopting the language LGBTQ people use to talk about disclosing sexual orientation or gender identity. “I don’t ever have to go back to the closet again.”

Actors Kumail Nanjiani, Zach Woods, Amanda Crew and Thomas Middleditch attend HBO's "Silicon Valley" Panel during Comic-Con International 2016 on July 21, 2016 in San Diego, California. FilmMagic via Getty Images

Crystal Cheatham, a queer Christian activist, told HuffPost she “absolutely” identified with DeeDee’s storyline. Cheatham is the creator of Our Bible, a Bible app for progressive Christians. The app provides users with devotionals highlighting interfaith inclusivity and LGBTQ acceptance, and hopes to help progressive Christians create healthy prayer and meditation habits.

Cheatham said she’s found it hard to communicate to others in the tech industry about why her progressive Christian app is so innovative.

“More than anything there is a language barrier that inhibits potential investors from ‘getting it,’ the way they do with some of my other techy counterparts,” Cheatham wrote in an email.

“I think we as a culture would rather hear someone say they are ‘spiritual’ rather than Christian,” she added. “The word Christian is heavy with a lot of baggage that has been tacked on over the years, and especially today in the Trump era.”

However, Cheatham said she doesn’t think this means Christians ― particularly conservative Christians ― are being persecuted for their beliefs.com/zRXo7HlFLc — Kennedy Elsey (@downtownkennedy) February 15, 2018

Jennifer Aniston and Justin Theroux are separating, which can only mean one thing: even more tabloid covers like THIS pic.twitter.com/HDq42QIAxo — Sadie Gennis (@sadiegennis) February 15, 2018

i mean i fundamentally agree, but the gossip in me wants brad + jen to get back together and then tell all in a tasteful vanity fair cover — Alex Bruce-Smith (@alexbrucesmith) February 15, 2018

Me: *reading about Jennifer Aniston & Justin Theroux split* awww that sucks

Also me: planning Jennifer Aniston & Brad Pitt's second wedding — Ally Reid (@ashallann) February 16, 2018

When asked why they craved another Jen-Brad romance, Twitter users happily provided their own answers.

“They look good together and seem like a good match,” Mike Starcher said. “We want them to be happy.”

“I honestly think that they have always still had feelings for each other,” Allison Alderton added. Given their record to date, it’s hard to guess which is more likely,” he said.

A federal judge ordered the commission to turn over communications to Dunlap on Dec. That sounds like a reasonable — even presidential — thing to say. But it obscures the fact that Trump’s actual policy toward North Korea has been erratic and ineffective. Last year, North Korea tested a missile capable of hitting the U.S. mainland. Instead of pushing for nuclear negotiations, the Trump administration is reportedly considering a preemptive strike against North Korea — which nonproliferation experts say would do little to deter the rogue state’s nuclear ambitions and would put millions in South Korea at risk of a retaliatory attack. Hours before Trump’s speech, The Washington Post reported that the Trump administration had dropped Victor Cha, a former White House official, from consideration to become the U.S. ambassador to South Korea because he had warned of the risks of a so-called “bloody nose” attack on North Korea.

On Iran, Trump asked Congress to “address the fundamental flaws in the terrible Iran deal. 22. Lawyers for the Department of Justice on Tuesday asked the judge to reconsider her order because the panel no longer exists.

It’s not the only contradiction on how the voter fraud probe will move forward. Kobach has publicly insisted he will be advising DHS on investigating voter fraud moving forward, but DHS has publicly said he is not advising the agency.