Steven Spielberg said Tuesday the time has come for female directors to get their due, even though they didn’t at the Golden Globes.

Asked to respond to Natalie Portman’s “and here are the all-male nominees” jab as she introduced the exclusively male nominees in the Globes’ Best Director category, Spielberg gave an encouraging assessment of sexism in Hollywood.

“There’s ... a watershed happening right now, slowly, maybe not fast enough, for women directors,” the three-time Oscar winner told Entertainment Tonight at the National Board of Review Awards in New York. “I mean you have Patty Jenkins [‘Wonder Woman’]. We have some amazing women that have come forward, you know, ‘Mudbound’ and ‘Lady Bird.’ ”

Steven Spielberg, with wife Kate Capshaw at the National Board of Review Awards dinner, said the time has come for women directors. Dia Dipasupil via Getty Images

Both Portman and Barbra Streisand, who pointed out that no woman has won a Globe for Best Director since she did for “Yentl” in 1984, presumably spoke up because Jenkins, Dee Rees of “Mudbound” and National Board of Review winner Greta Gerwig of “Lady Bird” were excluded from the Globes nominees.

But Spielberg believes the more prestigious Academy Awards will correct that. “This is a pretty incredible year, and I think you’ll be seeing some nominations,” said the director of “The Post.S.” “I’m predicting at the Oscars this year for a woman director, if not several.”

Jenkins, who received a Spotlight Award at the National Board of Review dinner, gave Portman the thumbs-up for her zinger. “It made me laugh, and it made me smile,” the “Wonder Woman” director said. “Look, it’s been a little glaring that women directors don’t get nominated so often and it is odd.”

Patty Jenkins, left, who won a Spotlight Award, poses along with her "Wonder Woman" actress Gal Gadot and Julianna Margulies. Jenkins said Natalie Portman's comment during the Golden Globes made her laugh. Kevin Mazur/Getty Images

For the record, Kathryn Bigelow’s victory for “The Hurt Locker” in 2010 remains the only Best Director Oscar won by a woman. Last year’s Oscars had no women nominees.WASHINGTON ― Immigrant rights advocates are urging undocumented young people to hold off from rushing to reapply for deportation relief ― or celebrating too much ― after a federal judge ordered the Trump administration to reopen much of the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program on Tuesday. This time, he barely waited eight days. Even for a shameless politician who routinely says one thing then does another, this may be a new record.

The preliminary injunction issued by U.S. District Judge William Alsup was a victory for immigration activists and officials who say President Donald Trump acted unlawfully by ending DACA, a program created in 2012 to provide two-year work permits and deportation relief to so-called Dreamers who came to the United States as children. Under Alsup’s order, young undocumented immigrants who held DACA status on Sept. 5, when Trump rescinded the program, should be allowed to apply to renew those protections.

But in some ways, it created more confusion. Adrian Reyna, a Dreamer and activist with United We Dream, said that he received a call after the ruling from his sister, who asked whether everything was “fixed.”

His answer was no.

“The devil is in the details,” Reyna said he told her, recounting the conversation on call with reporters on Wednesday. “Of course not everything is fixed. ”

It’s not even clear when the decision will begin to help Dreamers ― or if it will at all. As of Wednesday evening, U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS), which administers DACA, couldn’t provide any information as to when and how it would begin to accept renewal applications.

The Department of Justice, which is led by the adamantly anti-DACA Attorney General Jeff Sessions, said after the ruling that it would file an appeal, which could lead to the injunction being overturned.

“This decision may not actually ever get implemented ― we just don’t know yet,” Marielena Hincapie, executive director of National Immigration Law Center said on the same call with reporters.

Hincapie said that although the ruling was a positive sign, advocates are worried that Dreamers will send in applications, including a nearly $500 fee, and be rejected if USCIS has not yet implemented a process to accept renewals. She said Dreamers should also be wary of notarios, individuals who present themselves as immigration lawyers or legal experts to defraud immigrants.

For now, Hincapie said, Dreamers should stay informed but wait on sending anything to the government.

A “Protest Trump’s visit” Facebook page by the Stop Trump Coalition began mobilizing protesters on Thursday, marking Oct. 1 as a placeholder date.

“It’s just been announced: Donald Trump is coming to Britain on a visit later this year. Let’s be ready ― and be prepared to take to the streets in the most incredible protest in our history,” said the post. By Sunday night, the page had some 22,000 people signed up to take to the streets, with another 62,000 marked as “interested.”

On Jan. 20, thousands of protesters gathered in London to demonstrate against Trump on the anniversary of his inauguration and for the women’s march. Last May, an online petition against the government’s plan to invite Trump on a state visit received more than 1.8 million signatures.

Trump canceled a trip to London for the official opening of the new U.S. embassy building earlier this month. The president said he was skipping the trip because he disapproved of the location and price of the new embassy:

Reason I canceled my trip to London is that I am not a big fan of the Obama Administration having sold perhaps the best located and finest embassy in London for “peanuts,” only to build a new one in an off location for 1. She and other advocates have urged Dreamers in the meantime to keep pushing for legislation that would grant them legal status, such as the Dream Act.

Advocates argued that Tuesday’s court order only increased the urgency of passing legislation through Congress.

Trump met with lawmakers from both parties on Tuesday and told them he wants to couple protections for Dreamers with border security ― including his signature wall ― along with an end to the diversity lottery and limiting family-based visas, which he refers to as “chain migration.”

President Donald Trump met with a group of Republicans and Democrats from the House and Senate on Tuesday to discuss immigration plans. Jonathan Ernst / Reuters

Lawmakers are working on negotiating a deal but remain far apart on many of the issues. Democrats have ruled out funding a border “wall” ― although many say they are open to other measures, including some areas of fencing ― and oppose efforts to cut legal immigration without getting something in return, such as temporary worker visas or legal status for a larger group of the undocumented population, like in previous comprehensive reform efforts. Democrats have argued against a deal with too many components, and say it would be better to combine DACA only with border security measures.

Some conservatives are pushing for a far more expansive approach with policies including a mandate that businesses check employees’ immigration statuses, cracking down on so-called “sanctuary cities” that don’t fully cooperate with deportation efforts, and eliminating policies meant to protect asylum-seekers and children apprehended at the border.

Both the White House and members of Congress indicated after the court ruling that it didn’t change their view that it’s important to find a legislative fix for Dreamers. While blasting the court decision, White House spokeswoman Sarah Huckabee Sanders said in a statement that Trump will continue to work with Congress on a permanent solution.

Senate Majority Whip John Cornyn (R-Texas) said “it doesn’t change the need for us to act,” according to Politico.

“I don’t think it relieves the anxiety of the DACA recipients that something is gonna happen,” he said. “It really just adds additional uncertainty, I think, into the mix. So we’re plowing ahead like we discussed yesterday at the White House.”

Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer (D-N.Y. “To stand by some of the things that [President] Donald Trump has said and for Mike Pence to say he’s a devout Christian man is completely contradictory. If he’s okay with what’s being said about people and Americans and foreigners and about different countries that are being called ‘shitholes,’ I think he should really go to church. And by the end of this shoot, I will bite him back.”

Actress Rose McGowan, who also was in the double feature, wrote about Tarantino’s questionable behavior on the set of “Death Proof” and “Planet Terror” in her memoir “Brave,” according to the Telegraph.

“McGowan writes that for all the praise Tarantino receives for depicting strong female characters in his films, he also ‘beats the s—- out of them for his enjoyment,’” according to an excerpt from the article.

And although actress Diane Kruger recently defended Tarantino, she did tell Parade in 2009 that the director insisted on choking her himself for her character’s death scene in “Inglourious Basterds.” According to Kruger, Tarantino wanted to use his own hands for a close-up shot of the strangling scene instead of Christoph Waltz, the actor whose character was supposed to kill her in the movie.The New York Daily News used its front page on Tuesday to tear into President Donald Trump and White House senior adviser ― and first daughter ― Ivanka Trump:

Deplorable https://t.”

Rippon said his skating obligations could prevent him from encountering Pence during a meet-and-greet prior to the opening ceremony. Still, he’s vowed not to “go out of his way” to make it happen, even if he finds the time.

A post shared by Adam Rippon (@adaripp) on Jan 10, 2018 at 2:48pm PST

“If it were before my event, I would absolutely not go out of my way to meet somebody who I felt has gone out of their way to not only show that they aren’t a friend of a gay person but that they think that they’re sick,” he said, pointing to Pence’s reported support of ex-gay “conversion” therapy while serving in Congress.

Though Rippon hasn’t ruled out a post-Olympics meeting with Pence because he “seems more mild-mannered” than Trump, he stressed that the vice president “doesn’t stand for anything that I really believe in.”

Rippon’s comments on Pence come days after the athlete denounced Trump for his use of vulgar and discriminatory language.

“If I talked to people the way that President Trump talks to people,” Rippon told the BBC, “my mom would kick my ass.”

UPDATE Jan.) said on the Senate floor on Wednesday that Democrats still want DACA protections to be part of a funding deal that must pass by Feb. 19 to avert a government shutdown. He and other advocates believe getting Dreamer relief into a must-pass bill is the only way forward because of past Republican obstruction on legal status for undocumented immigrants.