President Donald Trump often boasts about how well he speaks the language of business.

So hopefully he’s paying attention tomorrow, when a public letter, signed by more than 100 chief executives from some of America’s most impactful businesses, urges politicians to pass legislation before Jan. 19 that allows Dreamers to continue their lives in the U.S. unimpeded.

“Dreamers” refers to a group of roughly 700,000 undocumented immigrants who were children when they arrived in the U.S. Until Trump abruptly ended it last year, a program known as Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals, or DACA, allowed Dreamers to apply for work permits and avoid deportation.

The letter was sent to congressional leaders on Wednesday, including House Speaker Paul Ryan (R-Wis.) and Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky. The facility, about an hour north of San Francisco, is home to about 1,000 retired service members.

Jan Thornton, 51, said her father is a World War II veteran who lives in the skilled nursing section of the facility. She said staff immediately locked down the buildings, along with individual rooms, upon reports of an active shooter Friday morning.

“I called my dad’s friend [who lives there] right away, because my dad has dementia and I didn’t want to panic him,” Thornton said, adding that her father was safe.

Brian Goder, a 59-year-old Air Force veteran who has lived at the Veterans’ Home for a little over two years, said he was walking to the dining hall when he was put on lockdown.

“As I was walking, people kept yelling ‘Sir! Sir!’ to me,” Goder told HuffPost. “I turned around and there were probably about a dozen police officers with ARs running past me.”

Ground and air ambulances were initially staged near the Veterans Home, police said.), Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer (D-N.Y.) and House Minority Leader Rep. Nancy Pelosi (D-Calif. Number two is the five-year guaranteed scholarship. Number three is where we start to get into the fringe benefits that any other employee at any place has: having a 401(k) set up, having an appropriate insurance plan, so these guys are going to be protected for injury. “Officers know that they must earn the trust of our community by providing fair and respectful service. That very clearly did not happen during the incident depicted and for that I apologize to Mr. Rush, as well as the community.”

Manheimer said city council members first learned about the incident through local media coverage this week.

“As your mayor, I want there to be a clear message that there must be an end to police abuse of power,” she said. “We are better than this. We MUST uphold ourselves to the highest standards and practices.”

Hickman left the department Jan. 5. The Asheville Police Department did not immediately respond on Friday to HuffPost’s request for information about Ruggiero’s employment status, but Hooper told the Citizen-Times that he was not under investigation.

Joined by Vice Mayor Gwen Wisler, Manheimer and Hooper met behind closed doors with the Interdenominational Ministerial Alliance and the Baptist Ministers Union on Thursday to discuss the incident. The city released a statement to say the pastors expressed concern during the meeting over the incident’s effect on the relationship between the city’s black residents and its police force.Reddit has an entire “Shower Thoughts” subreddit dedicated to “the miniature epiphanies you have that highlight the oddities within the familiar.” In honor of those weird, wonderful and sometimes profound musings, here are 25 of the best posts from the last week:Thomas Trutschel via Getty Images

Federal authorities arrested two Arizona brothers on Thursday and charged them with making millions of dollars through phony political action committees that scammed donors. We’re going to help them monetize their social media accounts.

And I just noticed that they were sitting beside each other much in the same way as kids. Earn was sitting up, Al leaned back. Same as in “North of the Border.” Only in this one they sat closer together, which makes it clear that this disconnect hasn’t always been there.

Taryn: Wow. Symbolism on 10. I wonder what will happen to Earn without Paper Boi. You think he’ll finally get his shit together?

Julia:Cheryl Burke of “Dancing With the Stars” had one hell of a birthday.

The celebrity dancer and choreographer confirmed on Instagram that her boyfriend, actor Matthew Lawrence, 38, popped the question on Thursday — her 34th birthday.

Burke shared a photo of her boo kissing her as she proudly displayed her shiny new rock.

“OMG! So far so good for 34!” she captioned the post, adding, ”#amilliontimesyes #imengaged #herecomesthebride.”

A post shared by Cheryl Burke (@cherylburke) on May 3, 2018 at 8:27pm PDT

Burke “was totally surprised” by the proposal,” Entertainment Tonight reports. So a player might walk out of college with a degree ― a real degree ― and also with savings that might be $300,000 to $500,000 or more.

HuffPost: Who are you targeting on the recruiting trail? The one-and-dones superstars of the world, or more of the mid-tier college basketball player whose NBA hopes are a little less real?

Volante: The shortest answer is both. We want all of them.). It is set to publish in The New York Times and The Wall Street Journal as a full-page ad on Thursday.

Demonstrators protest in front of the White House after the Trump administration scrapped DACA on September 5, 2017. Kevin Lamarque / Reuters

Signatories span a large spectrum of industry, from tech to consumer goods to venture capital. Among them are Facebook’s Mark Zuckerberg, General Motors CEO Mary Barra, Amazon’s Jeff Bezos, James “Jim” Dinkins of Coca Cola and Tim Cook of Apple.

“The imminent termination of the DACA program is creating an impending crisis for workforces across the country,” the letter reads. “Failure to act in time will lead to businesses losing valuable talent, cause disruptions in the workforce and will result in significant costs.”

And when they say “significant costs,” they mean it. Not only would failing to extend DACA cause untold human suffering, they note, it could cost the U.S. economy $215 billion in lost GDP.

Should the Jan. 19 window pass without action, it’s unlikely a new policy could be enacted by March 5, the date Trump set as a congressional deadline when he ended DACA in September of last year.Michael Douglas, believing that a former employee is about to publicly accuse him of masturbating in front of her more than 30 years ago, strongly denies wrongdoing.

“This is a complete lie, fabrication, no truth to it whatsoever,” the actor told Deadline on Tuesday in an interview that he said was necessary “to get ahead of this.”

Douglas, 73, also rejected the unnamed woman’s claim that he had her blackballed from the movie industry after he fired her. He said the woman made the allegations to trade publications ― he mentioned Variety and The Hollywood Reporter ― for an upcoming article.

“I had the choice of waiting for a story to come out, one that will clearly get picked up by other newspapers and magazines, and then I have to sit there and try to defend myself,” he told Deadline. “Or, try to share with the public, a little ahead of the story, my thoughts and concerns. Again, I am sorry if I used coarse language with my friends. But this is really debilitating. It can have a large effect on my career. And also, I think it really sends a message out.”

Douglas, a two-time Oscar winner, said The Hollywood Reporter contacted his lawyer last month, and then interviewed him about the woman’s claims. He apologized for using “colorful” language in private conversations that the woman said she heard, but emphasized that the dialogue wasn’t aimed at the employee. Ambassadors from only four European Union countries (Austria, Hungary, Romania and the Czech Republic) attended a welcome reception on Sunday, while representatives from other nations reportedly boycotted the event in protest.Despite plastic bag bans in places like California showing signs of success, a growing number of states are enacting prohibitions on banning plastic bags.

Women walk with plastic bags through Chinatown in San Francisco. Two years ago, California voters approved a statewide ban on single-use plastic carryout bags, but at least nine other states have enacted laws prohibiting local officials from adopting bag bans. Eric Risberg / The Associated Press

By Scott Rodd

Bisbee, a city of 5,200 tucked into the mountains of southeastern Arizona, has been a haven for artists and left-leaning types since the 1970s. The old mining town has art galleries, live music venues, and stories — many of them revolving around the supposedly haunted Copper Queen Hotel — in abundance.

Until a few years ago, Bisbee also had plenty of something it didn’t want: plastic bags.

Michael Douglas said the accusations "can have a large effect on my career." Daniel Zuchnik via Getty Images

Douglas told Deadline he supports the #MeToo movement against sexual harassment “with all my heart,” and said he had employed and worked with dozens of women he has treated “as equals and my peers.”

A rep for Douglas told HuffPost that the actor was quoted accurately in the Deadline article.