NEW YORK ― Officials in New York City on Wednesday announced a lawsuit against five major oil companies over infrastructure damage caused by climate change and plans to divest roughly $5 billion in fossil fuel investments from the city’s five pension funds.

The announcement from Mayor Bill de Blasio came roughly a week after the Democrat was inaugurated for a second term. It marks his strongest action yet to address global warming and its associated sea-level rise, which devastated the city with massive flooding during Superstorm Sandy in 2012.

At a press conference Wednesday, de Blasio said that while there may have been climate change deniers in New York City before Sandy, he doubts there were any left afterward. The world, he said, is facing a “painful, horrible reality” and the city will “no longer participate in a system that endangers our very own people.”

“It’s time to do something different in New York City, isn’t it?” he said. “We’re going after those who have profited — and what a horrible, disgusting way to profit.”

The lawsuit against oil giants BP, Chevron, ConocoPhillips, ExxonMobil and Royal Dutch Shell seeks to recoup billions in climate-related damages the city has already incurred, as well as pay for billions in new infrastructure and resiliency measures to fortify the city and protect its residents moving forward, officials say.

“We’re bringing the fight against climate change straight to the fossil fuel companies that knew about its effects and intentionally misled the public to protect their profits,” de Blasio said in a statement ahead of Wednesday’s press conference. But it was “not a big deal” and she “didn’t want to make a scene,” she said.

It had been “a good laugh” and provided a “great day of laughter,” Chastain added to host Jimmy Kimmel, who’d likened the portrait to one of a powerlifter ― which she laughingly agreed with.

Check out the interview here:

Following the online mockery, Kevin O’Brien, president of the Bay Area Sports Hall of Fame, revealed that the plaque would be replaced. “We’re going to redo it,” he told The Mercury News. “We weren’t happy with the rendering. It was not a great job.”

It’s not the first rendering of a star athlete to go down in internet history, joining the botched sculpture of fellow soccer great Cristiano Ronaldo:

The Brandi Chastain plaque goes into the Art Fails Hall of Fame. pic.twitter.com/ZquxIyueYJ — Liam Martin (@LiamWBZ) May 22, 2018

Brandi Chastain has won a World Cup and gold medals but her greatest achievement is smiling graciously next to this whackass plaque pic.twitter.com/YzGda3g4vF — Ryan Mac (@RMac18) May 22, 2018Jim Carrey’s new artwork raises doubt about President Donald Trump’s apparent bromance with French counterpart Emmanuel Macron.

The movie star’s latest piece suggests that Macron was happy to indulge Trump’s antics during his recent state visit to the U.S.

“We are just trying to say to the universe that we are here,” LaRose said.

Just 22 percent of Americans say they believe in the existence of the “Deep State,” a supposed ”cabal that operates independently of elected officials in Washington,” while 17 percent have heard of it but don’t believe it exists. More than 60 percent have never heard the term or aren’t sure.

About three-quarters of Americans say they’ve heard that Trump attempted to fire Robert Mueller as special counsel on the Russia probe, the survey finds, but not everyone is convinced. A fifth of the public, including 45 percent of Trump voters, say they don’t believe that Trump attempted to fire Mueller.

Few want to see Mueller ousted, although many don’t have any opinion at all ― just 15 percent say the president should fire him, with the rest about evenly divided between saying Mueller should stay in his post (42 percent) and saying that they’re uncertain (43 percent).

Americans say 35 percent to 27 percent that they approve of Mueller’s work on the Russia probe, with another 39 percent undecided. Respondents say by a 13-point margin, 43 percent to 30 percent, that the Trump administration’s relationship with Russia is a legitimate issue, according to another HuffPost/YouGov poll taken just before the latest round of Mueller stories broke. “We are going to look for these plots of land, and we are going to transform them. Now onto Christina, or #her.

Taryn: Earn robbed himself. Earn robbed Van. I feel like Earn robbed me. Fuck his broke ass forreal.



Julia: I’m so mad.”

The land-honoring ceremony on the Oakland plot given to the Sogorea Te Land Trust by Planting Justice. Sogorea Te Land Trust and Planting Justice

The group is planting community gardens and creating ceremonial spaces on the repatriated land. Someday, group leaders want to build a traditional roundhouse to bring back Ohlone songs, dances and ceremonies. “As climate change continues to worsen, it’s up to the fossil fuel companies whose greed put us in this position to shoulder the cost of making New York safer and more resilient.”

New York City follows cities and counties in California and Colorado that have either filed or announced pending climate impact litigation. Republicans have not given up on repeal, but their assault on the law has made it more popular than ever. Meanwhile, the midterm elections are approaching. For the first time since 2010, Democrats could have governing majorities in one or even both houses of Congress ― and, two years after that, control of the White House as well.

The shift means that Democrats can focus more on the conversation they wanted, and were trying to have, all along. It’s the conversation about how to fix the Affordable Care Act’s shortcomings, in order to realize its ultimate goal of universal coverage.

President Barack Obama and his Democratic allies knew the Affordable Care Act needed improvements. Alex Wong/Getty Images

One sign of the shifting debate came on Tuesday, when Sen. Elizabeth Warren from Massachusetts became the latest high-profile Democrat to introduce a bill to upgrade the Affordable Care Act ― in this case, by offering more financial assistance to people buying insurance on their own and bolstering the law’s consumer protections.

Curtis Smith, a Shell spokesman, told The Associated Press that the company believes “climate change is a complex societal challenge that should be addressed through sound government policy and cultural change to drive low-carbon choices for businesses and consumers, not by the courts.”

The American Petroleum Institute, a trade association for America’s oil and natural gas industry, called de Blasio’s announcement “disgraceful.”

“Today Mayor de Blasio turned his back on millions of first responders, police officers, firefighters and other public employees who depend on their pensions to provide for themselves and their families in retirement,” API New York Executive Director Karen Moreau said in a statement. “Government pension managers have a responsibility by law to seek the greatest return for their investors and pensions that invest in oil and natural gas companies have historically delivered a higher return than other investments. Deliberately hurting pension holders, like the fine men and women who keep our city safe, is a disgraceful way to score cheap political points.”

In addition to the lawsuit, New York City intends to divest the approximately $5 billion the city’s pension funds have invested in over 190 fossil fuel companies. The move comes more than two years after de Blasio announced plans to divest $33 million from coal, one of the dirtiest fossil fuels.

“We know that the future is with big ideas in clean energy, not with big polluters,” Comptroller Scott Stringer said. “We believe that a green economy is a thriving economy, and that we have to be thinking about the next fiscal quarter as well as the next quarter century. That’s what this is all about.”

Stringer added that the city is embarking on one of “the most significant divestment efforts anywhere in the world to date.”

City officials said they hope to inspire other local governments to take similar action.

In 2016, a coalition of attorneys general — called AGs United for Clean Power and led by New York Attorney General Eric Schneiderman — formed to combat the climate crisis. Its formation came after bombshell reports by InsideClimate News and The Los Angeles Times detailing how ExxonMobil executives were aware of the climate risks associated with carbon dioxide emissions but funded research to cover up those risks and block solutions.

In late November, Letitia James, New York City’s public advocate, held a first-of-its-kind public hearing on climate change. Activists, students and voters packed an auditorium at the Borough of Manhattan Community College for hours, recounting stories of asthma exacerbated by air pollution and homes flooded by rising waters.

New York, the birthplace of the nation’s annual climate march, has plenty of its own pollution problems. For example, in Queens, the city’s largest borough, the Ravenswood Generating Station has another two years under city law to keep burning 3,264,000 gallons of fuel oil each year, producing annual emissions equivalent to about 500,000 cars. The city is also of the world’s top garbage producers, and its recycling services lag behind other major metropoles.

Yet buildings account for about 70 percent of the city’s emissions, creating a steep political challenge for a mayor who, to the chagrin of the progressive activists who helped elect him, spent much of his first term wooing real estate developers. In September, de Blasio’s rollout of a new set of mandates to cut emissions from big buildings faced blunt criticism from the New York City Council, which accused the mayor of acting unilaterally and failing to go far enough with the proposed rules.

Still, air pollution hit an all-time low last year after the city tightened heating oil rules.

New York City’s effort to hold industry accountable for the impacts of climate change was applauded by numerous climate advocacy groups. Representatives of some of those organizations spoke Wednesday in New York.

“Today, the mightiest city on our planet takes on its most powerful industry — its richest, most powerful and most irresponsible industry,” said Bill McKibben, the co-founder of 350.org. “Science and economics and morality are on the side of this city, and so it will eventually win.”