Democrats on the Senate Foreign Relations Committee released a sweeping report Wednesday outlining Russian President Vladimir Putin’s decades-long efforts to undermine democracy and issued stark warnings that the Kremlin will likely move to influence upcoming U.S. elections, including those this year and in 2020.

The report, commissioned by the committee’s ranking member, Sen. Ben Cardin (D-Md.), and written by Democratic staff, details the Putin government’s “relentless assault” on the rule of law in Europe and the United States and urges President Donald Trump to acknowledge the threat posed by the Russians or risk a regime that “will become further emboldened.”

“It is imperative that the American people better understand the true scope and scale of Putin’s pattern of undermining democracy in Russia and across Europe,” Cardin said in a statement Wednesday. “This threat existed long before President Trump took office, and unless he takes action now, it will continue long after his administration.”

He continued: “While President Trump stands practically idle, Mr.-elect Good went door-to-door, talking with voters about affordable health care, fully funded public schools, safeguarding LGBTQ+ and reproductive rights, and protecting Florida’s beautiful environment.”

The district voted for Trump over Democratic candidate Hillary Clinton by about 5 percentage points in the 2016 presidential election. Putin continues to refine his asymmetric arsenal and look for future opportunities to disrupt governance and erode support for the democratic and international institutions that the United States and Europe have built over the last 70 years.”

Later, Smith got even more heated.

“He’s not a dictator. He’s not a king,” Smith said. “He can’t change the libel laws. That’s preposterous.”WASHINGTON ― President Donald Trump insisted Wednesday that it is time for Republicans to “finally take control” of the investigation into Russian meddling in the 2016 election and bring an end to a scandal that’s been looming over his presidency since he took office nearly a year ago.

Republicans were already doing their best to comply. The president’s allies spent the first 10 days of 2018 redoubling their efforts to undermine special counsel Robert Mueller’s probe and its congressional cousins, and protect Trump from any political or legal fallout.”

Aside from calls for Trump to address the ongoing influence campaign, the report also urges governments to hold social media companies accountable, to fix “woeful” vulnerabilities to cyberattacks and establish an international task force to counter such threats.

The White House has forged a cozy relationship with Russian President Vladimir Putin since Trump was elected. Sputnik Photo Agency / Reuters

Putin’s History Of Repression

Wednesday’s report does not mention Russian interference in the 2016 U.S. presidential election, citing ongoing investigations by the Senate intelligence and judiciary committees.

The authors do, however, delve into Putin’s aggregation of power beginning nearly 20 years ago and cite what they call a history of “exploiting blackmail, fears of terrorism and war.” They write that the Russian strongman has “made it a priority of his regime to attack the democracies of Europe and the United States” as such governments “present an attractive alternative to his corrupt and criminal rule.”

Under Putin’s leadership, watchdog groups say, he and his oligarchs have pilfered an estimated $24 billion from state resources. At least 31 journalists have been killed inside Russia since he took power in 1999. And Russia has moved to attack countries including Georgia and Ukraine with military force and cyberwarfare.

Putin confirmed last month that he would seek a fourth six-year term as president in this March. He is expected to win.

Democrats note that many European countries have moved to deter such efforts at home. In advance of elections last year, Germany moved to test for computer vulnerabilities at its federal election authority, and local media outlets set up teams of fact-checkers to counter fake news, The New York Times reported at the time. And in the United Kingdom, top officials have issued public warnings meant to chastise Russian hacking attempts.

“We know what you are doing,” British Prime Minister Theresa May said in November.

Volunteers in Pocatello, including Chris Stevens, a retired school teacher who’s also mounting her first-ever political campaign by running for Bannock County Commission, laid out cookies and crudités and talked strategy.

In Twin Falls, Democratic state Senate candidate Deborah Silver, who lost a state Senate race in 2016 and the state treasurer race in 2014, hosted a meeting in her home. “And you will not succeed.”

Putin confirmed last month that he would run for a fourth term as president in March. Kirill Kudryavtsev/pool photo/Reuters

Calls For Trump To Lead

In America, however, such efforts have been largely absent.

Following a meeting with Putin in Vietnam in November, Trump went so far as to say he believed his Russian counterpart when he said Russia did not meddle in the 2016 presidential election, despite assurances from U.S. intelligence agencies that the Kremlin did, in fact, interfere.

“Every time he sees me, he says, ‘I didn’t do that,’ and I really believe that when he tells me that, he means it,” Trump said in November.

More controversially, Steyer has spent another $40 million on a “Need to Impeach” initiative, using television ads to drum up signatures for a petition to oust President Donald Trump.

In an interview with Steyer this week, HuffPost asked him about the effectiveness of a campaign centered on the president, rather than policy issues; his views on the violence in Gaza; whether he plans to run for president; and whether his extraordinary wealth undermines his credibility as a progressive leader.

Why are you trying to mobilize millennials?

It’s the biggest age cohort in America and it votes at half the overall rate of American citizens. It seems to me a critical thing for the country that people who are knowledgeable and passionate and feel like the system doesn’t respond to them participate in elections. They also happen to be the most diverse generation in American history, and they’re probably the most progressive Americans.

Millennial support for Democrats, according to a Reuters poll, has dropped off by 9 points since 2016. Is it possible that an effort to mobilize these voters could actually help Republicans?

Well, I can tell you that our experience of going and doing more grassroots organizing for people under the age of 35 doesn’t suggest that. And I saw that poll as well, so it’ll be whatever it is.

But we believe that the broadest democracy is the best democracy, and overlooked groups are not gonna have their interests and rights respected unless they participate.

Your Mother’s Day ad ― in which a regretful mom warned others to “talk to your child about the GOP” ― made some waves. Was it supposed to be satirical?

Of course, it was supposed to be funny. Did you laugh?

Yeah, I thought it was kind of funny. https://t.co/ODit24D2Rb — Fanshen (@fanshen) March 13, 2018

The Annenberg Inclusion Initiative, the foremost think tank tackling diversity issues in Hollywood and that includes Cox DiGiovanni as a board member, congratulated Pearl Street Films on the announcement.

Thank YOU for providing us with data AND solutions that help us all work towards change. I'm so proud to be on this team. #InclusionRider — Fanshen (@fanshen) March 13, 2018

Affleck and Damon have been relatively quiet in recent conversations regarding diversity and women’s rights in the entertainment industry after they both found themselves at the center of their own separate controversies.

Disgraced producer Harvey Weinstein helped launch both of the Oscar-winners’ careers. Since his downfall, Affleck has been accused on multiple occasions of sexual misconduct, while Damon has repeatedly stuck his foot in his mouth in conversations about sexual harassment and assault.

Affleck has since apologized for “acting inappropriately” after actress Hilarie Burton said he sexually harassed her during a 2003 TRL interview. He’s remained silent, however, about accusations that he groped makeup artist Annamarie Tendler at a Golden Globes party in 2014. But isn’t the ad a case of preaching to the choir? The people who find it funny are probably already voting for Democrats.

OK, but then, I would ask you this: If you look at 2014 and 2016 and 2010, all the national elections in the last decade that have not included the words “Barack Obama,” how’s the Democratic turnout been?

Is this about the base then?

It’s about turnout, yes.

Senate Democrats voiced their displeasure with such opinions in Wednesday’s report.

“The U.S. president continues to deny that any such threat exists, creating a leadership vacuum in our own government,” the paper reads.

Cardin called for the president to take a leading role in the protection of America’s democracy from Russian influence alongside the release of the report, and issued a rallying cry to “mobilize our country.”