Multiple women have accused actor Morgan Freeman of inappropriate behavior and harassment.

The allegations surfaced Thursday in a report from CNN, with eight individuals telling the network that they were victims of harassment and inappropriate behavior by Freeman. Sixteen people in total spoke to CNN about the actor’s alleged behavior as part of the investigation.

An unidentified woman told the network she was harassed by Freeman in 2015 while working as a production assistant for the comedy “Going in Style” starring the famed actor.

The woman said Freeman often touched her inappropriately and made comments about her body and clothing daily.

Freeman “kept trying to lift up my skirt and asking if I was wearing underwear” at one point while they worked together, the woman alleged. Actor Alan Arkin “made a comment telling him to stop. Morgan got freaked out and didn’t know what to say. “We are just starting to see bilingual staff at one county elections office for Spanish [speaking] voters, but other than that, our State has yet to implement policies, procedures, or effective staffing to be able to work with communities of color, specifically immigrants.”

But there has been progress. The number of Asian-Americans registered to vote in Georgia doubled from 2004 to 2012, and turnout increased 168 percent. Around 80 percent of Asian-Americans voted Democrat in Georgia, Cho said.

And even if Asian-Americans are the smallest racial group in Georgia, the number is still big enough that Asian voters could close the margin in a tight election. Asian-Americans have had the strongest impact in the Atlanta suburbs of Gwinnett County, which turned blue in 2016 when Hillary Clinton took 51 percent to Donald Trump’s 45 percent. It’s the first time the county has voted Democrat since Jimmy Carter was a candidate in the 1970s.

There are also more Asians seeking political office. In 2016, Sam Park, the son of Korean immigrants, was the first openly gay man ever elected to Georgia’s state House and the second Korean-American to serve following B.”

Another woman told CNN that while working on the 2012 movie “Now You See Me,” Freeman sexually harassed her multiple times.

“He did comment on our bodies,” the second accuser told CNN. “We knew that if he was coming by ... not to wear any top that would show our breasts, not to wear anything that would show our bottoms, meaning not wearing clothes that [were] fitted,” she said.

Other inappropriate behavior included staring at women’s breasts, massaging an intern’s shoulders, asking a woman how she felt about sexual harassment and asking women to twirl for him, according to CNN.

TransLink, Vancouver’s major transportation company, said it would be suspending new voiceovers that featured Freeman as part of an ad campaign for Visa.

BREAKING: @TransLink says In light of information they have learned through news stories of serious allegations against actor Morgan Freeman, they have decided to pause his voice announcements as part of a VISA ad campaign on the transit system. If he’s noting that all violence is not gun violence, then sure. But the fact that Londoners are making it to hospitals to receive care is significant. Knives tend to be less lethal than guns, and it’s far easier to injure or kill larger numbers of people, often indiscriminately or unintentionally, by shooting than it is by stabbing.

A recent study in the U.S. found that more gunshot victims are dying before reaching the emergency room than they were a decade ago, even as trauma care has improved. One theory for this trend is an increasing “intensity” of violence, suggesting people may be getting shot more times, at closer range, with higher-caliber rounds, or simply while farther from the nearest hospital.

There’s no saying how much worse the problem would be in London if it were as easy to get a gun there as it is in the U.S.”

“That doesn’t mean that he didn’t want to cooperate,” Snowden added. “That doesn’t mean he wouldn’t do anything to achieve an advantage.”

Snowden encouraged people — including would-be leakers in the U.S. government — to continue to struggle for change.

“I believe that this world can be better. I believe that this world should be better. But it’s not going to get better unless we make it better,” he said. “And that requires risk. That requires hard work. That ultimately might require sacrifice.

“This isn’t worth the paper it’s written on,” County Court Judge Rosemarie Aquilina said Thursday. “There’s no truth in here. It’s delusional.”

Judge Aquilina speaks with Nassar and his attorney as he appears in court to listen to victim impact statements prior to being sentenced.”

“Things change,” he went on.So to be clear you have NO problems with Muslims Hindus or any of the thousands of other religions practising their religion in your country. You agree people are feee to worship any God they want or no God at all - I didn’t realise the @GOP was so liberal - good to knowStephen Colbert said former New York City Mayor Rudy Giuliani isn’t doing President Donald Trump any favors right now. — Global BC (@GlobalBC) May 24, 2018

In a statement, Freeman said he is not someone who would “intentionally offend.”

“Anyone who knows me or has worked with me knows I am not someone who would intentionally offend or knowingly make anyone feel uneasy,” he said. “I apologize to anyone who felt uncomfortable or disrespected ― that was never my intent.”

This has been updated with TransLink’s response to the allegations.Three Americans held as prisoners in North Korea arrived back in the United States early Thursday, less than a day after Secretary of State Mike Pompeo secured their release.

President Donald Trump and first lady Melania Trump met Kim Hak-song, Kim Dong-chul and Tony Kim, shortly after 3 a.m. at Andrews Air Force Base in Maryland. Vice President Mike Pence, second lady Karen Pence, Pompeo and more than 200 members of the press were also on hand to witness their return. However, no family members or friends were present because the men have to be debriefed first, an unnamed official told CNN.

“This is something that people did not think was going to happen for many many years and a lot of bad things could’ve happened in between,” Trump said. “This is a special night for these really great people.”

Jonathan Ernst / Reuters

American officials had long fought for the trio’s release and were hoping to have the men returned home before Trump’s upcoming summit with North Korean leader Kim Jong Un, which is likely to take place in Singapore next month. Their release was not a precondition of the meeting, but was widely seen as a gesture of goodwill by the North ahead of negotiations.

The men were detained on various charges of espionage and “hostile acts,” although the North is notorious for issuing trumped up sentences to hold political prisoners. Despite their imprisonment, Trump said all were in good health and able to walk on their own.

“It’s like a dream and we are very, very happy,” said Kim Dong-chul, who left the plane with his hands in the air showing two peace signs. Through a translator, Kim said he did “a lot of labor” while imprisoned.

Shortly before their arrival, the three men released a statement thanking the Trump administration.

“We would like to express our deep appreciation to the United States government, President Trump, Secretary Pompeo, and the people of the United States for bringing us home. We thank God, and all our families and friends who prayed for us and for our return. God Bless America, the greatest nation in the world.”

Trump and first lady Melania Trump meet the three Americans released from detention in North Korea upon their arrival at Joint Base Andrews, Maryland. Jonathan Ernst / Reuters

Trump said that he was “very honored” to help secure the release of the men and that the North Korean leader was “nice” to let them free before their summit. Trump also said he was optimistic that their upcoming talks would lead to improved relations between the countries.

“My proudest achievement will be ― this is a part of it ― will be when we denuclearize that entire peninsula. This is what people have been waiting for, for a long time,” Trump said. “We’re starting off on a new footing, this is a wonderful thing that he released the folks early. I think we have a very good chance of doing something meaningful, and if anybody would’ve said that five years ago ... even a year ago, you would’ve said that was impossible.”

Trump last week hinted that the men were likely to be released, urging the public to “stay tuned.co/yI6Sgd5QoY pic.twitter.com/YVRwC8dZPL — Zack Labe (@ZLabe) January 27, 2018

Several scientists criticized Trump’s assessment of climate change and its effects as dead wrong.

“Ice on the ocean and on land are both disappearing rapidly, and we know why: increasing greenhouse gases from burning fossil fuels that trap more heat and melt the ice,” Rutgers University climate scientist Jennifer Francis told The Associated Press.

Trump recently pointed to a winter cold snap on the East Coast as disproving climate change, apparently confusing climate and weather. As NASA and NOAA explain, “climate” refers to trends in atmospheric behavior over long periods of time, whereas weather is what happens today and tomorrow, varying even minute to minute.

In the East, it could be the COLDEST New Year’s Eve on record.”

“Nobody thought this was going to happen, and if it did, it would be years or decades, frankly,” Trump told reporters at the White House after Pompeo confirmed their release. “Nobody thought this was going to happen. And I appreciate Kim Jong Un for doing this and allowing them to go.”

Their release represented a significant diplomatic victory for his administration. Pompeo’s visit to Pyongyang this week was his second in recent days and meant to finalize a time and location for the upcoming summit between Trump and Kim. That meeting is likely to take place in Singapore next month.