Currently, court papers have indicated that Gawker’s bankruptcy plan administrator Will Holden, of consulting firm Dacarba LLC, and the website’s bankruptcy attorney Gregg Galardi, of law firm Ropes & Gray LLP, are attempting to block Thiel’s bid.

Holden told Reuters he will select a winner “as soon as this month,” and the decision will then be sent to a U.S. bankruptcy court judge for final approval. Should Holden exclude Thiel’s bid for the site, Thiel can still ask the judge to reconsider.2 million over 10 years, according to the Congressional Budget Office.

Speaker of the House Paul Ryan (R-Wis.) holds his weekly press conference in the Capitol on May 17. Bill Clark via Getty Images

Echoing businesses in their districts, Ryan and other Republicans said denying benefits to some adults would make it easier for companies to hire ― which is another way of saying the bill would help keep wages down.

There’s no way to reduce welfare enrollment without being “harsh,” Rep. Glenn Grothman (R-Wis.) said during a committee session on Wednesday.

News of Thiel’s bid comes just on the heels of a failed Kickstarter campaign to resurrect Gawker.com, which expired on Tuesday. The Gawker Foundation, a nonprofit created by former staffers, had launched the campaign last month in an attempt to raise $500,000 to purchase and relaunch the site.By Yasmeen Abutaleb

WASHINGTON (Reuters) - The Trump administration said on Thursday it would allow states to test requiring some Medicaid recipients to work or participate in community activities such as volunteering or jobs training as a condition of eligibility for the government health insurance program for the poor.

“The two young girls who kneeled during their performance at Sunday’s Mariners game are trailblazers, demonstrating that the quest for racial equality and social justice has support from a new generation,” Yahoo Sports wrote.Jesús “Chuy” García, a Cook County commissioner and veteran progressive leader, easily won the March 20 Democratic primary race to succeed Rep. Luis Gutiérrez, who is retiring this year from Illinois’ 4th Congressional District.

Given the Democratic leanings of the majority-Latino Chicago-area district ― Hillary Clinton beat Donald Trump there by 69 percentage points ― García is virtually assured victory in the general election.

But the implications of García’s primary win stretch far beyond the safe Democratic congressional seat. García’s coattails have elevated a new generation of mostly Latino, millennial progressive officials who ran as critics of Chicago’s reigning Democratic Party “machine.”

When García delivered his victory speech, he brandished a broom to celebrate the proverbial “sweep” of the entire slate of progressive candidates he endorsed: Aaron Ortiz and Delia Ramirez, Democratic nominees for state House; Alma Anaya, a García aide set to replace him on the Cook County board of commissioners; and Beatriz Fausto-Sandoval, the Democratic nominee for 14th Subcircuit judge.

HuffPost interviewed García about the success of the slate, the future of progressive politics in Chicago and what he plans to prioritize in Congress. The transcript below has been edited and condensed for clarity.

The Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services issued guidance making it easier for states to design and propose test programs that implement such requirements. States must propose such changes through waivers and receive federal approval.

Seema Verma, the agency’s administrator, said the policy guidance came in response to requests from at least 10 states that have proposed requiring some Medicaid recipients to work or participate in activities that may include skills training, education, job search, volunteering or caregiving. Those states include Kentucky, Maine, New Hampshire, Arizona, Indiana and Utah.

Certain Medicaid populations would be exempt from the rules, including those with disabilities, the elderly, children and pregnant women. While that’s impossible to prove at this stage, in theory the company’s main bases seem covered.

Plantagon plans to grow high-value foods ― mostly salads and herbs ― in a pumice-like substance rather than soil. Water for the plants is measured with scientific precision. It will also dehumidify the air and reuse any excess water to ensure zero waste.

In conventional agriculture, the amount of water required to produce a kilo of food can vary from about 130 liters (34 gallons) for lettuce, to 3,400 liters (900 gallons) for rice. In contrast, Plantagon says it will only need to use one liter per kilo for its crops.

“President Obama and I are friends. But he also understood, as I understood, that there has to be a wall between the Justice Department and the White House,” Holder said.

Holder said there were things that he and Obama didn’t talk about, and that his “guess” is that there were more than a few decisions that Obama disagreed with. But he said he never heard criticism from the president, either publicly or privately.

But he was apparently referencing the wrong Korea when he made those comments.

U.S. President Donald Trump attends a state dinner hosted by South Korea's President Moon Jae-in in Seoul on Nov, 7, 2017.

Holder said Trump supporters’ attacks on the FBI could have long-term consequences, such as when jurors need to weigh the credibility of an agent’s testimony in a criminal prosecution. The attacks could raise doubts in a jurors’ mind that would have never existed, he said.

“The long-term negative collateral consequences are substantial,” Holder said. Verma also said states would have to make “reasonable modifications” for those battling opioid addiction and other substance use disorders.

“This gives us a pathway to start approving waivers,” Verma said on a call with reporters on Wednesday. “This is about helping those individuals rise out of poverty.”

Under the 2010 Affordable Care Act, former Democratic President Barack Obama’s signature domestic policy achievement commonly known as Obamacare, 31 states expanded Medicaid to those making up to 138 percent of the federal poverty level, adding millions of people to the rolls.

Republicans have repeatedly failed to repeal and replace Obamacare, a top campaign promise of President Donald Trump. Instead, the Trump administration has sought to weaken the program through executive orders and administrative rules.

The Obama administration opposed state efforts to implement work requirements in Medicaid because it could result in fewer people having access to health insurance.

For instance, Kentucky last year proposed work requirements for able-bodied adults to get insurance and establishing new fees for all members based on income. A study found the proposal would reduce the number of residents on Medicaid by nearly 86,000 within five years, saving more than $330 million.

Republicans argue that Medicaid was created to serve the most vulnerable and has become bloated under Obamacare. Verma and other Republicans said implementing work and community engagement requirements could help improve health outcomes by connecting people with jobs and training.

(Reporting by Yasmeen Abutaleb; Editing by Peter Cooney)