Sen.

“Varsity Blues” costars Amy Smart and Ali Larter teamed up for a fun snap posted Wednesday, many seasons after their 1999 football flick came out.

Larter captioned the photo with a touching remark on enduring friendship.

A post shared by Ali Larter (@alilarter) on Apr 25, 2018 at 7:00am PDT

Fans of the film will recall that Smart played Jules, the spirited girlfriend of James Van Der Beek’s quarterback “Mox” in the coach-vs.-QB high school football drama.

But Larter had the scene-stealing turn as Darcy the cheerleader, who tried to seduce Mox wearing nothing but whipped cream and cherries.

Despite the system’s built-in protections, agreements and transactions made with blockchain technology are still susceptible to fraud, hacking and theft. That’s why some states have enacted regulations. New York, for example, in 2015 created a regulatory system, BitLicense, in which anyone doing “virtual currency business activity” must first get a license from the state.

Smart, 42, has appeared recently on “MacGyver” as a CIA operative, and “Heroes” actress Larter, 42, played a TV detective in a 2017 installment of “Curb Your Enthusiasm,” according to IMDB.

There has been talk of a “Varsity Blues” sequel, so if that homecoming happens, we’ll be cheering it on.Superhero movies are all the rage.

So, on Thursday’s broadcast of “The Tonight Show,” host Jimmy Fallon shared the weird and wonderful superpowers viewers would love to have. Cory Booker (D-N.J.), left, and Sen. Kamala Harris (D-Calif.), right, have been appointed to the Senate Judiciary Committee, becoming only the second and third African-American members of the panel in 200 years.com/J8liezjFJl — Bindi Irwin (@BindiIrwin) April 26, 2018

Irwin’s wife, conservationist Terri Irwin, told the crowd of fans ― often called “wildlife warriors” ― during Thursday’s ceremony that the best lesson she learned from her late husband was saying “yes” to life.

“I found that if you put things off, pretty soon it just becomes an excuse. You’re waiting until you graduate, you wait until the kids are grown, you wait until you retire. Don’t even wait for the weekend. Just do it now. That’s what I learned from Steve,” she said.

Steve Irwin, famed for his TV series “The Crocodile Hunter,” died at age 44 while filming an underwater documentary when a stingray’s tail pierced his heart.

A post shared by Bindi Irwin (@bindisueirwin) on Apr 26, 2018 at 10:18am PDT

His daughter, Bindi, choked up as she described the unveiling of her father’s star as “a special day.”

“I have to tell you that I, never in my wildest dreams, imagined that this would become a reality, and this is such an honor as a family to continue in Dad’s footsteps,” she said. “So thank you for being here today and supporting us. Reuters

For the first time in its 200-year history, the Senate Judiciary Committee has two black committee members after Democrats appointed Sen. Kamala Harris (D-Calif.com/ZCNhyF1uIf — ESPN (@espn) April 2, 2018

Mississippi State was up by five with 2:01 to play, but Notre Dame’s Marina Mabrey hit a 3-pointer and Jackie Young knocked down a jumper to tie the score 58-58 and set up Ogunbowale’s heroics.

Jessica Shepard finished with 19 points for Notre Dame (35-3). Ogunbowale had 18, and Mabrey added 10.

Victoria Vivians scored 21 points, and Teaira McCowan capped a record-setting women’s NCAA Tournament with 18 points and 17 rebounds for the Bulldogs (37-2). Mississippi State lost in the national championship game for the second straight season.

McCowan recorded her 29th double-double of the season. The 6-foot-7 junior finished the tournament with a record 109 rebounds in the Bulldogs’ six-game run to the final.

The game featured the last two teams to knock off the Connecticut dynasty. Mississippi State beat UConn in last year’s Final Four but came up short against South Carolina in the championship game. Notre Dame outlasted the Huskies in overtime on Friday, with Ogunbowale hitting the game-winner in the semifinal as well.

Notre Dame averaged 92.4 points in its previous five tournament wins but struggled to establish any rhythm against Mississippi State’s pestering man-to-man defense.) and Sen. Cory Booker (D-N.J.) to the influential panel.

The dual appointment, announced on Tuesday, came as somewhat of a surprise. Democrats needed to fill two spots on the committee, following the resignation of Sen. Al Franken (D-Minn. Because I was black, people wouldn’t even talk to me.”

When Newman finally left her job as the communications director of the White House Office of Public Liaison in December, she said to herself: “Ooh, freedom, I’ve been emancipated. I feel like I just got freed off of a plantation.”

As for her tell-all tome, Newman said President Donald Trump was “going to come after me with everything he has. Like, I’m going up against a kazillionaire.”Donald Trump’s approval rating has slumped again to match the lowest of his presidency, according to two new polls.

The surveys were conducted amid mounting activism for gun control and security clearance problems in the White House.) and the victory of Doug Jones in Alabama’s special Senate election last month.

The Congressional Black Caucus had been pushing Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer (D-N.Y.) to appoint one of its members, and Harris, former attorney general of California, had been expected to take one of the seats, according to The Associated Press. In the end, however, Schumer chose both African-American Democratic senators for the panel.

“The Congressional Black Caucus could not be more proud of both of our Senate members and know the experience and expertise they bring to the Committee will be beneficial for all Americans, specially those disproportionately targeted by the criminal justice system,” Rep. Cedric Richmond (D-La.), the caucus chairman, said in a Tuesday statement.

Only one other African-American lawmaker has served on Judiciary Committee since its founding in 1816. Then-Sen. Carol Moseley Braun (D-Ill.) was a member of the committee in the 1990s.

What’s better than one African American on the Senate Judiciary Committee? Two. *In Our @S_C_ Voice* Yes, we’re still celebrating. @CoryBooker and @SenKamalaHarris are only the 2nd and 3rd African Americans to serve on the @JudiciaryDems Committee in 200+ years. pic.twitter.com/ubPgArziaU — Black Caucus (@OfficialCBC) January 10, 2018

Booker, the first black man to serve on the Judiciary Committee, vowed in a tweet to use his new role to “check awful actions” by President Donald Trump and Attorney General Jeff Sessions, and to “keep working to advance the cause of reforming our broken justice system. ”

Last year, Booker testified against Sessions’ Cabinet nomination. It was the first time a sitting senator had testified against a fellow senator chosen for a Cabinet position.

Excited to join the Judiciary Committee. It'll be my mission to check awful actions by Trump & Sessions; keep working to advance the cause of reforming our broken justice system; and to bend the arc of history closer toward equal justice for all. https://t.co/dvq4vdTkQa — Cory Booker (@CoryBooker) January 9, 2018

Harris said in a tweet that she was “thrilled” about the committee appointment.

“I will fight for justice on behalf of Californians and all Americans,” she wrote.

Thrilled to share that I've been appointed to the Senate Judiciary Committee. You have my commitment that I will fight for justice on behalf of Californians and all Americans. — Kamala Harris (@SenKamalaHarris) January 9, 2018

The Judiciary Committee, one of the Senate’s original standing committees, vets nominations to the Justice Department and has jurisdiction over criminal justice legislation. The panel has been described as one of the most influential committees in Congress and is one of several committees investigating Russia’s interference in the 2016 presidential election.

Advertisement