WASHINGTON — Coastal Democrats from California to New York are blasting Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke for what they view as a political and arbitrary decision to take Florida waters “off the table” for future offshore oil drilling.

Some wonder if the sudden reversal was nothing more than a stunt to help get Gov. Rick Scott (R-Fla.) elected to the Senate in 2018, while California’s top prosecutor pointed out that tourism and beauty are not unique to the Republican-led Sunshine State.

“California is also ‘unique’ & our ‘coasts are heavily reliant on tourism as an economic driver.’ Our ‘local and state voice’ is firmly opposed to any and all offshore drilling,” California Attorney General Xavier Becerra tweeted, referencing Zinke’s own statement.

“If that’s your standard, we, too, should be removed from your list. Immediately,” he added.

.@SecretaryZinke: California is also "unique" & our "coasts are heavily reliant on tourism as an economic driver." Our “local and state voice” is firmly opposed to any and all offshore drilling.



If that's your standard, we, too, should be removed from your list. Immediately. https://t.co/T6W6JaPCPh — Xavier Becerra (@AGBecerra) January 10, 2018

The Trump administration released a sweeping new proposal last week to open nearly all U.S. waters, including huge swaths of the Arctic, Atlantic and Pacific oceans, to oil exploration — a move that drew outrage from both Democrats and Republicans.

Zinke flew to Tallahassee on Tuesday to meet in person with Scott — a staunch Trump ally who pushed back against the administration’s offshore proposal even before an official announcement.

In one Twitter post, Zinke wrote that “local voices matter.” And in a statement announcing his decision for Florida’s coastal waters, Zinke said: “President Trump has directed me to rebuild our offshore oil and gas program in a manner that supports our national energy policy and also takes into consideration the local and state voice. I support the governor’s position that Florida is unique and its coasts are heavily reliant on tourism as an economic driver.”

The move left Democratic governors wondering how that logic would impact their states.

“New York doesn’t want drilling off our coast either,” New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo (D) wrote. “Where do we sign up for a waiver [Secretary Zinke]?”

New York doesn't want drilling off our coast either. I don’t want to steal any child’s innocence, though I want to make sure that the children know the real history of their country,” wrote one teacher.

The impact of inadequate teaching about slavery does not end when students leave the classroom. It contributes to how they see the world, the country’s distribution of power, and the institutions around them.

“It’s not simply an event in our history; it’s central to our history,” the report notes.

Fixing the way slavery is taught in schools has a specific urgency at this moment in history, amid a surge in white nationalism, the report says. Understanding and facing the history is an essential first step of alleviating the indelible stain slavery has left on the country.Fiona, the “superstar” hippopotamus from the Cincinnati Zoo and Botanical Garden, has revealed her Super Bowl pick.

Though the big game between the Philadelphia Eagles and the New England Patriots goes down on Sunday, Fiona selected her winner on Thursday afternoon’s episode of “The Fiona Show” on Facebook Watch. Two boxes, each sporting one team’s logo, were placed in front of Fiona. Both boxes had some lettuce atop them. Where do we sign up for a waiver @SecretaryZinke? https://t.co/dt1rJAEna1 — Andrew Cuomo (@NYGovCuomo) January 10, 2018

Oregon Gov. Kate Brown (D) also wondered if Zinke planned to listen to voices in her state.

Sen. Tim Kaine (D-Va.) suggested if Trump’s beloved Mar-a-Lago resort in Florida ― sometimes dubbed the “Winter White House” ― might have factored into Zinke’s decision.

Local voices in Virginia have also spoken up. This would hurt our coastal economies and threaten our naval operations in Norfolk. If it’s truly about “local voice”—not just protecting President Trump’s Mar-a-Lago—then make this same commitment for Virginia. https://t.co/7n8ZyNDy0D — Tim Kaine (@timkaine) January 10, 2018

For now, Zinke appears to have tuned out pleas from leaders in blue states. But his handling of the situation has already become fuel for potential legal challenges.

“Taking #Florida off the table for offshore drilling but not #California violates the legal standard of arbitrary and capricious agency action,” Rep. Ted Lieu (D-Calif.), an attorney, tweeted. Don’t get off the couch and do something else. Keep watching Netflix.

Bonus: Obvious, but the incredible marketing for bad movies

Netflix hires extremely talented designers Netflix

I’m including this one as a bonus as it’s more just something I’ve noticed than a “trick” with hard evidence. But the marketing department at Netflix is phenomenal. “California and other coastal states also rely on our beautiful coasts for tourism and our economy. I believe courts will strike this down.”

Taking #Florida off the table for offshore drilling but not #California violates the legal standard of arbitrary and capricious agency action. California and other coastal states also rely on our beautiful coasts for tourism and our economy. I believe courts will strike this down https://t.co/xWyB69F7Gg — Ted Lieu (@tedlieu) January 10, 2018

Rationale by Secretary Zinke that the Florida Governor can be "trusted" does not justify discriminatory agency action in favor of Florida over other states. These associations greatly benefit our customers by buying discounted rooms from groups that might otherwise be charged a penalty by hotels for not using all of the rooms in their block,” HotelPlanner CEO Tim Hentschel said in a statement. “Many of our groups are charity events, weddings, family reunions, and youth sports teams, so saving these groups that are on a budget from any unforeseen expense is our number one priority at HotelPlanner. No evidence other Governors can't be trusted. I am thankful that Zinke put his arbitrary and capricious views in writing. https://t.co/rNLgXP5MYJ — Ted Lieu (@tedlieu) January 10, 2018

Scott — who continues to deny the science behind climate change and has long supported drilling in and around Florida — is expected to make a run for Senate this year, challenging Sen. Bill Nelson (D-Fla.), a longtime opponent of offshore drilling.

Nelson dismissed Zinke’s decision Tuesday as a “political stunt.”

“I have spent my entire life fighting to keep oil rigs away from our coasts,” Nelson tweeted on Tuesday. “This is a political stunt orchestrated by the Trump administration to help Rick Scott who has wanted to drill off Florida’s coast his entire career. We shouldn’t be playing politics with the future of FL.”

Sen. Kamala Harris (D-Calif.), Rep. Adam Schiff (D-Calif.) and Virginia Gov.-elect Ralph Northam also protested the Trump administration’s exception for Florida but not other states.

“We’re going to morph into it. It’s going to happen, at some point in the future, over a period of 10 to 12 years,” he told reporters, speaking about so-called Dreamers, the recipients of protections under the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program.

“I think it’s a nice thing to have the incentive of after a period of years being able to become a citizen,” he said.

Trump also told reporters he wants $25 billion in funding for his proposed wall along the U.S.-Mexico border, and an additional $5 billion for other security measures.

Secretary Zinke must also abandon his efforts to drill along California's beautiful coastline — protection of our ocean shouldn't depend on the D, R, or I after the governor's name. https://t.co/SJjb5CbVMC — Kamala Harris (@KamalaHarris) January 10, 2018

Dear Secretary Zinke, California like Florida, has hundreds of miles of beautiful coastline and a governor who wants to keep it that way. Or is that not enough for blue states? https://t.co/vQ5Qtl8Xik — Adam Schiff (@RepAdamSchiff) January 10, 2018

We'd like a word in Virginia. https://t.co/hKumvPMcV4 — Ralph Northam (@RalphNortham) January 10, 2018

Walter Shaub, the former director of the U.S. Office of Government Ethics, did not mince words, accusing Zinke of making the United States a “banana republic.

“Paul Ryan, the people of your district ― students, parents, gun owners, veterans, hunters, Republicans and Democrats alike ― are shouting for you to do something,” Bryce said in the statement. “I echo the students in calling for common-sense gun reform, including a ban on all military assault rifles.”

The students’ trek follows weeks of gun reform activism by young people around the country, sparked by the Feb. 14 mass shooting at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Florida.

On March 14, students around the country staged school walkouts to honor the 17 victims of the Parkland shooting and call attention to gun violence.

On March 24, more than a million students, teachers and activists took to the streets in cities around the U.S. to demand stricter gun control laws.”