Gabriela Landazuri Saltos/HuffPost

How are you on this beautiful Wednesday? I noticed you haven’t owned the libs as much as you usually do. Perhaps it’s just been a busy day.

Has it been a busy day? You must be stressed.

Rome’s Catholic soup kitchens and shelters distributed about 3,000 servings of gelato on Monday, according to Vatican News.

Francis, who became pope in 2013, has taken a special interest in his neighbors who don’t have a stable place to sleep at night. He appointed Polish Archbishop Konrad Krajewski as his personal almoner, tasking him with distributing charity to Rome’s poor in Francis’ name. The position has been largely ceremonial in the past, but Krajewski is credited with revitalizing the job to reflect Francis’ goal of direct outreach.

Homeless persons prepare to sleep under an arcade at the Vatican in November 2014. TIZIANA FABI via Getty Images

The archbishop’s office has distributed sleeping bags to the homeless, as well as provided them with free showers, haircuts and laundry services.

For his 80th birthday, Francis invited a group of homeless people to eat breakfast with him. The meal featured pastries, meats, Nutella and some sweets from Francis’ native Argentina.

AdvertisementTen people are dead and at least 15 others are injured after a van drove onto a sidewalk in Toronto’s North York neighborhood on Monday.

The driver was taken into custody shortly after the incident. Deputy Chief Peter Yuen of the Toronto police confirmed the number of fatalities during a press briefing on Monday afternoon.

Toronto Police Chief Mark Saunders later identified the suspect as 25-year-old Alek Minassian, of Richmond Hill, Ontario. He said at a news conference Monday evening that the actions “definitely looked deliberate.”

Investigators were looking into terrorism as a possible motive behind the attack, Reuters reported, citing a U.S. If not, they will be the ones responsible for shutting down our schools.”It seems that even a queen has to fight for equal pay.

Producers of the Netflix series “The Crown” admitted during an INTV conference panel that the show’s lead, Claire Foy, was paid less than Matt Smith, the actor playing her on-screen husband. Foy received an estimated $40,000 per episode for her award-winning portrayal of Queen Elizabeth II, while Smith’s salary for playing Prince Philip is unreported.

Producers attributed the pay disparity to Smith’s name recognition after he rose to stardom as the title character on the British television series “Doctor Who.”

The show will not let it happen again, said Suzanne Mackie, creative director of the show’s production company, Left Bank.

“Going forward, no one gets paid more than the Queen,” Mackie said, according to Variety.

But that doesn’t help Foy, who won’t be returning to the show because it jumps forward in time in seasons three and four. “Broadchurch” alum Olivia Coleman will play the queen, and Smith’s replacement has yet to be named.

The 33-year-old Foy won a Golden Globe last year for her portrayal of Queen Elizabeth and even earned the appreciation of the queen herself. Smith received no awards for his role on the show.Eduardo Munoz / Reuters

WASHINGTON ― Only about half of the people who voted for President Donald Trump say it would be immoral if he had an affair with pornographic film actress Stormy Daniels. The other half say it is not immoral, or they are not sure, according to a new HuffPost/YouGov survey published Tuesday. Why not go for a stroll around your neighborhood?

I suggest starting at 60th Street and 1st Avenue. The National Alliance on Mental Health estimates that about 2.

And Paper Boi a fool for thinking he could find another plug just like that. He got a little clout now, he gotta vet drug dealers properly now.

Julia: Right! And he going around trying to find plugs with Darius’ ole lackadaisical ass like he vets dealers. Every dealer was his “mans,” and you can’t allow that kinda energy into your vetting process when you’re gaining fame.6 percent of the U.S. population is affected by bipolar disorder (an umbrella term that includes bipolar II).

Now that she’s been seeking treatment, Carey said that she’s in a “really good place right now.”

“I’m comfortable discussing my struggles with bipolar II disorder. I’m hopeful we can get to a place where the stigma is lifted from people going through anything alone,” Carey said. “It can be incredibly isolating. It does not have to define you and I refuse to allow it to define me or control me.”

Demi Lovato is another celebrity who has been open about her bipolar disorder diagnosis and how treatment has helped her manage the condition.

In an interview with Ellen DeGeneres last year, the singer said “I’m bipolar and proud and I live well with it.”

“I think that that’s the goal for everyone with a mental illness,” Lovato explained. “The reality is, one in five Americans has a mental health condition, so as long as they get the right treatment team in place and the right treatment plan, then they can live well with it.”

Amen to that.

Head here to read the rest of Carey’s interview with People, or pick up a copy when the magazine hits newsstands on Friday, April 13. There’s a beautiful—

Gabriela Landazuri Saltos/HuffPost

Oh no.

Gabriela Landazuri Saltos/HuffPost

No no no. That’s not supposed to be there at all.

But that’s OK. Let’s just head a couple blocks up to 62nd Street. The unseasonably warm weather feels great, just like papa wanted.

But wait, in the distance. That advertisement. Is that...

Gabriela Landazuri Saltos/HuffPost

Oh my.

Gabriela Landazuri Saltos/HuffPost

Some beautiful neighborhood art, apparently made just for you by ... Banksy? MS-13? Ivanka?

AdvertisementMichael Cohen, President Donald Trump’s personal attorney, said he filed a pair of defamation lawsuits against BuzzFeed and political intelligence firm Fusion GPS on Tuesday.

The lawsuits are in response to BuzzFeed’s publication of an unverified dossier filled with allegations linking Trump, his inner circle and Cohen, a longtime Trump confidant, to Russian officials.

The 35-page dossier was compiled by Fusion GPS and reportedly commissioned by Trump’s political opponents, including anti-Trump Republicans and Democrats. BuzzFeed published the dossier last January, noting at the time that allegations in the document were unverified and contained errors.

Cohen filed one lawsuit in a state court against BuzzFeed, BuzzFeed Editor-in-Chief Ben Smith and reporters Ken Bensinger, Mirian Elder and Mark Schoofs, according to ABC News. The other suit was filed against Fusion GPS and company co-founder Glenn Simpson in a federal court in the Southern District of New York, Bloomberg reported.

“It will be proven that I had no involvement in this Russian collusion conspiracy,” Cohen told Bloomberg. “My name was included only because of my proximity to the president.”

NEW statement from lawyers for Trump’s personal attornery Michael Cohen. They say Cohen’s reputation has been “permanently damaged” by the Steele dossier and they will seek “maximum damages” in suit filed against Fusion GPS for contracting doc and Buzzfeed for publishing pic.twitter.com/oITIeAKuuc — Tara Palmeri (@tarapalmeri) January 10, 2018

In an op-ed published Tuesday in The New York Times, Smith adamantly defended BuzzFeed’s controversial decision to publish the unverified dossier in its entirety last year.

Once the document was unveiled, journalists and government officials criticized BuzzFeed for publishing the unsubstantiated claims. Many journalists, including some at major news organizations, even said they received the same information but decided against publishing it without verifying the details.

Though a small number of networks were compromised, voting machines were not directly affected and there remains no evidence any vote was altered, according to U.S. officials and securityexperts.

“It is pretty remarkable that in this environment, given the importance of this issue, that the speaker would choose this moment to not reappoint the person doing the most work in this area,” said Judd Choate, Colorado’s election director and the immediate past president of the National Association of State Election Directors.

The commission was formed in the aftermath of the 2000 U.S. presidential election won by Republican George W. Bush that came down to disputed paper ballots cast in Florida. Its responsibilities include maintaining voluntary guidelines for voting systems, including cyber security standards, that most states use when purchasing new voting equipment.

Since the 2016 election, almost all 50 states have taken steps to purchase more secure equipment, expand the use of paper ballots, improve cyber training or seek federal assistance, according to groups that track election security.

U.S. intelligence officials have described the targeting of state election systems as part of a wide-ranging effort by Moscow that also included propaganda efforts and hacking to sow discord during the 2016 campaign, boost Trump and disparage his Democratic rival, Hillary Clinton.

Special counsel Robert Mueller’s office last Friday indicted 13 Russians and three Russian companies for their alleged involvement in a criminal and espionage conspiracy to tamper with the 2016 election. In response to BuzzFeed’s dossier, Trump cried “fake news” and famously called the organization a “failing pile of garbage.”

Smith on Tuesday claimed that the past year of “government inquiries and blockbuster journalism” ― referencing the Russia investigation and the investigative reporting following the inquiry ― is proof that the dossier is “unquestionably real news.”

After Cohen tweeted news of the defamation lawsuits, BuzzFeed released a statement echoing Smith’s op-ed:

The dossier is, and continues to be, the subject of active investigations by Congress and intelligence agencies. It was presented to two successive Presidents, and has been described by news outlets around the world. Its interest to the public is obvious. This is not the first time Trump’s personal lawyer has attacked the free press, and we look forward to defending our First Amendment rights in court.

The dossier, compiled by former British intelligence agent Christopher Steele, claims that Russian officials have been cultivating Trump for at least five years and that Trump and “his inner circle” have received a “regular flow” of information from Russia about his political rivals.

The dossier alleges that Trump engaged in “perverted sexual acts” in Russia and describes a “clandestine meeting” between Cohen and the Kremlin that took place in the Czech Republic capital of Prague. Cohen defended himself against the latter claim by maintaining that he has never traveled to the Czech Republic.

Enough is enough of the #fake #RussianDossier. Just filed a defamation action against @BuzzFeedNews for publishing the lie filled document on @POTUS @realDonaldTrump and me! — Michael Cohen (@MichaelCohen212) January 10, 2018

According to ABC News, both of Cohen’s lawsuits claim that the dossier published by BuzzFeed contained “false and defamatory allegations” that resulted in “harm to his personal and professional reputation, current business interests, and the impairment of business opportunities.”

In the federal complaint, Cohen alleges that Fusion GPS “recklessly placed [the dossier] beyond their control and allowed it to fall into the hands of media devoted to breaking news on the hottest subject of the day: the Trump candidacy,” ABC News reported.

Cohen announced his lawsuits on the same day Sen. Dianne Feinstein (D-Calif.) released a transcript from Simpson’s 10-hour testimony to the Senate Judiciary Committee in August, at Simpson’s request.

During that testimony, the committee questioned Simpson as part of its investigation into Russia’s meddling in the 2016 election and the Kremlin’s ties to the Trump campaign.

In October, Cohen testified privately before members of the House Intelligence Committee. Speaking to Bloomberg on Tuesday, Cohen said that he told the panels that he never engaged with anyone representing the Russian government and never discussed interfering with the Democratic Party or the U.S. election.