Oh na naaaa. Chris McKay via Getty Images

Half of her heart may be in Havana, but Camila Cabello still managed to reach a big pop music milestone this week., firm were circulating a draft letter to management demanding to know whether the woman had been forced out as an act of retaliation.

“If it is the case, as we fear, that [her] employment was involuntarily terminated just two months after being assaulted by her supervisor and a partner at the firm,” the letter read, “that would be untenable.”

The upheaval belied Revolution’s public image as a firm on the cutting edge of the progressive movement.

Her single “Havana” has now spent seven weeks at the top of Billboard’s Pop Songs radio airplay chart ― the longest run atop the chart for a solo female artist in a lead role in five years. The last artist to reach the milestone was Taylor Swift with “I Knew You Were Trouble” in 2013.

The feat comes days before Cabello’s release of her eponymous debut album. The singer has been teasing “Camila,” which drops Friday, via Instagram since last month.

In the lead-up to the new record’s debut, the Cuban-born artist revealed the album cover and the tracklist.

A post shared by camila (@camila_cabello) on Jan 9, 2018 at 10:47am PST

Even though Cabello is just starting her solo career, she already has fans in important places. Elton John gushed about her during a recent episode of Beats 1 with Matt Wilkinson on Apple Music Tuesday.

“I just think she’s going to have an amazing year, cause she’s … just so much fun,” John said. “She’s got a great voice, and she has a great attitude.” He added: “There’s a vibrancy in her...

Neither the Syrian military nor Russia commented on the renewed bombardment in eastern Ghouta, but they have often said they do not target civilians.Ziga Jeglic #8 of Slovenia celebrates after scoring the winning goal in a shootout against Slovakia during the Men's Ice Hockey Preliminary Round on Day 8 of the PyeongChang 2018 Winter Olympic Games at Kwangdong Hockey Centre on February 17, 2018 in Gangneung, South Korea. Maddie Meyer via Getty Images

PYEONGCHANG, South Korea (Reuters) - Slovenia men’s ice hockey player Ziga Jeglic has tested positive for a banned substance and has been suspended for the remainder of the Pyeongchang Winter Olympics, the Court of Arbitration for Sport said on Tuesday.

It added that Jeglic, who tested positive for fenoterol, had accepted the anti-doping rule violation and would leave the Olympics within 24 hours. what else is going on in the president’s life right now unavoidably creates a real perception around the globe that that may have been part of the motivation both for what he did and particularly for when he did it,” she said.

The “perception that the president may have made these strikes in part because of scandal will affect the impact and the effectiveness of these military strikes — unavoidably,” Maddow added.

“It is a sad thing and it is an upsetting thing in terms of American influence in the world and the risks that we take when we use American military power anywhere.”

CNN’s Ana Navarro walked the line of both questioning Trump’s motivations and railing against a chemical weapons attack on a civilian population.

It is true Trump may have ordered strikes against Syria to distract attention from Comey book & Cohen investigation



It is true Assad is committing genocide.

““Even apart from Jeff Sessions, I’ve never liked the idea that the attorney general can review a decision of the BIA [Board of Immigration Appeals] at all. It makes me feel good, makes me want to get up and dance.”

Not surprisingly, Cabello freaked out when she heard what the English singing legend said about her.“Throughout my service, I worked hard and never lost sight of the people our government is supposed to serve,” Issa said in a statement. “Yet with the support of my family, I have decided that I will not seek re-election in California’s 49th District.”

Issa, one of the wealthiest members of Congress, narrowly won his re-election race against Democrat Doug Applegate in November 2016 by just 1,621 votes. It was Issa’s first competitive race in more than 15 years.

Applegate has already announced plans to run for Issa’s seat in 2018.

Rep. Darrell Issa will not run for re-election in 2018. Mike Blake/Reuters

“Secretary Clinton won this district by a huge margin in 2016, and the cohort of strong Democratic challengers, unprecedented grassroots activism, and historic investment by the DCCC in Southern California means we are in a strong position to elect a Democrat to the 49th District this fall,” said Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee spokesman Drew Godinich.

Rep. He is considered to be either the third or fourth pope of the Catholic Church and a companion to the early Christian leaders, Saints Peter and Paul. According to Catholic tradition, Clement died as a martyr around the year A.D. 100, after a Roman emperor ordered him to be thrown into the sea near Crimea with an iron anchor tied to his body.

The Basilica of St. Clement in Rome and an abbey in Abruzzo, Italy, house relics they attribute to Clement.

It’s rare for relics that undergo carbon dating tests to date back to the period they’re supposedly from. Steve Stivers (R-Ohio), chairman of the National Republican Congressional Committee, noted the multiple candidates Democrats have running in Issa’s district, saying it’s “fast becoming one of the bloodiest primaries in America.”

“While Democrats fight with each other, Republicans will focus on fighting Democrats ― and that’s how we plan to win,” he said. “We look forward to facing whoever limps out of the Democrats’ battle royale: black and blue, and broke.”

As the former chairman of the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee, Issa gained a reputation for being a fierce critic of President Barack Obama ― going after the administration on the Benghazi, Libya, terrorist attack, the IRS and the “Fast and Furious” gun-running scandal.

Issa’s district has changed considerably over the years, becoming more diverse and less conservative. In an attempt to appeal to his new voting base, the one-time Obama antagonist sent out a mailer last cycle touting praise from the former president.

In recent months, at least 30 House Republicans have announced they will leave Congress, according to CNN. Several Senate Republicans have also announced their plans to retire, including Jeff Flake (Ariz.) and Bob Corker (Tenn.).