Thomas S. Monson, sixteenth President of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints Daily Herald

I don’t remember the first time I shook Thomas S. I want my daughters to feel good about themselves.We’re unsure of what to expect when Darius pulls up in a U-Haul truck out front the mansion pianist Benny Hope shares with his brother Teddy Perkins. Darius, played by Lakeith Stanfield, had driven to the home, tucked outside the city, to pick up a free piano that had rainbow-colored keys.

As he goes to knock on the door, it creaks open on its own — a typical horror movie trope meant to put viewers on edge and hint that Darius is in danger. He enters the foyer slowly, looking around him, calling out for anyone who may be home. Lurking in the shadows is Teddy, who creeps out of the nook by the staircase and questions a startled Darius about the Stevie Wonder song he was playing in the truck just before he entered the property.

From there, Teddy Perkins — the titular character in the latest installment of Donald Glover’s “Atlanta” — drags Darius, and the rest of us, through a maze of horrific twists and turns uninterrupted by commercial breaks. It’s easy to write Teddy, a character bluntly based on Michael Jackson, off as weird or strange. But in reality he is a tormented, broken man who has experienced the worst incarnations of the childhood abuse and trauma often inflicted upon black children in the name of love. Every detail laced within the episode is carefully placed to make clear to viewers that the theme of the series’ second season, “Robbin’ Season,” is about much more than losing your possessions. Monson’s hand. And the majority of AAPIs speak a language other than English.

What’s more, much of the AAPI community in the U.S. is made up of immigrants. I do remember his handshake was firm and that it enveloped my hand entirely. I remember his hand was warm and large and reassuring, much like the sound of his voice. The inimitable sing-song cadence of his voice was as familiar to me as the sound of my parents’ voices. I’d grown up listening to it, reverencing it, eagerly awaiting it every six months during the broadcast of the churchwide LDS General Conference.

I shook his hand after he spoke at devotionals at Ricks College, the LDS church-owned school in the small town of Rexburg, Idaho where I grew up. I shook his hand as a bright-eyed 19 year-old at the Missionary Training Center in Provo, Utah where I was preparing to teach people about the church I loved and believed in during the next two years in Alaska.

I shook his hand over the course of the six years I spent as both an undergraduate and graduate student at Brigham Young University in Provo. And I shook his hand, multiple times, during the three years I sang as a member of the Mormon Tabernacle Choir.

Every time I shook his hand, I felt something powerful — an almost electric assurance that this was a man of God.

I did not shake his hand at the dedication ceremony for the Rexburg, Idaho LDS temple, which took place one week after he was ordained as prophet and president of the church. I wanted to, but I wouldn’t have been allowed inside the temple for the ceremony. I had come out as gay one year earlier, and had to leave BYU and resign from the Tabernacle Choir as a result. The institutional response to my coming out might look different today, but at that time it meant having to leave the only spiritual home I’d ever known.

I did go to the Temple Open House, available to the general public. I placed the disposable slippers over my shoes and walked through each ornately adorned room of the temple in silence. I lingered in the Celestial Room, the final destination spot in the temple -- which Mormons believe mirrors the heavenly reward that awaits at the end of our mortal journeys if we remain faithful. I believed that, too.

Only now I believed my departure from this Celestial Room might be my last -- that in this life, and in the next, I would no longer be allowed to return to this place because being gay and choosing not to be alone would make me unworthy to be there. I stood in the Celestial Room holding my mother’s hand, neither of us speaking, both of us crying. We could each sense it would be my last time there.

Four months later, President Monson and his counselors issued a letter to be read aloud in LDS congregations stating, “We ask that you do all you can .com/XWK339srdZ — The Takeout (@TakeoutPodcast) January 18, 2018

Mueller has informed Trump’s legal team that he would likely seek an interview with the president for his investigation, The Washington Post reported.

Trump has repeatedly insisted that his campaign did not collude with Russia.

“For 11 months, they’ve had this phony cloud over this administration, over our government, and it has hurt our government,” Trump said during a news conference last week, referring to the probe. “It’s a Democrat hoax that was brought up as an excuse for losing an election.”

This week, former White House strategist Steve Bannon reportedly agreed to an interview with Mueller after he was subpoenaed to testify before a grand jury... by donating of your means and time to assure that marriage in California is legally defined as being between a man and a woman."

Hearing those words broke my heart. A man whose hand had become synonymous with the quiet, unsurpassable power of God’s love had now penned a letter asking the people closest to me to vote against my right to marry and raise a family.

I tried to pick up the pieces of my fractured faith and move forward. But seven years later, my precariously patched-together heart came undone when President Monson and the other senior members of the Church’s leadership declared that individuals in same sex relationships were to be considered “apostates” and that their children couldn’t be baptized until they turned 18 and, only then, if they “specifically disavowed” their parents’ “same gender relationship.”

When I found out President Monson had died last week, I recalled the sting of betrayal and the throes of despondency I had experienced as a gay Mormon under his tenure as the leader of a church whose teachings, traditions, and music are as much a part of my native tongue as anything. I also recalled the love he had for his wife Frances and their three children and eight grandchildren.com/KkTchYXAwK — Sunrise (@sunriseon7) January 15, 2018

Wildlife experts at Sydney’s Taronga Zoo examined the wallaby and said it had sustained some minor injuries.

“The animal was thoroughly assessed by Senior Veterinarian Dr. Larry Vogelnest, including a full body X-Ray, which thankfully revealed the animal had not received any significant injuries. The wallaby has been administered pain medication and fluids and is currently in Taronga’s Wildlife Intensive Care Unit for recovery and further monitoring,” Taronga said on Facebook.

“At this stage, it doesn’t appear to have any serious injuries. However, it will be carefully assessed over the next 24-48 hours,” Vogelnest said.

The wallaby is expected to be released back into the wild.

“I couldn’t believe what I was seeing,” a woman named Michelle told Sydney radio station 2GB.

“I was so worried about the poor little thing. It was just hopping northbound in lane eight.”WASHINGTON (Reuters) - The U.S. Justice Department on Tuesday said it will ask the Supreme Court to overturn a judge’s ruling last week that blocked President Donald Trump’s move to end a program that protects hundreds of thousands of immigrants brought to the United States illegally as children.

The Trump administration will file an appeal of the judge’s injunction directly with the conservative-majority Supreme Court as well as seeking to appeal to the San Francisco-based 9th U. I could hear the sound of his voice in my mind -- a voice that will forever take me back to being a child perched in front of a rabbit-eared tv set listening to words I believed were God’s own. I could hear the sound of his voice breaking with emotion as he told of ministering to the widows, the childless, the lonely, overlooked, and forgotten -- just as Christ would have done.

President Monson was many things. He was kind and generous. support for a controversial Saudi-led coalition that has been fighting in Yemen since 2015.

At noon on Thursday, all Senate offices received a letter organized by the progressive group Win Without War and the conservative organization FreedomWorks and signed by 53 other outfits, including Indivisible, Our Revolution, CODEPINK, MoveOn.Org and CREDO. Activists are organizing a special call-in day on Friday to add to the more than 5,000 calls on the issue that constituents have already made to members. And campaigners plan a flurry of face-to-face meetings with congressional staff in the run up to a vote expected next week.

“This war of attrition has been waged using U.S. weapons, military support, and personnel without consent of Congress for far too long,” reads the letter, which was provided to HuffPost. “Congress has a constitutional and ethical duty to ensure any and all U.S. military operations comply with domestic and international law, and U.S. participation in the civil war in Yemen raises numerous legal and moral questions that must be resolved. He had a twinkle in his eye and an unforgettable lilt to his voice. He could be exacting and affable, uncompromising and compassionate, formidable and inspiring.

He caused my heart to skip a beat every time he took my hand in his during my formative years, the same eager heart he broke, more than once, as I became a man. He’s like my father in that way: at once both more than you’d hoped for, and not at all who you’d thought. He proffered an abundance of love and left behind genuine heartache.