Rep. Brendan Boyle (D-Pa.) on Tuesday introduced the “Standardizing Testing and Accountability Before Large Elections Giving Electors Necessary Information for Unobstructed Selection Act.”

It’s otherwise known as the “STABLE GENIUS Act. But many striking employees apparently don’t trust the issue will be resolved, and fear increased health costs could wipe away their raises.

The director of the West Virginia Education Association, one of the two state unions leading the strike, told The Charleston Gazette Mail on Wednesday that “we’ll wait and see” whether the strike continues.

Jenny Santilli, a Spanish teacher protesting at the Capitol on Wednesday, said many teachers would have rejected the deal had union leaders put it up for a vote. Santilli was upset that the health care issue remained in play, and that state workers would have to settle for smaller pay increases than educators.”

In the highly unlikely event the measure passes, it would require all presidential candidates to undergo medical examinations to determine their health and mental stability. Results would be made public.

The President believes he is a "stable genius." I do not. Today, I introduced the



Standardizing

Testing and

Accountability

Before

Large

Elections



Giving

Electors

Necessary

Information for

Unobstructed

Selection



Act to ensure that Presidential candidates are fit to lead. pic.twitter.com/ZalCqySlo8 — Rep. Brendan Boyle (@CongBoyle) January 9, 2018

The act’s name is a reference to Trump’s description of himself, and his capacity to govern, in a series of tweets on Saturday:

Now that Russian collusion, after one year of intense study, has proven to be a total hoax on the American public, the Democrats and their lapdogs, the Fake News Mainstream Media, are taking out the old Ronald Reagan playbook and screaming mental stability and intelligence..... — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) January 6, 2018

....Actually, throughout my life, my two greatest assets have been mental stability and being, like, really smart. Crooked Hillary Clinton also played these cards very hard and, as everyone knows, went down in flames. I went from VERY successful businessman, to top T.V. I don’t think that this president has done that. But in any event, that’s not the crime.”

Rudy Giuliani on @ThisWeekABC: "What is said to the press, that's political."



George Stephanopoulos: "It's okay to lie to the press?"



Giuliani: "Uh. Star..... — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) January 6, 2018

....to President of the United States (on my first try). I think that would qualify as not smart, but genius....and a very stable genius at that! — Donald J.

Under a new law, the state will automatically register people to vote when they use other services at a motor vehicle or state social service agency or buy health insurance through the state’s public exchange. The bill also instructs state officials to come up with a way to offer people who file their Maryland income tax returns online the opportunity to register to vote.

While several state agencies are already required by federal law to offer people the opportunity to register to vote, advocates believe that tweaking the process so the default option is to register will lead to more people on the voting rolls.

But boycotts and reputational damage can’t change everything

Although reputational damage is the reason private sector pressure campaigns work, it is also the reason they don’t: Not every company cares what the public thinks. As I reported for Highline in 2015, the vast majority of corporations in the world do not have names you’ve heard or products you recognize. Boycotting Apple is relatively easy. Boycotting Foxconn is almost impossible. Even though any individual can still choose to opt out, research has shown that making something the default option increases the likelihood that people will choose it.

The bill overwhelmingly passed both houses of the Maryland Legislature and was sent to Gov. Larry Hogan (R) last week. Hogan had six days to sign or veto the bill; he did neither and the legislation became law on Thursday. It will take effect in July 2019.

Hogan’s office did not respond to a request for comment on why he chose not to sign the bill. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) January 6, 2018

“The president believes he is a ‘stable genius.’ I do not,” Boyle said in a statement. “President Trump’s reckless, erratic behavior has exposed a critical flaw in our existing election process.”

Boyle said that “before voting for the highest office in the land, Americans have a right to know whether an individual has the physical and mental fitness to serve as president of the United States.”SOLAI, Kenya (Reuters) - A dam burst on a flower farm in Kenya’s Rift Valley after weeks of torrential rain, unleashing a “sea of water” that smashed into two villages and killed at least 32 people, officials and survivors said.

The walls of the Patel dam, situated on a large commercial farm on top of a hill in Nakuru county, 190 km (120 miles) northwest of Nairobi, gave way late on Wednesday as nearby residents were sitting down to evening meals.

The floodwaters swept away powerlines, homes and buildings, including a primary school, a Reuters photographer on the scene said, as rescue workers picked through rubble and mud searching for survivors.

Volunteers search for survivors after a dam burst in Kenya on Thursday and caused “huge destruction,” rescue services and government officials said. getty

The bodies of two female victims were found several kilometers away. Interior Ministry spokesman Mwenda Njoka put the death toll at 32.

After a severe drought last year, East Africa has been hit by two months of heavy rain, affecting nearly a million people in Kenya, Somalia, Ethiopia and Uganda as bridges have been swept away and roads turned into rivers of mud.

In Solai, Veronica Wanjiku Ngigi, 67, said she was at home brewing tea with her son at around 8 pm (1700 GMT) when his wife rushed in to say the dam had burst and they needed to get to higher ground immediately.

“It was a sea of water. My neighbor was killed when the water smashed through the wall of his house. He was blind so he could not run. They found his body in the morning,” she said. “My other neighbors also died. All our houses have been ruined.”

Dozens of people were killed. getty

IRRIGATION

Nakuru lies in the heart of Kenya’s fertile Rift Valley, home to thousands of commercial farms that grow everything from French beans to macadamia nuts to cut flowers, nearly all of which are exported to Europe.

The region is dotted with irrigation reservoirs built in the last two decades to meet the demands of the rapidly expanding agricultural sector, the biggest foreign exchange earner for East Africa’s biggest economy and a major source of jobs.

Nakuru governor Lee Kinyanjui said 450 homes had been hit by the floodwaters and safety engineers had been sent to inspect three other dams nearby.

Wanjiku said at least one looked like it too was ready to burst. “There is another dam which is also overflowing which is looking risky,” she said. “We are scared.”

One primary school had been closed as a precaution, education officials said. Arriving at the scene of the disaster, Interior Minister Fred Matiangi pledged central government assistance to those affected.

Even before this week’s dam-burst, heavy rains had caused havoc in Kenya, killing 132 people and displacing 222,000, according to the government. Roads and bridges have been destroyed, causing millions of dollars of damage.

The United Nations UNOCHA disaster agency said 580,000 people had been affected by torrential rain and flooding in neighboring Somalia, while the Somali region of eastern Ethiopia had taken a hammering, with 160,000 people affected.

UNOCHA said the flooding could get worse, with heavy rains forecast to continue in the Rift Valley and the Lake Victoria basin over the next few weeks.. They’ve been dancing together since November 2014