Sen. Orrin Hatch (R-Utah) speaks at a Capitol celebration of the tax bill's passage. Aaron P. Bernstein/Bloomberg via Getty Images

WASHINGTON ― Republicans in the U.S. Senate don’t seem to be paying close attention to what could happen to their new tax law as states begin to respond to it.

Democrats in states such as California and New York are considering legislation that would subvert a new limit on the amount individuals can deduct from their federal tax liability for what they’ve paid in state and local taxes.

If the state legislation works as intended, it could cost the federal government hundreds of billions of dollars that Republicans had counted on to offset the revenue loss from the corporate and individual tax cuts in the bill they passed last month. But Republicans don’t seem to be sweating it, or even thinking about it.

“I don’t know much about what their conditions are, so I hesitate to comment,” Sen.

Taryn: You better than me. I don’t start getting ready till he gets there. I also ain’t shit so ...

Julia: This episode is also the first time I’ve actually laughed in a “funny haha” way at “Atlanta. Orrin Hatch (R-Utah), chairman of the Senate Finance Committee and the Senate’s lead author of the new tax law, told HuffPost on Tuesday.

Other senators who’d been closely involved in writing the tax bill, including Tim Scott (R-S.C.) and Susan Collins (R-Maine), were similarly unprepared to comment on developments in the coastal states, which have been the subject of national news stories since last week.

“I’m not really familiar with what they’re doing,” Collins said.

What they’re doing is this: Legislation by California Senate leader Kevin de León (D-Los Angeles) would allow Californians to “donate” to a state fund in the amount they would have paid in state taxes, receive a credit for their state taxes for that donation and then, because the federal tax law still allows households to deduct charitable donations from their adjusted gross income, they could write off the amount they’d charitably “given” to the state.

Essentially, de León’s bill would let state residents dodge a new $10,000 limit on the state-and-local tax deduction, thus allowing the state to continue collecting revenue from its relatively high taxes rates. “I was hoping to place higher in the standings, but it was truly the best of the best out there this weekend, and I couldn’t be happier with my performance.

“I really feel like my best racing days are ahead of me.”

Mosier has been turning expectations of transgender athletes upside down over the last few years. While so much attention is paid to perceived “advantages” of trans women in sports, Mosier is showing that trans men can compete against cisgender men on national and world stages and perform incredibly well.

He was Outsports’ 2016 Person of the Year.

For more from OutSports, check out these stories:Beyoncé will give $25,000 to four historically black colleges and universities for the 2018-2019 school year as part of a new scholarship program that was inspired by the singer’s historic Coachella performance this past weekend. One student from each HBCU ― Xavier University of Louisiana, Wilberforce University, Tuskegee University and Bethune-Cookman University ― will receive the money.

To qualify for the Homecoming Scholars Award Program, applicants need to have at least a 3.5 GPA. Each university will select its own finalists and winner, with winners set to be announced sometime this summer.

The news comes on the heels of Beyoncé’s show at Coachella, where she brought out her former Destiny’s Child bandmates for a mini-reunion. She was the first black woman to headline the major music festival.

Beyoncé performs during the 2018 Coachella festival. His office said roughly 6 million California households claim the deduction, reducing their federal taxable income by an average of about $18,000.

“What we’re doing as leaders of blue states,” de León said in an interview, “is being creative and as innovative as possible to provide tax relief to Californians who are going to refuse to foot the bill for these wealthy corporations that are going to benefit from this tax boondoggle.”

De León’s measure is the kind of reaction Republicans might have forestalled if they’d spent more than a few weeks writing their bill. Experts warned in December that states could hack the law through a scheme like the one de León has proposed, but Republicans had already completed the final bill after unveiling it the previous month.

Policymakers in New York and Connecticut are considering a different sort of end-around that experts had also suggested might work: shifting state income taxes onto business payrolls, which are still fully deductible under the new federal law.

“I think this is something [Republicans in Congress] should have seen coming,” Larry Zelenak, a tax professor at Duke University School of Law, said in an interview.

But Zelenak said de Leon’s plan would not necessarily succeed. Though the Internal Revenue Service has previously said it’s OK for states to trade tax credits for donations to state funds, Zelenak said there’s nothing to stop the IRS from reversing that decision if states start exploiting it.

“It’s just an administrative interpretation, and a new administration is entitled to try a new interpretation,” Zelenak said. “I am not at all sure it would win in the end.”

Several Republicans told HuffPost the same thing.”

“We regret that some of our political contributions have led to an unintentional customer divide instead of our desire to support a growing economy in Florida,” the company said. “As a result of this situation, we are evaluating our processes to ensure that our giving better reflects our intended desire to support a strong economy and a healthy community.”

Those vowing to boycott Publix have argued that supporting Putnam directly supports the NRA because of his promise to uphold the group’s beliefs.

“I’m very sad I’ll never experience the joy of a [Publix sub] again but nothing tastes as good as being on the right side of the fight,” tweeted social media user Gabriella Juliet, who used the boycott hashtag.

Whether the boycott will affect the company ― which has 1,183 stores in Florida, Georgia, Alabama, South Carolina, Tennessee, North Carolina and Virginia ― remains to be seen.

Publix, which has over 1,000 stores across the southeast, has donated more than a half a million dollars to gubernatorial candidate and current agricultural commissioner Adam Putnam. NicolasMcComber via Getty Images

According to personal finance website WalletHub, 60 percent of Americans plan to barbecue over the Memorial Day weekend, with $1.5 billion worth of meat and seafood being purchased for the event. Memorial Day is also the second most popular day for beer sales, just behind Independence Day.

David Jenkins, a Tampa resident who said he is participating in the boycott, estimated to the Times that he spends $500 to $600 a month at Publix stores. He said he’s now taking his business to competitor Winn-Dixie.

“I’m sure if you went through every corporate chain you could find something you disagree with, but there’s a certain point where you draw a line,” he told the paper. “This situation — where the amount of money is so substantial and the stakes so high — is the line.

“If there is an intent to get around it in that respect, I think they’re going to find it more difficult than they might imagine,” Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S. attorney Joseph diGenova to his legal team. The addition of diGenova, who has accused the FBI and Justice Department of trying to frame Trump in the Russian collusion probe, marks a more aggressive legal strategy in the handling of Mueller’s investigation.

Rumors of Dowd’s imminent departure have been swirling for several months. The Times reported earlier this month that Trump hoped to add to his legal team Emmet Flood, a veteran Washington attorney who represented President Bill Clinton in the late 1990s during his impeachment hearings. Trump immediately denied the report and tweeted that he was “VERY happy” with his legal team.

A representative for the White House declined to comment, while a request for comment from Dowd was not immediately answered.D.) said.

“I think they’re going to have a hard time doing it,” Sen. Ron Johnson (R-Wis.) said.

Nevertheless, Johnson suggested it was regrettable that the situation had come to pass, saying he would have written the bill differently, particularly its provisions on business taxation.

“This was not my approach to how we should have dealt with things,” he said.

Initially, GOP leaders wanted to eliminate the local tax deduction altogether but preserved it in order to win support from Republicans in high-tax states. In his Friday testimony, von Spakovsky said that any ineligible voter who cast a ballot was committing voter fraud because they were diluting the vote of a legitimate citizen. Robinson wanted to know if he believed it would also be voter fraud if thousands of legitimate voters were blocked from casting ballots because of a voting restriction (the ACLU estimates the Kansas law affected more than 35,000 people). Von Spakovsky said that he didn’t consider it to be fraud because every voter had an opportunity to obtain the necessary documents to register.Border Patrol officials in Southern California are defending their actions after a dramatic video of agents arresting an undocumented mother as her daughters watched on went viral this week.

The video, filmed last Saturday, shows agents pulling 36-year-old Perla Morales-Luna away from her crying daughters on a street corner in National City, California. The agents drive off quickly after placing Morales-Luna in the backseat of a Border Patrol vehicle, and her daughters appear to be left on the street confused. Capping the deduction will increase revenue by $668 billion over 10 years, according to the congressional Joint Committee on Taxation.

Rep. Kevin Brady (R-Texas), chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee and lead author of the tax bill on the House side of the Capitol, said state lawmakers should simply allow their constituents to benefit from increased economic growth brought about by the tax law rather than interfering with its implementation.

“They need to understand the era of tax-to-the-max is over because we’ve pulled the curtain back and now families and workers in those states now clearly see just how high a tax burden and how much their paychecks are being taken,” Brady said.

When HuffPost asked Brady what would happen if states didn’t take his advice, he repeated the advice.

De Leon, for his part, isn’t exactly going out on a limb with his proposal. His office pointed out that California already provides tax credits for donations to state education funds and that 17 other states have similar schemes essentially creating government subsidies for private education. He scoffed at the suggestion, which several Republicans have offered, that states should simply lower taxes in response to the federal change.

“Where would the money come from to pay for our schools, to pay for higher education to invest in human capital? Money doesn’t just materialize off the sky,” de León said. “It’s an absolutely ludicrous and irresponsible statement.”