Joshua Roberts / Reuters

First things first: this is not a story about Oprah Winfrey and her theoretical presidential ambitions.

But with a president who campaigned as the ultimate outsider facing his first midterm elections, and speculation about 2020 challengers beginning to mount, it seemed a good time to take each party’s temperature about the relative values of outsider cred versus political experience. And a new HuffPost/YouGov poll finds relatively little appetite among Democrats for unconventional or insurgent candidates, while Republicans ― despite their current control of the White House and Congress ― remain less enamored with their party establishment.

Democrats and Democratic-leaning independents say, 56 percent to 13 percent, that they’d rather be represented in Congress by someone with experience in how the political system works, rather than someone outside the existing political establishment. By an even wider margin, 59 percent to 7 percent, they say they’d rather the next president have political experience, too.

Democrats and Democratic-leaners also generally favor candidates with their party’s stamp of approval. By a roughly 2-to-1 margin, they say that they’d prefer to be represented in Congress by a candidate favored by the Democratic establishment, and that they’d prefer their 2020 presidential nominee to have the establishment’s imprimatur. In both cases, more than 40 percent are unsure or say it doesn’t particularly matter to them. (Narrowing the results to just self-identified Democrats has little impact on the political experience questions, but increases the ratio in support of an establishment presidential nominee to about 3-to-1.)

Republicans and Republican-leaning independents, by contrast, say, 49 percent to 16 percent, that they’d rather their congressional representative be an outsider; by 45 percent to 14 percent, they’d rather the next president be one, too. Members of the GOP also tend to prefer outsiders over candidates favored by the Republican establishment.

HuffPost

There are a few important caveats to interpreting these kinds of surveys. https://t.co/88Jw1pGLfe — James Gunn (@JamesGunn) January 17, 2018

For good measure, Gunn also shared images of others for comparison, including this one:

A picture of a 6’3” man standing next to a 6’1” man and their wives. pic.twitter.com/VmnLjHfvMq — James Gunn (@JamesGunn) January 17, 2018

Not surprisingly, the #Girther hashtag began to trend on Twitter:

Clearly, we're going to need to see the long-form digital readout from the scale Dr. Ronny Jackson used #Girther https://t.co/fFAMopGxZ1 — Richard Hine (@richardhine) January 17, 2018

For the record, @realDonaldTrump said he was 74 inches in 2012. Now his doctor says he's 75 inches. And that one inch makes is BMI "overweight" not "obese." I'm a #girther because old men don't GROW an inch! pic. For one, people’s willingness to state a preference for a certain quality in their candidates doesn’t necessarily mean that’s the quality that will be foremost in their minds when making a decision.

And, even more fundamentally, the cause-and-effect between the traits people say they’re looking for and the candidates they pick doesn’t always run in the direction it might be expected to. Rather, voters often show a preference for the traits embodied by a candidate they’re already supporting.

It would be easy, for instance, to assume that the GOP chose Trump because they were looking for an outsider candidate. But it was only after the former businessman became the party’s frontrunner that the desire emerged. Months before Trump declared his candidacy, Republican voters said by a 26-point margin that they preferred “experience and a proven record” over “new ideas and a different approach,” while Democrats were about evenly divided on the question. “We call on authorities to release him and give him full judicial recourse, and the opportunity to appeal and object to his case.”



Following the sentence, a decision Abdelbasit could not appeal, he immediately sought refuge in the United States, where he hoped he was safe.

He arrived in June 2016 on a visitor visa and applied for asylum two months later Newark. He was given permission to work legally while his case was being processed.

Abdelbasit’s visitor visa eventually expired, but he was allowed to continue to work with a pending asylum application. He was interviewed in April 2017 by the asylum office and was told the final decision would arrive in the mail. If it had, Kelley would not have been able to obtain the guns he used in the massacre ― at least, not without violating the law.

A new bill would seek to fix that problem, by holding federal agencies to higher standards for supplying information and providing states with financial incentives to improve their reporting. The version in the Senate has as its chief sponsors John Cornyn (R-Texas) and Chris Murphy (D-Conn.). The idea generally enjoys bipartisan support, although Democrats are unlikely to go along with concessions on gun policy (like undermining state concealed carry laws) that House Republicans are demanding.

Whatever the bill’s ultimate legislative fate, Murphy himself has made clear that it is not enough. To really reduce gun violence, he says, Congress has to go a lot further ― at the very least, extending background checks to cover those private transactions, many of which take place at gun shows. (That’s why it’s come to be known as the “gun show loophole.”)

To put it plain terms, somebody with a domestic violence conviction, though legally prohibited from owning a firearm, can today get one by going through a private seller online or in person. The challengers did not seek to invalidate the waiting period for everyone, just those who already owned guns and passed a background check.

Thomas scolded his colleagues.

“If a lower court treated another right so cavalierly, I have little doubt this court would intervene,” Thomas wrote. “But as evidenced by our continued inaction in this area, the Second Amendment is a disfavored right in this court.”

Thomas said he suspected the Supreme Court would readily hear cases involving potentially unconstitutional waiting periods if they involved abortion, racist publications or police traffic stops.

The Supreme Court has not taken up a major firearms case since issuing important gun rulings in 2008 and 2010 that established an individual right to own guns for self-defense.

Mike Blake / Reuters

‘EXTREME INTERPRETATION’

Gun control advocacy groups cheered Tuesday’s snub of the waiting period case.

“Once again the Supreme Court has refused to entertain the gun lobby’s extreme interpretation of the Second Amendment,” said Eric Tirschwell, litigation director for Everytown for Gun Safety, a group funded by billionaire businessman and former New York Mayor Michael Bloomberg. “The courts are continuing to recognize that states have the authority to pass reasonable public safety laws to protect their citizens from gun violence.

Less than two years after arriving, the teacher had just begun to find stability in the United States and had been welcomed into a large Arab and Muslim community in New Jersey.

Now ICE has classified Abdelbasit as “deportable from the United States,” according to Hughes. It is unclear why, since the Egyptian immigrant has fulfilled all his application requirements and interviews, as well as repeatedly checking in with immigration officials since his initial arrival, his lawyer said.

ICE has ramped up its deportation efforts under President Donald Trump, increasingly deporting civilians with no criminal records, including business owners, mothers and Army veterans. During Trump’s first year in office, in which he signed an executive order that granted ICE immense authority to arrest undocumented immigrants, the U.S. saw a 171% increase of non-criminal individuals arrested in 2017 compared with 2016.

“ICE has been detaining a lot more people from within the United States,” Hughes said, “including people who have been here for a fairly significant amount of time and in some cases a very significant time, than was the case two years ago.

The poll results, then, don’t mean that Democrats are intrinsically less inclined to back a non-politician. But they do suggest that, at the moment, outsider cred isn’t exactly at the top of the party’s wishlist.

Use the widget below to further explore the results of the HuffPost/YouGov survey, using the menu at the top to select survey questions and the buttons at the bottom to filter the data by subgroups:

The HuffPost/YouGov poll consisted of 1,000 completed interviews conducted Jan. 8-9 among U.S. adults, using a sample selected from YouGov’s opt-in online panel to match the demographics and other characteristics of the adult U.S. population.

HuffPost has teamed up with YouGov to conduct daily opinion polls. You can learn more about this project and take part in YouGov’s nationally representative opinion polling. More details on the polls’ methodology are available here..”

Napoles also appears with other LGBTQ pioneers, including transgender model Pêche Di and 94-year-old activist Frances Goldin, in a stunning portrait for the “Defiantly Different” campaign, shot by Danielle Levitt, below.

Danielle LevittROBYN BECK via Getty Images

San Francisco’s top prosecutor is working with a tech nonprofit to develop an app that would automate the process for individuals with past marijuana convictions to get those offenses cleared from their record, the San Francisco district attorney’s office announced Tuesday.

District Attorney George Gascón said his office would be teaming up with Code For America, a nonprofit group that develops technology with the government to help solve community problems. The group will provide the office with an online app called Clear My Record, which will allow prosecutors to automatically fill out the required forms and generate a digital file that they can then submit to the court to clear a person’s past pot convictions. Reformers view it as a meaningful step toward further reducing the harms from the failed war on drugs. Criminal convictions can have devastating consequences long after an offense was committed, making it difficult to obtain employment, bank loans and housing.

“When the government uses 20th-century tools to tackle 21st-century problems, it’s the public that pays the price,” Gascón said.

When California enacted Proposition 64, it didn’t just legalize marijuana for recreational purposes but also instituted one of the most progressive criminal justice reforms in the country. The law authorized a new process for individuals in the state to get their previous marijuana-related convictions retroactively reduced, reclassified as lesser offenses or cleared altogether.

And while the relief for past convictions is a component built into California’s new marijuana laws, the process is not automatic