Rep. Jackie Speier (D-Calif.) said she will be among the lawmakers wearing black at the State of the Union address to protest sexual harassment and assault. Tom Williams/CQ Roll Call via Getty Images

This year’s State of the Union address may feature more black outfits than usual.

A group of female Democratic lawmakers is reportedly planning to wear black to President Donald Trump’s first State of the Union address, in solidarity with movements protesting sexual harassment and assault in numerous industries.

NBC News first reported the lawmakers’ plan on Twitter, and Rep. Jackie Speier (D-Calif.) confirmed to HuffPost that she was planning to take part in the action.

“This is a culture change that is sweeping the country, and Congress is embracing it,” Speier, who launched #MeTooCongress in response to a social media movement against sexual harassment, told HuffPost on Tuesday.

The congresswoman said she and other members of the Democratic Women’s Working Group are inviting men and women across the political spectrum to join them in making a statement at the Jan. 30 State of the Union address.

The move would echo a similar statement made at the Golden Globes this year, when nearly every star in attendance donned black in a powerful show of solidarity with the #MeToo and #TimesUp movements.

“This is not about Hollywood,” actress Debra Messing said during a red carpet interview before the award show Sunday. “This is about every woman in every industry, globally.”

Amid the outcry against sexual harassment in Hollywood, sparked by revelations about producer Harvey Weinstein, many have pointed out that the president has also been accused of sexually assaulting at least 16 women.

But many women in politics are no longer willing to accept such excuses. A number of female politicians, including Speier, have come forward with their own stories of abuse. They continued to call for accountability among elected officials as allegations against male politicians and candidates, including former Sen. Al Franken (D-Minn.) and Alabama Republican Roy Moore, emerged in the final months of 2017.”

Last year, there were a record 1,579 data breaches in the United States, a nearly 45 percent hike over the previous year, according to the Identity Theft Resource Center, a nonprofit that helps victims of identity theft and promotes public awareness.

Forty-eight states and the District of Columbia have security breach notification laws, and most apply to the private sector and the government. But the laws vary considerably, from when affected victims must be notified to what is considered personal information.A federal judge in California ordered the Trump administration on Tuesday to keep in place the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program, which protects undocumented immigrants who entered the country as children from deportation and allows them to work legally, while a lawsuit proceeds.

The order, signed by U.S. As in previous years, however, a majority also say that the stock market performance is “an indication that corporations and the wealthy are doing better, but not necessarily the economy overall,” that survey found.

And despite their positive economic views, “three in four Americans say the country is divided, six in 10 don’t have much confidence in the U.S. political system and six in 10 say racial tensions have increased,” CBS’ polling team wrote earlier this month.

Just 36 percent of Americans, according to one January poll, think the United States is “mostly winning at the things it tries to do.” That poll found half of the public optimistic about the next three years, down from 56 percent when Trump was inaugurated; Quinnipiac, which asks a similar question, has found that voters’ pessimism about Trump’s presidency has outstripped optimism since last May.

Trump also called for compromise. “Tonight, I call upon all of us to set aside our differences,” Trump said Tuesday, “to seek out common ground and to summon the unity we need to deliver for the people we were elected to serve.”

“As we rebuild America’s strength and confidence at home,” Trump said, “we are also restoring our strength and standing abroad.”

Americans aren’t so sure of that. Two-thirds think that leaders of other countries “don’t have much respect” for the president, and for the first time in years, a majority now believe the nation is viewed unfavorably in the eyes of the world. They’re right: Global approval of U.S.

HuffPost: You’re saying that based on party, political donations, you can make decisions on who you’re going to hire?

Cruz: I didn’t say hire ...

Mueller is, in fact, barred from taking political contributions into account when making personnel decisions involving positions on his team. But Cruz said that Mueller, a Republican, had made a serious mistake by staffing his special counsel office with people who donated to Democrats.

Cruz went on to bring up his complaints about issues from the Obama era, saying that the prior administration “badly undermined” the nonpartisan tradition of the FBI and the DOJ. He offered no defense of the FBI writ large.

Several conservative commentators have urged Republicans to use caution, and some FBI critics have attempted to limit the scope of their complaints, insisting they were only complaining about high-ranking officials at the bureau.

Donald Trump Jr., a potential target of the Mueller probe, tweeted on Thursday that it was “fun watching main stream media defend law enforcement for the first time ever.”

He also suggested that the media was only supporting “elitist” bureaucrats. “Try supporting the boots not the suits for a change,” Trump Jr. District Judge Williams Alsup, marks a major triumph for immigrant rights groups who have rallied around the program that benefits nearly 700,000 people.S. Postal Service are outdated or plainly false, according to the website PolitiFact. Amazon pays taxes in most states, and it has “provided some help to the financial picture of the Postal Service,” according to the agency.

But Kudlow, a free market advocate who opened his former CNBC television show “The Kudlow Report” by reciting the motto, “We believe that free market capitalism is the best path to prosperity,” again declined to push back on the president’s claim that Amazon was costing the Postal Service money.The fine folks of Pawnee, Indiana, said “Knope” to gun violence over the weekend.

Actress Natalie Morales, who played Lucy on “Parks and Recreation,” posted a photo to Instagram on Saturday that features herself and other notable cast members and guest stars from the NBC sitcom attending the March For Our Lives protest in Washington, D.C.

A post shared by Natalie Morales (@nataliemoralesloves) on Mar 24, 2018 at 9:23am PDT

Scott, Plaza and Eichner also posted the picture.

Plaza and Morales boasted signs that promoted the Everytown for Gun Safety movement, while Eichner toted a sign that read “Change gun laws or change Congress.” Rudd wore a T-shirt that said “Protect kids, not guns.”

Although “Parks and Rec” star Amy Poehler (Leslie Knope) isn’t featured in the photo, she did show her support for the protest with a photo of herself wearing a March For Our Lives T-shirt on the Amy Poehler’s Smart Girls Instagram account.

“‘We stand with you, young people. I applaud your bravery and your incredible poise, and the fire that you have started will not go out.

The preliminary injunction on Trump’s cancellation of DACA requires the Department of Homeland Security “to maintain the DACA program on a nationwide basis on the same terms and conditions as were in effect before the rescission on September 5, 2017” ― including allowing those who already benefit from DACA to apply to renew their status.

The order does not, however, allow people who have never held DACA protections to apply as new applicants.

“Dreamers’ lives were thrown into chaos when the Trump administration tried to terminate the DACA program without obeying the law,” California Attorney General Xavier Becerra (D) said in a statement. “Today’s ruling is a huge step in the right direction.

The Trump administration “looks forward to vindicating its position in further litigation,” Justice Department spokesman Devin O’Malley said in a statement.

“Tonight’s order doesn’t change the Department of Justice’s position on the facts,” the statement said. “DACA was implemented unilaterally after Congress declined to extend these benefits to this same group of illegal aliens.”

The White House on Wednesday called the judge’s ruling “outrageous,” and Trump, in a tweet, blasted the “court system” as “broken and unfair.”

It just shows everyone how broken and unfair our Court System is when the opposing side in a case (such as DACA) always runs to the 9th Circuit and almost always wins before being reversed by higher courts. — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) January 10, 2018

“An issue of this magnitude must go through the normal legislative process,” White House press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders said in a statement. “President Trump is committed to the rule of law, and will work with members of both parties to reach a permanent solution that corrects the unconstitutional actions taken by the last administration.”

Before the order, the program was scheduled to begin phasing out on March 5.

Alsup is presiding over five lawsuits challenging the legality of Trump’s termination of DACA that were consolidated into one in the Northern District of California. Speakers included students, teachers and activists. The rally was sponsored by Moms Demand Action, the Broward Teachers Union, the League of Women Voters and other groups.

Delaney Tarr, a 17-year-old student at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School, used to worry about tests. Now she worries about being shot. The state of California, the Regents of the University of California, the city of San José and several DACA recipients are among those suing in an attempt to preserve the program.

The lawsuits argue that the White House flouted the process for terminating the program in violation of the Administrative Procedure Act and that the cancellation was based on flawed legal logic.

The Obama administration used executive action to create the DACA program in 2012, allowing undocumented immigrants who arrived as children or young teenagers to apply to work legally in the country and avoid deportation for a renewable two-year period.

The Trump administration announced in September, however, that it would cancel the program, citing a threat from a coalition of 10 states, led by Texas, to challenge the program’s constitutionality.

Demonstrators chant during a rally against the rescission of the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program at the San Francisco Federal Building on Sept. 5. Stephen Lam / Reuters