Spotify has removed alleged serial sexual harasser R. Kelly’s music from its promoted playlists and recommendations as of Thursday, citing a new policy on “hate content and hateful conduct.”

“We are removing R.

Dirty Knucklez' graffiti inside a temporary protective walkway along the U Street corridor. Kelly’s music from all Spotify owned and operated playlists and algorithmic recommendations such as Discover Weekly,” the music streaming service said, according to Billboard magazine.

“His music will still be available on the service, but Spotify will not actively promote it,” the company added. “We don’t censor content because of an artist’s or creator’s behavior, but we want our editorial decisions ― what we choose to program ― to reflect our values.”

He had started to think of the men he was attracted to — “slim, pretty-faced guys who looked like they had a lot of money, who lived that West Hollywood lifestyle, who could eat whatever they wanted and never gain a single pound” — as the cause of his failures. They were shallow, superficial, hoarding status and sex and power and denying it to him. When an artist or creator does something that is especially harmful or hateful, it may affect the ways we work with or support that artist or creator.”

As of Thursday morning, users can still find the singer’s music, but Kelly’s music no longer comes up on the various playlists created by Spotify, or through the site’s algorithm, which recommends music to users based on their individual preferences.

The singer has faced sexual misconduct accusations from more than two dozen women, including rape, child pornography and allegedly running a “sex cult.”

The allegations have emerged over many years but have gained more attention in recent months due to the Me Too movement. Kelly has yet to face substantive action in response to the claims, which have come mostly from women of color.

In April, prominent figures in the Me Too and Time’s Up movements launched a campaign to “Mute R. Kelly,” calling on companies and organizations to cut ties with the singer and urging people to stand with “Our Fellow Women of Color.”

Kelly, who has repeatedly denied the allegations, suggested on April 30 that the claims against him amounted to “lynching.”

“R. Kelly’s music is a part of American and African-American culture that should never ― and will never ― be silenced,” the statement from his representatives said. “Since America was born, black men and women have been lynched for having sex or for being accused of it.”

Spotify did not immediately return repeated requests for comment on whether the new hate policy would affect other artists’ music, but it appears the service will be deciding on a case-by-case basis.

A Spotify representative told The New York Times that the site has also stopped promoting music from rapper XXXTentacion, who has faced repeated allegations of domestic violence involving his ex-girlfriend, including beating her when she was pregnant with his child.

In response, the rapper’s representatives sent the Times a list of other artists who have faced misconduct allegations or who have other characteristics that might qualify as hateful.

a response from XXXTentacion’s team on Spotify's decision to remove him from playlists pic.twitter.com/ivtEDJ2yGS — Joe Coscarelli (@joecoscarelli) May 10, 2018

In a statement to reporters, Kelly’s team similarly responded to Spotify’s move by arguing that the company “promotes numerous other artists who are convicted felons, others who have been arrested on charges of domestic violence and artists who sing lyrics that are violent and anti-women in nature.

“I did lose out on that social interaction,” she says, “because I didn’t want this other element.”

Yahoo

Michael Gerstein, in turn, says he has stayed off social media because he’s long feared something much like the Cambridge Analytica news of the past few weeks. “It’s the Wild West,” he says, where “people are grabbing all sorts of information about you and you don’t know what they know or how they use it.” He works in corporate finance in Manhattan, responsible for budgeting and forecasting, and was originally put off by the fact that “Facebook has to be doing something like this because they have to make money, but I didn’t understand exactly what that something is, and I’m not comfortable with things I don’t understand.”

He has never used Twitter or Snapchat, he says. He does have a Facebook account, but “I have never posted. I have replied to posts, but I couldn’t even tell you how to post.” The reason he even opened the account in the first place, he says, is “because my wife wanted her profile to say she is ‘married’ and it won’t say that unless your spouse also has an account.” (His wife was mistaken.) Still, the account exists, and he has 62 Facebook friends. Any one of those might have answered the 2014 Cambridge Analytica survey that the company then used to access the information of everyone in that user’s friend list. Which means he may in fact have been part of the data sweep.”

The singer’s representatives also accused Spotify of “bowing to social-media fads and picking sides in a fame-seeking dispute over matters that have nothing to do with serving customers” and said that Kelly “is innocent of the false and hurtful accusations in the ongoing smear campaign against him.

In the months and weeks following their original meeting, Trump continued to dangle a slot on the TV show in order to get Daniels to meet up with him again, according to Daniels’ account. (Trump, through spokespeople, has repeatedly denied the affair.)

When she finally did ― showing up to his private bungalow at the Beverly Hills hotel ― she did not sleep with him again. The next month, he called to let her know the TV show thing wasn’t happening.

One wonders if she would have nabbed the role if she had succumbed to sex again.

Trump unleashed a similar play on Summer Zervos, according to a lawsuit filed by the former “Apprentice” contestant. Zervos was also looking for a career opportunity and gladly accepted Trump’s dinner invitation in 2007.

But when she arrived at the restaurant of the Beverly Hills hotel, she was directed to Trump’s private bungalow, according to her complaint. When she got there, she says Trump kissed her and placed his hand on her breast.

Beyond giving this basic information to the state, though, the so-called school wasn’t required to do much else.

Parents in California who decide to home-school their children can operate as a private school. These parents are required to notify the state of their decision, providing information on such things as their home address, enrollment practices and courses of study, according to information collected by the Coalition for Responsible Home Education.

Schools should give instruction in English, cover the branches of study required in public school and keep a record of attendance, according to state rules, but there is no specific mechanism to make sure requirements are enforced

Private school employees must generally undergo criminal background checks, but parents who teach family members are exempt from this rule. These parents are not required to have any specific teaching or education credentials.

Students at these schools aren’t required to take any specific assessments or show evidence of academic progress.

Rachel Coleman, executive director of the Coalition for Responsible Home Education, has been tracking cases of child abuse in home-school settings. She says this case shows the type of abuse that can flourish when children are isolated from the outside world.

“While there are many home-schooling families who provide an excellent education, there’s nothing in the law to ensure that happens. So a family like this could completely isolate their children,” said Coleman.

Coleman’s group wants states like California to require mandatory doctor visits for home-schooled students, or at least some form of contact with someone who would be required to report signs of abuse. She declined his advances, pushing him away.”

In its own statement, Spotify said that it had developed the policy with the help of advocacy organizations. These included the Southern Poverty Law Center, the Anti-Defamation League, Color Of Change, Showing Up for Racial Justice, GLAAD, Muslim Advocates and the International Network Against Cyber Hate.

According to the policy, the site will implement several systems “to catch potentially hateful content and evaluate it,” such as implementing “content monitoring technology” called Spotify AudioWatch. It will also consult with the advocacy groups and encourage users to flag potential violations.