Actress and director Greta Gerwig says she wouldn’t have worked with Woody Allen had she been aware of his daughter Dylan Farrow’s sexual molestation allegations against him.

“If I had known then what I know now, I would not have acted in the film,” she told The New York Times in an interview published Tuesday, referring to Allen’s 2012 film “To Rome With Love.” Farrow in 2014 accused Allen of abusing her as a child, a claim that first came to light in the early 90s but which he has denied.

“I have not worked for him again, and I will not work for him again. Dylan Farrow’s two different pieces made me realize that I increased another woman’s pain, and I was heartbroken by that realization,” she continued. “I grew up on his movies, and they have informed me as an artist, and I cannot change that fact now, but I can make different decisions moving forward.”

Farrow thanked Gerwig via Twitter, saying her words were “deeply felt and appreciated.” She had recently spoken out about celebrities like Blake Lively and Justin Timberlake who have supported the Time’s Up initiative on gender discrimination despite having worked with Allen.

“The people who join this movement without taking any kind of personal accountability for the ways in which their own words and decisions have helped to perpetuate the culture they are fighting against, that’s hard for me to reconcile,” Farrow said in a statement to BuzzFeed.

Gerwig had dodged questions about Allen during the Golden Globe Awards on Sunday, saying that she had yet to make a determination on where she stood on the matter.

Ellen Page, Gerwig’s co-star from the 2012 movie, said in November that the decision to work for Allen is her biggest professional regret.

“I am ashamed I did this,” she wrote in a Facebook post. “I had yet to find my voice and was not who I am now and felt pressured, because ‘of course you have to say yes to this Woody Allen film.’”

Gerwig, whose film “Lady Bird” took home two Golden Globes, added that the moment of reckoning surrounding sexual misconduct is a “turning point for women,” especially those in Hollywood.(Warning! “The Last Jedi” spoilers!)

If you were going into “Star Wars: The Last Jedi” expecting some great Admiral Ackbar scenes, sorry to break it to you: It’s a trap!

Ackbar didn’t get a ton of screen time in the original “Star Wars” trilogy, showing up for a limited amount of scenes in “Return of the Jedi.” But the hero of the Battle of Endor went on to become one of the most-memed, quoted and parodied characters of the franchise, even reaching No. 14 on HuffPost’s own ranking of “Star Wars” characters (which was last updated after “Rogue One”).

With all this fanfare, and even an appearance in “The Force Awakens,” it was a shock in “The Last Jedi” when (spoiler alert!) Ackbar was killed off-screen during a Kylo Ren-led attack on the rebels.

In the scene, Ren holds off on firing at a rebel ship containing Leia, but his squadron doesn’t. They blow up the bridge of her command ship, seemingly killing all the leaders within ― save for Leia, of course.

Though viewers don’t see his actual final moments, Gial Ackbar’s death is confirmed in a line of dialogue following the incident, which explains that nearly all of the rebel leadership, including Ackbar, were killed. Then, just like that, everyone moves on. And we were all like, “Ack-cuse me?”

Many fans felt the same.

Gowdy’s spokeswoman Amanda Gonzalez said that sending a subpoena was premature but that the panel would continue to review hurricane recovery efforts.

FEMA said it could not comment on Tribute, but that at the time the contract was terminated food distribution in Puerto Rico “was not affected.”

Agency spokeswoman Jenny Burke said meals continue to be provided on the island and that “there are sufficient commodities both in Puerto Rico and on the mainland to continue to meet identified needs for current or future disasters.”Christie Brinkley says in a new interview that a married Donald Trump once tried to fly her to Aspen, Colorado, in his private jet back in the 1980s. Taiwan

The tiny island just east of China is largely underrated by travelers, but don’t be fooled: The place is the perfect surf and turf, so to speak, for folks who can’t make up their minds. It’s got the beauty of the lush, green landscape of Yangmingshan National Park to the north, and the serene and placid waters of the more tropical Fulong Beach in the south stand in stark contrast to the cosmopolitan and skyscraper-filled city of Taipei.

Travel tip: Avoid going from June to August during the height of typhoon season. Instead, the best months for travel are October to February.

ROMAN_SLAVIK/GETTY IMAGES

4.

@HamillHimself when are we going to get a memorial service for the late Admiral Ackbar? :’( pic.twitter.com/5JyFGQ3PX1 — Dean Winchester (@Schlaften) January 8, 2018

I miss Admiral Ackbar. — Mark A. Altman (@markaaltman) January 6, 2018

still mad about admiral ackbar's death off screen — donal cian lakatua (@dc_laka) January 7, 2018

How many years of service did Admiral Ackbar put in and not so much as a thank you..

It’s possible that like Obama before him, Trump generates sufficiently polarized feelings that rather than views of the economy shaping Americans’ views of Trump’s presidency, their views of his presidency are instead shaping their perspective on objective facts about the economy ― or at least the way they describe it to pollsters. That’s especially true in cases involving specific statistics, like the performance of the stock market or the unemployment rate, which many people may not have a personal sense for or any reason to commit to memory. But it’s also true of the way people perceive broader trends.

C: Tristan Thompson — Hoop Central (@TheHoopCentral) February 8, 2018

I’d start Hill > Clarkson, though.

Maxwell Strachan: I love it for the Cavs. If LeBron leaves, they aren’t making the finals for another decade anyway, might as well go out in firing. Again, I’d throw out the Brooklyn pick and just give it one more go. They are going to have a decade’s worth of top-10 picks post-LeBron anyway.

Travis Waldron: Hold on I have to check Twitter in case Woj is still bombing us.

Maxwell Strachan: In 16 tweets, Woj broke the internet.

Twitter

Twitter

Ja’han Jones: That man’s end-of-the-day unwinding routine has to be CRAZY.

Maxwell Strachan: I would be scared to have that power.

Travis Waldron: I’m going to regret saying this but my favorite part of this deadline is still that Ernie Grunfeld hasn’t traded a first-round pick for an aging role player who won’t still be in Washington this summer. Day is young, though.

Maxwell Strachan: Just want to make sure this makes it into the post.

Lebron handing over IT to Magic pic.twitter.com/dKA30A7GYF — Large Ballplayer (@MikeOxafloppin2) February 8, 2018

And Travis, no one cares about the Wizards. Merely days after Trump was elected, Gallup found, Republicans’ ratings of the current state of the economy soared, while Democrats’ plummeted ― despite the fact that Trump was still months from taking office, let alone crafting policies that would shape the nation’s economy.

And the latest HuffPost/YouGov survey finds those divides persisting. Eighty-four percent of Trump voters, but just 37 percent of Clinton voters and a third of everyone else, pronounce themselves satisfied with the current state of the economy, a wider gap than between the richest and poorest Americans, or between those working full-time jobs and those currently unemployed.. Even though his message was wrong, it is time for him to be at rest.

I was kind of pulling for Killmonger to make it through.

A lot of people were, which I think is the sign of a great villain ― someone you can identify with, who has a real point of view that is not “I want to take over the world” or “I want all the money in the world,” but is about something thematic.

Again, that is something that Ryan Coogler pitched. That is something he should get full credit for, and I think is partially why the film resonates so much.? — Patrick McCray (@LeapingRobot) January 9, 2018

Cast into the blackness of space like the Empire’s garbage OFFSCREEN; not a heroic storyline fit for a Grand Admiral. I will forget-you-not #admiralackbar . You deserved better than this meandering, offensive, thoughtless film. #lastjediawful #fanart #TheLastJedi #NotMyLuke pic.twitter.com/MzfyoDQXCF — DelusionsOfGrandSt (@JRaesDOGS) January 3, 2018

After the movie’s release in December, we asked “Last Jedi” editor Bob Ducsay about Ackbar’s death.

“That was how it was designed,” he said, confirming the off-screen moment went down as originally planned. However, Ducsay also admitted to some second thoughts about the unceremonious send-off.

“It’s interesting that you mentioned it,” he said, “because I watched the film last night and I thought, hmmm, maybe that’s too incidental. It’s a very funny thing about that because what happens ... I don’t typically watch movies that I work on much afterwards, because you’re so familiar with it. But this movie I’ve seen now a couple times with an audience. And it occurred to me last night that what does happen when I watch movies ... is I generally find things that are like, hmmm, I wonder if I should do that differently. Which is some really horrible form of personal criticism because there’s really nothing to be done.”

“That’s how it was designed,” he concluded. “That’s how it was intended. But it is slightly incidental, isn’t it?”

You can say that again, Bob.

As Vulture pointed out, Ackbar was at least given a grand memorial service after he died of old age in The Unifying Force, a book from the “Star Wars” Expanded Universe. He’s not just, you know, killed off-screen and forgotten about.

StarWarscom and Disney

As abrupt as Ackbar’s departure seemed, it should be noted that actor Erik Bauersfeld, the voice of Ackbar, died in April 2016, reportedly only a couple of months into filming of “The Last Jedi.” So, regardless of how it happened, the latest film does seem like an appropriate time to say goodbye to the admiral.