MUMBAI (Thomson Reuters Foundation) - The only openly gay prince in India - where same sex relations are illegal - is throwing open his palace doors to lesbians, gays, transgender and other Indians shunned for their sexuality.

Prince Manvendra Singh Gohil, heir apparent to the throne of Rajpipla in western Gujarat state, said it was particularly hard to come out in small-town India, where traditional values hold sway and heterosexual relations are the norm.

“People still face a lot of pressure from their families when they come out, being forced to marry, or thrown out of their homes. They often have nowhere to go, no means to support themselves,” he told the Thomson Reuters Foundation.

So the prince, 52, is building a center for lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender people (LGBT) on the grounds of his ancestral palace.

“I am not going to have children, so I thought, why not use this space for a good purpose?” Gohil said, adding that he will offer rooms, a medical facility and training in English and vocational skills to help people find jobs.

Prince Manvendra Singh Gohil came out as gay to his family more than a decade ago.twitter.com/PgpOH6rcdE — OMB Press (@OMBPress) March 6, 2018

Twitter users didn’t hold back in expressing concern over the choice of language.

just want to point out that using the word "globalist" in quotes like that might make this seem "anti-semitic"......actually...it definitely does. SAJJAD HUSSAIN via Getty Images

Gohil came out to his family more than a decade ago, prompting his mother to take out a newspaper advertisement disowning him. Erstwhile royalty in India are still in the spotlight, many holding positions in the government.

After coming out, Gohil set up the Lakshya Trust, a charity for LGBT people in his conservative home state, and became a champion for gay rights. He has made numerous international appearances, including on The Oprah Winfrey Show.

He is a vocal critic of India’s colonial-era law that criminalize consensual sexual relations between same sex adults. Earlier this week, the country’s top court said it would reconsider its 2013 decision to uphold the law.

“Lifting the law will encourage more people to come out and live their lives freely. But it may also mean more people in need of support,” Gohil said.

Gohil said he is renovating and extending his palace, built in 1927, on the 15-acre site, installing solar panels for power, and reserving some land for organic farming.

Gohil’s high profile has helped India's queer community enormously, activists say. SAJJAD HUSSAIN via Getty Images

An online crowdfunding campaign and donations are financing the center, which will be managed by his charity, he said.

Gohil’s high profile has helped the LGBT community in India enormously, said Harish Iyer, a gay rights activist who hosts a radio show dedicated to LGBT issues.

“For him to be one of us, the stakes are even higher, so providing this space is a great gesture,” he said.Diet Coke is the latest brand to make a play for the elusive millennial market.

The Coca-Cola Company announced Wednesday that its popular diet soda will undergo a makeover, with sleek new cans and four new flavors: Ginger Lime, Feisty Cherry, Zesty Blood Orange and Twisted Mango.

“Throughout this relaunch journey, we wanted to be bold, think differently and be innovative in our approach,” said Rafael Acevedo, Coca-Cola North America’s director for Diet Coke. “And most importantly, we wanted to stay true to the essence of Diet Coke while recasting the brand for a new generation.

“I am a transgender man. If you wanted to know that, you could have just asked,” he said in the scene, which you can view above.

Among those to praise the show’s depiction of such a hot-button issue was series star Mariska Hargitay, who plays SVU commanding officer Olivia Benson.

So proud #SVU so loudly stated tonight that trans rights are human rights. That members of our military — regardless of gender identity — should be proud to be exactly who they are: service members who can’t imagine not helping people. To show that LGBTQ+ representation 1/2 pic.twitter.com/PoZjDReSlH — Mariska Hargitay (@Mariska) April 12, 2018

On tv need not be only about victimhood, but can be about heroism that serves in defense of survivors — regardless of that survivor’s profession. That the liberation of marginalized groups must be hand in hand, intersectional, and in support of one another. 2/2 — Mariska Hargitay (@Mariska) April 12, 2018

“Taking on this role, I had to do my homework by speaking with people of trans experience who are presently in the service to get a sense of what they are actually going through now,” the actor told GLAAD’s Nick Adams.”

“Millennials are now thirstier than ever for adventures and new experiences, and we want to be right by their side,” Acevedo added.

While plenty of fans expressed excitement over the news on Twitter, the decidedly La Croix-looking design and interesting flavor names raised some eyebrows.

Coke Person 1: diet coke sales suck

Coke Person 2: ppl seem to enjoy something called la quaah

CP1: la what?

CP2: or la kroicks? nobody knows how to say it.

CP1: but it's popular?

CP2: and colorful.”

A picture shows the window of the apartment of Mireille Knoll in Paris sealed by the police. LIONEL BONAVENTURE via Getty Images

“The horror of crime and the violence of the murderers are identical and remind us of the negative side of humanity,” Korsia wrote in a tweet.

France’s Jewish communities have grown increasingly concerned about safety in recent years. In 2015, four people were killed during an attack on a kosher supermarket in Paris. Nearly 8,000 French Jews reportedly moved to Israel in the year after this attack.

In 2012, three children and a teacher were murdered outside a Jewish school in Toulouse.

A picture taken on Jan. 9 shows a French kosher grocery store in Creteil, south of Paris, after it was destroyed in an arson attack that revived fears over anti-Semitism. NurPhoto via Getty Images

Anti-Semitic violence in France increased by 26 percent in 2017, while criminal damage to Jewish synagogues and cemeteries increased by 22 percent, according to a national study.

This January, a kosher grocery store near Paris was damaged in a suspected arson attack. Weeks later, an 8-year-old boy wearing a Jewish kippa was beaten up in a northern Paris suburb.

Marc Knobel, a historian at CRIF, told The Local France that the deaths of Halimi and Knoll have contributed to a “great feeling of fear and insecurity” in Jewish communities.

“People are extremely shocked and very worried,” he said.

A man places a picture of Mireille Knoll on the fence surrounding her building in Paris on March 27, 2018. LIONEL BONAVENTURE via Getty Images

Paris mayor Anne Hidalgo called on Parisians to join Wednesday’s silent march in honor of Knoll.

CP1: what if we sell diet coke ...’ Some of us will never have treatment options that ‘cure us.’”

It also reinforces the idea that people with disabilities are second-rate humans — even to those with disabilities themselves.

“I hated myself for being disabled for so long,” Evans told HuffPost. Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison LLP is providing regulatory counsel.

Centerview Partners and Lazard Frères were financial advisers to Express Scripts, with Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP serving as legal counsel and Holland & Knight LLP as regulatory counsel.U.S. “I know other disabled people who have tried to kill themselves because they internalize these messages. They don’t go to school, they don’t have a relationship, they just sit around waiting to be cured or die.”

Some who are able-bodied and fans of the film may argue that it’s just a movie, but both Evans and Sjunneson-Henry assert that these kinds of narratives do have real-life consequences.

“It says to us that without being cured, we’re not going to be loved or worthwhile to another human being,” Evans told HuffPost. “And society absorbs that.”

Sjunneson-Henry says that some people have responded to her feelings about the film with anger.Jared losing his security clearance is the drunk rich friend who has his driver's license suspended and now everyone has to drive him around.Alex Cooper says she was forced to quit school, carry a backpack of rocks sometimes weighing 40 pounds and face a wall for hours at a time as part of her family’s efforts to change her sexuality after she came out at 15 years old.

Cooper, who identifies as a lesbian, describes her harrowing time at a Utah gay “conversion therapy camp” in a powerful new video produced by the Human Rights Campaign. in la kroicks costumes

CP2: genius https://t.co/7fP02N2th5 — Derek Thompson (@DKThomp) January 10, 2018

Also: Diet Cherry Coke is already a thing. Is "feisty cherry" the same thing only more aggressive? I started this day with no Diet Coke questions and now I have so many Diet Coke questions. pic.twitter.com/LhJnFPuYkw — Kate Elizabeth Queram (@katequeram) January 10, 2018

Advertisement