Kellen Hickey, a 26-year-old who lives in Hudson, Wisconsin, has gift giving down to a fine art.

Lindsay Brinkman and Kellen Hickey.

“The Waxman-Markey bill was good,” Roberts wrote. “Furthermore, if there is ever again to be consensus about a federal approach to climate change, it’s probably going to look something roughly like the Waxman-Markey bill.”

“As long as they are taking money from the oil industry, it’s very hard for them to get out in front of bills that may have a negative impact on the oil industry’s bottom line.” - RL Miller, Climate Hawks Vote

Yet the dearth of audacious climate proposals could also be a symptom of the think tank industry that lawmakers have relied on since congressional research budgets shrank over the last several decades. As a result, centrist groups like Third Way and the Brookings Institution have dominated Democratic policymaking with ardent pushes for technology to capture carbon dioxide from fossil fuels and free-market solutions. That centrist culture, preaching a strategy of cleaving off moderate Republican voters rather than exciting the left-leaning Democratic base, has generally sanitized the party’s public policy stances.

“There’s a desire among Democrats to describe their positions in a way that gets 80 percent approval, unobjectionable and something people won’t criticize,” said Jeff Hauser, a veteran progressive Democratic operative. “But you’d be better off with 60-40 percent, where your 60 percent is more passionate and you’re tricking the other side into arguing it.”

“That is part of the argument for why you discuss climate and the environment in a more provocative and detailed way,” he added. Kellen Hickey

He drew himself and his girlfriend Lindsay Brinkman, 24, in 10 different animation styles and gave the illustrations to her on Christmas.

Hickey told HuffPost that he got the idea a few months ago when he decided to draw the couple as “Futurama” and “Adventure Time” characters and Brinkman absolutely loved them.

Her enthusiasm inspired him to draw the two of them in the style of all the cartoons they had bonded over since they began dating in high school.

“I am fortunate enough to have the ability to create something that can represent us and our enjoyment of each one of those shows relatively faithfully,” Hickey told HuffPost.

"Rick and Morty" Kellen Hickey

“But I have to admit, the “Dragon Ball Z-style drawing was kind of for me. France will never forget his heroism, bravery and sacrifice.”

(Additional reporting by Sybille de La Hamaide Editing by Mark Heinrich)WASHINGTON — Among the thousands of people who turned out for the March For Our Lives in Washington, D.C., were teachers rallying for safer schools and better protections for their students.

Trump nominated Jackson to become the next secretary of veterans affairs in March after the White House announced that David Shulkin would be leaving the post. Critics began to worry that Jackson’s career in the military lacked the managerial experience necessary to tackle the monolithic department.

It was these concerns by both top Republicans and Democrats that have delayed the confirmation process, the Post reported, just two days before hearings were scheduled to begin.

“There are reasons, as there are with every presidential appointee, for very close scrutiny and vetting,” Sen.

When asked about the subject of safety in the wake of countless school shootings, many of them vehemently opposed arming teachers. That proposal had gained traction in response to the Parkland, Florida, school shooting, including support from President Donald Trump. their modus operandi is to carry inflammatory signs to incite reactions from those they picket.”

“What we will remember is that our students responded with unity and care and courage,” Abbott continued.

Meanwhile, members of the local LGBTQ advocacy group Pride St. Louis have said they will be present at John Burroughs School during Monday’s counterprotest. They’ve launched a social media campaign using the hashtag #StandWithJake in support of their classmate.

Some people want to move our city and country forward. Others cling to hate and have godless hearts. I choose to #StandWithJake @Jakebain10 — Derrick Neuner (@drock89) March 8, 2018

“The dangerous and divisive rhetoric from Westboro Baptist Church cannot go unchallenged,” Pride St. Louis’ Vice President Marty Zuniga wrote on Facebook. “We must show them that this is a community of inclusion and diversity.”

Though Bain was initially bothered to learn about Westboro’s planned protest, he said he realized, “If this international hate group is coming after me and my community, then we must be doing something right.”President Donald Trump lashed out at NBC News’ Chuck Todd Saturday evening during a campaign-style rally in western Pennsylvania.

Trump was in the midst of criticizing past administrations for their failure to denuclearize North Korea while complimenting his intention to meet with that country’s leader, Kim Jong Un. The Sydney Mardi Gras parade began in 1978 as a march and commemoration of the 1969 Stonewall Riots of New York. It is an annual event promoting awareness of gay, lesbian, bisexual and transgender issues and themes. Lisa Maree Williams via Getty Images

The first Saturday in March marks one of the biggest parties in Sydney every year, as the Gay and Lesbian Mardi Gras parade shuts down the center of Australia’s biggest city for a night celebrating the LGBTQ community.

This year held extra special significance: 2018 marks the 40th anniversary of the Sydney Mardi Gras, after beginning in 1978 as a protest march against laws criminalizing homosexuality and gay sex, as well as commemorating the famous Stonewall riots in New York that culminated in arrests and police violence against participants. As well, it was the first Mardi Gras after Australia’s federal government legalized marriage equality late last year.

Australia Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull meets participants and spectators at the Mardi Gras. SAEED KHAN via Getty Images

More than 300,000 spectators lined the streets to watch 200 floats and 12,000 participants move down Oxford Street, traditionally the heart of the city’s gay community. Rainbow, glitter and sequins were the standard uniform, with costumes ranging from the skimpy and revealing to the large and ornate.”

"Dragon Ball Z" Kellen Hickey

Hickey says that Brinkman’s response to the gift on Christmas was “everything I could’ve hoped for.”

Old school black-and-white cartoon style Kellen Hickey

“As soon as she finished [looking through the drawings she] jump-hugged me and was sure to remind me of how much she loves me for the next hour or so.”

Modern Disney style Kellen Hickey

Proud of his work, Hickey posted the drawings on his Instagram account earlier this week, where they’ve since gotten a lot of attention online.

The couple has framed nine of the photos and have them hanging in their living room. Hickey says Brinkman’s favorite is the “Bob’s Burgers” illustration. The “Dragon Ball Z”-version of the couple is sitting in a frame on Hickey’s work desk.

“I’m not sure I could ever properly express how much she inspires me,” Hickey told HuffPost.Oprah Winfrey has shared Instagram videos of her Santa Barbara County, California, property after the area was overcome by floods, mudslides and even a gas fire.

The activist and former talk-show star ― whose name is being floated as a possible 2020 presidential contender after her rousing speech at the Golden Globes on Sunday ― posted one clip Tuesday showing her walking through deep mud. “The house in back is gone,” she says, presumably referring to her neighbor’s property.

“What a day!” she captioned the video gallery. “Praying for our community again in Santa Barbara.”

A post shared by Oprah (@oprah) on Jan 9, 2018 at 5:03pm PST

On Wednesday Winfrey shared another clip of her assessing the damage.

A post shared by Oprah (@oprah) on Jan 10, 2018 at 8:48am PST

At least 15 have died and dozens were rescued by air and ground after rain-triggered mud and floods swept down mountainsides burned by wildfires in December.

According to People, Winfrey purchased her 65-acre Montecito estate in 2001. The area is also home to celebrities Rob Lowe and Ellen DeGeneres, who tweeted news of the devastation.

This is not a river. This is the 101 freeway in my neighborhood right now. Montecito needs your love and support. pic.twitter.com/jRNCBrp4b5 — Ellen DeGeneres (@TheEllenShow) January 9, 2018