Kevin Lamarque / Reuters

WASHINGTON, Jan 11 (Reuters) - President Donald Trump’s former chief strategist Steve Bannon will be interviewed next week by a U.S. House of Representatives committee investigating alleged Russian interference in the 2016 U.S. election, a person familiar with the matter said on Thursday.

The interview on Tuesday will focus on Bannon’s time on the campaign, not the transition or his time in the White House, the source said.

An aide to Republican Representative Devin Nunes, the committee’s chairman, declined comment. The committee’s practice is not to comment on specific witnesses or the schedule for testimony at non-public hearings.

Separately, Representative Adam Schiff, the panel’s top Democrat, told reporters on Thursday he would like “dozens” more witnesses, including Bannon, to appear before the committee, making clear he does not view its investigation of Russia and the election as near its end.

Some of Trump’s fellow Republicans in Congress have been saying they expect the House Intelligence probe and other congressional investigations to wrap up quickly. Democrats have been disputing this, saying there is much work remaining to determine whether Russia attempted to influence the election on Trump’s behalf or whether Trump colluded.

Moscow denies trying to meddle in the election, and Trump dismisses talk of collusion.

“There are still dozens of witnesses that we could bring in,” Schiff told reporters.

Besides Bannon, he said those witnesses would include Trump’s daughter Ivanka. He also said he would like Trump’s son-in-law Jared Kushner to appear again before the committee while noting that the choice of witnesses is determined by the panel’s Republican leadership.After eight years of relative silence, the Black Eyed Peas released a new music video on Monday for their song “Street Livin,’” a new single that is reminiscent of the group’s roots in alternative hip-hop.

Instead of featuring the members’ faces, the video focuses on a series of images depicting social justice struggles and protests. Covering everything from DACA to the prison-industrial complex to police brutality, the video is a change from their time in the dance-pop world, when they were known for hits like 2005′s “My Humps” and 2009′s “I Gotta Feeling.”

The new video is in line with the song’s political message. “Street Livin’” includes lyrics like “You’re guilty until you prove you’re innocent / If you’re ivory, they treat you different.” The song dives deep into the effects of structural racism, paying specific attention to the prison-industrial complex. This highlighting of America’s history of profiting of the mass incarceration of people of color is a main theme throughout the song. The group — which currently includes will.i.am, apl.

The judge said Park had shown “no sign of repentance” but had instead tried to shift the blame to Choi and her secretaries.

“We cannot help but sternly hold her accountable,” Kim said. 1, complying with federal court orders calling for a halt to the ban while it was being legally challenged. There’s every evidence that she was covering it up,” he said Sunday on CBS’ “Face the Nation.”

Paul’s opposition could imperil Haspel’s nomination if all Democrats join him. Sen. John McCain (R-Ariz.

Dirty Knucklez loves this particular tag because of its locale. President Barack Obama once visited Ben’s, one of D.C.’s oldest black-owned establishments.

“Congressman Schiff, he argues [a] Republican memo omitted and distorted key facts, that it was initially meant to mislead the public,” Line said of the GOP document released earlier this month that alleged FBI spying abuses.

As Line put it, the Democratic memo that refutes the GOP’s “was supposed to be the rebuttal memo that was meant to show what was left out.”

Below is Schiff’s announcement of the new memo. In his tweet, he said the Republican version “omitted and distorted key facts in order to mislead the public.”

Some time ago, Republicans on our committee released a declassified memo that omitted and distorted key facts in order to mislead the public and impugn the integrity of the FBI.



We can now tell you what they left out: https://t.co/jeVCVTBUBZ — Adam Schiff (@RepAdamSchiff) February 24, 2018

That Trump would so egregiously misquote a news report ― from his favorite network no less― to attack a rival shows that he, not Schiff, is the one omitting and distorting key facts. Obama wasn’t perfect, Dirty Knucklez said, but at least he “had been around the block.”

“We need somebody who understands people, who understands the majority of the people,” he said, still bundled in layered coats to protect from the bitter winter cold, his face hidden behind a long beard. “The majority of the people aren’t rich. The majority of people don’t have money.”

And then, Dirty Knucklez started to cry.

“The majority of the people,” he said, “are out here struggling, bro.”

The tag on the curb outside Ben's Chili Bowl on Washington's U St. is Dirty Knucklez favorite of the multitude he's plastered across the city. Travis Waldron/HuffPost

Being homeless, he said, has deepened his opposition to the president.), a victim of torture during the Vietnam War who has called on Haspel to explain her involvement in the CIA’s interrogation program, remains in his home state after being diagnosed with cancer, leaving her nomination with as few as 49 GOP votes in the Senate ― one short of the overall number she needs for confirmation.

If McCain can’t make it to Washington to vote on Haspel ― or if he decides to oppose her ― that scenario would give a united Democratic caucus substantial leverage over her nomination.

So far, however, Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer (D-N.

In late February, the U.

Prosecutors had sought a 30-year sentence and a 118.5 billion won ($112 million) fine for former South Korean President Par Geun-hye. NurPhoto via Getty Images

‘HEARTBREAKING’

Park apologized while in office for seeking help from Choi, who had no policy or political experience, but that was as close as she came to admitting any guilt.

Kang Chul-koo, one of Park’s state-appointed lawyers, said he would discuss with her the possibility of an appeal.

“We tried our utmost but regret the result turned out very bad,” Kang told reporters at the court.de.ap and Taboo — expresses their stance on the issue bluntly with the line, “More n***as on the prisons than there ever was picking cotton.”

Since 2010′s “The Beginning,” the group has been busy performing at multiple events and venues. In 2011, they performed at the Super Bowl halftime show and most recently joined singer Ariana Grande for her One Love Manchester benefit concert.

One pointed difference for The Black Eyed Peas’ upcoming album is the absence of longtime member Fergie, who is focused on her solo career. (Her second solo album, “Double Duchess,” came out in September.) The group doesn’t have any concrete plans to replace the singer, will.i.am told Ahalan! magazine in June, though he said Nicole Scherzinger will appear on the new project.

Last year, the Black Eyed Peas released a graphic novel co-written by will.i.am., Masters of the Sun, which happens to share a name with the group’s coming album. The graphic novel follows the story of Zulu-X, who must save the word from aliens who turn drug dealers and gangsters into zombies. Along with the new single, Black Eyed Peas announced they will be introducing a virtual reality experience based off of the graphic novel at the 2018 Sundance Film Festival. The project boasts heavy hitters like Stan Lee as a narrator, Queen Latifah as a voice actor and Hans Zimmer as composer.

Advertisement