Seth Meyers could not get enough of a recent Axios report that claimed President Donald Trump’s daily schedule was getting shorter.

“President Trump is starting his official day much later than he did in the early days of his presidency, often around 11 a.m., and holding far fewer meetings,” Axios reported on Monday, referring to copies of Trump’s private schedule. The daily calendar of meetings and events reportedly differed from the version the White House made available to the public and press.

“I’m sorry, he starts his day at 11 a.m.?” Meyers asked on Tuesday broadcast of “Late Night.” “All I do is make fun of him and I still have to be here at 9 a.m.”

The schedule also reportedly included hours of “executive time,” which Axios described as “almost always ... TV and Twitter time alone in the residence.”The author of the best-seller Hillbilly Elegy, J.D. Vance, is now seriously considering a U.S. Senate run in Ohio and talking with Republicans in Washington, according to a BuzzFeed report.

Vance had previously ruled out a challenge to Sen. Sherrod Brown (D-Ohio) this year. But then the front-runner in the GOP primary, Ohio state Treasurer Josh Mandel (R), dropped out of the race last week. Mandel cited his wife’s health as his reason for withdrawing.

“The phone hasn’t stopped ringing since Friday,” Vance adviser Jai Chabria told BuzzFeed.

“The amount of support for J.D. Vance is incredible,” Chabria said, seemingly already in campaign mode. “People are starting to realize he has the best message to beat Sherrod Brown. J.D.

After discovering the exploit, investigators reviewed the county’s system for storing election results. They noted that election data is physically transported from polling places to an isolated central repository. Officials use memory cards to physically transfer the data from that central repository to separate computers to upload onto the web.

“This process provides data integrity. No data is carried back to the isolated master system that contains the official election results,” the report said. “Due to the lack of network connectivity and the fact that all data that goes into the isolated master system can be validated back to each polling station and to each polling machine, no compromise of official election data could have been carried out.”

Philip Stark, a professor of statistics at the University of California, Berkeley who is an expert on election auditing, reviewed the Sword & Shield report and said questions still remained.

“The assurance that no data could possibly flow from outside the tally system into the tally system is basically, ‘This is what Knox County told us,’” he said in an email. Also missing from the report, he said, was any indication of whether the country reused memory cards and, if so, how often it wiped them, as well as confirmation that the voting machines had no wireless functionality.

Ball said the county’s election systems don’t have any network functionality at all. is giving serious consideration toward this, because there are very serious people asking him to run.”

Mandel’s withdrawal has left Republicans scrambling to find a strong replacement. It’s only fitting that their exhausted theater teacher, played by “Insecure” scene-stealer Natasha Rothwell, has to remind them that the musical’s setting ― 1931 Germany ― wasn’t as affable a place as their school auditorium. “You’re Nazis! More anger,” she barks in a line Rothwell improvised, breaking up two cast members caught smooching during rehearsal.

In "Love, Simon," drama club kids are coached by Natasha Rothwell of "Insecure.

Aly Raisman talking about her day in court testifying against Larry Nassar #DGLSU #AllinforAly pic.twitter.com/D5j8j1KrmC — Caitie Burkes (@caitie1221) April 12, 2018

“I’m not as strong as I looked in those 12 or 13 minutes,” Raisman said of her now iconic impact statement, which she read aloud to Nassar in court. “I don’t think people understand how much it affects me every day ... It took everything I had to be strong in that moment.”

She told the crowd that some people still believe she shouldn’t complain about the abuse she endured because of the gold medals she’s won at past Olympics. To that, she responded: “Just because you are winning does not make abuse OK.”

“I think that it’s important to recognize that this Me Too movement is not just in Hollywood, it’s not just in gymnastics, it’s not just in other sports,” Raisman continued, according to LSU’s Daily Reveille. “It’s everywhere, including colleges. I’m not going to sit here and pretend, nor should anyone else, that sexual assault is not a very big problem on these campuses. It’s not something that’s talked about enough.”

In a follow-up interview with The Advocate, Raisman reflected on her recent activism and what she hopes her legacy will be." Fox

The headiness of “Cabaret” makes it the perfect choice for a high school staging, largely because the kids underestimate just how much they don’t understand about their wonky rendering. But, like the Becky Albertalli novel on which it’s based, “Love, Simon” initially had another musical at its center: “Oliver!,” the Dickensian classic about a British orphan who runs away and befriends a gang of pickpockets.

Berlanti couldn’t land the rights to “Oliver!,” so his next idea was to concoct an original show based on the John Cusack movie “Say Anything...,” one of those Hughesian rom-coms that “Love, Simon” evokes. After “Oliver!” fell through, the screenwriters ― “This Is Us” scribes Elizabeth Berger and Isaac Aptaker ― wrote a couple of Cusack-inspired bits.

“The idea was that the drama teacher had penned this musical herself over many years ― ‘Say Anything... They have hopes of picking up the Senate seat: President Donald Trump won Ohio by 8 percentage points in 2016, and Brown’s victory over Mandel in 2012 was the only statewide success for Democrats in more than a decade.

Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell has reportedly spoken to J.D. Vance about the Ohio Senate contest. Astrid Riecken/The Washington Post via Getty Images

Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.) spoke with Vance, according to Politico, and told associates he would prioritize the race if the former venture capitalist jumps in.

I thought “Blues at the Acropolis” was just a lovely, bittersweet way to end the record. I thought it was monumental, in a way. Was the song based on a real experience?

Kim: I did go to the Acropolis...

Currently, businessman Mike Gibbons is the sole Republican contender in the May primary, for which the filing deadline is Feb.

“What we do believe is that snow volleyball is great, it’s about engagement,” Azevedo said. “We want people to be playing volleyball. The future, who knows?”

An exhibition game took place on Valentine's Day in Pyeongchang. 7. Rep. Jim Renacci (R-Ohio), who is currently running for governor, said Tuesday that he would consider moving over to the Senate race if Trump supported him.

“If the president would call, I would consider it, because I would need his help really at this late part of the game,” Renacci told Cleveland radio station WTAM. “But again, my commitment is still to try and change the state of Ohio, and if I can do that in a Senate seat with the backing of the president because he wants me to do it, I would clearly consider it only at that time.”Margot Robbie on the red carpet of the 2018 Golden Globes. Steve Granitz via Getty Images

Um, is #HoneymoonGoals a thing?

The last person you expect to run into on your honeymoon is America’s favorite talk show host, let alone a former president, but so the story goes for “I, Tonya” star Margot Robbie.

The Australian actress tied the knot with husband Tom Ackerley in December 2016, but they took their honeymoon months later in Tahiti. After a few days on a secluded part of the island, the couple finished off the trip at a luxury hotel.

Robbie recounted the trip during an appearance on “The Ellen DeGeneres Show” on Wednesday, including the very key detail that Ackerley was wearing revealing short shorts at the time.

“Tom puts on these shorts, his oldest gym shorts, and they’re tiny,” Robbie said. “And they’re like really short and there’s nothing underneath, so he gets on his bicycle to ride there and I’m like, ‘Whoa. Babe, you cannot wear those shorts. They’re like ― you can see everything.’ And he’s like ‘C’mon. Who are we going to run into?’”

That’s when they bumped into DeGeneres her wife Portia de Rossi, and Barack Obama, who were exercising in the hotel gym.

“The whole thing was so absurd,” Robbie said.

“It was a very confined space, and we then had to do this whole, like, class, this stretching class, and Tom meanwhile is trying to like, not reveal anything,” she added. “And he’s dying and I’m crying so much, I’m about to crack a rib.”

Robbie did, however, get some face time with Obama, who apparently is a major fan of the actress, calling her “very talented.”

Watch Robbie talk about her role in “I, Tonya” below.