As the “bomb cyclone” known as winter storm Grayson descends upon the east coast, your hands might be feeling a little colder than usual. But Treasury Secretary Steve Mnuchin said that even if Trump refuses to waive the sanctions for Iran next month, that somehow doesn’t necessarily mean the deal will collapse.

Another option, as Trump sees it, is to renegotiate the terms of the deal. The administration may try to get its European allies to at least commit to changing the deal over the time, in return for the United States sticking with it.

Britain, France and Germany are looking at imposing new European sanctions on Iran over its ballistic missiles program and its role in the Syrian conflict in an attempt to keep Trump from pulling out.

On Sunday, Zarif said that any such side agreement between the other nations would be unacceptable to Iran.

“What is important is for the Europeans to bring the United States into compliance because Iran has been in compliance with the deal,” he said. “It’s been the United States that has failed to comply ... President Trump has made it very clear that it is trying to dissuade our economic partners from engaging with Iran and that’s a clear violation of the deal.”

Trump recently nominated Mike Pompeo, who was serving as his CIA director, to be his new secretary of state. Pompeo is expected to be more in line with Trump on Iran than was his predecessor, Rex Tillerson. He recently said he wanted to “fix” the nuclear agreement.

International experts, as well as U.S. But if, in general, you feel like your hands are somehow always inside their own personal ice buckets, you’re not alone. It turns out that having perpetually cold hands is a pretty common complaint. And, luckily, it’s probably not something you need to worry too much about. But it is annoying.

Essentially, your hands are kept warm thanks to your body’s circulatory system. Warm blood is sent all the way from your heart down to your fingers, and more blood means more warmth. But if you’re out in the cold or if someone sneakily left a window open in your office, your body’s thermoregulation techniques might kick in.

One of those strategies is to constrict your blood vessels, which keeps more blood near your core in order to protect your vital organs, says Natalie Evans, MD, at Cleveland Clinic. But the result is that your poor fingers lose some of that warmth. And, as Albert Ahn, MD, an internist at NYU Langone Medical Center explains to Buzzfeed, some of us are just simply more sensitive to those environmental changes than others, which means we’re left with cold hands more often — even when our coworkers couldn’t care less.

However, in some cases, having cold hands when it’s not cold out could be a sign of something more serious going on. For instance, Reynaud’s disease causes your blood vessels to randomly contract — technical term: vasospasm — which causes the affected area to turn white and feel cold. Although it’s uncomfortable, Reynaud’s usually isn’t dangerous. But it may be a side effect of another issue (e. Plus, in 2014 he had just started a new job and was wary about taking a lunch hour to go to the election office. He has since refused to register on principle, saying an average Kansan shouldn’t have to take legal action to register. Heartbreak,” British Columbia Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals employee Leon Davis told the CBC. “You know, all the animals that come through our care or branches we get attached to.g. lupus or thyroid disorders). So if you notice any changes in the color or texture of your skin along with a feeling of coldness, definitely ask your doctor about it.

And, of course, if you’ve been out in very cold temperatures for a long time, your cold hands could be suffering from the early stages of frostbite — if that’s the case, please get that checked out.

The rest of us, though, should probably just invest in a pair of texting gloves. “The right-wing media and the administration have been trying really hard to make it look like there are no legitimate asylum-seekers, and that’s just not true. And it’s not for them to decide anyway.”MSNBC

Joy Reid has apologized for writing anti-LGBTQ posts on her old blog, but she still has not answered important questions about her honesty and journalistic integrity.

A weeklong saga surrounding her claims that The Reid Report, her now-defunct blog, was subject to a cyberattack culminated with the MSNBC host apologizing ― once again ― for previously espousing homophobic positions.

The host of “AM Joy” said on air Saturday that her opinions have evolved since writing “offensive” statements several years ago. She echoed an apology she delivered in December after screenshots surfaced of blog posts she wrote between 2007 and 2009 that accused a former Florida governor of being a closeted gay man.

Many of her most vocal supporters online have enthusiastically accepted her apologies, concluding ― and rightly so ― that people should be allowed to re-examine their beliefs over time.

What stands out, though, is the ease with which her supporters have accepted her hacking claims, ignoring monumental gaps in plausibility.

“Surely people needn’t condemn Reid’s character to eternal damnation over this incident, but the public can ― and should ― demand transparency and truth from journalists.”

After screenshots appearing to capture dozens of her past homophobic blog posts were tweeted the previous week, Reid told Mediaite last Monday that she didn’t author the posts. According to her initial statement, “an unknown, external party accessed and manipulated material ...

By: Sarah JacobyGreat news, Ikea shoppers! Thanks to a new print ad you can find out if you’re pregnant and discover a discount on a crib, Adweek reports.

It sounds like a wonderfully pragmatic deal until you find out the catch — you actually have to pee on the ad to find out said discount.

The ad, which will run in Swedish magazine Amelia, uses the same kind of technology as at-home pregnancy tests and when someone pregnant pees on it, a discounted price on the Sundvik crib model magically appears.

It’s cool that the ad provides a free pregnancy test and all, but Adweek does not mention how one would actually go about getting the discount at an Ikea store, and Ikea has not yet responded to a HuffPost request to clear the matter up.

But if one has to physically present a urine-soaked ad to a cashier, they better throw in some free hand sanitizer in the deal.

Ikea The ad works as an at-home pregnancy test.. It is our fight today to make sure she wins again. The soul of America is at stake. We dare not lose.The Trump administration on Friday told Kentucky it can go ahead with its controversial Medicaid overhaul ― an initiative that would reduce benefits, require some beneficiaries to work, and generally make it more difficult for people to stay on the program.

Administration officials and their Kentucky counterparts have portrayed the plan as a way to improve the health of low-income residents and encourage self-sufficiency among poor but able-bodied adults. “The result will be a transformational improvement in the overall health of our people and will provide a model for other states to follow,” Matt Bevin, the state’s Republican governor, said at a press conference Friday.

But there’s scant evidence that Kentucky’s changes will have the effects that Bevin and his allies are promising. In fact, of the roughly 95,000 people expected to lose coverage, some will almost surely be people who are working ― or have reasons why they can’t work ― but who failed to satisfy the new system’s paperwork requirements.

Almost by definition, the people likely to lose coverage already have some combination of financial and medical problems, and without coverage, both are likely to get worse