. against their bill.”

“It was merely a fact-finding witch hunt against our association, with the hope that they could find something and use that against us to temper what we said,” Becker told HuffPost by phone Monday. “They treated us at the time in a mean-spirited, political way for merely questioning a policy.”

In a photo from July 2005, Donald Trump (R), then president of the Trump Organization, listens as Sen.When life gives you lemons, make lemonade. And when the Mecklenburg County Sheriff’s Dept. gives you a mugshot, use it for marketing.

That’s the savvy business move made by Shia Yearwood, a hairstylist in Charlotte, North Carolina, after she was arrested on a misdemeanor charge for violating a domestic protective order last Wednesday.

Yearwood said the arrest stemmed from a dispute between her and her son’s father over visitation, according to WAFB-TV.

The twitter account @charlottemugs posted her booking photo and it attracted lots of attention ― but not the kind she expected. 14 school shooting in Parkland, Florida.

When one person wrote, “Okay, but who did her hair?” the 24-year-old sensed opportunity was knocking.

“Me,” Yearwood replied, according to the Charlotte Observer.

SHIA MILAN YEARWOOD got their #mugshot posted to Charlotte Mugshots https://t.co/huzylGYJ8m pic.twitter.com/YloQz5B779 — Charlotte Mugshots (@CharlotteMugs) January 3, 2018

She retweeted the mugshot, adding “can’t hold me back either” and the hashtag of her business, #braidsbyshia.

Since then, the mug has been re-tweeted more than 4,000 times, and Yearwood says people are contacting her about setting up appointments.” Loesch also said she is debuting a one-hour show on NRATV next month to combat the mainstream media.

We have to remember our values and stick to our values. The more we stick to our values, the more we are going to continue to win elections.

What happened in Virginia was a message that if we stick to our values, we can win elections.

Yearwood said the retweet was her way of taking ownership of the situation.

“I retweeted it because me and my friends were joking between us like I [should] just clown myself before my friends find it and clown me first,” Yearwood told InsideEdition.com.

She told BET that “I thought my braids looked amazing — they were literally done two hours prior to the mugshot.”

Yearwood has been braiding hair since she was a youngster, and credits her grandmother and godmother for teaching her how to do it, even though she wasn’t a big fan at first.

“To be honest, I wasn’t quite interested in braiding because I use to do micros, and they took way too long to do,” she told BET. “Then I learned to do the Poetic Justice braids when I was experiencing hair loss after my daughter was born. I got a good reaction from family and friends. Because I was a young mom with no money for daycare, I did hair to just make a little money to get her [the] essentials.”

Yearwood views her reaction to the arrest as a positive.“Really? In this climate? You show a young girl ― drunk and falling into the arms of a an older man as doors close to give her no escape? Tone deaf much?,” another added.

Hyland addressed the criticism, writing, ” # JohntheBellHop is a very nice old man. FYI. *completely sober*.”“I have already asked to immediately meet with Secretary Zinke to discuss the concerns I have with this plan and the crucial need to remove Florida from consideration,” the governor said at the time.

The draft plan released last week covers 25 of 26 offshore planning areas and makes available for lease roughly 90 percent of the U.S. Outer Continental Shelf. The administration has identified 47 potential lease sales — “the largest number of lease sales ever proposed” — including 19 off the coast of Alaska and 12 in the Gulf of Mexico, Zinke said during a call with reporters last week.

If approved, the five-year plan would be in effect from 2019 to 2024.

Scott is expected to make a run for Senate this year, challenging Sen. Bill Nelson (D-Fla.), a longtime opponent of offshore drilling. Nelson was quick to dismiss Zinke’s decision Tuesday as a “political stunt.”

“I have spent my entire life fighting to keep oil rigs away from our coasts,” Nelson tweeted on Tuesday. “This is a political stunt orchestrated by the Trump administration to help Rick Scott who has wanted to drill off Florida’s coast his entire career.

Trump repeatedly and aggressively undermined Tillerson’s diplomatic efforts, rendering his credibility as America’s top foreign affairs representative essentially defunct in the eyes of the international community.

They publicly contradicted each other on issues including the denuclearization of North Korea and the fate of the multinational Iran nuclear deal, as well as on Washington’s commitment to NATO and its official view of Qatar.

Tillerson appeared to distance himself from the president in August, after Trump seemingly sympathized with participants of a violent white supremacist rally in Charlottesville, Virginia, that turned deadly. There were “very fine people” on both sides, Trump asserted, triggering bipartisan outrage and condemnation.

When confronted about his boss’s comments, Tillerson told Fox News simply: “The president speaks for himself.”

Tensions boiled over in October, when NBC claimed that Tillerson had previously referred to Trump as a “fucking moron.” Tillerson responded to the reports by saying the president was “smart,” but he did not deny calling him a moron.

Trump dismissed the alleged insult as “fake news,” then challenged Tillerson to an IQ test, saying: “I can tell you who is going to win.”

In November, The New York Times reported that the White House had a plan to oust Tillerson from his job amid the ongoing disagreements between him and Trump. As Tillerson neared his first anniversary as secretary of state, however, he remained in his position and continued to insist that he was staying put. We shouldn’t be playing politics with the future of FL.”

Environmental groups also questioned Zinke’s motivations.

Sierra Weaver, a senior attorney at the Southern Environmental Law Center ― which led the charge to have Atlantic waters removed from the current five-year leasing plan ― said that if the decision had been about anything other than politics, Zinke would have also announced the removal of the waters off Virginia, North Carolina, South Carolina and Georgia, “where offshore drilling has already been rejected by local and state voices.”

“The fact is that an oil spill doesn’t know or care where one state ends and another begins ― and Florida remains at risk, just like all states in the Mid- and South Atlantic,” Weaver said in a statement.

But Zinke has not withdrawn any other offshore areas from consideration, despite pleas from governors and lawmakers up and down the Atlantic and Pacific coasts — a point that was also not lost on Democratic leaders from other states.