Virginia state law requires ties to decided “by lot,” a random selection process such as the one employed in this election, or drawing straws or flipping a coin.

In Simonds’ concession announcement, she urged Yancey to vote for Medicaid expansion in the state.

Simonds also announced Wednesday that she is running for the seat again in 2019, and emphasized the need for voting reform.

“This tight campaign exposed a number of problems; it needs to be easier for people to vote absentee, and ballots that are postmarked by Election Day should be counted in a close election like mine,” Simonds said in an email to supporters. “We need to make sure college students are not kicked off voter rolls when they renew their licenses at 20 and 21 years old.”Celine Dion dealt with a drunk fan in the classiest of ways.

A woman tried to dry-hump the 49-year-old singer onstage at her show at the Colosseum at Caesars Palace in Las Vegas on Friday, per multiple reports.

But instead of ordering security to immediately remove the unruly fan, Dion used the incident to remind people to be kind to each other.

Dion chatted with and sang to the unidentified woman for a couple of minutes, before making sure she was safely escorted from the stage.

“You know what, some people go through a lot and some people need to talk,” Dion told the audience. “And I want to say thank you to all of you, because for maybe five minutes we have given this lady a moment to talk.”

It’s unclear whether Dion invited the woman to join her, or if the fan crashed the stage of her own accord. The end result was truly beautiful, however.

Advertisement“How can I operate with integrity and stay on at E if they’re not willing to pay me the same as him?” she wrote. “Or at least come close? How can I accept an offer that shows they do not value my contributions and paralleled dedication all these years? How can I not echo the actions of my heroes and stand for what is right no matter what the cost? How can I remain silent when my rights under the law have been violated?”

At the time, E! responded to Sadler’s departure in a statement to HuffPost, saying that the entertainment channel “compensates employees fairly and appropriately based on their roles, regardless of gender.”

This weekend, actresses Debra Messing and Eva Longoria called out E! during the Golden Globes for paying its female co-hosts less than their male counterparts. During multiple scenes, I wondered if my internet had slowed down and I was watching this at half-speed. The poor direction and dialogue make this hard to get through, so you really have to love detective thrillers to find enjoyment here.If there was an Academy Award for best impersonation, you can bet your bottom dollar that Tom Hanks and Meryl Streep would be in the running. Shangela (vs.S. Justice Department announced they will not charge two police officers in the fatal shooting of Alton Sterling. Jonathan Bachman / Reuters

The legal action was taken after the Justice Department announced in May it would not file charges against Salamoni or Lake. Landry’s office has yet to determine whether state criminal charges should be filed. Both officers remain on paid administrative leave.

According to The Times-Picayune in New Orleans, in addition to the videos, the subpoenas seek several evidentiary items, including audio recordings, reports, notes and eyewitness statements.

The subpoenas give Landry until Jan. 29 to respond.

Landry’s office has reportedly declined to comment on the request, citing the ongoing investigation.Celebrities showed up to the 2018 Critics’ Choice Awards in a dazzling array of colors, patterns and textures (we see you in that velvet suit jacket, Armie Hammer).

The styles came just days after the majority of actresses and actors attending the Golden Globes Awards wore all black in a symbolic response to the recent tidal wave of sexual abuse and harassment allegations that has rocked Hollywood.

But on Thursday night’s award ceremony, our favorite entertainers donned a cascade of vibrant arrangements. Trixie Mattel)

This is the conflict with the most tension in it, largely because Thorgy and Shangela are very different types of communicators, and kept cutting each other off. It also involves a very reticent Trixie, who is still paying for hanging up Thorgy’s note about Shangela in her workspace. Trixie mostly wants it to stop, while Thorgy wants to clear the air, and Shangela wants to defend herself and her decision to send Thorgy home. It’s ultimately just a lot of noise.

Winner: Shangela, though I was tempted to say no one.. Proud of you!!! Keep puttin in that WERK.”Jimmy Kimmel’s puppet version of Kellyanne Conway just loves spilling the beans about the Trump administration.

On Monday’s broadcast of “Jimmy Kimmel Live!”, the host poked fun at claims made in Ronald Kessler’s new book that President Donald Trump’s counselor was “the number one leaker” of information in the White House.

“Spokespuppet” Conway dished fabricated details about members of Trump’s inner circle in the spoof bit, but the revelations did come at a price…Mandel Ngan/AFP/Getty Images

WASHINGTON ― Donald Trump was supposed to be a different type of Republican. He’s frequently switched political parties, won over some traditionally Democratic voters and attacked well-regarded members of the GOP. Many establishment Republicans disavowed him, while others hoped his heterodox views ― antithetical to many pro-business elites ― could reshape politics.

But as president, Trump has mostly governed as a traditional Republican leader. His rhetoric may sound different, but his biggest accomplishments and policy initiatives are, at the end of the day, almost completely in line with an orthodox GOP agenda ― with more of an emphasis on nationalist policies.

Trump didn’t execute some hostile takeover of the party; he was readily welcomed by many in the rank and file as its chief, and his administration has already fulfilled many items on its wishlist.

“President Trump has absolutely governed as a Republican,” said Boris Epshteyn, a former Trump aide who is now chief political analyst at Sinclair Broadcast Group. “The president has had success on a wide range of fronts which are key to the Republican and conservative agenda, including deregulation, tax reform, decimating ISIS, repealing [Obamacare’s] individual mandate, reforming immigration, etc.”

“It is also important to note how involved the president has been in supporting Republican candidates throughout the country and working to keep GOP majorities in the House and the Senate,” he added.

The most significant accomplishments under Trump have as much to do with Congress as they do with the president. Legislatively, Trump’s biggest win was the tax cut law that delivered a massive permanent reduction for corporations. But Thorgy agrees that her problem was being in the bottom two, not being sent home, and Shangela didn’t put her there.

ROUND 2: Morgan McMichaels vs.

“The Post” costars had a little too much fun doing impressions of each other’s iconic characters on Tuesday’s broadcast of “The Ellen DeGeneres Show.”

Streep imitated Woody from the “Toy Story” movies and Forrest Gump from the film of the same name. Hanks, meanwhile, channeled Miranda Priestly from “The Devil Wears Prada” and former British Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher in “The Iron Lady.”. Cline’s philosophy, to be clear, is: Nerd men are unloved mensches who simply must be given porn with more “Battlestar Galactica” references; other people are Bad and maybe not even human.

If you’re already having horrifying flashbacks to the aggrieved male nerds of #GamerGate: Same.

“I’ve noticed that there don’t seem to be any porno movies / that are made for guys like me,” the poem begins ― a baffling allegation, considering how much porn is made for everyone, but especially men and extra-especially male nerds. By 1998, there were multiple porn versions of both “Star Wars” and “Ghostbusters” in circulation.

But I digress. It would be uncouth not to let him explain:

All the porn I’ve come across was targeted at beer-swilling sports bar dwelling alpha-males Men who like their women stupid and submissive Men who can only get it up for monosyllabic cock-hungry nymphos with gargantuan breasts and a three word vocabulary Adult films are populated with these collagen-injected, liposuctioned women Many of whom have resorted to surgery and self-mutilation in an attempt to look the way they have been told to look. These aren’t real women. They’re objects. And these movies aren’t erotic. They’re pathetic. These vacuum-headed fuck bunnies don’t turn me on. They disgust me