John Leguizamo was a bright-eyed college graduate when he first realized how hard it is for a Latino actor to make it in the entertainment industry.

The 53-year-old actor described the moment during a visit to The New York Times, where he spoke to film writer Monica Castillo about his one-man Broadway show, “Latin History For Morons.”

During the conversation on Tuesday, Leguizamo noted how Latino stars like Jennifer Lopez have to be extra resourceful and multi-talented in order to succeed.

“It really became apparent to me as a young actor, after I graduated from NYU, and all of my white friends were going to five auditions every day and I was going to one, once every two months,” Leguizamo said. “And I was like, I went to the same college, I studied with the same teachers, I got the same grades, why don’t I have the same opportunities? And once that became incredibly obvious to me, I was like, wow, I gotta find some other path.

“The ’90s were a different time,” he said. “If you came out, if anyone knew you were gay, it was a disaster and people really flipped out.”

Leguizamo said after realizing that he decided to forge his own path by working in performance art spaces and writing one-shows like “Mambo Mouth” and “Ghetto Klown.”

In 2015, the actor told The Hollywood Reporter that he began working on his autobiographical shows as an “antidote” to Hollywood’s tendency to typecast Latinos.

“It was an antidote to the system, to the Hollywouldn’t-ness of it all,” he said. “You know? And it was that, because I didn’t want to be a drug dealer or a murderer for the rest of my life. That’s not me, that’s not my people.”

While talking to Castillo this week, Leguizamo also said he wrote about his life in the hope that others would see themselves represented in his stories.HuffPost may receive a share from purchases made via links on this page.

HuffPost 12 Cruelty-Free Coats That'll Keep You Warm Without Down And Fur

While we’re just starting to see changes in the weather, winter will be here before you know it and you don’t want to be caught off guard. If last years winter coat didn’t cut it or has seen better days, it might be time to replace it., male circumcision is popular across religions and ethnicities, for health and cultural reasons. The World Health Organization estimated in 2009 that about one in three men globally is circumcised.

Male circumcision is “a non-negotiable element of Jewish identity,” a spokesman for Milah UK, a Jewish campaign group, told The Guardian, adding that Iceland’s proposed ban is “extremely concerning.

If you’re looking to make a more conscious choice when it comes to your winter coat you might want to avoid jackets filled with down feathers. The filling is commonly used in coats and comforters, but has come under scrutiny for the harm it can cause to geese. The good news is, along with vegan leather and faux fur, there are a lot of down-alternatives available that that are better for your conscience and your wallet.

That’s why we’ve scoured the internet for cruelty-free coats that are not only warm, but animal friendly. Most of these coats are made using synthetic down or down alternative fillings, and some even use recycled materials for a more sustainable jacket. Multiple media outlets, including HuffPost, picked up the ADL’s report and repeated the claim that Cruz was an ROF member. In several reports, Jereb, an obscure white nationalist figure, was the sole source.

“We are still doing some work, but we have no known ties between the ROF, Jordan Jereb or the Broward shooter,” a Leon County Sheriff’s Office spokesman told the Tallahassee Democrat. The sheriff’s office has arrested Jereb at least four times since January 2014 and has been monitoring ROF’s membership, The Associated Press reported.

By Thursday evening, Jereb appeared to be backing down from his claim.

“There was a misunderstanding because we have MULTIPLE people named Nicholas in ROF,” a user named @JordanJereb posted on Gab, a social media platform popular among fascists and racists. “Are you really going to blame ME for the lying jew media? We know they are liars. Fuck em,” the user wrote. (HuffPost messaged the user, who had posted about ROF months before Wednesday’s shooting, but was not immediately able to confirm his identity.)

HuffPost has not found evidence that Cruz was affiliated with ROF — or that he had even interacted with anyone in the group. Jereb did not respond to repeated requests for proof of Cruz’s involvement with ROF. Cruz’s Facebook and Instagram were taken down after the shooting.”

Although she left her job on his late-night comedy show last December, that didn’t stop Noah from using a Trump catchphrase from “The Apprentice” to give Wolf her marching orders.In case you needed another reason to be excited about the new season of last year’s TV lightning rod “13 Reasons Why,” Netflix has two: a teaser and a release date. When “Black Mirror” gets it right, it gets it so right.

Based on Jay Asher’s young adult book of the same name, the controversial teen drama starring Dylan Minnette and Katherine Langford is set to drop new episodes on the streaming service May 18.

The second season picks up after the death of teenager Hannah (Langford), who left behind 13 tapes for Clay (Minnette) and various classmates to explain what led to her suicide. Her parents are now suing the high school, but someone “will stop at nothing to keep the truth surrounding Hannah’s death concealed,” according to Netflix. On one of his since-deleted Instagram profiles, Cruz’s Twitter avatar wore a “Make America Great Again” hat and he shared pictures of an assortment of guns and knives. We’ve even found a coat made of recycled down, for folks who are concerned with reusing and recycling

See below for 12 of our favorite cruelty-free coat picks: