Cecile Richards attends Planned Parenthood of New York City's Spring Gala on May 1, 2018. Jared Siskin via Getty Images

Running for political office is not out of the question for Cecile Richards.

“Never say never, right?” the former Planned Parenthood president recently told Refinery29.

Richards, 60, served as the women’s health organization’s president since 2006 and announced she was stepping down in January. The lifelong feminist activist and organizer published her first book in April, titled Make Trouble: Standing Up, Speaking Out, and Finding the Courage to Lead-My Life Story.

“Don’t box yourself out,” she told the publication. “I think as women, we need to have more tapes in our head that say, ‘You know, I could do that.’ And so, I never want to say there’s something I’m not going to do. There’s no reason to foreclose things.”

While Richards has vowed to stay engaged in activism and political organizing, she has yet to elaborate on the details her future plans hold.

“Helping other people organize ... to hold people in office accountable for issues that matter, that brings me real joy,” she said. Now he mostly hunts alone, but he appreciates the quiet of the woods more than ever. Besides, any time spent in a treestand is time spent not drinking. For me it’s my relationship with Christ and my family, that’s what it’s all about.

A sign held up during the Eagles' Super Bowl victory parade on Feb. 8 in Philadelphia.”

Nina Turner, president of Our Revolution, is one of more than 70 progressive leaders who signed a pledge to fight for "good jobs, sustainable prosperity and economic justice." Erika Goldring/Getty Images

In addition to endorsing “Medicare for all” and free college, staples of Vermont Sen. Bernie Sanders’ 2016 presidential bid, the pledge calls for a comprehensive infrastructure investment program, a green energy economy, a reversal of the Trump tax cuts and appropriate taxation of the wealthy, the empowerment of labor unions, and tougher regulation of Wall Street. It also calls for reduced economic inequality for women and communities of color, and reforms like public campaign financing aimed at “rescuing democracy from the special interests.”

Few, if any, of the policies in the pledge are brand new ― a fact that its organizers freely admit.

What makes the pledge notable, however, is the diverse array of figures who have signed it and the debate it represents over the future of the progressive movement and the Democratic Party. Signers range from Michael Brune, executive director of the Sierra Club, and United Steelworkers president Leo Gerard to Ai-Jen Poo, director of the National Domestic Workers Alliance, and Eddie Glaude Jr., chair of Princeton University’s center for African-American studies.

Progressives, particularly those who backed Sanders’ presidential bid, have argued since the election that growing income disparities and the dominant role of money in politics left a populist void that Trump manipulated to his advantage.

The theory holds that as a candidate, Trump’s outsider status, hawkishness on trade and grandiose claims about “draining the swamp,” won over some working-class voters ― particularly white families in the Rust Belt ― who typically voted for Democrats, including former President Barack Obama. At the same time, Democratic nominee Hillary Clinton’s deep ties to financial elites and her history of changing positions meant she failed to turn out more liberal members of the Democratic base, including millennials and people of color. Patrick Smith via Getty Images

Do you and your teammates joke around and make fun of each other? Do they have any nicknames for you?

Everyone knows I’m sort of goofy. Some guys are really serious when they play. I’m not. In practice, when I’m throwing with receivers, I’ll work on some no-look throws — I’ll look left and throw right.

“If I sit at home and dwell on things,” he said with a turkey call in his mouth, “it’ll just fuck me up.”

Phelps said he went to rehab in Arizona after his second DUI arrest. He said he hoped the USOC will do more to help other athletes.

Patrick Fallon / Reuters

Current and former athletes like Olympic swimmer Missy Franklin and NBA star Kevin Love also have publicly discussed their mental health struggles. U.S.”

A few months after the disaster, Davis went back to work at a mine run by Alpha Natural Resources, the coal giant that would go on to acquire Massey. He still had a ringing in his ears from the blast and what would turn out to be post-traumatic stress disorder. He struggled with loud sounds. He had panic attacks.

“I just couldn’t sleep,” he said. “I couldn’t think. I couldn’t function. “I’ve seen the power of people organizing together ... and there’s a role for that that’s as important as having good people in office.”

When Richards announced she was leaving Planned Parenthood earlier this year, she said that leading the organization “has been the honor of my lifetime.”The American Civil Liberties Union on Thursday requested that Kansas Secretary of State Kris Kobach (R) and other Kansas election officials correct misleading information on their websites saying residents need to prove their citizenship when they register to vote.

The ACLU is currently suing Kobach on behalf of the Kansas League of Women Voters and five Kansas voters who were blocked from registering to vote at the DMV because the state couldn’t verify their citizenship. In a Thursday letter, the ACLU said Kobach’s own website and those of several counties did not reflect a 2016 ruling from a federal judge in their case blocking the state from enforcing the proof of citizenship requirement.

Because of the ruling, the state can require people to prove their citizenship when they register using a state voter registration form, but not when people go to register to vote at the DMV and register using a federal form. Other court rulings, including one in 2013 from the U.S. Supreme Court, have said that states can’t ask people who use the federal form to register to vote to prove their citizenship when they use the federal form.

In a letter, the ACLU asked Kobach, Kansas’ chief election official, to correct information on his website that gave the incorrect impression that everyone, regardless of how they register to vote, must to prove they’re a citizen. A section of his website called “A guide to voting in Kansas” says: “If you are registering for the first time in Kansas, you must submit a document proving you are a U.S. citizen. Birth certificates, passports, naturalization documents, military records and other documents are acceptable.”

A guide to voting posted on the Kansas Secretary of State's website suggests that all people need to prove their citizenship when they register to vote in Kansas. Kansas Secretary of State's Office

The ACLU also pointed to a guide to voter registration drives posted on Kobach’s website that says “when registering to vote for the first time in Kansas, a person must submit proof of U.S. citizenship along with the voter registration application.

Disappointment and frustration with the Affordable Care Act is part of the story too. The law’s architects wanted to “bend the curve” on health care spending ― not through a government takeover, as critics charged, but with financial incentives designed to reward efficiency. An example was a penalty, within Medicare, for hospitals with high rates of costly and preventable readmissions.

Although some of these efforts appear to be working, some don’t. Even the most promising ones are going to make only a modest impact, as even the law’s supporters have long conceded.

Meanwhile, just as politics were shifting to the right toward the end of the 20th century, they may be shifting back left now, at least within the Democratic Party, where the appeal of Medicare for All was arguably a major reason Sanders came as close as he did to winning the 2016 nomination.

Back in September, nearly every Democratic senator thought to be contemplating a 2020 run for the presidency endorsed the most recent iteration of his proposal.”

A Kansas Secretary of State guide for voter registration drives doesn't clarify that people using the federal form to register to vote don't need to prove they are a citizen. Kansas Secretary of State's Office

Moriah Day, a Kobach spokesman, did not immediately return a request for comment.

At the time of the 2016 ruling, roughly 18,000 people had been blocked from voting because of the proof of citizenship requirement. The ACLU has been accusing Kobach of refusing to fully comply with the 2016 order and not making a good-faith effort to ensure that people previously blocked from voting understand they are fully eligible. U.S. District Judge Julie Robinson held Kobach in contempt of court in April for failing to fully inform voters of their eligibility (Kobach is currently appealing her ruling to the U.S. Court of Appeals to the 10th Circuit.)

The ACLU also requested that Kobach write to county election officials and tell them to update their websites to reflect that people using the federal form to register do not need to provide proof of citizenship. The letter pointed to the websites of Douglas, Riley and Crawford counties, which all say people need to prove their citizenship in order to register to vote.

“There is a concern that Kobach has not done anything to ensure that counties know what they are required to do under the various court orders,” Sophia Lakin, a staff attorney at the ACLU wrote in an email. She added people could be dissuaded from voting because of incorrect information.

A section of the Riley County website that says first-time voters need to prove their citizenship. Riley County website

During a March contempt hearing in Kansas City, Kobach tried to downplay the influence he had over the local county election officials. He said he could only request that they do something, not compel them to. Robinson was skeptical, noting it was his duty to make sure the officials complied with the law and that her preliminary injunction blocking the proof of citizenship requirement was current law.

Advertisement