FX’s “Pose” is generating lots of pre-release buzz for featuring television’s largest cast of trans actors in series regular roles and for the largest LGBTQ cast in a scripted series. Now, co-creator Ryan Murphy is taking an extra step to ensure that the show’s inclusive efforts extend beyond its diverse casting.

The writer-producer, whose credits include “Glee” and “American Horror Story,” has announced plans to donate all profits from the 1980s-themed dance musical to LGBTQ charitable organizations, especially transgender-focused groups.

He encouraged “Pose” fans to follow suit on Twitter Wednesday, noting that he’ll be highlighting a different queer organization on social media for the next 14 days.

I am donating 100 percent of my profits from my new FX show POSE towards trans and LGBTQ charitable organizations. These groups do amazing work and need our support. Every day for the next 14 days I will highlight a group I'm supporting, and encourage you to do the same! — Ryan Murphy (@MrRPMurphy) May 9, 2018

The same day, Murphy announced his first contribution to the Sylvia Rivera Law Project, a New York-based legal organization that serves low-income people who identify as transgender, intersex and/or gender nonconforming.

The Sylvia Rivera Law Project. SRLP works to guarantee that all people are free to self-determine gender identity and expression, regardless of income or race, and without facing harassment, discrimination or violence. https://t.co/STLAmgRBOZ — Ryan Murphy (@MrRPMurphy) May 9, 2018

“Pose” takes place in 1987; the series aims to “explore the juxtaposition of several segments of life and society in New York: the ball culture world, the rise of the luxury Trump-era universe and the downtown social and literary scene,” according to a news release.

Murphy, who directed two of the first season’s eight episodes, told Variety that working with transgender performers MJ Rodriguez, Indya Moore, Dominique Jackson, Hailie Sahar, and Angelica Ross inspired him to “put his money where his mouth is. During the Obama administration, Republicans railed against the federal deficit and called for cutting spending. But the fact that the omnibus sailed through was less a result of Trump being a new type of president then the reality that Republicans no longer need to make the deficit a political issue now that they have a GOP president.

On gun policy, Trump stunned lawmakers earlier this year when he publicly embraced several gun control measures and shot down GOP priorities like concealed carry reciprocity.”

“The thing that struck me in talking to so many of them was how much they’ve struggled, how under attack they feel, how many of them find it difficult getting healthcare and finding jobs,” he said. “I just decided I need to do more than just making a show for this community. I want to reach out and help.”Bust out the celebratory Szechuan sauce!

The fate of the popular animated series “Rick and Morty” has been up in the air since Season 3 wrapped in October 2017. But fans can now rejoice because Adult Swim has ordered a staggering 70 new episodes, co-creator Justin Roiland (and the voice of both title characters) announced Thursday on Twitter.

More Rick and Morty coming. Looking forward to all the tweets asking where it is! #theydrawingit pic.twitter.com/KZild3B9rP — Justin Roiland (@JustinRoiland) May 10, 2018

Adult Swim backed up the claim.

Co-creator Dan Harmon did … uh, this:

A post shared by Dan Harmon (@danharmon) on May 10, 2018 at 9:16am PDT

And Kanye West was so excited about the news that he didn’t even bother to use periods when tweeting about it!

https://t.co/eUnzwhr72z This is the greatest news This is my favorite show I’ve seen every episode at least 5 times each — KANYE WEST (@kanyewest) May 10, 2018

Since the show debuted in 2013, it has created 31 episodes in three seasons, which means the order is more than double the number of episodes that the show has already produced.S. high-tech goods, including high-end chips, but has been stymied by U.S. export controls set on national security grounds.

The Trump administration is accusing Chinese firms of stealing intellectual property and forcing U.S. women’s Olympic hockey team on Thursday eked out a victory over Canada after a tie score forced the game into a thrilling overtime.

The Canada team had been ahead 2-1 towards the end of the third period when American player Monique Lamoureux-Morando scored on a breakaway.

TIE GAME!



A nice save leads to a breakaway goal by @moniquelam7 to knot @TeamUSA @usahockey women and Canada at 2 late in the third! #WinterOlympics https://t.co/R7Kzi4a9HS pic.twitter.com/1SG7VQfW68 — NBC Olympics (@NBCOlympics) February 22, 2018

The game went into a 20-minute overtime, during which no players from either team scored thanks to quick reflexes from Canada goalie Shannon Szabados and U.S. goalie Maddie Rooney.

The series also has a reputation for having long hiatuses between seasons. Over a year passed before Season 2 debuted and there was a two-year gap between seasons two and three (One episode, however, was released in April 2017 while the next episode came out in late July 2017. I said something yesterday on the show that clearly struck a nerve, and I think it’s a conversation we need to have openly. — Todd (@ToddColorado) February 17, 2018WASHINGTON ― President Donald Trump called on the Department of Justice to prosecute a political opponent and called immigrants “animals” during a roundtable with California leaders on Wednesday.

“We’re taking people out of the country. You wouldn’t believe how bad these people are,” he said. “These aren’t people. These are animals.”

The livestreamed roundtable at the White House centered on so-called sanctuary policies, which limit local law enforcement cooperation with federal deportation efforts. His dehumanizing comments about immigrants weren’t new, nor was his attack on a Democratic politician. The most remarkable thing about both of them was that in the Trump era, reducing a group of people to subhuman and threatening to incarcerate another politician were scarcely notable.

The president referenced “animals” after a sheriff asked him about MS-13, a gang that started in the U.S.”WASHINGTON, Jan 12 (Reuters) - U.S. Ambassador to Panama John Feeley, a career diplomat and former Marine Corps helicopter pilot, has resigned, saying he no longer felt able to serve President Donald Trump.

Feeley’s departure had been communicated to State Department officials on Dec. 27 and was not a response to Trump’s alleged use of the word “shithole” to describe Haiti and African countries at a meeting on Thursday, U.S. officials said.

Trump denies using the term.

Feeley, one of the department’s Latin America specialists and among its senior most officers, made clear that he had come to a place where he no longer felt able to serve under Trump.) The show, however, is self-aware of its exceptional lulls and at the end of Season 3, a character broke the fourth wall and told the audience they’ll “see ya in Season 4 in, like, a really long time.”

Adult Swim did not provide any information when the next season would premiere, but at this rate, we’ll be seeing “Rick and Morty” for years (and years and years) to come!