DENTON, Texas ― Amanda Painter sat at the kitchen table in an unfamiliar apartment with an absurd dilemma: She had nothing to wear to a vigil for her three dead children.

Her clothes were at home, but her home was now a crime scene.

Less than 100 hours after her children were murdered, Amanda, 29, found herself in a Walmart, hobbling down the aisles, the gunshot wound to her neck concealed by a gauze bandage. She found a suitable purple shirt and kept her head down. She hadn’t expected to see so many children at the store, laughing and playing. For eight years, Amanda answered to “Mommy.” Now, her babies ― Odin, 8, Caydence, 6, and Drake, 4 ― were gone. Each time she closed her eyes, even to blink, they returned.

Last week, Amanda’s ex-husband, Justin Painter, 39, entered her home in Ponder, Texas, and fatally shot her boyfriend, Seth Richardson, 29, her three children and then himself. He intentionally kept Amanda alive, he told her, to live with the pain.

It was an unthinkable tragedy.

Two days later another unthinkable tragedy occurred, more than 300 miles away. A student opened fire in a high school in Santa Fe, killing 10. Both events were mass shootings ― that is, they each involved at least four fatalities ― and both were in Texas.

There’s no place worse than Texas when it comes to mass shootings. Since 2009, the state has experienced 20 incidents, the most of any state. In 65 percent of cases, the victims included a romantic partner or family member of the shooter, just like what happened to Amanda.

Yet most people only hear about the school shootings ― and not Amanda’s story.

Donna Bloom, director of legal services at Denton County Friends of the Family, visits Amanda at the transitional housing. Mei-Chun Jau for HuffPost

When HuffPost interviewed Amanda, she had just been released from the hospital and was settling into an apartment 20 minutes away from her home, provided by the local domestic violence organization, Denton County Friends of the Family. Advocates stocked the apartment with comfort food, flowers, bath bombs and toiletries, and scribbled inspirational messages on the mirrors. “We are here for you!” someone had written in dry-erase marker. “This is a place to heal and feel safe.”

Amanda was visibly in pain, and moved slowly around the apartment, wincing.

She’d been asleep in bed with her boyfriend when her ex-husband showed up that morning. Seth was lying next to her, his arm wrapped around her body, his stomach pressed into her back, when Justin came in and shot Seth in the head. The bullet went through Seth’s body and into Amanda’s, fracturing her neck and breaking her ribs. Her physical injuries were nothing, she said, compared to her emotional pain. In conversation, Amanda would appear composed for a minute, sometimes two, but then her face crumpled, contorted by grief.

“Your life can always get worse,” she said, breaking down. “I don’t think mine can get any lower. Somehow, I’m still fucking standing, and I’m going to keep going, and I don’t know how, but I’m going to keep going.”

Everyone kept asking her what she needed, she said. The only thing she needed she couldn’t have.

“My kids were my coping mechanism, and now they are gone,” Amanda said. “He knew when he took them from me, he took everything. He’s won.”

The relationship

Amanda met Justin online when she was 17. They both played “World of Warcraft.” Her username was Amarella; he was Torak. She lived in Richmond, Virginia, and he lived in Tulsa, Oklahoma. They chatted on the internet for a year, getting to know each other’s stories.

Amanda’s was complicated: Her mother struggled with drug addiction, and Amanda and her identical twin sister, Ashley, were frequently uprooted as kids, bouncing from school to school.

Justin offered stability, and a chance at a fresh start. He was 10 years older and had a job at a Walmart distribution center in Oklahoma. When she was 19, he drove to Virginia to pick her up and bring her home with him. It was the first time they’d met in person.

Once they were in Oklahoma, Amanda recalled, it seemed like Justin wanted her to stay indoors and only play video games. Within a few months, she was stir-crazy. She planned a trip back to Virginia to see her family. While there, she discovered she was pregnant. She didn’t really want to go back to Oklahoma, she said, because she already harbored concerns about the relationship. But she also worried about being a single mother. She had grown up in poverty, and she didn’t want that for her baby.

Without much choice, she went back to Oklahoma to be with Justin. Her son Odin was born in 2009. Caydence came next, in 2012. They moved to Texas to be closer to Justin’s family. Then came Drake, in 2013.

During their nine-year relationship, Justin was not physically abusive toward her, Amanda said, but sometimes she felt afraid of him. When he was angry, he would slam things ― the television remote, his computer chair. She said he was controlling, especially when it came to family finances. She was not given a debit card until after Caydence was born. Before that, every time she needed anything ― diapers, milk, gas for the car ― she had to ask for cash.

Amanda said she often felt depressed. Every so often, she said, she would tell Justin she wasn’t happy and he’d beg her to stay, saying he couldn’t live without her.

She said he also threatened that if she did leave, she’d lose the kids.

“It’s not a huge surprise to me that there wasn’t a lot of physical violence, because it wasn’t necessary,” said Donna Bloom, director of legal services at Denton County Friends of the Family and one of the advocates who stayed with Amanda in the days after the shooting. Physical violence, she said, is just one of many tools people use to control their partners.

“Amanda is a pretty compliant person, so it didn’t have to escalate to physical violence,” Bloom said. “He could use these other tools to achieve the same objective, which is to be in control.”

Mei-Chun Jau for HuffPost

The separation and the gun

Last year, Amanda finally decided to leave Justin. She was about to turn 28 and felt a growing sense of independence, thanks to a new job. “I thought, if I’m going to take care of the children and work full-time and take care of the house, I just need to get out,” she said.

On April 21, 2017, she told Justin she wanted to try separating, and that she was going to move in with a friend. That night, she said, she and Justin went to sleep together, but in the morning, he wasn’t in bed. She found him in another room, crying. She said he told her that while she was asleep, he had gotten out his gun, loaded it and planned to kill himself.

Scared for the safety of her children, Amanda decided to leave right away. Justin grew angry, she said, and starting throwing things, breaking their flat-screen television over his knees. She buckled the kids in the car and went back in the house to get the gun. It was still loaded, she said. She put it in the trunk.

“I took it because I was afraid he was going to shoot himself,” Amanda said.

She wasn’t the only one who was worried. According to a police report obtained by HuffPost, Justin’s stepfather called 911 that morning to request a welfare check on his son, and an ambulance was called. Police confirmed to HuffPost that Justin was voluntarily admitted into a mental health facility.

While he was seeking medical help, Amanda moved out with the kids. When he returned home, she said, they both took turns caring for the children. Her shifts at a nursing home were unpredictable, and she needed his parenting support. Still, she was surprised when he filed for divorce that summer. He fought for primary custody, and got it.

“I didn’t have any money,” Amanda said. She went to court without a lawyer.

Amanda was granted visitation with her children every other weekend. This worked out for a while, she said. Their relationship grew amicable. Sometimes Justin came over for dinner. Other times, they did stuff with the kids together.

But there was one point of contention: the gun.

Earlier this year, Amanda recalls, Justin’s family asked her to return his gun. Amanda didn’t want to give it back, she said, but she felt like she had no choice. Justin told her she could get in trouble for allegedly stealing it. So she reluctantly gave it back to Justin’s family, she said. At some point, Amanda believes, they returned it to him.

It was the same gun he brought to her house and used to kill her children, police confirmed to HuffPost.

Justin’s family did not respond to HuffPost’s request for comment.

The incident

On the evening of May 15, Amanda and Justin took the kids out for pizza. During the car ride, Amanda told Justin about her new boyfriend, that it was serious and he was planning to move in with her.

For the past few months, Amanda had been in a long-distance relationship with Seth Richardson, whom she knew from her teen years. They, too, had met through “World of Warcraft,” and had kept in touch for a decade.

“We just had this bond, it never left,” Amanda said. “There was so much positivity when we were together.”

Seth lived in South Carolina, and had recently decided to move to Texas for Amanda. They hoped to start a family together. At the time she broke the news to Justin, Seth was already on the road, making the 19-hour drive to Texas.

Justin’s face fell, Amanda said. Even though they’d been separated a year, he was still holding out hope for reconciliation.

“I saw him fall apart,” she said. “He kept saying, ‘I’m trying to love you, I’m trying to change.’”

He started driving erratically, she said, and screamed at her and the kids. When they got back to her house, she had to plead with him to allow the kids to stay for dinner. She promised to bring them back to his house afterward.

Amanda and her kids ate pizza on her bed (pepperoni for Odin and Caydence; black olive, sausage and mushroom for Drake; onion for her) and watched the movie “Atlantis.” They cuddled. After dinner, Amanda drove them back to Justin’s house, and gave each of them a goodnight kiss. She watched them file inside.

Once she got home, she fell asleep. Around 6:30 the next morning, she got a call from Seth. He had finally arrived at her house.

“I didn’t even hang up the phone. I threw it on the bed and ran outside,” she recalled. “I hugged him and kissed his neck and hugged him and hugged him. I was just so excited he was there. It meant our life was about to start.”

Seth was exhausted from driving, and they soon fell asleep together, spooning on her bed. They didn’t rest long. Some time around 8 a.m., Amanda woke to a loud bang next to her head.

It was unlike anything she’d ever heard, and her back was alight with searing pain. Her ears rang and she was paralyzed with confusion. Then she heard more bangs.

“Seth!” she screamed. “Seth!”

Moments passed ― minutes? Seconds? Time collapsed for Amanda. Then she heard a voice in the doorway. It was Justin.

“Seth’s dead. The kids are dead. And you’re going to have to live with it,” she recalls him saying.

He shot himself in front of her.

She managed to turn herself over, and saw Seth lying beside her. He was shot.

Amanda grabbed her phone and dialed 911, stumbling into the living room. She prayed that Justin was bluffing about the children, trying to scare her. Then she saw a shoe lying on the ground. A little leg. Closer, and she could see all three children, shot to death.

Neighbors said they saw Justin arrive at the house Wednesday morning with the children and bring them into the home.

Amanda collapsed on the ground. For some reason, her arms weren’t working. She wanted to pick up her children, but she couldn’t. “I thought my body was breaking down because of my mental state,” she said.

In reality, she had been shot. When Justin shot Seth, who was asleep cuddling her, the bullet went through him and into her body.

The ambulance arrived to take her to the hospital, but she didn’t want to go. She didn’t want to leave her children behind. Later, a female detective told her that the first responders all made a pact ― they would not let the children ride in the same vehicle as their deceased father, the man who stole their lives.

While in the hospital, Amanda posted a series of emotional videos on her Facebook page, explaining what had happened. She felt a desperate urge to share, to unload her grief for others to see and reckon with. But it backfired. In the comments, she said, people were blaming her for what happened.

Why? Because she left.

Mei-Chun Jau for HuffPost

The vigil

It was a bright, clear evening at Parkview Elementary School in Fort Worth, where Odin had been in second grade and Caydence was in kindergarten. At 4, Drake was still in day care, but he’d been looking forward to attending the school when he was old enough, like his big sister and brother.

Around 100 people gathered to mourn. Parents held on to their children tightly. The crowd was quiet, save for the sounds of sniffles and subdued crying. In front of the school, people left offerings of teddy bears and bouquets of flowers.

Amanda sat near the back, on a stone bench, flanked by her twin sister. Her face was pained. She cried, on and off, and listened as student after student took the microphone to offer a memory of her children.

“Odin always used to hit my head with his locker accidentally because he had the locker above me.”

“Caydence used to play with me at recess.”

“Whenever I was on the lonely bench, Odin would ask if I wanted to play with him.”

“He was always happy. I never saw him not be happy. He always had a big smile on his face.”

Afterward, each child was handed a helium balloon to write a message on and send up to heaven ― up to their friends. One balloon popped loudly next to Amanda and she startled, jumping up and retreating tearfully to the parking lot.

It sounded too much like a gunshot.

Once the balloons were up in the air, fading into the night sky, she came back.

She sang “Amazing Grace” along with the crowd, and held a flickering white candle. The program was over, and people started to disperse, gathering up their families and walking to their cars.

Amanda stood alone. And then, one by one, children began to approach, lining up to see her. They hugged her legs, squeezed her chest, kissed her cheek. They knew what she needed.The 2018 FIFA World Cup starts June 14 in Russia, and now it has an official song.

Producer Diplo and reggaeton star Nicky Jam collaborate on “Live It Up,” which also features Albanian singer Era Istrefi and actor Will Smith, who is trying to restart his music career .

Traditionally, over the last two decades, each World Cup has had an official song. The song for the 2010 World Cup in South Africa was “Waka Waka” by Shakira. For the 2014 World Cup in Brazil, the song was “We Are One (Ole Ola)” by Pitbull.Justin Timberlake paid a visit Friday to victims of last week’s school shooting in Santa Fe, Texas.

He dropped in at an area hospital where victims were recovering from the shooting at Santa Fe High School, in which a gunman killed 10 people and injured 13 last Friday.

The visit came a couple days after the pop icon performed a concert in nearby Houston in which he donned a “Santa Fe Strong” shirt, the Houston Chronicle reported.

A Facebook post from Sonia Lopez-Puentes, the mother of injured student Sarah Salazar, shows a picture of Timberlake with Salazar at the hospital and says he brought her a gift.Rep. Lou Barletta, one of President Donald Trump's favorites, is now a target of the Koch brothers. Tom Williams via Getty Images

A Koch brothers-backed nonprofit is targeting one of President Donald Trump’s favorite members of Congress as part of a new ad buy slamming House members who supported a $1.3 trillion spending package earlier this year.

The six-figure effort from Americans for Prosperity is set to begin over Memorial Day weekend and includes direct mail, digital, radio and print ads aimed at 10 Republicans and seven Democrats.

Among the GOP members is Pennsylvania’s Rep. Lou Barletta, the Republican nominee challenging incumbent Democratic Sen. Bob Casey in November. Barletta became famous for leading a crackdown on illegal immigration while mayor of Hazleton more than a decade ago and was personally encouraged by Trump to run for the Senate.

“It’s time to take a hard look at what lawmakers say and what they actually do when it comes to reining in overspending,” said Americans for Prosperity spokesman Bill Riggs. “The $1.3 trillion omnibus spending bill passed by Congress in March showed a complete disregard for fiscal responsibility. Both parties are responsible for putting the country on an unsustainable fiscal path, which is why AFP is committed to holding both parties accountable.”

The expansive spending package narrowly passed the House and survived a brief veto threat from the president. The goal of the new campaign is to ensure that the next spending deal includes significant cuts to government spending.

The Koch brothers’ expansive political network spent heavily to help the GOP win and retain control of the Senate in 2014 and 2016, and it’s highly unusual for them to attack a GOP Senate candidate in a swing state, even if most handicappers consider Barletta an underdog in November.

Former Koch network operatives are also ubiquitous throughout the Trump administration and the group pushed aggressively for the GOP’s tax reform plan. But the network’s leaders have become more open about their frustrations that the president and his party aren’t following the network’s libertarian-influenced policy preferences on immigration, trade and government spending. Earlier this month, the group’s Hispanic outreach arm, LIBRE, sent out mailers thanking four Democratic lawmakers for their work to protect Dreamers.

“We will be looking for allies wherever we can find them ― on the left, the right, or in the middle,” James Davis, the executive director of the Koch-backed Freedom Partners Chamber of Commerce, wrote in a CNN op-ed last month. “We welcome all comers. And we will hold those accountable who stand in the way of progress, regardless of their party.”

This isn’t to say that the network, which has spent billions to advance conservative policies and elect Republicans over the past decade, is suddenly turning bipartisan. While they’re attacking Republicans like Barletta and vulnerable Michigan Rep. Mike Bishop, for example, they’re also slamming Democratic Rep. Beto O’Rourke of Texas, who is challenging GOP Sen. Ted Cruz this fall, and hitting Florida Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz, the former chair of the Democratic National Committee.

And they’re also spending money on ads and direct mail thanking a large group of vulnerable Republicans who voted against the spending package, including Reps. Marsha Blackburn and Jim Renacci, the GOP nominees for Senate in Tennessee and Ohio; and Reps. Mike Coffman of Colorado and Rod Blum of Iowa, who are both top targets for the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee.

Other members targeted by the campaign are GOP Reps. Hal Rogers of Kentucky, Mike Simpson of Idaho, John Carter of Texas, Robert Aderholt of Alabama, Mark Amodei of Nevada, Jeff Fortenberry of Nebraska, Tom Rooney of Florida and Ken Calvert of California, as well as Democratic Reps. Stephanie Murphy of Florida, Pete Visclosky of Indiana, Tom O’Halleran of Arizona, Henry Cuellar of Texas and Matt Cartwright of Pennsylvania.LAHORE/ISLAMABAD, Pakistan (Reuters) - Pakistani Interior Minister Ahsan Iqbal was wounded on Sunday in an apparent assassination attempt by a gunman linked to a new ultra-religious Muslim party - an incident likely to raise tensions before an election expected in late July.

Violence has been a feature of pre-election periods in Pakistan over the past decade, mainly due to Islamist assassinations of political figures, including former prime minister Benazir Bhutto in 2007.

Pakistan's Interior Minister Ahsan Iqbal suffered a gunshot wound during the assassination attempt on Sunday. Faisal Mahmood / Reuters

Iqbal, 59, a senior member of the ruling Pakistan Muslim League-Nawaz (PML-N) party and a staunch ally of ousted premier Nawaz Sharif, was shot as he was leaving a constituency meeting surrounded by supporters in Punjab province.

An initial report on the shooting by a local administrator, the deputy commissioner of Narowal district, seen by Reuters, said the gunman had been arrested and “showed his affiliation” to Tehreek-e-Labaik.

The party calls for the aggressive enforcement of Pakistan’s blasphemy laws, which can carry the death penalty.

However, neither the report nor other officials commented on the attacker’s possible motives.

Iqbal was shot soon after addressing voters in Kanjroor village in Narowal, his constituency near the border with India, but the exact circumstances were not immediately clear.

“I can’t tell you the motive at this stage due to security reasons,” Narowal police chief Imran Kishwar told Reuters.

Iqbal was taken to a nearby hospital, then flown by helicopter to Lahore for more treatment. ARIF ALI via Getty Images

OUT OF DANGER

Police said the bullet had hit Iqbal in the right arm and gone into his groin. They named the suspected shooter as Abid Hussain, 21, and said they had found him carrying a pistol.

After being rushed to a nearby hospital, Iqbal was taken by helicopter to Lahore, capital of Punjab.

“The minister luckily survived,” said junior interior minister Talal Chaudhry. “Thank God, he is out of danger.”

Blasphemy is a deeply emotional and politically charged issue in Pakistan, even more so since Labaik has emerged in the past year.

The party was born out of a protest movement supporting Mumtaz Qadri, a bodyguard of the governor of Punjab who gunned down his boss in 2011 over his call to relax Pakistan’s draconian blasphemy laws.

Labaik has been gaining strength with an election platform centered on punishing blasphemy.

Many of its supporters say PML-N, despite repeated denials, wants to ease the blasphemy laws. While dozens are on death row for blasphemy, no one has been executed in recent decades.

“UNARMED STRUGGLE”

In a statement on Sunday night, Labaik leader Khadim Hussain Rizvi condemned the attack on Iqbal and said the party had not authorized any of its supporters to take up arms.

“Tehreek-e-Labaik is an unarmed struggle to bring the Prophet’s religion to the throne,” Rizvi said.

The statement did not specifically mention any suspect in custody or any links to the party.

Tehreek-e-Labaik, whose name means Movement of the Prophet’s Followers, is a political grouping with no known links to the various Islamist militants - including the Pakistani Taliban - that have carried out bombings and other attacks in Pakistan.

Iqbal, who also heads the planning ministry, has in recent years overseen the implementation of Chinese-funded Belt and Road infrastructure projects in Pakistan as part of the near $60 billion China-Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC).

Prime Minister Shahid Khaqan Abbasi condemned the attack on Iqbal and called for an immediate police report.

A senior government official, who declined to be named, said early information suggested Iqbal had been returning from a meeting with a Christian group.

“We are not sure whether it has got anything to do with the motive. We will know only after investigation of the attacker.”

Militant attacks in Pakistan have fallen sharply over the past few years, but Islamist fighters continue to pose a threat and carry out assassinations.MOSCOW (Reuters) ― Vladimir Putin was sworn in for another six years as Russian president on Monday, buoyed by popular support but weighed down too by a costly confrontation with the West, a fragile economy and uncertainty about what happens when his term ends.

Standing in the ornately-decorated Andreyevsky Hall of the Grand Kremlin Palace, with his hand on a gold-embossed copy of the constitution, Putin swore to serve the Russian people, to safeguard rights and freedoms, and protect Russian sovereignty

Putin’s inauguration for a fourth term as Russian president came two months after more than 70 percent of voters backed him in an election in which he had no serious challengers.

His most dangerous opponent, Alexei Navalny, was barred from running and on Saturday Navalny and hundreds of his supporters were detained by police while protesting over Putin’s new term under the slogan: “Putin is not our tsar.”

Vladimir Putin’s inauguration for a fourth term as Russian president came two months after more than 70 percent of voters backed him in an election in which he had no serious challengers. POOL New / Reuters

In a speech after the swearing-in ceremony, Putin said that in the next six years Russia would prove a strong, muscular player on the world stage, backed by a powerful military, while pushing hard to improve life for its citizens at home.

“Taking up this post, I feel a colossal sense of responsibility,” Putin, 65, told his audience of Russian officials and foreign dignitaries, among them former German chancellor Gerhard Schroeder.

“The object of my life and my work will be to serve the people and the fatherland,” he said.

For the short journey from his office to the inauguration ceremony, Putin traveled in a new Russian-made limousine. From now on, the limousine will replace the fleet of imported vehicles Putinuses, state television reported.

Soon after the inauguration ceremony, the Kremlin issued a statement saying that Putin had nominated Dmitry Medvedev to be prime minister in his new term. Medvedev, a loyal Putin lieutenant, has held the job since 2012.

The appointment needs to be approved by the lower house of parliament, but that is likely to be a formality because the chamber is dominated by Kremlin loyalists.

Some Kremlin-watchers had speculated Putin might bring in a fresh face as prime minister to kick-start reforms of the sluggish economy and revive foreign investment curtailed by stand-offs with the West.

Vladimir Putin has nominated Dmitry Medvedev to be prime minister in his new term. Medvedev, a loyal Putin lieutenant, has held the job since 2012. Sputnik Photo Agency / Reuters

By choosing Medvedev ― seen by people close to the Russian elite as a safe pair of hands whose chief quality is loyalty to his boss ― Putin indicated he favoured continuity.

The choice is also likely to be parsed by Kremlin-watchers for any clues about what happens after Putin’s current term ends in 2024. The constitution bars him from seeking a third consecutive term.

When Putin came up against the same term limits in 2008, he got around the problem by anointing Medvedev as president, before taking back the job after one term.

Some observers believe Putin, who has not anointed any heir apparent, could attempt the same manoeuvre a second time.

STANDOFF

Foreign diplomats see little prospect that Russia’s standoffs with the West that have dominated the past four years will ease during Putin’s new term.

Clashes in the past few weeks over U.S. sanctions on Russia, the conflict in Syria, and the poisoning in England of former Russian spy Sergei Skripal have left some diplomats worried that the confrontation could spiral out of control.

Opinion polls show Putin has high levels of support among Russian citizens, and Navalny has not been able to inspire a nationwide upsurge of protests.

But the Russian economy is a potential weakness for Putin.

Buffeted by lower oil prices, falls in the rouble, inflation and the impact of sanctions, average monthly wages have fallen from the equivalent of $867 in 2013 to $553 last year.

Russia’s economy, the world’s eleventh largest, returned to growth of 1.5 percent last year, helped by a recovery in oil prices. But that fell short of the government’s 2 percent target and was far from the 8.5 percent growth achieved in 2007, the highest level achieved during Putin’s rule.

Officials and analysts say bold policies with the best chance of reviving growth have been mired in disagreements among Putin’s policy-makers.

There is little clarity too about what happens after Vladimir Putin's fourth term ends in 2024. Reuters Photographer / Reuters

There is little clarity too about what happens after 2024. By then Putin will be 71. He will soon have ruled longer than Soviet Communist leader Leonid Brezhnev, whose 18-year rule from 1964 to 1982 is primarily associated with stagnation.

Likely options include Putin leaving the Kremlin but continuing to run the country from another post, or bowing out of public life and handing over to an anointed successor.

Kremlin insiders say Putin has not selected any heir apparent, and that any names being circulated are the product of speculation, not knowledge of Putin’s thinking.

The names include Igor Sechin, head of state oil firm Rosneft; Defence Minister Sergei Shoigu; Alexei Dyumin, a former Putin bodyguard who became a regional governor, and Moscow mayor Sergei Sobyanin.

Anointing a successor entails dangers for Putin as doing so too soon would risk him becoming a lame duck, allegiances shifting from him to the heir apparent and new turf wars being set off in the ruling elite.BEIRUT (Reuters) - Hezbollah and its political allies won just over half the seats in Lebanon’s parliamentary election, unofficial results showed, boosting an Iranian-backed movement fiercely opposed to Israel and underlining Tehran’s growing regional clout.

Hezbollah’s leader, Sayyed Hassan Nasrallah, called it a “political and moral victory” for the “resistance”, as the group refers to itself and allies.

Branded a terrorist group by the United States, the heavily armed Shi’ite Hezbollah has grown in strength since joining the war in Syria in support of President Bashar al-Assad in 2012.

The gains for parties and politicians who support Hezbollah’s possession of weapons risk complicating Western policy in Lebanon, which is banking on foreign aid and loans to revive its stagnant economy and receives U.S. military support.

An Israeli minister said the outcome, which has yet to be confirmed by official results, showed the Lebanese state was indistinguishable from Hezbollah, signaling the risk of Israel hitting Lebanon’s government in a future war.

Western-backed Prime Minister Saad al-Hariri lost over a third lof his seats. He blamed a complex new voting law and gaps in his party’s performance.

But with 21 MPs, down from 33 in the last parliament, he emerged as the Sunni Muslim leader with the biggest bloc in the 128-seat house, making him the frontrunner to form the next government.

Initial indications showed the staunchly anti-Hezbollah Lebanese Forces, a Christian party, emerging as a big winner, nearly doubling its lawmakers to at least 15 from eight.

Lebanon’s prime minister must be a Sunni under its sectarian power-sharing system. The new government, like the outgoing one, is expected to include all the main parties. Talks over cabinet posts are expected to take time.

“Hariri is going to be further weakened in any kind of government going forward,” Andrew Tabler of the Washington Institute said. “His ability to substantially tame or restrain Hezbollah ... in Lebanon is going to be very limited.”

“It will lead to more criticism of U.S. military aid to the Lebanese Armed Forces” in Washington, he added.After running a hostile campaign to convince staffers at the Los Anglees Times not to unionize last year, Tronc has shifted course in Chicago. Bloomberg via Getty Images

Tronc, the publicly traded media company that ran an intense anti-union campaign at the Los Angeles Times last year, has switched course in Chicago, where it decided this weekend to voluntarily recognize the Chicago Tribune Guild.

“The company has agreed to recognize three Chicago-based collective bargaining units and looks forward to productive conversations with union representatives,” a Tronc spokesperson said in a statement.

“As we move ahead,” she added, “we need to be united as one organization with an important purpose—to help the company transform and thrive as a business, and to serve our readers world-class journalism.”

The Guild represents not just the Chicago Tribune newsroom, but also the Chicago lifestyle site RedEye, the Spanish-language newspaper Hoy, the Naperville Sun, the Elgin Courier-News, the Daily Southtown and the Aurora Beacon-News. The committee said more than 85 percent of people in the newsrooms signed cards in support of the union.

Tribune staffers first announced its intention to try and form a collective union at the newspapers less than a month ago ― inspired by organizing efforts at the Los Angeles Times, where the newsroom voted to unionize in January in spite of an anti-union campaign by Tronc. Weeks after the vote, the media company agreed to a deal to sell the newspaper to billionaire Patrick Soon-Shiong.

In a letter to staffers, the Tribune Guild’s organizing committee called Tronc’s decision to forego a prolonged anti-union campaign in Chicago by voluntarily recognizing the union an “extraordinary development.”

Chicago Tribune Guild

“Our attorneys and partners at The News-Guild-Communications Workers of America tell us that in decades of organizing, they have never seen a newsroom earn voluntarily recognition from a company of this size and with such a long history of anti-union bias.”

“Tronc undoubtedly realized it would waste time and money during an election process it would lose.”

Additionally, the committee announced that the Tribune and RedEye will bargain as one unit, while Hoy and the suburban newspapers will bargain as another. The Tribune’s Design and Print Studio will bargain as a third.

“Three bargaining units, one union,” the committee said.

AdvertisementThe three candidates in the GOP Senate primary in Indiana have been trying to out-Trump one another. Tom Williams/Getty Images

WARSAW, Ind. — Rep. Todd Rokita, campaigning in this town in northeastern Indiana, shared the stage with a special guest: a cardboard cutout of President Donald Trump.

The cutout was appropriate: While Trump hasn’t weighed in on Tuesday’s three-way GOP primary for the right to challenge Democratic Sen. Joe Donnelly, the president has still managed to be ever present in the race. Rokita theatrically puts on a “Make America great again” hat in one of his ads. Rep. Luke Messer, another candidate, gets big applause for nominating Trump for the Nobel Peace Prize and promises to “Make the Senate great again.” And the rise of Mike Braun, a businessman and former state legislator, mirrors Trump’s ascendancy in the 2016 presidential primaries.

The first major Republican primaries of 2018 are on Tuesday, giving the GOP’s rank and file a chance to weigh in on the direction of the party in the Trump era. In Indiana, North Carolina, Ohio and West Virginia, Republican candidates have diagnosed their voters with a fever, and the only prescription is more Trump.

In Ohio’s gubernatorial race, Mary Taylor, who served as lieutenant governor under famously anti-Trump GOP Gov. John Kasich, is running ads in which she promises to work with Trump to build a wall on the border with Mexico and end Kasich’s Medicaid expansion. In West Virginia all three Senate candidates for the Republican nomination — Rep. Evan Jenkins, Attorney General Patrick Morrisey and ex-con coal baron Don Blankenship — vigorously and repeatedly promise to pursue the president’s agenda and end special counsel Robert Mueller’s investigation.

But the Indiana race may provide the clearest picture of where the party will go in the Trump era. Each of the three candidates has a different theory on what GOP voters want to see down ticket during his presidency. Rokita is betting they want a candidate who’s just as angry as Trump. Messer thinks they want a candidate who can make Washington work for Trump. And Braun believes they want even more outsider businessmen like the president.

‘They Don’t Necessarily Want An Outsider, They Want A Fighter’

Rep. Todd Rokita, R-Ind., has been campaigning with a cardboard cutout of President Donald Trump. Tom Williams/Getty Images

“What we need in the Senate is someone who’s going to fight like this president is fighting,” said Rokita, who has run an aggressive campaign. Last summer he began attacking Messer as a liberal even before his fellow congressman entered the race, criticizing him for moving his family to Washington after he was elected to Congress. Rokita has leaned hard into anti-illegal-immigration rhetoric, proposing to throw leaders of sanctuary cities and states ― he mentions Democratic Chicago Mayor Rahm Emanuel and California Gov. Jerry Brown ― in prison.

Rokita’s slogan, “Defeat the elite,” draws eye rolls from Indiana Republicans who note that he is a two-term statewide elected official and three-term congressman. (His brash style has often alienated other members of his party. The state legislature drew him out of his district by 500 feet during the last round of redistricting.) But he argues that’s missing the point.

“It’s not that you’ve been in Congress. It’s what you’ve done,” Rokita told the crowd in Warsaw, citing his decision to buck leadership and vote against a massive spending bill earlier this year that Messer supported. Rokita elaborated in an interview after the event.

“My campaign is premised on what I think is the accurate assumption that people want to fight. They don’t necessarily what an outsider. They want a fighter to turn the rigged system on its head,” he said.

‘The Average Hoosier Knows The Senate Is Broken’

Rep. Luke Messer, R-Ind., has launched a push for Trump to be awarded the Nobel Peace Prize. Tom Williams/Getty Images

The next morning, at a coffee shop in the Indianapolis exurb of Pendleton, Messer is making a different bet. He is campaigning with Rep. Susan Brooks and is preparing to roll out the endorsement of six former state Republican Party chairs, and he’s boasting of an army of college students who have made 600,000 get-out-the-vote phone calls.

So what exactly does it mean to make the Senate great again? For Messer, it means the elimination of the filibuster and the chamber’s de facto 60-vote requirement to pass most major legislation — not exactly the same red meat Rokita is throwing.

“I think Republican primary voters are awakening to the problem of filibuster, the supermajority in the Senate that makes it impossible for President Trump to pass his agenda,” Messer said, promising to continuing campaigning on the issue if he wins the general election. “The average Hoosier knows the Senate is broken, but they may not know why. If President Trump can bring peace to the Korean Peninsula, surely we can get rid of the filibuster.”

And the vote against the spending bill that Rokita bragged about? Messer boasts of his vote for the same legislation and says Rokita’s “no” shows he doesn’t stand with Trump. Votes like that, in which Messer sided with House Speaker Paul Ryan, have made him popular with establishment Republicans in D.C. and Indiana.

“If President Trump can bring peace to the Korean Peninsula, surely we can get rid of the filibuster.” - Rep. Luke Messer

When she introduced Messer, Brooks noted that he was elected president of the House freshman class in 2012 and is now the fifth-highest-ranking member of the GOP. He has the endorsement of several Hoosier Republican heavyweights besides Brooks, including Greg Pence, Vice President Mike Pence’s brother who is running to replace Messer in Congress, and Marty Obst, a former top aide to Mike Pence. Other operatives with ties to Pence are working for groups that have spent hundreds of thousands of dollars boosting Messer and attacking Rokita and Braun — the only outside spending in the contest.

‘You’re The Guy From The Commercials’

Indiana Republican Mike Braun, left, has branded himself as an outsider businessman — just like Trump. Tom Williams/Getty Images

A few hours after Messer’s coffee shop stop, Braun is in Noblesville, the seat of Hamilton County, a major swing county just outside Indianapolis. After posing with people for some selfies and shaking hands outside an early voting center, he sat down at Syd’s, a local bar, and ordered a pork tenderloin on whole wheat, a side salad and fries when the waitress recognized him.

“You’re the guy from the commercials,” she said.

Braun has been getting that a lot lately. He lent his campaign $5.5 million and has used much of that on television ads telling the story of how he took a small trucking company and turned it into a national powerhouse. He’s also aired a series of ads mocking the similarity of Rokita and Messer, depicting them as career politicians who have been preparing to run for Senate (and bickering) since youth.

“The spat between the two of them goes back a long way,” Braun said. “It created an opening for me or for someone like me.”

Like Trump, Braun has capitalized on a squabbling field of establishment politicians. Like Trump, he played up his record as a successful businessman. While he lacks Trump’s bombast and penchant for inflammatory rhetoric, he has promised to build the border wall and advance Trump’s agenda.

“My career trajectory has been the same,” he said. “Everybody has a different style and approach. He’s a New Yorker with a lot of bravado. He’s brash. I think the same way, but I’m a Hoosier with a bit more humility.”

And like Trump, Braun has a history as a Democrat. County records show Braun has voted in Democratic primaries since the 1980s. He’s argued it was necessary to influence politics in his heavily Democratic home county in southern Indiana, but that hasn’t stopped Rokita and Messer from taking shots at him.

Messer asked, “What other lifelong Republican do you know that’s voted in Democratic primaries for 36 years?”

At a debate last week, Braun, now seen as the front runner, was the subject of most of the attacks, especially over his Democratic past. But Rokita and Messer were also slammed. A voter sharply questioned Rokita over a leaked document depicting him as a tyrant of a boss, and two DUIs Messer committed while in college became a campaign issue.

The nastiness of the primary is another reflection of the Trump era: The president specialized in destroying his opponents, paying little price for mocking “low-energy” Jeb Bush, “lyin’” Ted Cruz and “liddle” Marco Rubio.

Messer and Braun tend to blame Rokita for the negativity. “Nastiness from our colleague’s campaign brings our party down and makes it harder to win in November,” Brooks said in her introduction of Messer.

Rokita, the candidate doing the most to emulate Trump’s style, has a different take.President Donald Trump is standing by Gina Haspel, his nominee to head the Central Intelligence Agency, amid reports that she sought to withdraw her name from consideration to protect the agency’s reputation and her own.

Both Republicans and Democrats have raised concerns over Haspel, the CIA’s acting director, and her role in the agency’s use of brutal interrogation measures on terrorism suspects. But Trump on Monday defended Haspel’s controversial past.

“In these very dangerous times, we have the most qualified person, a woman, who Democrats want Out because she is too tough on terror,” Trump tweeted. “Win Gina!”

My highly respected nominee for CIA Director, Gina Haspel, has come under fire because she was too tough on Terrorists. Think of that, in these very dangerous times, we have the most qualified person, a woman, who Democrats want OUT because she is too tough on terror. Win Gina! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) May 7, 2018

As the head of a clandestine base in Thailand in 2002, Haspel oversaw the interrogation of one terror suspect that reportedly included techniques like waterboarding.

The torture sessions were videotaped, and Haspel reportedly played a part in the tapes’ destruction in 2005. The CIA has disputed this, saying the decision fell to Haspel’s superior at the time.

Haspel’s confirmation hearing before the Senate Intelligence Committee is scheduled for Wednesday and is expected to be especially contentious given her controversial 30-year tenure at the CIA.

To avoid risking damage to the agency’s reputation and her own, Haspel offered to withdraw her name from consideration on Friday, according to The Washington Post. She reportedly told White House officials she did not want to become what she called “the next Ronny Jackson,” referring to the White House physician Trump nominated for secretary of the Department of Veterans Affairs who withdrew over allegations of misconduct.

White House press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders also came to Haspel’s defense, tweeting Sunday that Democrats who support women’s empowerment but oppose Haspel’s nomination are “total” hypocrites.Hafþór Júlíus Björnsson, who plays Gregor Clegane aka “The Mountain” in “Game of Thrones,” won the World’s Strongest Man competition on Sunday in the Philippines.

The 29-year-old, who goes by “Thor,” has been participating in the competition for years, but has never come in first place. This year, Björnsson took on events like the Giant Dumbbell Press, the Atlas Stones, the Car Deadlift, the Truck Pull and the Loading Race.

Hafþór Júlíus Björnsson lifts a concrete sphere during the Atlas Stones competition of the 2018 World's Strongest Man competition on Sunday. Noel Celis/AFP/Getty Images

Björnsson lifts weights during the Max Overhead competition. Noel Celis/AFP/Getty Images

The 6-foot-9-inch champion is a whopping 425 pounds and shared his exciting win with his fans on social media:

A post shared by Hafþór Júlíus Björnsson (@thorbjornsson) on May 6, 2018 at 4:11am PDT

Björnsson told The New York Times in 2016 that it was “my passion and my dream to become the world’s strongest man.”

“I would like to win the World’s Strongest Man competition, as you would win best writer in the world. Is that a title that exists?” he asked.Gina Haspel, at right, has come under scrutiny for her role in the CIA's use of torture. Jonathan Ernst / Reuters

WASHINGTON ― Gina Haspel, President Donald Trump’s nominee to lead the CIA, is expected to face a rigorous confirmation hearing on Capitol Hill this week, amid bipartisan concern about her role in the agency’s use of interrogation techniques like waterboarding, sleep deprivation and exposure to extreme temperatures.

The fate of Haspel’s nomination may hinge in particular on two independent-minded Republican senators ― Susan Collins of Maine and Rand Paul of Kentucky.

Some records from the interrogation program show that Haspel “was an enthusiastic supporter of what the CIA was doing” with terror suspects in the aftermath of the Sept. 11 terror attacks, according to The Washington Post. Haspel also reportedly played a part in the destruction of videotapes that showed one suspect being waterboarded in 2003.

Last week, Haspel sought to withdraw her name from consideration in order to protect the agency’s reputation, but White House officials talked her into sticking with the nomination.

Democrats have been calling on the CIA to declassify files pertaining to Haspel’s record on torture, arguing that the Senate can’t properly fulfill its constitutional obligations with respect to her nomination without more public information about her 33 years at the agency. The CIA did reveal some information about her background as part of a public relations push in support of her nomination, but it did not include records about her role in the interrogation program.

“Declassifying information about Ms. Haspel’s background is even more pressing in light of the public relations campaign currently being conducted on her behalf,” Sen. Dianne Feinstein (D-Calif.), who sits on the Senate Intelligence Committee, wrote in a letter to the CIA last month. “Under the title ‘Get to Know our Deputy Director,’ the CIA issued a press release that included a superficial narrative about Ms. Haspel without providing the public any meaningful information about her 33-year career at the CIA and what it demonstrates about her suitability to serve as director.”

Because most Democrats are expected to oppose Haspel, her fate as CIA director will likely depend on two GOP senators who could tank her nomination in the closely divided Senate.

Sen. Rand Paul (R-Ky.) has spoken out against Haspel, but his support of Mike Pompeo for secretary of state suggests he may be pliable on the issue. Tom Williams via Getty Images

Paul, a libertarian-leaning critic of interventions abroad, announced his opposition to Haspel in March, citing her participation in a “program that our own government has labeled torture.”

“Direct participation in the program itself would be disqualifying enough for me, but appointing someone who also helped push for destroying evidence of that program to run one of the most powerful organizations in the world should not be acceptable to Congress,” Paul wrote in a piece for Politico after Haspel’s nomination was announced.

But his credibility on Haspel’s nomination took a hit last month when he decided to support Mike Pompeo to lead the State Department, despite vowing previously to “do everything” he could to stop both the former CIA director and his chosen replacement. Now, the White House is hoping they can get Paul to flip once more.

“We hope he will give her the opportunity of a fair hearing,” White House legislative affairs director Marc Short said last week.

Sen. Susan Collins (R-Maine) has shown a willingness to buck President Donald Trump in the past. Aaron Bernstein / Reuters

Collins, a key swing vote and a member of the Senate intelligence committee, has also given human rights groups some reason to hope in their fight against Haspel’s nomination. The Maine Republican has shown a willingness to buck Trump, and in 2014, she endorsed the declassification of the intelligence committee’s report on the CIA’s detention and interrogation program. “Torture is wrong and fundamentally contrary to American values,” Collins said at the time.

Last year, however, Collins decided to support the nomination of Stephen Bradbury to be general counsel of the Department of Transportation over the objection of human rights groups. Bradbury helped write the so-called torture memos endorsing brutal interrogation tactics during the George W. Bush administration.

“I need to do a lot of work on her nomination,” Collins told HuffPost earlier this year about Haspel. “I believe that there will be a lot of tough questions that we will ask her at her hearing, and I look forward to seeing what she has to say.”

Trump, meanwhile, claimed Monday that Democrats are opposing Haspel because “she was too tough on terrorists.”

My highly respected nominee for CIA Director, Gina Haspel, has come under fire because she was too tough on Terrorists. Think of that, in these very dangerous times, we have the most qualified person, a woman, who Democrats want OUT because she is too tough on terror. Win Gina! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) May 7, 2018Democrats on the House Intelligence Committee reportedly plan to release details about 3,000 Facebook ads linked to the Russian campaign to influence the last presidential election.

According to The Wall Street Journal, the files could be released as early as this week and may show images of the promoted material, which demographic groups were targeted and how many people saw them.

Rep. Adam Schiff wants to obtain all 3,000 Facebook ads linked to the Russian campaign to influence the last presidential election and release them to the public. Aaron Bernstein / Reuters

“We have been in ongoing discussions with Facebook and hope to have the final redacted ads in our possession within a matter of days,” Rep. Adam Schiff (D-Calif.), the ranking member of the House Intelligence Committee, stated. “As soon as we receive them, it is our intention to share them with the public.”

In September, Facebook announced that it had been paid $100,000 to promote thousands of ads that were linked to the Russian-backed Internet Research Agency. Many focused on divisive political or social issues and were designed to sow division in the lead up to the 2016 election.

Lawmakers released redacted copies of some of the advertisements last year that focused on immigration, same-sex marriage and gun control. Facebook later said more than 126 million people potentially saw the ads purchased by the Russians.

One of the ads linked to a Russian-backed organization that was released by lawmakers last year. US House of Representatives

Schiff’s efforts come just a weeks after Republicans on the Intelligence Committee released a 250-page report that said they had uncovered no evidence of collusion between Russia and President Donald Trump’s election campaign.

Democrats dissented, arguing that the investigation was not fully completed, just abandoned. Schiff said the termination amounted to “a great service to the president and a profound disservice to the country.”

Lawyers from Facebook, Google and Twitter testified before Congress last October and November amid growing public outrage over the revelations; however, they initially frustrated lawmakers with their limited promises to improve monitoring of such content.Lady Antebellum missed getting the national anthem right by a country mile.

The Grammy-winning trio sang the “The Star-Spangled Banner” before Saturday’s NHL playoff game between host Nashville and Winnipeg ― and it all went south at “O’er the ramparts we watched.”

The gaffe drew a smile from the Predators’ Filip Forsberg, a Swede.

Lady Antebellum regrouped to finish, and were good sports about the flub on social media afterward.

“We’re human too y’all,” they wrote.

Welp. We’re human too y’all 🤷‍♂️🤷‍♀️🤷‍♂️ We’re still rooting for ya Preds!!! #smashville pic.twitter.com/0fWw5EqV8R — Lady Antebellum (@ladyantebellum) May 6, 2018

AdvertisementObama, however, kept to the presidential tradition of almost never granting a posthumous pardon.

Trump disparaged Obama at Thursday’s announcement for not issuing the pardon, but others said issuing clemency for Johnson is merely a symbolic move that falls short of addressing present-day racism in the criminal justice system.

Though Obama granted clemency to nearly 2,000 people under an initiative aimed largely at commuting sentences of nonviolent drug-law offenders, his administration was unable to address the nearly 8,000 additional petitions that remained at the end of his term, Kevin Blackistone, a professor and sports commentator, wrote in The Washington Post last month.

Unlike Johnson, ”[t]hey are of living, breathing people ... with children, spouses, partners and futures that can be regained and realized with a second chance.”

Those remaining petitions, he noted, “were left behind in a file, as is customary historic practice, for the review of the next president.”

The previous presidents to issue posthumous pardons were Bill Clinton in 1999 and George W. Bush in 2008. Clinton pardoned Lt. Henry Ossian Flipper, the first black West Point graduate who years later was convicted of conduct unbecoming an officer. Bush pardoned Charlie Winters, who had been convicted of violating the Neutrality Act by helping Israel obtain bomber planes in 1948.

The pardon of Johnson was the fourth of Trump’s term. He previously pardoned former Dick Cheney advisor Scooter Libby, former Arizona Sheriff Joe Arpaio, and a case of Navy sailor whose pardon request was promoted on Fox News. So far, there’s been no indication that any of his pardons have gone through the standard procedure through the Justice Department’s Office of the Pardon Attorney, which evaluates requests for pardons and clemency and makes recommendations to the president.

This story has been updated with details of the previous posthumous pardons.

CORRECTION: A previous version of this story indicated President Barack Obama pardoned nearly 2,000 people. In fact, that number reflects the total of both pardons and commutations he granted.People react to results at an election night event on Nov. 8, 2016, in New York City. Toni L. Sandys/The Washington Post via Getty Images

A year and a half after the 2016 election, voters who backed Democratic nominee Hillary Clinton increasingly feel as though people like them are losing ground in America, a new HuffPost/YouGov poll shows, while supporters of President Donald Trump continue to think they’ve regained status.

During the last presidential campaign, one survey question illustrated a dramatic difference between backers of the two candidates without ever overtly mentioning politics. Trump supporters overwhelmingly said that, over the past 50 years, life had gotten worse for people like them. Clinton voters largely thought it was getting better. At the time, the discrepancy seemed emblematic both of the stark tonal contrasts between the two campaigns and of the idea that many of Trump’s staunchest backers were motivated by a sense that ― whether racially, culturally or economically ― they were fast losing their place in the nation.

The distinction also proved to be tenuous. “[W]as Trump’s unexpected win enough to reverse what seemed to be a deeply ingrained sense of disenfranchisement among his base or to wipe out the sense of progress felt by many Clinton voters?” we wrote in 2017, when a survey found Trump supporters to be the slightly more optimistic camp. “Apparently, yes.”

Since that time, the sunniness once displayed by Clinton voters has continued to dissipate. And despite the fact that many Trump voters still feel as if their side is losing politically, their prognosis has continued to grow less negative.

In the most recent poll, Clinton voters say, by a 28-point margin, that things are getting worse, not better, for people like them; Trump voters say, by a 15-point margin, that things have improved. (The 2016 Pew survey, which utilized different methodology, isn’t directly comparable to the others, but provides some extra context.)

HuffPost

Clinton voters’ current sense of disenfranchisement, the most recent survey finds, is most concentrated in her female and older supporters, as well as among those lacking college degrees. By contrast, there’s little difference in opinion between white and non-white backers of the Democratic candidate.

HuffPost

Trump’s base also shows signs of a more modest gender gap. In that group, however, the age divide works in the reverse direction, with voters 45 and older more likely than the president’s younger backers to feel as if their lot today is better.

HuffPost

Asked about how several other demographic groups are faring as compared to 1968, Clinton and Trump voters have relatively similar views of white Americans: Clinton voters say by a narrow 3-point edge that whites were doing worse, rather than better, while Trump voters agree by a slightly wider 7-point margin. But while Clinton voters are just 5 points likelier to think that black Americans are doing better, rather than worse, Trump voters say the same by an overwhelming 65-point margin. Clinton voters are also substantially more likely than Trump voters to believe that life in America has worsened for those without college degrees.

Use the widget below to further explore the results of the HuffPost/YouGov survey, using the menu at the top to select survey questions and the buttons at the bottom to filter the data by subgroups:

The HuffPost/YouGov poll consisted of 1,000 completed interviews conducted April 20-22 among U.S. adults using a sample selected from YouGov’s opt-in online panel to match the demographics and other characteristics of the adult U.S. population.

HuffPost has teamed up with YouGov to conduct daily opinion polls. You can learn more about this project and take part in YouGov’s nationally representative opinion polling. More details on the polls’ methodology are available here.Netflix is adding quite a few quality movies over the next few days.

The recently Oscar-nominated “The Incredibles 2” hits the service Wednesday (you can read more about that below). “Ant-Man and the Wasp,” another recent Disney blockbuster, joins the day before.

Then on Friday, Netflix gets 18 new movies, including “Jaws,” “Personal Shopper,” “Pretty in Pink” and “The Edge of Seventeen.” The three main “American Pie” movies also become available to stream, so there’s that.

Netflix has one major Original movie coming out this week: “Velvet Buzzsaw.” This satire stars Jake Gyllenhaal, John Malkovich and Toni Collette as figures in the Los Angeles art world. As a fan of dark comedies, Gyllenhaal and stories that make fun of the ultra-rich, I am excited for this.

And if you want to stay informed on what’s joining Netflix on a weekly basis, make sure to subscribe to the Streamline newsletter.

Claudette Barius/Netflix "Velvet Buzzsaw" on Netflix.

Ji Sub Jeong/HuffPost

Streamline makes recommendations for streaming shows and movies. Every Saturday, Streamline highlights the best shows to watch online, with a focus on Netflix.

The Most Notable Movie Coming To Netflix This Week

“Disney-Pixar’s The Incredibles 2” | Jan. 30

Disney-Pixar "The Incredibles 2" on Netflix.

Premise: A family of superheroes tries to stick together while fighting evil. As the mom’s stardom rises, the rest of the family has to reckon with their own lack of fame, along with missing having her around.

Is it good? This movie earned an Oscar nomination for Best Animated Feature and has a credible chance at winning (although “Spider Man: Into the Spider-Verse” has the best odds). It also has a 93 percent rating on Rotten Tomatoes and an 80 on Metacritic. If you have loved Pixar movies in the past, this continues in that lineage of tone and quality.

Heads Up: Disney had to issue a warning that this movie might cause those with epilepsy to have a seizure. The movie has many flashing lights and colors that even those without epilepsy may find overwhelming.

Trailer:

Here’s the full list of movies joining Netflix this week.

Jan. 29

“Marvel Studios’ Ant-Man and the Wasp”

Jan. 30

“Disney-Pixar’s The Incredibles 2”

Feb. 1

“About a Boy”

“American Pie”

“American Pie 2”

“American Wedding”

“As Good as It Gets”

“Billy Elliot”

“Dear Ex” (Netflix Film)

“Final Destination”

“Hairspray”

“Hostel”

“Jaws”

“Jaws 2”

“Jaws 3”

“Jaws: The Revenge”

“Personal Shopper”

“Pretty in Pink”

“The Edge of Seventeen”

“Velvet Buzzsaw” (Netflix Film)

Feb. 3

Advertisement