Sen. John McCain’s (R-Ariz.) reported request to have Donald Trump stay away from his funeral is not sitting well with fellow Senator Orrin Hatch (R-Utah).

“I think it’s ridiculous,” the 83-year-old Hatch told Politico on Monday. McCain reportedly wants Vice President Mike Pence to represent the White House instead.

Hatch thinks Trump is getting a bad rap.

“Well, he’s the president of the United States and he’s a very good man,” the senator said of Trump.

He conceded that it’s McCain’s call. McCain, 81, was diagnosed with brain cancer last July.

“I think John should have his own wishes fulfilled with regard to who attends the funeral,” Hatch said, adding that he hopes McCain changes his mind.

Traditionally, it’s considered an honor to have the president attend your funeral, but there’s a history of bad blood between McCain and Trump.

In 2015, Trump dismissed McCain’s time as a prisoner of war in Vietnam by telling a debate crowd, “He’s a war hero because he was captured. I like people who weren’t captured.”

McCain said last Fall that Trump has never apologized for the statement.

Over the weekend, Trump criticized the senator’s vote against health care reform in a speech to the NRA.Sarah Huckabee Sanders tried to guilt feminist Democrats into backing CIA deputy director Gina Haspel to head the agency — despite accusations of past support for waterboarding — because she’s a woman.

“I’m sorry, my eyes cannot roll back enough in my head,” New York Times columnist Michelle Goldberg quipped on an MSNBC panel Sunday.

Goldberg was responding to a tweet by Sanders, which called “any Democrat who claims to support women’s empowerment but opposes” Haspel’s nomination a “total hypocrite.”

There is no one more qualified to be the first woman to lead the CIA than 30+ year CIA veteran Gina Haspel. Any Democrat who claims to support women’s empowerment and our national security but opposes her nomination is a total hypocrite — Sarah Sanders (@PressSec) May 5, 2018

Goldberg slammed Sanders for “playing the woman card” despite Donald Trump and his administration’s record on women.

Goldberg was affronted by the twisted outrage “that there is no kind of feminist in America who is rooting for the first female waterboarder to take power.” She was taken aback that the “most sexist administration in modern history” was “going to play the woman card.” Goldberg added: “They’re not supportive of women.”

Check out the comments in the video above. Goldberg responds at 1:40.

Haspel has come under fire from both parties — and men and women — for a history at the CIA that includes links to waterboarding.

The Washington Post reported Sunday that Haspel offered to withdraw her name from consideration to head the CIA to spare the agency’s reputation — and her own — and to dodge possible confirmation defeat.

As the head of a clandestine base in Thailand in 2002, Haspel oversaw the interrogation of a terror suspect that reportedly included waterboarding. Haspel also allegedly played a part in destroying tapes of the session.

Several Twitter responses to Sanders’ comments about backing Haspel took the same perspective as Goldberg did:

That’s a joke right? — ginny curbow (@releasetexts) May 6, 2018

No, Democrats are entirely legitimately asking about her running a Thai black site allegedly to torture people. Her gender is completely irrelevant to that particular question. https://t.co/uCG0fEjF8X — Tom Coates (@tomcoates) May 5, 2018

I don’t think people who believe in women’s empowerment believe that any woman will do for any job and I don’t think you think they believe that. — Ben Gold (@BenGoldIFLWU) May 5, 2018

No one’s objecting to her because she’s a woman -women’s “empowerment” doesn’t mean ignoring her disqualifications . — Sleepless (@SleeplessinHJ) May 6, 2018Despite Rudy Giuliani’s recent dramatic pronouncements about international affairs, Donald Trump’s new attorney does not represent the U.S. when it comes to policy or speak for the president on world issues, the State Department emphasized Monday.

“He speaks for himself and not on behalf of the administration on foreign policy,” State Department spokeswoman Heather Nauert told The Associated Press.

Giuliani boasted on “Fox & Friends” last Thursday that “we” have North Korean leader Kim Jong Un “impressed enough to be releasing three prisoners today.” As of Monday evening, there had been no announcement by the White House concerning any such release, nor had the prisoners been freed.

Giuliani backtracked Saturday, telling reporters he had no idea what the prisoners’ status was, adding, “I’m reading the newspapers like you are.” He said, “The less said about it right now, the better.”

He also said on Saturday that he and Trump were “committed to regime change” in Iran, Politico reported. It’s “the only way to peace in the Middle East” and “more important than an Israeli-Palestinian deal,” Giuliani told reporters after a speech in Washington hosted by the Organization of Iranian-American Communities.

Trump is considering withdrawing from the Iranian nuclear pact but has not publicly called for the overthrow of the Iranian government.

Rudy Giuliani advocates regime change in Iran: "I think it's the only way to peace in the Middle East. It's more important than an Israeli-Palestinian deal" https://t.co/9CvDlr7Wut https://t.co/C0fm0ufEXe — CNN (@CNN) May 5, 2018

Giuliani has been straying so far into State Department territory that a reporter asked White House press secretary Sarah Sanders last week if he had been tasked with a wider role to “talk about things like foreign policy, as he did.” She replied, “Not that I’m aware of.”

Rep. John Garamendi, D-Calif., a member of the House Armed Services Committee, called Giuliani a “loose cannon rolling around the Oval Office with another loose cannon, namely the president.”WASHINGTON — First lady Melania Trump unveiled a new initiative focused on children on Monday in the White House Rose Garden.

Called “Be Best,” the project is designed “to educate children about the many issues they are facing today,” she told reporters at the event.

Trump’s rare appearance before the press to announce a seemingly modest set of proposals is a reminder of the unique challenges she has faced as first lady, filling an arcane role fraught with gender stereotypes and a lack of definition, compounded by her husband’s extreme divisiveness and outsized penchant for chaos.

Originally not scheduled to attend, the president himself joined the first lady at the lectern, just one day after The Washington Post reported that the couple spend much of their time in the White House apart, leading mostly separate lives.

The first lady famously pledged early in her husband’s presidency to make combating cyberbullying a priority and has devoted some speeches and White House events to the subject over the past year. Predictably, her efforts have faced mockery at every turn — any mention of cyberbullying conjures her husband’s frequent Twitter tirades and ad hominem attacks.

Melania Trump hosts a cyberbullying roundtable discussion with tech industry officials on March 20 at the White House. Chip Somodevilla via Getty Images

“I am well aware that people are skeptical of me discussing this topic,” she said in March. “I have been criticized for my commitment to tackling this issue, and I know that will continue. But it will not stop me from doing what I know is right.”

Ahead of Monday’s event, White House press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders criticized a reporter’s question about the apparent hypocrisy of the first lady’s focus on cyberbullying given the president’s relentless Twitter tantrums.

“I think the idea that you’re trying to blame cyberbullying on the president is kind of ridiculous,” Sanders said at the White House press briefing.

Melania Trump has also turned her attention toward other issues, such as the nation’s opioid crisis ― especially its effect on children and families.

Monday’s announcement was a culmination of those early forays as first lady, laying out three broadly defined policy areas on which she will focus: well-being, social media use and opioid abuse.

It’s unusual for a first lady not to have clearly defined initiatives at this point of her husband’s presidency, according to Kate Andersen Brower, author of First Women: The Grace and Power of America’s Modern First Ladies, and First in Line, an upcoming book about vice presidents.

Yet overall, Trump “has been, in her way, the best version of the first lady that she can,” given that she is dealing with “an impossible situation,” Brower said. And in distancing herself from her husband, she may be further reinventing the role of first lady and subverting public expectations of her, even in otherwise traditional tasks.

So far, Trump has mostly carried out ceremonial duties, such as hosting the first White House state visit of her husband’s presidency last month with the Trumps’ French counterparts, Emmanuel and Brigitte Macron.

President Donald Trump and first lady Melania Trump at the White House state dinner for French President Emmanuel Macron and first lady Brigitte Macron on April 24. Brian Snyder / Reuters

She has also responded to tragedies as a “consoler in chief,” Brower noted, such as visiting with hurricane survivors and representing her husband’s administration at former first lady Barbara Bush’s funeral last month.

These settings provide opportunities for Trump to “really be empathetic and sympathize with people, in the way that her husband can’t,” Brower said.

She also seems to contrast herself with her husband in the way she avoids publicly engaging in attacks, personal or political. As many political observers have noted, she notably has not responded to her husband’s many personal scandals, including his alleged extramarital affairs with porn star Stormy Daniels and “Playboy” model Karen McDougal. A rare exception came during his campaign, after the October 2016 release of the infamous “Access Hollywood” tape, when Trump defended her husband’s bragging about sexual assault as “boy talk.”

“I think she has been very smart to try to stay above the fray,” Brower said. “She’s learning the best thing to do is just focus on these bipartisan, non-controversial issues, do the state dinner, go about her business as best you can.”

Trump with her French counterpart, Brigitte Macron, visiting the National Gallery of Art in Washington. Donaldson Collection via Getty Images

Like previous first ladies, Trump has been subject to scrutiny and speculation over her fashion and personal life. Her marriage to the president in particular has sparked fascination and her body language during their interactions is closely analyzed.

Brower attributed it to the way Trump remains a “cipher,” unlike some of her predecessors, who were more accessible to the press.

Curiously, Trump has drawn sympathy from unlikely places, particularly in pop culture depictions and social media memes. In recurring segments on Stephen Colbert’s late-night show, actress Laura Benanti portrays Trump as both desperate and defiant.

Over the weekend, “Saturday Night Live” showcased the Stormy Daniels scandal, portraying the first lady, played by Cecily Strong, as gleeful about the possibility of testifying against the president in his legal debacles.

In real life, Trump’s “silence” on Daniels and “refusal to stand by her husband” shows how much she has defied expectations as first lady, according to Brower.

“I think that, in a way, that’s a feminist thing to do, to not do what’s expected of her,” Brower said. And like many women who are judged by their appearance, “people underestimate her,” she added.

“She has rejected a lot of what is expected of her and doesn’t seem to care about what we as a country expect of her,” Brower said. “I just don’t see that with her, and I think that’s kind of refreshing.”Adele went overboard to celebrate her 30th birthday last weekend ― and it was fabulous.

The “Rolling In The Deep” singer rocked in her big day with a “Titanic”-themed bash in which she dressed as Kate Winslet’s character Rose from the 1997 film. In photos she posted on Instagram, the performer can be seen posing atop what looks like the movie’s iconic staircase and dancing away with fellow “passengers” in faux lifejackets.

She called the party “the best night of my life.”

“Dirty 30! I’m not sure what I’m going to do for the next 30 years as I’ve been blessed beyond words in my life so far,” she wrote on Instagram.

A post shared by Adele (@adele) on May 6, 2018 at 4:41pm PDTAlong with President Donald Trump, the hosts at “Fox & Friends” issued their support Monday for Gina Haspel, the acting CIA director whom the president has nominated to officially take over the post.

Haspel’s controversial tenure at the CIA and involvement in the agency’s program that used torture techniques has prompted Democrats and Republicans to raise concerns about her nomination. In the fight against al Qaeda soon after the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks, Haspel served as the head of a secret CIA site in Thailand where harsh interrogation tactics, including waterboarding, were used on “high-value detainees,” according to multiple reports.

Her Senate confirmation hearing is scheduled for Wednesday, but Haspel reportedly offered to withdraw her name from consideration over the weekend before senior White House officials persuaded her to remain as Trump’s nominee.

Trump tweeted his support for Haspel and defended her record on Monday, and the president’s favorite morning show echoed his sentiment.

″Thirty-two-year career ... and I think she should double-down and say, ‘I’m proud of what I accomplished ― whether it was black sites’ enhanced interrogation ― and I dare anyone to sit in my shoes and accomplish as much as I’ve done,’” co-host Brian Kilmeade said.

Kilmeade’s colleagues piled on.

“Just keep in mind, whatever she did when she was in power at that point, she was doing it as a directive and it was all within the law,” co-host Steve Doocy added.Oliver North, a Fox News contributor who was a central figure in the Iran-Contra firearms scandal in the 1980s, has been named the National Rifle Association’s next president.

The retired lieutenant colonel in the Marine Corps is expected to take over for current NRA president and firearm businessman Pete Brownell within the next few weeks, the NRA said in a release on Monday.

Brownell, who served one year as president, is not seeking re-election “in order to devote his full time and energy to his family business,” the NRA said in a statement. Brownell is CEO of his family’s firearm accessory retailer, Brownells.

Retired Lt. Col. Oliver North, who spoke at the National Rife Association convention in Dallas last week, is expected to be the group's next president. Lucas Jackson / Reuters

“Oliver North is a legendary warrior for American freedom, a gifted communicator and skilled leader,” NRA executive vice president and CEO Wayne LaPierre said in a statement. “In these times, I can think of no one better suited to serve as our President.”

North, in the NRA’s statement, said he is immediately retiring from Fox News and will take the next few weeks to ensure his business affairs are in order before he assumes responsibilities as the group’s president.

North previously served on the NRA’s board of directors and has been an outspoken supporter of the group. In 2010, he told a crowd: “I love speaking out for the NRA, in large part because it drives the left a little bit nuts.”

North, during his public testimony before the Iran-Contra committee, said he assumed President Ronald Reagan approved the diversion of Iran arms-sales profits to Nicaraguan rebels. Bettmann via Getty Images

Before joining Fox News, North was the National Security Council staffer under President Ronald Reagan. He was famously found to have played a key role in the secret sale of arms to Iran, which was under an arms embargo at the time. Proceeds from the clandestine weapons sales were funneled to support terrorist efforts against Nicaragua’s socialist government.

North was convicted of three felonies for his role in the scandal, though those convictions were later vacated by an appeals court after it was determined that his immunized congressional testimony had been improperly used in his criminal trial.

North ran for Senate as a Republican in 1994, but lost to incumbent Sen. Chuck Robb (D-Va.). Wally McNamee via Getty Images

North has also served as a consultant for a game in the hugely successful “Call of Duty” first-person shooter series. The NRA has repeatedly argued that this sort of virtual violence has contributed to a rise in mass shootings.

In 1994, North captured the Republican Party nomination for a Senate seat in Virginia. He was defeated by then-incumbent Sen. Chuck Robb (D-Va.).

AdvertisementBaltimore resident Jeannette Belliveau, who rents a couple of rooms in her historic townhouse to short-term guests, sits with her dog, Copper, in one of the guest suites. States are having a hard time regulating the short-term rental industry. The Pew Charitable Trusts

Jeannette Belliveau lives with her dog and two cats in a 19th century house in the Upper Fells Point section of Baltimore, not far from Johns Hopkins Hospital, and rents out a couple of rooms for short-term stays to make a living. In other parts of the city, Al Hallivis, a real estate investor and single dad, owns a half-dozen houses that he also rents by the night.

A few miles toward the city’s picturesque harbor, a variety of hotels offer traditional overnight stays.

All three models cater to Baltimore visitors, but that’s where the similarity ends.

Belliveau, Hallivis, and hotels have different business models, different perspectives and different agendas. These competing constituencies help account for the difficulty states have had in regulating and taxing the short-term rental industry, even as some cities have taken action to regulate short-term rentals.

“One-size-fits-all state regulation may not always be the most appropriate policy response, and states may therefore choose to allow local governments to regulate,” said Kellen Zale, a law professor at the University of Houston who has done research on the short-term rental market.

Some big cities, such as New York, saw the short-term rentals as a threat to the rental market based on long-term leases, as well as to traditional hotels. New York last year allocated extra funding to enforce a state law restricting rentals for fewer than 30 days unless the host is present and there are no more than two guests.

Other cities saw the short-term rentals as a potential source of income and sought to expand tourist or hotel taxes to the new schemes, with varying success.

The view of downtown Baltimore from the roof of Jeannette Belliveau’s historic townhouse, which she rents to short-term guests. The Pew Charitable Trusts

San Francisco this year began limiting the number of nights a year absentee owners can rent their properties through Airbnb or similar platforms. Owners who live in their residence can rent it out without limit. Owners also must pay a $250 registration fee to the city.

Short-term rentals in San Francisco dropped by 55 percent after the limitations took effect, according to the San Francisco Chronicle and Host Compliance, a company that helps cities keep track of short-term rentals.

In Montgomery County, Maryland, a suburb of Washington, D.C., regulations go into effect in July that will limit the short-term rentals to the homeowner’s primary residence. Rentals where the homeowner is not present will be limited to 120 nights in a calendar year.

Were Baltimore County to adopt that type of rule, Hallivis said it would kill his business model.

Montgomery County also is collecting hotel taxes on the short-term rental properties. That model, Belliveau said, would make her profit margin, already slim, even tighter.

“I’m opposed to taxing rooms in my house. I’m just Mrs. Murphy,” Belliveau said, referring to the hypothetical elderly widow who has converted a portion of her home into a rental apartment. Under federal housing law, the “Mrs. Murphy’s exemption” provides that if a dwelling has four or fewer units and the owner lives in one of them, that home is exempt from the Fair Housing Act.

Troy Flanagan, vice president of government affairs and industry relations for the American Hotel and Lodging Association, said his group doesn’t oppose “true home sharing” like Belliveau’s — it objects to people who have rental property that they use exclusively for short stays. The industry group has mounted a coordinated attack against those multi-dwelling short-term rental owners.

Al Hallivis in a Baltimore property of his, one of half a dozen short-term rental houses he owns. The Pew Charitable Trusts

“Increasingly what’s taking place on those platforms is hosts that have dozens of units that are available every day of the year, and that’s a hotel,” Flanagan said. “Home sharing is sharing your home, not sharing your second, third or fourth home.”

Hallivis insists that his houses are not hotels, and that he helps neighborhoods by fixing up vacant houses and turning them into nice-looking properties. By bringing in people with money to spend, he said, he also gives a boost to neighborhood restaurants, mom-and-pop stores and taverns.

Private residences generally are not held to the same safety standards, such as requirements for sprinkler systems or handicapped access, as commercial rentals. Hotels in general must have those, as well as emergency exit directions, emergency lighting and fire doors. Hallivis said his homes have fire extinguishers and smoke detectors.

He noted that in fiscal 2017, about $17 billion was spent in Maryland on hotels and the rest of the tourism industry, and $42 million was spent on short-term rentals from Airbnb. “We don’t hurt the hotel industry at all,” he said. “They want a monopoly.”

In addition to Maryland, about 15 states debated bills to regulate the short-term rental industry this year. Only one, Indiana’s, was signed into law. Nebraska’s governor vetoed a bill approved by that state’s Legislature. A bill to regulate the industry also died in Hawaii.

The Indiana bill protects the ability of homeowners to offer short-term rentals, and prohibits cities from banning rentals of a primary residence, while allowing them to impose fees or taxes. The bill vetoed in Nebraska was similar.

In New Albany, Indiana, just across the Ohio River from Louisville, Ruth Ann Floyd rents out one room in her 1880s-era house. Reached just days before the Kentucky Derby, she said she’s booked solid for Derby week. A 69-year-old retiree from General Electric’s refrigerator manufacturing plant, Floyd is pleased that the state protected her little rental business but concerned about the fees that the city might impose.

“Every bit of money I take in I put back into the house,” she said as grandchildren shrieked in the background. “If the city comes up with a big fee, I’m not going to keep doing it.”

New Albany’s city council president, Al Knable, said he is not in favor of large fees, but collecting the current 4 percent tourist tax — now just assessed on a couple of hotels in the county — might be appropriate. He’d like to see Airbnb and the other platforms collect and remit the tax, not the local homeowners.

The proposal that passed the Indiana Legislature and was signed by Republican Gov. Eric Holcomb in March would not restrict owner-occupied rentals. But it would limit how many days absentee owners can rent their properties and allow for rules on which amenities, such as parking, they must provide. The law also allows for local permitting and taxing.

Maryland state Sen. John Astle, who authored the bill to regulate and tax short-term rentals in his state, said there was stiff resistance to a statewide bill, particularly the part about collecting hotel taxes. Astle is ready to concede that regulations should be left to local jurisdictions. But the tax issue is dependent on the state Legislature.

The Anne Arundel County Democrat said he plans to meet with city officials in his hometown of Annapolis to press his case for local regulation. He said short-term rentals have detracted from his city’s neighborhood feel, and that “if you are going to rent something, you ought to have the health and safety issues that are required in any kind of commercial rental.”

But Matt Kiessling, a vice president at the Travel Technology Association, which represents online platforms, says the travel industry is big enough for a variety of accommodations.

“Hotels are ripping and roaring from a business standpoint, with the highest occupancy rate ever,” he said. “Short-term rentals are exploding. … One isn’t taking away from the other; the pie is just getting bigger. All the internet has done is make that market more efficient by allowing travelers to find a home and homeowners to rent a home.”On Wednesday, actor Ashton Kutcher made a surprise visit to “The Ellen Show” and shocked host Ellen DeGeneres by making a $4 million donation to her wildlife fund, a cause near and dear to the TV show host.

Kutcher even asked a teary-eyed DeGeneres to push the button on his phone app to officially transfer the funds.

“I would like to push it,” DeGeneres quipped. “I’d like to push it real good.”

In February, DeGeneres received an incredible gift from her wife, actress Portia de Rossi: The Ellen DeGeneres Wildlife Fund. The fund’s first initiative will be building a campus in Rwanda for the Dian Fossey Gorilla Fund to house and protect mountain gorillas while promoting tourism, education and scientific research.

Construction will begin on the Ellen DeGeneres Campus of the Dian Fossey Gorilla Fund this summer. Fossey, one of DeGeneres’ heroes, was an American scientist who made it her life’s work to study gorillas in Africa.The comedian told host Maria Bartiromo that the inclusion of the adult film star, who reportedly received $130,000 to keep mum on her alleged affair with President Donald Trump, was “way way over the line.”

“What do I tell my kids?” Piscopo asked.

Thankfully, the man who played Trump in the skit, Alec Baldwin, was here to help.

Joe Piscopo asks, “What will I tell my children?”



You tell them Trump is a compulsive adulterer who pays off porn stars w $ from dubious sources. What else?



SNL's Stormy Daniels Trump sketch went 'over the line': Joe Piscopo - Fox News#https://t.co/OfVYI1W1fA — ABFoundation (@ABFalecbaldwin) May 7, 2018

“You tell them Trump is a compulsive adulterer who pays off porn stars w $ from dubious sources. What else?” Baldwin wrote.

Problem solved.

“Stormy Daniels on SNL?” Piscopo said. “Lorne Michaels doesn’t even ask me to go on SNL.” Theo Wargo via Getty Images

Also starring in the bit were Ben Stiller as Michael Cohen, Kate McKinnon as Rudy Giuliani and Martin Short as Dr. Harold Bornstein, Trump’s former physician.

But it was Daniels (whose real name is Stephanie Clifford) who stole the routine, telling Baldwin’s Trump, “I know you don’t believe in climate change, but a storm’s a-comin’!”

"I know you don't believe in climate change, but a storm's a-comin'!" -Stormy Daniels #SNL pic.twitter.com/isT0ZZnphg — Saturday Night Live - SNL (@nbcsnl) May 6, 2018

Piscopo, a Trump supporter who impersonated Ronald Reagan on “SNL” in the ’80s, has praised Baldwin’s Trump impression in the past, but apparently didn’t find the funny in the real Daniels.Rudy Giuliani’s confusing media appearances over the past week, in which his attempts to defend President Donald Trump backfired, have some wondering what happened to the once-respected former mayor of New York City.

John Oliver revealed the answer on “Last Week Tonight” on Sunday.

“Nothing,” he explained. “He was always this awful.”

Then, Oliver took a look back at the lowlights of Giuliani’s career before concluding that the former mayor and current president were basically ”two versions of the same person.”Four women who were in relationships with New York Attorney General Eric Schneiderman say he hit, slapped and strangled them. Mike Segar/Reuters

Four women who have been romantically involved with New York Attorney General Eric Schneiderman (D) have come forward with accusations that he physically abused them, according to accounts published by The New Yorker on Monday.

Two of the women, Michelle Manning Barish and Tanya Selvaratnam, told the outlet that Schneiderman, 63, “repeatedly hit them, often after drinking, frequently in bed and never with their consent,” forcing them to seek medical attention. Manning Barish recounted Schneiderman “shaking me and grabbing my face,” demanding that she repeat lines such as “I’m a little whore,” and threatening her that “If you ever left me, I’d kill you.”

Late Monday, just hours after the report came out, Schneiderman resigned.

“It has been my great honor and privilege to serve as Attorney General for the people of the State of New York,” Schneiderman said in a statement. “In the last several hours, serious allegations, which I strongly contest, have been made against me. While these allegations are unrelated to my professional conduct or the operations of the office, they will effectively prevent me from leading the office’s work at this critical time.”

The women who spoke to The New Yorker said they were motivated to share their stories after witnessing Schneiderman become a vocal advocate against sexual misconduct during the rise of the Me Too movement in recent months. His efforts to combat abuse, including by filing a civil rights lawsuit against disgraced film mogul Harvey Weinstein, have received wide praise from women’s organizations.

After the most difficult month of my life-I spoke up. For my daughter and for all women. I could not remain silent and encourage other women to be brave for me. I could not... https://t.co/HvL5ech0RM — M Manning Barish (@MichelleBarish) May 7, 2018

Prior to his resignation on Monday, Schneiderman had tweeted, “In the privacy of intimate relationships, I have engaged in role-playing and other consensual sexual activity. I have not assaulted anyone. I have never engaged in nonconsensual sex, which is a line I would not cross.”

Still, fellow politicians called on him to resign. New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo (D) said, “No one is above the law, including New York’s top legal officer.”

Sen. Kirsten Gillibrand (D-N.Y.) stated, “The violent actions described by multiple women in this story are abhorrent. Based on this extensive and serious reporting, I do not believe that Eric Schneiderman should continue to serve as Attorney General. There should be a full and immediate investigation into these credible allegations.”

Schneiderman’s relationships with Manning Barish and Tanya Selvaratnam reportedly occurred between 2013 and 2017. The New Yorker also vetted similar accounts from two other women who chose to remain unidentified.

Manning Barish accused Schneiderman of being emotionally abusive, describing his attempts to control her body by demanding she remove a tattoo and lose weight. Selvaratnam described similar interactions, calling Schneiderman “a misogynist and a sexual sadist.” Like Manning Barish, she said he had choked her. She also alleged that his violence became worse after President Donald Trump won the presidency because Schneiderman was angry he wouldn’t have a chance at a role in the White House.

Selvaratnam, who was born in Sri Lanka, said Schneiderman would sometimes request she call him “Master” and slap her until she did. “He started calling me his ‘brown slave’ and demanding that I repeat that I was ‘his property,’” she told The New Yorker.

Schneiderman was a state senator from 1998 to 2010 and has built a reputation as a champion of women. He notably advanced legislation to protect women from domestic abuse, including sponsoring the Anti-Strangulation Act in 2010.

Weeks ahead of The New Yorker’s bombshell report, Schneiderman tweeted his accolades to the outlet and The New York Times for their Pulitzer Prize-winning reports on sexual misconduct in Hollywood, politics, media and tech.

Without the reporting of the @nytimes and the @newyorker—and the brave women and men who spoke up about the sexual harassment they endured at the hands of powerful men—there would not be the critical national reckoning underway. A well-deserved honor: https://t.co/h4QMPzEU5c — Eric Schneiderman (@AGSchneiderman) April 16, 2018

This story has been updated with news of Schneiderman’s resignation.If you insult Siri, she might tell you off. But shell keep doing stuff for you — because she's programmed to be subservient. Tom McCarten

If you turn on your iPhone and say, “Siri, you’re a bitch,” the digital assistant might respond, “There’s no need for that.” If you call her a crude word for female genitalia, her reply is genteel: “Your language!” But if you then ask her to set an appointment for you or start a text message, she’ll happily comply, as if the derogatory statements never occurred.

Some of the most popular artificial intelligence apps — Apple’s Siri, Amazon’s Alexa and Microsoft’s Cortana, to name a few — have endured well-documented barrages of verbal abuse from users. In the United States, these assistants are programmed to sound feminine by default, and they’re generally obedient to a multitude of simple commands. And because they’re trapped in our electronic gadgets, they have a limited number of ways to respond when users engage in trash talk or speech that would be considered harassment if it were directed at a human woman.

Apple doesn’t talk much about whether it has observed troubling interactions between Siri and her users. But other prominent companies have been more open about how people treat their female-voiced AI apps.

Amazon acknowledged such interactions last year, quietly rolling out a disengage mode for Alexa so it wouldn’t submit to sexist taunts. The feature is supposed to shut down sexist conversations, though it doesn’t really explain to users why their language triggered that response.

In 2016, Microsoft said that a “good chunk” of people want to know about Cortana’s sex life ― and that the company has programmed the app to “get mad” if users are “particularly assholeish.” Cortana might tell off the user by saying, “Well, that’s not going to get us anywhere,” but sometimes she’ll just perform a semi-related web search instead of responding to something lewd.

The Android-only voice assistant Robin fields a significant number of interactions that are “clearly sexually explicit,” Ilya Eckstein, the founder and CEO of the now defunct Robin Labs, which developed the app, told The Times of London in 2016. “People want to flirt, they want to dream about a subservient girlfriend, or even a sexual slave,” he told Quartz.

The company Audioburst acquired Robin in 2017, and although Eckstein is no longer in the picture, the app still offers a baffling range of responses when confronted with explicit questions. Sometimes it’ll scold you, other times it acts flirty, or it might even tell a bawdy joke.

Tech companies haven’t made much progress in addressing the problematic power dynamics inherent in having what amounts to a female servant living in your phone. Instead, programmers will say that you can change the voices to sound male or that digital assistants aren’t really supposed to be thought of as gendered.

But the reality is that these AI voice programs sound like women, and their names sound feminine. Plus, consumers have been found to prefer female voices for the kinds of tasks that apps like Siri are designed to do: answer our questions about the weather, play music for us, send text messages while we’re driving and so on. It’s a preference that may be hardwired into the human brain, researchers have found.

“It’s much easier to find a female voice that everyone likes than a male voice that everyone likes,” Stanford University professor Clifford Nass, the author of The Man Who Lied to His Laptop: What Machines Teach Us About Human Relationships, told CNN in 2011. “It’s a well-established phenomenon that the human brain is developed to like female voices.”

However, just because a woman’s voice is preferred doesn’t mean the listener holds her in high regard. “Female voices are seen, on average, as less intelligent than male voices,” he told HuffPost in 2013, shortly before his death.

Some critics believe the notorious bro culture of Silicon Valley is to blame for its weak response to the sexist power imbalance that female voice assistants create. Consider the fact that the humans who make AI tech are mostly guys: In 2017 a survey found that men accounted for 85.5 percent of software developers in the U.S.

“Giving digital assistants human personalities has a long tradition, with things like Clippy the paperclip,” said Kate Devlin, a senior lecturer in the computing department of Goldsmiths College, part of the University of London. “They’re meant to help the user form a better relationship with the machine so they can be guided through the system. I think giving them humanlike traits is not necessarily a bad thing, but the gender aspect is particularly insidious.”

“It’s like Silicon Valley is just trying to re-create their moms,” she added, nodding not only to the soothing way in which female-voiced apps like Siri and Alexa speak but also to the tasks they perform.

Digital assistants help us with things like errands and phone calls ― stuff that’s considered women’s work, according to Miriam Sweeney, a feminist researcher and an assistant professor at the University of Alabama. “Service work, domestic labor, health care, office assistants — these are all industries which are heavily feminized and also often low paid and low status, with precarious work conditions,” she told the Australian Broadcasting Corp. last year. “We’re seeing the same with digital labor online.”

Because AI is created by humans, it’s vulnerable to the biases and stereotypes people hold. Some worry that, as AI and automation become more important in our daily lives, these biases will become more ingrained in technology.

“As AIs are built, they learn from their environment,” said Tabitha Goldstaub, a co-founder of the AI education platform CognitionX and an advocate for diversifying the tech industry. “So if we don’t have women in that environment or in the data sets AIs read, we will definitely end up with machines that are misogynistic.”

“Because AI is created by humans, it’s vulnerable to the biases and stereotypes people hold.”

Apple didn’t respond to requests for comment about Siri’s interactions with users. It gives English speakers the option to make Siri’s voice sound male, and in some languages the app defaults to a male voice.

English-speaking users of Alexa can change her gender as well, if they know how to navigate the settings. An Amazon spokesperson said, “When we developed Alexa’s personality, we wanted her to have a lot of attributes we value at Amazon, like being smart, helpful and humble while having some fun too. These attributes aren’t specific to any one gender — rather, traits we value in all people.”

A Microsoft representative said engineers “thought long and hard about gender and how we want to portray Cortana” before settling on a female persona because “research found there is a certain warmth to a female voice that is associated with helpfulness.” The company doesn’t offer a male voice option, though it’s looking into the possibility.

Audioburst, whose AI tech has been integrated into Alexa, says it’s revamping Robin to make it less like an assistant and more like a podcast-playing and news-fetching service that users control with their voice. Soon Robin won’t respond to explicit or rude questions because it won’t chit-chat with users at all, said Assaf Gad, the company’s vice president of marketing. “Once the updates are complete, none of the type of interactions in question will be possible,” he said. Robin does not have a male voice option, he added.

Goldstaub isn’t buying tech companies’ arguments that they tried to create these apps as responsibly as possible. She said female-voiced assistants are a good example of male-dominated industries not thinking through the possible effects of their products.

“There isn’t enough conscious thinking happening during the making,” she said. She argued that limited diversity in the workplace can lead to a narrow way of thinking and stop products from being properly scrutinized.

“I like to think women would be designing differently,” Devlin said.

So what can tech companies do to discourage the harassment of voice apps? Amazon says it has programmed Alexa to be more of a feminist than before. (If you ask her about it, she’ll explain what the word “feminism” means.) But even the app’s disengage mode leaves users to ponder why Alexa won’t continue a certain conversation; the app won’t tell users why their behavior is problematic. Leah Fessler at Quartz proposed a more in-your-face solution:

In an ideal world, such disengagement would help condition the user to understand that sexual harassment is unacceptable and disrespectful. In response to “you’re a slut,” Alexa or Siri would say something like, “That sounds like sexual harassment. Sexual harassment is not acceptable under any circumstances, and is often rooted in sexism.” She could then provide the customer with resources to help them more deeply understand sexual harassment, how to curb it, and how to respectfully ask for consent.

Goldstaub believes we should go further and not humanize digital assistants at all.

“I feel that as AI becomes more prevalent in everyday life, we need to be very clear about what is human intelligence and what is artificial,” she said. “My concern is that if machines resemble humans too much, we might forget these systems don’t have human abilities of empathy or reasoning. And I think that can become quite dangerous.”

For more content and to be part of the “This New World” community, join our Facebook Group.

AdvertisementDALLAS ― John Lott, the National Rifle Association’s favorite academic and gun researcher, had a question for the mostly older, white, male crowd seated in front of him.

How many of them had heard someone say that federal gun research has been stymied for years because of Congress? Or that the U.S. has a uniquely high rate of gun homicide compared to other nations? Or that guns make suicide easier?

All those claims were lies, he said, told by gun control advocates and repeated by an unquestioning media intent on pushing an anti-gun agenda.

Over the weekend the NRA held its 147th annual convention, and Lott, whose highly discredited book More Guns, Less Crime, is considered the bible of the gun lobby, addressed a packed room inside the Kay Hutchison Convention Center here in downtown Dallas. For three days, gun rights enthusiasts gathered to peruse the newest firearms and gear, attend educational seminars such as “Refuse to be a victim: Crime prevention strategies,” and “14 factors impacting your shooting performance under duress,” and to simply have fun.

Many were also there to send a pointed political message: NRA, we support you.

Economist and author John Lott Jr. addresses attendees of "The War on Guns" seminar at the NRA annual meeting on May 6. Joseph Rushmore for HuffPost

The NRA is now on the defense as it faces off against a country that is mostly fed up with current gun control laws that did not prevent horrific mass shootings like those that took place in Las Vegas, Sutherland Springs, Texas, and most recently in Parkland, Florida.

Since February, the U.S. has witnessed nationwide protests, student walkouts and countless state legislative wins. This coming November, advocates promise to vote out politicians who take money from the NRA, which opposes virtually every state and federal effort to tighten existing gun laws or pass any new gun safety measures.

At the convention, many attendees disputed the idea that gun control is gaining momentum.

Instead, they said it was a false narrative created by the media. Fake news, in other words. Many participants told HuffPost that journalists ignore positive stories about guns, such as home invasions thwarted by gun owners. They said the media spends a disproportionate amount of time covering gun violence.

A crowd watches a screen showing a live feed of President Trump's speech at the NRA annual meeting on May 4. Joseph Rushmore for HuffPost

“It’s what the press chooses to cover,” said Brian Lilly, 49, who attended the convention for the first time this year, alongside his father and his 18-year-old son, Benjamin. “They are censoring what the true pulse of the citizenry thinks.”

When his son, a high school senior, was asked what he thought about his fellow students who were advocating for gun control, he exhaled sharply.

“I think they want to get out of class,” he said. “It’s what’s on the news. They can’t back up their claims. They don’t know what they’re talking about.” The biggest misperception about guns is that “they’re always used for bad things and they’re not used for good,” he said.

Dante Martin, 52, agreed. He stood at the Beretta booth, testing out a semi-automatic handgun he was looking to potentially acquire for his wife. It was his first convention despite being an NRA member for a decade. This year, he brought his 15-year-old son as a reward for getting good grades.

“Guns don’t kill people ― people kill people,” Martin said. “Everyone has sympathy for people who were killed in these horrific events, but how many people are killed by drunk drivers? Where’s the outrage there?”

He, like others interviewed, said that if guns were removed, perpetrators would just use vehicles to commit mass murder. “Without your second amendment rights, all the other [amendments] are just suggestions,” he added.

Inside the sprawling exhibit hall, giant photos of NRA leaders bore down on members as they pointed and pulled the triggers of unloaded firearms, the sound of metallic clicks filling the air. There was a tone of jubilance and celebration.

A poster with a silhouette of a woman carrying a grocery bag in the dark asked ominously if she was “trained for what’s around the next corner.” Dozens of people lined up to try a virtual reality simulator to test their firearm skills in a self-defense scenario. As people examined firearms on the floor, it was common to see them pointed directly at passersby.

Outside the convention, cars decked out with enlarged photos of victims of gun violence circled the center, weaving between an endless stream of convention-goers as they crossed the street. Protesters gathered on Friday and Saturday to rally against the gun group but were greatly outnumbered by the more than 87,000 people who attended the NRA event, which set a new record.

The site of the convention was notable for its proximity to two historic acts of violence. It is blocks from where Lee Harvey Oswald assassinated President John F. Kennedy, using a mail-order rifle he bought from an ad in the NRA’s American Rifleman magazine, and the location of a police ambush in 2016 in which five police officers were killed.

Tim Oelklaus of Missouri holds up a display rifle on the expo floor of the annual NRA meeting in Dallas, Texas, on May 4. Joseph Rushmore for HuffPost

Manuel Oliver, whose son Joaquin was fatally shot at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, implored President Donald Trump to listen to survivors as he painted a mural on Saturday, in front of hundreds of protesters.

“I’m impressed with the support that the NRA got from our president yesterday,” Oliver said, his voice strained. “I haven’t heard from President Trump the name of my son, not even once.”

Speaking in front of the NRA on Friday, Trump appeared comfortable and happy, buoyed by the enthusiasm of the crowd who laughed uproariously at his jokes. In a typically meandering speech, he made fun of John Kerry for breaking his leg and thanked rap artist Kanye West for boosting his poll numbers among black Americans. He also mimicked the mass shooting at the Bataclan theater in Paris using finger guns. No one laughed at that.

He urged NRA members to get out and vote in November.

“We cannot get complacent,” he said. “We have to win the midterms.”

Attendees said they were not fazed by Trump’s inconsistencies on gun rights. After the Parkland shooting, he suggested that firearms should be immediately confiscated from people deemed dangerous, raising alarms among gun rights proponents.

“I think he’s in our corner,” said Mr. Nichols, a retired military member from San Antonio who only gave his last name. “I tend to look at his actions, not always what he says.”

“The only thing I wish he would do is stop tweeting,” said a 52-year-old Texas man who only wanted to be identified by his first name, Donald. “Shut up and get offline.”

Donald said he was a “lifetime member” of the NRA, a level of membership which costs $1,500 and does not ever need to be renewed. He was at the convention with his wife and son. All three work in their family-owned barbecue restaurant, which has been broken into five times. They keep a gun on site for protection. His son become a lifetime NRA member earlier that day.

The NRA are “on the front lines, fighting for our rights,” Donald said. “Individually, I don’t feel like I have any power, but as part of a group I do.”Journalist and “State of the Union” host Jake Tapper said that Sen. John McCain (R-Ariz.) not wanting President Donald Trump at his funeral is a “real moment for the country.”

During Sunday’s broadcast of “Union” on CNN, Tapper paused to talk about a recent report in The New York Times that McCain, 81, is making plans for the future as he fights aggressive brain cancer.

According to the report, McCain’s “intimates have informed the White House” that they plan to allow Vice President Mike Pence to attend McCain’s future funeral, but not President Trump.

“I want to change the subject for one second,” Tapper said on Sunday night. “This has been reported now in the The New York Times and elsewhere. The plan would be to have Mike Pence be the one to honor Senator McCain in hopefully long, long, long from now event of his demise. This is a real moment for the country where an American hero, somebody beloved in many, many ways is saying, ‘I don’t want this guy at my funeral.’”

Senator John McCain in November 2017. Bloomberg via Getty Images

Tapper also addressed McCain directly, saying that he’s “rooting” for the ailing “hero.” Along with serving as a senator since 1987, McCain is a Vietnam war veteran and was the 2008 Republican presidential candidate.

In 2015, Trump dismissed McCain’s experiences as a prisoner of war, saying he likes “people who weren’t captured.” Over the weekend, the president called the senator’s vote against health care reform “a bad vote” and “not a nice thing” in a speech to the NRA.

The discourse continued on “State of the Union” after Tapper’s comment. Rep. Gregory Meeks (D-N.Y.) said that he wasn’t particularly surprised by McCain’s feelings about Trump because the senator, Meeks said, is not a hypocrite.

“Senator McCain is known for being honest, just the opposite of Donald Trump, and frank. When someone would come up with something negative about President Obama, he corrected them,” said Meeks.

“And so, I wouldn’t expect anything to be different for Mr. McCain, Sen. McCain, now. He is not going to be a hypocrite. He does not believe that Donald Trump represents the kind of moral authority that the president of the United States should represent for our country and the rest of the world ... It would be a mischaracterization of who he is.”

Those sentiments were backed by “Unfiltered” host S.E. Cupp who said that McCain is “not a sellout,” later adding, “Senator McCain is everything that President Trump is not.”The FBI tallied a record number of attacks by active shooters last year with a record-breaking death toll of 138, according to a bureau report.

There were 593 people wounded in 30 such shootings in 2017. The number of active shooter attacks was 50 percent higher than the previous year. There were 20 such crimes in 2016 that claimed the lives of 83 people.

It’s the first time an annual death toll in active shooting incidents exceeded 90 since the FBI began tracking the crimes in 2000. There was a single incident that year.

The FBI defines active shooters as gunmen actively killing or attempting to kill people in a populated area. All of the shooters in 2016 and 2017 were males operating alone, according to the FBI. (There were three women among 42 active shooters In the FBI’s previous report, which covered 2014 and 2015.)

The ages of shooters in 2016 and 2017 ranged from 14 years to 66 years. Seven were in their teens, 18 were in their 20s, nine were in their 30s, nine were in their 40s, three were in their 50s, and four were in their 60s, according to the report.

The two largest active shooting incidents last year were the Las Vegas music festival killings in October that claimed 58 lives, and the First Baptist Church shootings in Sutherland Springs, Texas, in November that killed 26.

The biggest attack in 2016 was the mass shooting at the Pulse nightclub in Orlando that killed 49.

“Am I surprised by the increase? No,” former FBI Agent James Gagliano told USA Today. He speculated that the increase could be linked to accessibility to guns, copycat shooters tracking news programs, and even video games.

“Part of it is these individuals see one gunman on the news and think, ‘Wow, if they did this, I can do it, too,’” he said.

“It’s a vicious circle and for the most part after these incidents, nothing changes. We all retreat to our corners and bicker.”

Twenty-one states reported active shooter attacks in both 2016 and 2017. Over those two years six attacks happened in Texas, and five each occurred in California and Florida.

Over 2016 and 2017 seven attacks occurred in schools, three in government buildings and two in churches. One occurred in a mall. More than a dozen happened in a variety of open spaces, businesses and workplaces.Taylor Swift performs at iHeartRadio Jingle Ball 2017. ANGELA WEISS via Getty Images

Days before Taylor Swift kicks off her “Reputation” stadium tour, the singer invited thousands of children living in foster care and their families for a private concert on Saturday.

The pop star’s team apparently partnered with the Arizona Association of Foster and Adoptive Parents to host more than 2,000 guests at the event, according to multiple outlets. The show served as the final dress rehearsal for the tour, set to begin in Glendale, Arizona, on Tuesday.

“We thought it was too good to be true, but we all kept it a secret (per Taylor’s orders) and sure enough had the time of our lives!” attendee Kellie Dillon, who brought her children to the show, told E! News.

“My family and I have been fostering for over three years and have adopted too,” Dillon added. “I don’t think Taylor understand what this meant to these foster and adoptive families! Some of these children have been through terrible journeys in their lifetime, so to be able to escape for an incredible evening like that was out of this world!”

A post shared by Kelli Dillon (@kellidillon) on May 6, 2018 at 8:40am PDT

After the concert, the “Look What You Made Me Do” singer hosted a giant pizza party for the families, and invited them on stage to pose for pictures with her for almost four hours.

Concertgoers decorated social media with praise for Swift, who’s been unveiling details about the tour day by day on her Instagram, most recently revealing that she’ll play 10 songs from her catalog in addition to her latest album “Reputation.”

“A night my girls and I will always remember – meeting Taylor Swift!! Thank you for such a generous evening with your littlest fans,” foster mother Abbi Williams wrote in a caption of photos of her family at the concert. “Your show is amazing – you and your team did an incredible job!!”

A post shared by Abbi Williams (@abbimolly) on May 6, 2018 at 10:05am PDT

The show was the first concert ever for about 500 kids who raised their hands when asked by Swift if they’ve been to one before, according to People.

“When @taylorswift invites you to her final dress rehearsal, you go. We couldn’t bring cameras in, just know that if you are able to see her #reputationstadiumtour DO IT!” another attendee shared on Instagram alongside photos of children at the concert. “She was such a gracious and generous hostess…complete with a pizza party and photo op afterward.”

A post shared by Momma Bear (@cheaperbythedozenaz) on May 6, 2018 at 12:27am PDT

Swift has been on a goodwill tour of sorts, making a stop at a local Arizona hospital the day before the rehearsal to meet with an 8-year-old girl, Isabella McCune, who’s recovering from serious burns.

Earlier this week, Isabella’s family made a video for Swift asking her to visit, since the little girl couldn’t attend the concert as planned after a devastating accident in March.

Swift showed up unannounced at the Arizona Burn Center on Saturday. She talked with Isabella for 20 minutes and gifted her with a bag of merchandise from her tour, according to The Arizona Republic.

The singer even left an inspirational note in the fan’s journal after promising her a seat at a concert once she’s able.

“I hope you feel better soon and I’m honored you’ve been listening to my music,” she wrote. “You’re so awesome and I can’t wait to have you at a show!! Stay strong, gorgeous. Love, Taylor.”A self-driving Uber that struck and killed a woman in Arizona in March recognized her as a pedestrian but didn’t attempt to avoid her because of a software setting, sources told the technology news website The Information.

Uber executives believe the software designed to prevent the car from overreacting to insignificant hazards wasn’t dialed in properly, according to the sources, which the outlet described as “two people briefed about the matter.”

As a result, the system, which normally flags ― then dismisses ― things like plastic bags and other minor obstacles, decided not to take evasive measures when it encountered 49-year-old Elaine Herzberg, who was walking her bike across a dark section of road in Tempe.

The vehicle was going 38 mph in a 35 mph zone and didn’t swerve or slow down as it approached Herzberg, according to the police report from the time. She was taken to a local hospital, where she died of her injuries. Camera footage from inside the car shows the backup driver was distracted and not looking at the road when the accident happened.

Uber suspended all of its self-driving car operations following the accident.

Mike Ramsey, a transportation and mobility analyst at Gartner Inc., told Bloomberg at the time that there are only two real explanations for the accident: Either the vehicle suffered a technical failure and didn’t detect Herzberg at all, or it identified her, but “the decision-making software decided that this was not something to stop for.”

The information reported Monday rules out the first explanation. And that’s not a good thing for Uber, as the second is the more difficult problem to solve. As a driver, it doesn’t matter how great your eyesight is if you can’t make real-time decisions to safely navigate the environment.

The National Transportation Safety Board immediately sent a team to Tempe to conduct an investigation after the death but has yet to release any findings. The NTSB didn’t immediately respond to a request for comment on Monday’s report.New York gubernatorial candidate Cynthia Nixon is challenging Gov. Andrew Cuomo (D) to a one-on-one televised debate ahead of the November election, but Cuomo has rejected similar offers in the past.

The “Sex and the City” star on Monday extended an invitation to the governor in a provocative video on Twitter that poked at the governor’s past refusal to participate in two candidate debates on TV.

New York gubernatorial candidate Cynthia Nixon has challenged Gov. Andrew Cuomo to a televised, one-on-one debate. Drew Angerer via Getty Images

“I believe voters deserve to hear a frank and direct discussion of the real issues facing New Yorkers, and the difference between my progressive vision for this state, and Governor Cuomo’s centrist record,” Nixon says in the video.

She adds that a debate hosted by New York’s WABC will be “no huge multi-candidate free-for-all like you always insist on. One on one. No distractions, and nowhere to hide.”

So, big news, WABC and their partners have offered to host a televised debate between myself and Governor Cuomo....and I accept their invitation. pic.twitter.com/yVlWeg3n7A — Cynthia Nixon (@CynthiaNixon) May 7, 2018

Cuomo campaign spokeswoman Lis Smith said a gubernatorial debate is not off the table.

“We look forward to a robust debate,” Smith said in an emailed statement shared with HuffPost. “We are currently receiving invitations and reviewing the various opportunities.”

Smith said on Twitter that any debate would take place before the Sept. 13 Democratic primary. She did not say whether Cuomo would agree to a one-on-one debate as requested by Nixon.

Cuomo, who is seeking his third term in office, declined to debate his 2014 primary opponent Zephyr Teachout. He also shunned a televised one-on-one debate with his 2014 Republican challenger Rob Astorino. A radio debate was offered by Cuomo’s team instead, but Astorino declined that proposal.

New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo, who is seeking his third term in office, has in the past declined to participate in one-on-one televised debates. Shannon Stapleton / Reuters

A refusal to participate in a debate with Nixon could be seen as him having more to lose than gain from such a forum. A survey published last week from Quinnipiac University gave him a lead over Nixon of 22 percentage points.

Earlier polls showed Cuomo as much as 40 percentage points ahead of Nixon, The New York Times reported.

“She’s not a present threat at this stage,” Peter A. Brown, the assistant director of the Quinnipiac poll, told the Times. “But she’s got four months.”