Long-time Donald Trump ally and GOP “dirty trickster” Roger Stone said Sunday that he’s “prepared” if he’s hit with an indictment by special counsel Robert Mueller. But he insisted any charges would be “conjured up,” and that they would have nothing to do with Russian campaign collusion.

Asked about a possible indictment on NBC’s “Meet The Press,” Stone responded: “I am prepared should that be the case.” He said it’s “not inconceivable that Mr. Mueller and his team may seek to conjure up some extraneous crime pertaining to my business.”

Stone, who was an informal adviser to Trump during his campaign, insisted there could be no charges involving cooperation with the Kremlin because “no evidence whatsoever of Russian collusion” has been found — though Mueller has yet to share his final findings.

Stone said he would chalk up any action against him as an “effort to silence me.”

NBC’s Chuck Todd pointed out that he was hardly being silenced and was expressing his opinions even at that moment.

Stone has come under scrutiny because he admitted communicating with Guccifer 2.0, the Russian hacker or hackers who the FBI said leaked emails from Democratic National Committee members during the presidential campaign.

He also admitted publicly that he communicated with Julian Assange, who published the emails in WikiLeaks. The day before one of the batches of emails was leaked, Stone said Assange was going to deliver “a devastating expose” of Hillary Clinton.

Stone insisted on NBC that he “had no advance notice” of the content, source or timing of the WikiLeaks disclosures.

Stone said he has not yet been contacted by anyone on Mueller’s team. But he said that eight former colleagues have been “terrorized” by investigators.Former presidential candidate Hillary Clinton is expected to endorse New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo's re-election campaign. Lucas Jackson / Reuters

Hillary Clinton is expected to hit the campaign trail this week to endorse New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo (D) in his re-election campaign.

Clinton, the 2016 Democratic presidential nominee and former New York senator, is planning on speaking for Cuomo at the state Democratic convention in Long Island on Wednesday, a Cuomo spokeswoman confirmed to HuffPost on Monday.

The endorsement was first reported by The New York Times.

Cuomo faces former “Sex and the City” star Cynthia Nixon in the Sept. 13 Democratic primary. He is expected to receive the Democratic Party’s endorsement later this week, The Associated Press reported.

Cynthia Nixon is seen at a campaign stop in Brooklyn in March after announcing her run for governor of New York. Shannon Stapleton / Reuters

A Quinnipiac University survey published earlier this month gave Cuomo a 22-point lead over Nixon.

Clinton’s endorsement would mark her return to campaigning for a political candidate after her crushing defeat in the 2016 election against President Donald Trump.

Then-Housing and Urban Development Secretary Andrew Cuomo is seen with then-New York Senate candidate Hillary Clinton during a Columbus Day Parade in New York in 2000. New York Daily News Archive via Getty Images

Clinton and her husband, former President Bill Clinton, have a long history with Cuomo and his family. Cuomo served as housing secretary in Bill Clinton’s administration. He endorsed Hillary Clinton’s presidential run shortly after it was announced in 2015.

Nixon also expressed support of Clinton’s presidential campaign that year, telling Bloomberg News: “I am definitely a Hillary person.”

Clinton also recently recorded an automated phone call that endorses Stacey Abrams for Georgia governor, the Times reported. Abrams is the former Democratic leader in the Georgia House.

This story has been updated with additional details about the relationship between Cuomo and the Clintons.Employers who stiff their workers or discriminate against them just got a big lift from the Supreme Court, which issued a major ruling Monday making it easier for companies to avoid employee lawsuits.

The 5-4 ruling upheld employers’ use of class-action waivers in arbitration agreements. By signing these controversial provisions, workers give up their right to band together and sue in court for back pay or damages, and are instead forced to take their disputes to arbitrators individually.

Arbitration agreements have become a common way for employers to stifle lawsuits that could lead to large plaintiff classes and big payouts. Workers backed by employee groups and labor unions challenged their employers’ use of these agreements, claiming they ran afoul of the National Labor Relations Act, or NLRA, which guarantees workers the right to join forces in “mutual aid and protection.”

The employer-friendly conservative majority on the court decided against the workers. They ruled that collective bargaining law does not supersede federal law that established the arbitration process, therefore making the class-action waivers in employment contracts legitimate.

Justice Neil Gorsuch wrote the opinion for the conservative majority, saying Congress did not write the NLRA to “displace” federal arbitration law.

“The policy may be debatable but the law is clear: Congress has instructed that arbitration agreements like those before us must be enforced as written,” Gorsuch wrote.

The high court has previously ruled that companies can force consumers into arbitration agreements with class-action waivers, which are tucked into the fine print when you buy a plane ticket or sign up for a cell phone. The latest ruling effectively sanctions the use of these waivers in the workplace, a practice that has grown increasingly common over the last two decades.

The Supreme Court ruling will have long-lasting implications for workers. Class-action lawsuits are often the most powerful way for employees to secure back pay when their minimum wage or overtime rights have been violated or to secure damages when their bosses run afoul of discrimination laws.

It’s harder to pursue these cases as a single worker than as part of a group, which is why employers prefer arbitration. Lawyers can be reluctant to file individual complaints in which the judgments or settlements will be small and not worth their time. Many workers are also hesitant to file their lawsuits as individuals, fearing their employers will ostracize or retaliate against them.

In a strong dissent, Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg called the decision of the majority “egregiously wrong.” She argued that the rights under the NLRA include the right to pursue litigation collectively, and that an employer-dictated waiver would violate it.

“Employees’ rights to band together to meet their employers’ superior strength would be worth precious little if employers could condition employment on workers signing away those rights,” Ginsburg wrote.

During oral arguments last year, Justice Stephen Breyer said the case could undermine “the entire heart of the New Deal” by weakening collective action by workers.

According to a report last year from the Economic Policy Institute, an estimated 25 million workers ― just under one-quarter of non-union employees in the private sector ― give up their right to join class-action lawsuits as a condition of employment. The report anticipated that waivers would become an “even more widespread practice” in the event the Supreme Court sanctioned them.

“Class-action lawsuits are often the most powerful way for employees to secure back pay when their minimum wage or overtime rights have been violated or to secure damages when their bosses run afoul of discrimination laws.”

The Supreme Court case, National Labor Relations Board v. Murphy Oil USA, Inc., consolidated three separate cases involving different employers: the software company Epic Systems, the accounting and consulting firm Ernst & Young, and the oil company and gas station chain Murphy Oil.

A former Murphy Oil employee, Sheila Hobson, claimed that when she worked at one of the company’s retail stores, she and her colleagues were required to do off-the-clock work they weren’t compensated for. They got together to sue the company for back pay. But when they consulted a lawyer, they learned they couldn’t take Murphy Oil to court as a group because they had already agreed to arbitration when they accepted their jobs.

The National Labor Relations Board, the independent agency that enforces collective bargaining law, argued that the forced arbitration clause interfered with Hobson’s right to join together with other employees to improve their working conditions. The Obama White House agreed, filing a brief with the Supreme Court in support of Hobson.Demonstrators face off with California Highway Patrol officers as they protest the police shooting of Stephon Clark, in Sacramento, California, on March 30, 2018. Bob Strong/Reuters

When former San Francisco 49ers quarterback Colin Kaepernick took a knee during the national anthem in August 2016, it was in protest of unjust police killings of black Americans.

For his courage, Kaepernick lost his job, the NFL lost its mind by forbidding the peaceful action ― and meanwhile, at least 378 black Americans have lost their lives in police killings.

That most recent estimate of black police violence victims comes from data compiled by The Washington Post and analyzed by HuffPost.

Last August, HuffPost reported that based on the Post’s data, at least 223 black Americans had been killed by police gunfire in the year since Kaepernick first sat, then took a knee, to protest police violence. Less than a year later, that number has increased by at least 155 people.

It’s likely that the real number of victims is higher. Between Aug. 14, 2016 ― when Kaepernick first sat out the national anthem ― and now, at least 253 of the people listed in the Post’s database did not have their race confirmed. Furthermore, the database only includes shooting deaths, so people like Eric Garner, a black father who was unarmed when an officer put him in a fatal chokehold, would not be included.

In total, 3,357 people have been fatally shot by police since 2015, according to the Post’s data.

The sobering numbers come just after the NFL announced its cowardly decision on Wednesday to ban kneeling during the national anthem. The league can now fine teams that participate in protests, with the punishment of individual players left up to their team.

In a statement, NFL Commissioner Roger Goodell said that “on-field protests created a false perception among many that thousands of NFL players were unpatriotic.” (He did not seem to understand that silencing a peaceful protest might also come across as unpatriotic.)

Say their names...



The NFL's call is unAmerican https://t.co/3H7XABjZg9



An early look at Thursday's front... pic.twitter.com/lm5eucXVrU — New York Daily News (@NYDailyNews) May 24, 2018

Polling has shown that views on the NFL protests are deeply polarized, but most Americans polled last fall said they believed the players were protesting police violence, not the American flag. Kaepernick also made it clear that he was protesting racism, police violence and inequality.

Yet President Donald Trump has called the protests a “total disrespect of our heritage,” and “a total disrespect of everything we stand for.”

Trump even suggested that protesting players should leave the country.

“You have to stand proudly for the National Anthem or you shouldn’t be playing,” Trump said. “You shouldn’t be there. Maybe you shouldn’t be in the country.”

Trump also said he’d like NFL owners to say, “get that son of a bitch off the field right now, he’s fired” if a player protested.

Despite the vitriol, Kaepernick did reach out to veterans to make sure his protests were respectful. Initially, the former quarterback simply sat out the anthem, but former Green Beret Nate Boyer says he persuaded him to kneel.

“That’s how it all started with Colin and I, neither of us knew that kneeling would be the result of our conversation,” Boyer wrote in an open letter to both Kaepernick and Trump last October. “Colin wanted to sit, I wanted him to stand, and so we found a common ground on a knee alongside his teammates. I believe that progress and real change happens in this world when you reach across the divide, you build a bridge, you swallow your pride, you open your mind, you embrace what you don’t understand, and ultimately you surrender.”

One person killed by police since Kaepernick began protesting was 22-year-old Stephon Clark, who was shot at 20 times by two officers in his own backyard in Sacramento, California, earlier this year. He was armed with only a cellphone.

Clark’s death sparked a wave of protests across the city. And why not? The killing was sickening, and Clark deserved more than to be another statistic.Former Rep. Blake Farenthold could lose his new lobbyist job because of the weird way he was hired. Bill Clark via Getty Images

WASHINGTON ― Disgraced former Rep. Blake Farenthold (R-Texas) may have been hired illegally at his new job at a Texas port authority, and a local newspaper on Monday filed a lawsuit that could result in his being ejected.

Farenthold, who abruptly resigned from Congress last month while under investigation for sexual harassment, announced last week that he landed a gig as a lobbyist for the Calhoun Port Authority in Port Lavaca, Texas.

The problem is that the local government entity did not give public notice that it was hiring Farenthold or that it was creating a job for him that pays $160,000 a year. Under the Texas Open Meetings Act, public entities must give notice of actions being taken at upcoming meetings and allow for public comment. The port did give notice of its May 9 meeting, after which Farenthold was hired, but it used vague language about personnel matters.

“They didn’t even talk about the fact that they were hiring a lobbyist, much less that it was Blake Farenthold,” said Joe Larsen, a Houston-based attorney who serves on the board of directors for the Freedom of Information Foundation of Texas. “Specificity has to match the level of public interest.”

The Victoria Advocate, a local Texas newspaper, filed a lawsuit with the Calhoun County district court on Monday arguing that the port violated state law and demanding that the law be upheld.

If the newspaper prevails, Farenthold will be out of a job. The port could always rehire him, but it would first have to hold a public meeting letting anyone in the community weigh in.

“He is an ex-congressman, with the history he has, and his position is unprecedented,” said John Griffin, a lawyer representing the newspaper. “Those details are of high public importance.”

Here is a copy of the complaint:

Farenthold did not immediately respond to a request for comment.

A request for comment from the port authority’s attorneys was not returned. They have asked the Texas attorney general for an opinion on whether Farenthold’s hiring was illegal, though that process could take up to a year, and the attorney general’s opinion won’t matter if the court rules in favor of the paper.

Chris Cobler, the editor of the Victoria Advocate, wrote an editorial on Sunday laying out the paper’s reasoning for taking legal action. He emphasized that the lawsuit isn’t about whether the port should or shouldn’t have hired Farenthold, but about open government.

“This is about reminding our elected officials that they work for the public,” Cobler told HuffPost.

But it is a mystery why the port authority brought on Farenthold. His job is to lobby Congress, where he has burned bridges with his former colleagues. Not only did he get sued for sexual harassment by a former aide, but he never paid back $84,000 in taxpayer money he used to settle that lawsuit ― even after publicly vowing in December to repay it immediately. Lawmakers in both parties have been badgering him for months to pay it back, including House Speaker Paul Ryan (R-Wis.), to no avail.

The port authority’s board of directors is meeting Thursday to decide what to do about Farenthold’s job, according to a public notice issued Monday.

Griffin, who said he personally knows all the board members, couldn’t say why they hired him in the first place. But he proposed a relatively easy way for the port authority to move past the mess that has come with Farenthold.

“They could discharge him,” Griffin said. “If they decide he reneged on his commitment to repay taxpayers for a settlement in a case against him and that his brand name clearly has been tarnished, that would give the port good grounds to let him go.”Author Bill Konigsberg hopes his forthcoming novel will encourage readers not only to get swept away in a youthful romance but also to reconsider their biases around gender stereotypes.

HuffPost got an exclusive first look at the cover of The Music of What Happens, Konigsberg’s first gay-themed romance for young adults. Due out in January 2019, the book follows two teenage boys, Max and Jordan, in suburban Arizona. The sporty, confident Max may seem like an odd match for the poetic, introverted Jordan, but together, they prove chemistry can be found between total opposites.

Bill Konigsberg's The Music of What Happens hits retailers in 2019. Scholastic

The Arizona-based Konigsberg has repeatedly incorporated LGBTQ themes into his work, including 2013′s Openly Straight and its 2017 follow-up, Honestly Ben. The Music of What Happens, he said, ups the ante considerably as a love story between two fully formed queer characters.

“The first thing that comes to mind is that this book is utterly NOT about coming out. This is the story of two characters who happen to be gay, living in the suburbs of Phoenix,” he told HuffPost. “To me, that’s what we need more of now ― stories where LGBTQ characters are already out and living their lives.”

That isn’t to diminish the power of coming-out stories, of course. “It’s just been done,” the 47-year-old author explains, “a lot.”

The Stonewall-, GLAAD Media- and Lambda Literary Award-winning scribe said The Music of What Happens fits into a lot of forward-thinking discourse about LGBTQ people in that it “makes readers think about masculinity and femininity and balance.”

“As I wrote this book, I became very aware of my own biases and beliefs in terms of masculinity and femininity, and it really helped heal some of my own internal conflicts. In the end, we’re all both,” Konigsberg said. “We all contain multitudes, and it was so cool to watch my more feminine character ― Jordan ― find his inner warrior, and my more masculine character ― Max ― lean into a vulnerability he’d never experienced before.”A new documentary will take an in-depth look at the “culture of exclusion, bigotry and discrimination” that continues to face LGBTQ athletes despite the queer community’s social advances as a whole.

As the “Alone in the Game” trailer reveals, many of those athletes’ biggest challenges arise beyond the playing field. “If there wasn’t homophobia in sports, and if everyone felt comfortable in being who they were, then everyone who is gay would be out,” Rapinoe says in the clip above.

The documentary’s creator and executive producer, David McFarland, hopes his film will help to “affect real change at the highest levels of American sport.”

“I have the privilege to examine these issues at the highest levels of sport — live these issues, really — up close and in person,” he told AFI last week, “and these experiences have given me a true and factual understanding of just how serious these problems are for LGBT athletes and how great an impact the world of sport can make when the right decisions are made by those in positions of power.”

McFarland added, “One of the biggest obstacles in making the film was getting certain key power parties in sport to show up and participate. This begs a very serious question for our leaders in sport: are we living in a time when equality and inclusion truly exists for LGBT athletes?”Motherhood a second time around has made Chrissy Teigen even more of an inspiration than she already was.

The “Lip Sync Battle” host and her husband, singer John Legend, welcomed a baby boy named Miles last week, and she’s once again dispelling the myth that post-childbirth life is more glamorous for mothers in the spotlight.

While Legend was attending the Billboard Music Awards on Sunday night, Teigen opted to stay at home with the kids and share a very real glimpse of what her world looks like at the moment.

The supermodel posted an Instagram of herself cradling the newborn while wearing postpartum mesh underwear, as daughter Luna plays the harp in the background.

A post shared by chrissy teigen (@chrissyteigen) on May 20, 2018 at 9:04pm PDT

This is peak Teigen, shining a light on an experience most women face after giving birth, like postpartum bleeding and incontinence, but few celebrities openly discuss.

“If you haven’t seen @aliwong’s new Netflix special, you are bad at picking Netflix specials,” Teigen wrote, adding the hashtag #asianpearunderwear.

Wong, a favorite comedian of Teigen’s, speaks openly about the highs and lows of motherhood in her new special “Ali Wong: Hard Knock Wife.”

After welcoming her daughter in 2016, Teigen won the respect of moms everywhere when she tweeted, “no one told me i would be coming home in diapers too.”

Chrissy Teigen and John Legend pictured weeks before they welcomed their new baby. Jamie McCarthy via Getty Images

Teigen has been predictably candid about her new reality as a mother of two, revealing that she’s adjusting better this time around due to a major difference.

“I can confirm postpartum life is 90% better when you don’t rip to your butthole. Baby boy: 1 point. Luna: 0,” she wrote days after giving birth.

I can confirm postpartum life is 90% better when you don't rip to your butthole. Baby boy: 1 point. Luna: 0 — christine teigen (@chrissyteigen) May 20, 2018

Teigen revealed that Miles does, however, share at least one similarity with his big sister: his nose.

The parents posted our first look their new arrival on Instagram over the weekend, writing that the family is “overwhelmed with love” and “drowning in his little peeps and nuzzles.”

A post shared by chrissy teigen (@chrissyteigen) on May 20, 2018 at 10:00am PDT

After giving birth to Luna, Teigen jump-started a national conversation about postpartum depression by sharing her own experience with months of living in pain. At the time, she was one of few high-profile women to speak openly about the topic. Since then, others like Bryce Dallas Howard and Drew Barrymore have followed suit.

“I also just didn’t think it could happen to me,” Teigen wrote then. “I have a great life. I have all the help I could need: John, my mother (who lives with us), a nanny. But postpartum does not discriminate. I couldn’t control it.”

She was eventually diagnosed by a doctor and started taking antidepressants with a plan to begin therapy.Korsh mentioned rubbing elbows with the likes of Sir Elton John and Idris Elba, gushing that it was all a “dream.” He concluded his letter by saying “it felt like the world was becoming a better place” and that his life will “forever be richer for having those memories.”

Anyone else having major FOMO?Netflix is adding quite a few quality movies over the next few days.

The recently Oscar-nominated “The Incredibles 2” hits the service Wednesday (you can read more about that below). “Ant-Man and the Wasp,” another recent Disney blockbuster, joins the day before.

Then on Friday, Netflix gets 18 new movies, including “Jaws,” “Personal Shopper,” “Pretty in Pink” and “The Edge of Seventeen.” The three main “American Pie” movies also become available to stream, so there’s that.

Netflix has one major Original movie coming out this week: “Velvet Buzzsaw.” This satire stars Jake Gyllenhaal, John Malkovich and Toni Collette as figures in the Los Angeles art world. As a fan of dark comedies, Gyllenhaal and stories that make fun of the ultra-rich, I am excited for this.

And if you want to stay informed on what’s joining Netflix on a weekly basis, make sure to subscribe to the Streamline newsletter.

Claudette Barius/Netflix "Velvet Buzzsaw" on Netflix.

Ji Sub Jeong/HuffPost

Streamline makes recommendations for streaming shows and movies. Every Saturday, Streamline highlights the best shows to watch online, with a focus on Netflix.

The Most Notable Movie Coming To Netflix This Week

“Disney-Pixar’s The Incredibles 2” | Jan. 30

Disney-Pixar "The Incredibles 2" on Netflix.

Premise: A family of superheroes tries to stick together while fighting evil. As the mom’s stardom rises, the rest of the family has to reckon with their own lack of fame, along with missing having her around.

Is it good? This movie earned an Oscar nomination for Best Animated Feature and has a credible chance at winning (although “Spider Man: Into the Spider-Verse” has the best odds). It also has a 93 percent rating on Rotten Tomatoes and an 80 on Metacritic. If you have loved Pixar movies in the past, this continues in that lineage of tone and quality.

Heads Up: Disney had to issue a warning that this movie might cause those with epilepsy to have a seizure. The movie has many flashing lights and colors that even those without epilepsy may find overwhelming.

Trailer:

Here’s the full list of movies joining Netflix this week.

Jan. 29

“Marvel Studios’ Ant-Man and the Wasp”

Jan. 30

“Disney-Pixar’s The Incredibles 2”

Feb. 1

“About a Boy”

“American Pie”

“American Pie 2”

“American Wedding”

“As Good as It Gets”

“Billy Elliot”

“Dear Ex” (Netflix Film)

“Final Destination”

“Hairspray”

“Hostel”

“Jaws”

“Jaws 2”

“Jaws 3”

“Jaws: The Revenge”

“Personal Shopper”

“Pretty in Pink”

“The Edge of Seventeen”

“Velvet Buzzsaw” (Netflix Film)

Feb. 3

AdvertisementFormer President Barack Obama and first lady Michelle Obama’s post-White House legacy will now include being media moguls, marking a new step in expanding their already influential cultural footprint.

The Obamas will produce films and series for Netflix, the streaming service confirmed on Monday, after several news outlets reported earlier this year that the deal was in the works.

President Barack Obama and Michelle Obama have entered into a multi-year agreement to produce films and series for Netflix, potentially including scripted series, unscripted series, docu-series, documentaries, and features. — Netflix US (@netflix) May 21, 2018

Representatives for Netflix and the Obamas declined to comment on the deal’s details, including the timeline for their projects or what subjects the Obamas might explore. A source close to the deal told HuffPost that the earliest the Obamas’ work would appear on the streaming platform would be in late 2019.

A source told CNN that some of the projects will include the Obamas appearing on camera, while they’ll be working behind the scenes on others.

“One of the simple joys of our time in public service was getting to meet so many fascinating people from all walks of life, and to help them share their experiences with a wider audience,” the former president said in a statement. “That’s why Michelle and I are so excited to partner with Netflix ― we hope to cultivate and curate the talented, inspiring, creative voices who are able to promote greater empathy and understanding between peoples, and help them share their stories with the entire world.”

The former first lady said in a statement that she and her husband “have always believed in the power of storytelling to inspire us, to make us think differently about the world around us, and to help us open our minds and hearts to others. Netflix’s unparalleled service is a natural fit for the kinds of stories we want to share, and we look forward to starting this exciting new partnership.”

According to the streaming service, the Obama’s work will include a variety of content, adding to Netflix’s already large catalog of original programming, according to the streaming service. Their projects will appear across all of Netflix’s international editions, potentially reaching 125 million members in 190 countries, the service said.

The Obamas will produce their work through a newly founded company, Higher Ground Productions, the streaming service said.

Their work will likely focus on some of the issues they championed in the White House, part of a wide range of projects and initiatives they have launched in their post-White House life, including public service fellowships and ongoing plans for the Obama presidential library in Chicago.

Netflix head Ted Sarandos called the Obamas “uniquely positioned to discover and highlight stories of people who make a difference in their communities and strive to change the world for the better.”

AdvertisementJustin Theroux shooting “Getting Curious With Jonathan Van Ness Live” at the Vulture Festival in New York City, May 20. Bryan Bedder via Getty Images

Somewhere in the Hollywood Hills, Ben Affleck whispers, “Touché,” as he takes another drag from his vape pen.

The “Justice League” star no longer soldiers alone when it comes to inexplicably large back tattoos, after actor Justin Theroux debuted one of his own.

The former Mr. Jennifer Aniston and Selena Gomez’s current lunch date appeared at a live recording of “Queer Eye” grooming guru Jonathan Van Ness’ podcast at the Vulture Festival over the weekend.

When a fan asked the heavily tattooed star for the backstory on some of his ink, he lifted his shirt to expose a giant tattoo of a pigeon and a rat on his back, giving fans a peek at some previously unseen body art.

“So I had two dogs, both rescues, pit bulls … and when they died, I dedicated half my back to one and half of my back to the other,” he explained. “So it’s a picture of a rat because my dog used to kill rats in Washington Square Park. It was horrible. I mean, they were doing a service to New York. Oh, and then a pigeon. A New York pigeon and a rat.”

Now, Theroux didn’t show the entire tattoo, but from what we can tell, he inked the image of a rather large rodent crawling done his spine, surrounded by artwork.

And unlike Affleck, the “Leftovers” actor doesn’t seem particularly regretful about the decision.

Affleck’s giant tattoo of a rising phoenix spanning from shoulder to shoulder first caught our eye in 2015, amid his divorce from actress Jennifer Garner.

He later jokingly called his tattoos “garish” in response to a New Yorker article titled “The Great Sadness of Ben Affleck” about his presumed midlife crisis.

It’s unclear when exactly Theroux got the tattoo ― he announced his split from Aniston in February ― so it’s not fair to say their relationship had anything to with his ink.

AdvertisementAs per Yale tradition, Hillary Clinton brought a hat to commencement. YouTube/Yale University

Honoring the Yale University tradition of wearing funky hats on graduation day, this year’s commencement speaker Hillary Clinton took the stage with a hat of her own ― a Russian fur hat, undoubtedly a swipe at President Donald Trump and the accusations that his campaign colluded with Russia to influence the 2016 election.

“I brought a hat too ... a Russian hat,” she told the students on Sunday as they whooped and cheered. “If you can’t beat ’em, join ’em.”

Clinton, a graduate of Yale Law School, offered a poignant address that encouraged graduates to channel their resilience and contribute meaningfully to the future of democracy.

She jokingly made references to the scandals that engulfed her campaign, noting that she made sure to bury a tape of her singing acapella during her Yale days so deeply, she quipped, that not even WikiLeaks would be able to find it.

“If you thought my emails were scandalous you should hear my singing voice,” she said.

She congratulated all of the students in the room, saying, “Even the three of you who live in Michigan and didn’t request your absentee ballots in time.”

Clinton also made several mentions of her searing election loss. “No, I’m still not over it,” she said. “I still think about the 2016 election, I still regret the mistakes I made.”

As a human being, she added, she is coping with what happened. But as an American, she’s concerned. “We’re living through a time when fundamental rights, civic virtue, freedom of the press, even facts and reason are under assault like never before.”

Yet she did highlight the unprecedented levels of political and civic mobilization that have been kicked into gear since Trump’s victory, efforts she believes will help to defend democracy. “We are also witnessing an era of new moral conviction, civic engagement, and a sense of devotion to our democracy and country.”Rudi Giuliani wants to client Donald Trump to be given more information about the FBI's secret informant. Joshua Roberts / Reuters

WASHINGTON ― One of Donald Trump’s lawyers said Monday that the president can’t agree to an interview with special counsel Robert Mueller’s team without first learning more about the secret FBI informant who spoke with members of the Trump campaign during the 2016 race.

“We can’t let our guy go in and be questioned without knowing this,” Rudy Giuliani said in an interview with HuffPost on Monday afternoon.

Giuliani, who is on Trump’s private legal team, spoke with HuffPost after Trump met with Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein, FBI Director Christopher Wray and Dan Coats, the director of national intelligence, about congressional requests for information on the secret FBI source. The decision to set up the meeting, Giuliani said, was made by Trump and his White House lawyers without Giuliani’s involvement, although he said he supported it.

“I didn’t advise against it,” Giuliani said. “He has a right as president to say to the Justice Department you have to comply with a congressional subpoena or request.”

Although Giuliani said the meeting was held in Trump’s capacity as president rather than as a potential criminal target, he acknowledged that the FBI releasing information about the source would benefit Trump’s defense.

“I don’t care so much about the name as I do about the content,” he said. “What prompted them to do it? What did they learn from it?”

Monday’s unusual meeting with Rosenstein and Wray ― both Republicans appointed by the president ― was set up to discuss what Trump has described as the infiltration or surveillance of his 2016 campaign team. Before the election, a confidential FBI source reportedly met with associates of the campaign who were suspected of working with Russia. Trump allies on Capitol Hill have demanded information about the FBI source, a Cambridge University professor whose name was widely published over the weekend.

In a statement after the meeting, White House press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders said the Justice Department had asked its inspector general to look into “any irregularities ... concerning the Trump Campaign” and agreed to a meeting with congressional leaders to “review highly classified and other information they have requested.” Although Sanders said the Justice Department had requested the inspector general probe “[b]ased on the meeting with the President,” the department had actually decided to make that request after the president tweeted about the matter on Sunday. The Justice Department declined to comment.

Trump has sided with his defenders on Capitol Hill who have used their oversight powers to try to undermine the Mueller investigation.

I hereby demand, and will do so officially tomorrow, that the Department of Justice look into whether or not the FBI/DOJ infiltrated or surveilled the Trump Campaign for Political Purposes - and if any such demands or requests were made by people within the Obama Administration! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) May 20, 2018

It remains to be seen whether Monday’s meeting will diffuse the tensions between Trump and the Justice Department. It’s unclear what documents the department agreed to turn over to Congress.

Rosenstein, a lifelong Republican whom Trump nominated to the No. 2 position in the Justice Department, has come under fire from the president’s defenders upset over the appointment of a special counsel. Trump defenders on Capitol Hill have recently been requesting more information about the ongoing investigation into Russian interference in the 2016 election.

Rosenstein, speaking earlier this month in response to a question about calls for his impeachment, said the Justice Department “will not be extorted” by threats. But when the president tweeted on Sunday that he wanted an investigation into allegations that the FBI had “infiltrated or surveilled” his campaign, Rosenstein said the department would ask its own watchdog to look into it.

“If anyone did infiltrate or surveil participants in a presidential campaign for inappropriate purposes, we need to know about it and take appropriate action,” Rosenstein said in the statement.

FBI Director Christopher Wray (right) arrives at the West Wing of the White House for a meeting with President Donald Trump on May 21, 2018. Carlos Barria / Reuters

Giuliani acknowledged on Monday that he wanted to keep the names of confidential informants a secret when he was a federal prosecutor. “I always wanted to withhold their names,” he said.

But in this case, he said, he cannot understand the Justice Department’s opposition to releasing the name. “First of all, the name is out there. So I don’t know what they’re fighting about,” he said.

Giuliani agreed that critics who worried about GOP Rep. Devin Nunes’ ability to act as an honest broker had a valid point. Nunes, chairman of the House intelligence committee, has recently been fundraising off his defense of Trump.

“Sure he’s a partisan. He’s probably outraged that the president was put in this position,” Giuliani said, but he added that Nunes’ loyalty to Trump does not give the Justice Department the right to withhold information from him.

“You don’t get to choose who the members of Congress are. The people do. So you’ve got to take that risk,” Giuliani said. “Congress is certainly entitled to see this.”Rep. Adam Schiff (D-Calif.) and fellow Democrats better grow a pair in battling President Donald Trump, Jim Carrey suggests in his latest artwork.

The actor-turned-political-artist posted a painting on Twitter Friday showing a donkey kicking Schiff while his pants are down.

“A word to the castrato Adam Schiff and other Democrats: If you can’t win a PR war against this mobbed up, dirty, rotten Cheeto, then you need to get out of politics,” Carrey wrote.

A word to the castrato Adam Schiff and other Democrats: If you can’t win a PR war against this mobbed up, dirty, rotten Cheeto, then you need to get out of politics. Get mad, Goddamnit! Show some passion! We’ve had it with your calm, reasonable manner! MAKE SOME F'ING NOISE!!! pic.twitter.com/NargSwVukq — Jim Carrey (@JimCarrey) May 25, 2018

Schiff, the ranking member of the House intelligence committee, did call out Trump this week for his “spygate” claims that a spy had infiltrated his presidential campaign. “This isn’t spygate, but it is a form of liegate,” Schiff said.

But Carrey clearly believes the lawmaker and other powerful Democrats need to do more.President Donald Trump posthumously pardoned Jack Johnson on Thursday, erasing the black boxer’s century-old conviction for violating the Mann Act — a 1910 law that prohibited transporting “any woman or girl” across state lines “for the purpose of prostitution or debauchery, or for any other immoral purpose” — by driving his white girlfriend from Pittsburgh to Chicago.

The timing of Trump’s decision was remarkable. Two months ago, Trump signed into law the bipartisan Allow States and Victims to Fight Online Sex Trafficking Act (FOSTA), which holds websites accountable for any sex-trafficking-related content posted by users. Its backers pitched it as a way to combat human trafficking. But like the Mann Act, FOSTA targets some of the people it ostensibly aims to protect: It has already shuttered many of the websites that voluntary sex workers — those who are not trafficked — used to screen clients and keep themselves safe.

Although drafted and signed more than a century apart, both laws are part of the United States’ long history of citing human trafficking as a pretext to crack down on consensual but taboo sex.

All this has happened before

The Mann Act, also known as the White-Slave Traffic Act, was enacted in response to public hysteria about sensational yet unconfirmed reports of white women being kidnapped and trafficked by foreign men.

“There’s a huge range of things that [the act] allowed the government to punish and control,” Alexandra Levy, a law professor at the University of Notre Dame, told HuffPost. “It gave tremendous leverage to punish interracial marriage, polygamy and promiscuity.”

Throughout the first half of the 20th century, thousands of people were prosecuted under the act. Johnson’s conviction in 1912 was a prime example of the broad power of a law pitched as a way to stop what was at the time called white slavery. His crime was, essentially, being black and driving across state lines with a white woman, even though she went voluntarily and was his girlfriend.

Seven years after the Mann Act passed, federal officials instituted the American Plan to protect U.S. servicemen from acquiring sexually transmitted diseases before they took off to fight in World War I. The initiative allowed for the detention of women suspected of having a venereal disease. It was celebrated across the political spectrum for keeping American troops safe and for “curing” thousands of women of sexually transmitted infections ― though those “cures” often meant arsenic- and mercury-based medicines and involuntary sterilization.

Just like the Mann Act, the plan took aim at some of the most vulnerable, like Nina McCall, a young poor white woman from Michigan who was arrested in 1918 under suspicion of being a prostitute. After her arrest, she was forcefully examined and medicated, then detained in a federal medical institution for three months. In Michigan alone, more than a thousand women were detained under the plan by 1918.

The Mann Act and the American Plan were swift responses to changes in American culture and the seemingly sudden rights and privileges granted women, said Scott W. Stern, who recently published a book about the McCall case.

“In the early and late 1910s, women were getting the vote in various states, women were beginning to get formally educated, women were joining political parties, and premarital sex was skyrocketing, as was divorce,” he said. “Both the Mann Act and the American Plan were really about controlling women, and especially working-class and nonwhite women at a time when women were becoming ‘uncontrollable.’”

“The Mann Act today is most famous because of the prosecutions of certain very prominent men, like Charlie Chaplin, Chuck Berry and Jack Johnson,” Stern continued. “Certainly those are notable cases, but what I think far too few people know is that the Mann Act was used to lock up huge amounts of women and police their lives.”

Jack Johnson in 1920 with his second wife, Lucille Cameron. He was often criticized for his romantic relationships with white women. Afro Newspaper / Gado / Getty Images

The first people arrested by officers of the Investigation Bureau — the Justice Department agency that would later become the FBI — for violating the Mann Act were a madam and five sex workers traveling together from Michigan to Chicago, Stern noted.

So while the Mann Act and the American Plan were ostensibly aimed at saving vulnerable women, in practice the initiatives allowed the Justice Department to control them, their sexuality, and the men they associated with ― many of whom were black or Chinese.

A Pattern Repeated, Again and Again

Measures like the Mann Act and the American Plan set the stage for legislation like FOSTA.

The law aimed to curb human trafficking by holding websites and social platforms accountable for hosting content related to the sex trade. But much like the Mann Act and the American Plan, it polices members of already marginalized communities.

The new regulations pushed sites like Craigslist and Backpage to scrub their platforms of not only sex-trafficking-related content but sex-related content in general. That meant that not just sex traffickers but also voluntary sex workers and people who engage in online sexual activities were forced further underground.

Melissa, a Phoenix-based escort, told HuffPost that FOSTA forced her back onto the streets. Lexi, a Florida-based escort, said she couldn’t screen her clients anymore without access to the sites.

Sex workers are often already members of marginalized communities, lacking easy access to banking and health care and safety from sexual or physical violence.

“It’s an important parallel,” Levy said.

The Mann Act and FOSTA used similar tactics to pass with overwhelming majorities. The Mann Act was passed unanimously, Stern said. The House and Senate versions of FOSTA passed almost unanimously.

The Mann Act was written in response to accounts of enslavement of white women. Similarly, FOSTA used hysterical anti-trafficking rhetoric — often provided by evangelical Christian organizations that oppose all sex work — to garner support from the public.

President Donald Trump signs the Allow States and Victims to Fight Online Sex Act on April 11. Like the Mann Act a century earlier, the law is being used to target women. Pool / Getty Images

“The public is so easily manipulated when you say ‘trafficking,’” Levy said. “It’s a very emotionally provocative issue. You can sort of leverage that term.” In both cases, the public was galvanized by terrifying (and misleading) anecdotes of sex-trafficked children or white women, only for the legislation to be used against marginalized people after it was signed into law.

Trump’s decision to pardon Johnson shows progress. But Johnson’s story also offers an important lesson, Levy argued.House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi (D-Calif.) and Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer (D-N.Y.) at a news conference in March. They unveiled a slate of anti-corruption measures Monday. Aaron Bernstein/Reuters

Democrats are planning to make Washington corruption a central focus of their midterm messaging, reviving a successful theme from when they took control of Congress in 2006.

The anti-corruption push is the second part of Democrats’ “A Better Deal” platform. The first part, released last summer, focused on an economic agenda. The newest part is “A Better Deal for Our Democracy,” which puts forward proposals to increase access to the ballot box, fight special interests and combat big money through campaign finance reform.

The new initiative will center on both President Donald Trump’s administration and the culture in Congress that gives access to lobbyists and corporations. Trump’s Cabinet officials, including Environmental Protection Agency leader Scott Pruitt and Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke, have drawn a torrent of negative headlines over allegations of unethical behavior, travel practices and ties to special interests. The president’s hotel in downtown D.C., in particular, has been the subject of several lawsuits.

Congress has to rein in the excesses of the executive branch, Democrats argue, and the current crop of Republican leaders aren’t going to do it.

Democrats unveiled their agenda Monday during a press conference on Capitol Hill. House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi (D-Calif.) and Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer (D-N.Y.) were joined by other lawmakers who have been working on these issues, including Rep. John Sarbanes (D-Md.) and Sen. Sheldon Whitehouse (D-R.I.).

“President Trump has become the swamp and Americans are paying the price. The American people deserve better,” Pelosi said at the press conference, citing the Trump administration’s failure to reduce the price of prescription drugs and its repeal of numerous Obama-era regulations concerning air and water.

Schumer similarly lamented that Trump had failed to take on the powerful pharmaceutical industry, which is something he promised to do while on the campaign trail.

The Senate minority leader also pointed to the president’s personal attorney, Michael Cohen, as an example of how influence peddling and special interests had consumed the Trump administration. Following the 2016 election, Cohen leveraged his relationship with Trump to receive millions of dollars from companies eager for insight into his administration.

“The swamp has never been more foul than under this president,” Schumer said.

Democrats said they would bring accountability and transparency back to Washington by providing aggressive oversight of the Trump administration and by toughening the nation’s campaign finance laws in order to stem the flow of anonymous political spending known as dark money.

President Donald Trump and EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt on June 1, 2017, after announcing the U.S. would withdraw from the Paris Climate Agreement. Kevin Lamarque / Reuters

This focus on corruption is a revival of the party’s successful messaging from the 2006 elections, when Democrats took control of the House and Senate from Republicans. They hammered away at the GOP’s “culture of corruption, cronyism and incompetence.”

In that election cycle, the GOP was besieged by scandals amongst House members. The most famous was the Mark Foley scandal, which involved Republican congressman from Florida sending sexually explicit text messages to teenage boys.

When that news broke in September 2006, Republicans knew they were doomed. But other scandals had been dripping out bit by bit in the prior months.

“Choking your mistress. Touching little boys. Taking money from the Russians. Questionable business dealings,” said a GOP strategist who worked at the National Republican Congressional Committee in 2006 and requested anonymity to speak candidly. “You name it, we had it. On and on, never ended.”

Pelosi has been testing out the anti-corruption message since at least April; for example, she went after Pruitt for being “a part of the Trump Administration’s culture of corruption, cronyism and incompetence.”

But it remains to be seen how much of this push will actually trickle down to the districts. While Democratic candidates have been talking about the tax law and its benefits for big corporations and lobbyists, they so far have not been focusing on Trump and the problems in his administration. It’s rare to hear candidates talk about Trump in swing districts, with much more of the focus there resting on policy issues such as health care and gun control.“As a young corporate attorney I saw my role as the protector of the BET brand and its employees, and today, more than 32 years later, I still see myself as the protector and defender of a brand that I have helped to grow as a top destination for audiences across the globe,” Lee, who was hired in 1986 as the company’s first vice president and general counsel, said in the announcement.

She was promoted to president and chief operating officer in 1996 and was made chairman and CEO in 2005, according to Variety.

“Debra’s vision and creativity has cemented BET Networks as a premiere network for African Americans and lovers of black culture,” said Bob Bakish, president and chief executive of Viacom, BET’s parent company. “As BET continues to move forward, we will always be grateful to Debra for her leadership and commitment to creating top-notch entertainment that both entertains and empowers.”

Bakish has overseen several executive changes at BET since he became Viacom’s chief executive in late 2016, the Los Angeles Times notes.

Zola Mashariki, the head of original programming, was fired in April 2017 while she was on medical leave for breast cancer treatment, Variety reported at the time. She sued the company, alleging gender discrimination, and settled out of court. Stephen Hill also stepped down as president of programming last year.

Lee, who has been the face of BET for three decades, has kept the network No. 1 in the ratings with black viewers for 17 years, according to The Hollywood Reporter. She oversaw the addition of such programs as “The Game,” “Being Mary Jane,” “Real Husbands of Hollywood” and “In Contempt.”

Lee plans to keep working on corporate and nonprofit boards, and to continue her work with the Time’s Up movement and the Recording Academy Diversity and Inclusion Task Force, according to BET’s statement.Rachel Dolezal reportedly received over $80,000 while receiving food assistance and child care assistance from Washington state’s Department of Social and Health Services. Stephanie Keith / Reuters

Rachel Dolezal, the former president of NAACP’s Spokane, Washington, chapter who was outed as a white woman pretending to be black, is facing felony charges of welfare fraud, perjury and false verification for public assistance.

NBC News affiliate KHQ-TV was the first to report on the charges made this week against Dolezal. KREM 2, a CBS news affiliate, later confirmed the charges with the Spokane County prosecutor’s office. If convicted, Dolezal could face up to 15 years in prison.

Dolezal came to national attention in 2015 after her family revealed she’d been presenting herself as a black woman for years, even though they said she was born white. At the time, Dolezal was president of the Spokane chapter of the NAACP and worked as a part-time instructor of Africana studies at Eastern Washington University.

The revelation forced Dolezal to resign from the NAACP. She also stopped teaching at EWU. In 2016, Dolezal, a mother of three, officially changed her name to Nkechi Diallo, though she still uses her former name on her art website and social media pages.

Washington state’s Department of Social and Health Services began investigating Dolezal in March 2017 after learning that Dolezal, who was receiving public assistance from the department, had published a book.

The investigator found that Dolezal’s book publisher typically offers contracts that include payments of $10,000 to $20,000 ― but a review of her records revealed that she’d only reported an income of $300 per month in the form of gifts from friends, according to court documents published by KHQ-TV.

The Spokane County prosecutor’s office accused Dolezal of being overpaid a total of $8,847 for food assistance and child care assistance from the state’s Department of Social and Health Services between Aug. 1, 2015, and Nov. 30, 2017.

During that period, according to the investigation, an estimated $83,924.96 had been deposited into Dolezal’s bank account in monthly installments.

Despite the controversy surrounding her racial fabrication, Dolezal still identifies as a black woman. She wrote about her experience in an autobiography, In Full Color: Finding My Place in a Black and White World, and was featured in a Netflix documentary this year.

Critics have taken particular exception to Dolezal’s widespread media exposure in light of the ongoing racial injustices that black Americans experience day-to-day.Bishop Michael Curry (C) leaves the National City Christian Church to march to the White House for a vigil on May 24, 2018. BRENDAN SMIALOWSKI via Getty Images

Bishop Michael Curry, the Christian leader who emerged as an unexpected star last Saturday during Prince Harry and Meghan Markle’s royal wedding, is taking his message of love to the streets.

Curry joined dozens of other progressive Christian leaders in Washington, D.C., on Thursday night for a candle-lit vigil and march to the White House that aimed to “reclaim” Christianity. An organizer told HuffPost that up to 2,000 people packed into the National City Christian Church to hear Curry and other prominent Christians preach before the march.

Curry, a Chicago native and the presiding bishop of the Episcopal Church, emphasized the importance of love in a time when he believes the integrity of the Christian faith is at stake.

“Love your neighbor,” Curry said during the service. “Love the neighbor you like and the neighbor you don’t like. Love the neighbor you agree with and the neighbor you don’t agree with. Love your Democrat neighbor, your Republican neighbor, your black neighbor, your white neighbor, your Anglo neighbor, your Latino neighbor and your LGBTQ neighbor. Love your neighbor! That’s why we’re here!”

Bishop Michael Curry, presiding bishop of the Episcopal Church, preaches at the National City Christian Church in Washington, D.C., before a march to the White House. Rebekah Fulton/Sojourners

The event had been planned for weeks before Curry gave his impassioned sermon about love during the Duke and Duchess of Sussex’s wedding on May 19. But some Christians are hoping that the bishop’s newfound popularity will help highlight the progressive faith movement ― and prove that conservative evangelicals don’t have an exclusive claim on interpreting Christianity.

For Curry and others involved in the march, being Christian means rejecting white nationalism and misogyny; it means protecting immigrants, refugees and the poor.

The speakers did not mention President Donald Trump directly during the service on Thursday night. Curry himself insisted that “we are not a left-wing group; we are not a right-wing group. We are a Jesus movement.”

People participate in a march to "reclaim Jesus" in Washington, D.C. Rebekah Fulton/Sojourners

However, the leaders signed a declaration that contained references to the Trump administration’s actions and policies.

Curry said that he and other Christian leaders from various denominations had gathered for a Lenten retreat this year to talk about the state of Christianity in an increasingly polarized nation. Curry said the result of that meeting was a declaration calling on other Christians to “reclaim Jesus.”

Bishop Michael Curry (C) waits to speak during a vigil outside the White House on May 24, 2018 in Washington, D.C. BRENDAN SMIALOWSKI via Getty Images

In the declaration, the leaders rejected Trump’s “America First” philosophy, which purports to put the interests and security needs of the American people first, as “theological heresy for followers of Christ.”

“While we share a patriotic love for our country, we reject xenophobic or ethnic nationalism that places one nation over others as a political goal,” the leaders wrote in the statement. “Serving our own communities is essential, but the global connections between us are undeniable. Global poverty, environmental damage, violent conflict, weapons of mass destruction, and deadly diseases in some places ultimately affect all places, and we need wise political leadership to deal with each of these.”

Episcopal Church Presiding Bishop Michael Curry (L) and Sojourners President and Founder Rev. Jim Wallis (R) lead fellow clergy in a vigil. Jonathan Ernst / Reuters

The leaders also condemned the “normalization of lying” and politicians who neglect the ethic of public service and accountability “in favor of personal recognition and gain often characterized by offensive arrogance.”

“We are deeply concerned for the soul of our nation, but also for our churches and the integrity of our faith,” the leaders wrote.

The White House did not respond to HuffPost’s request for comment.

Watch a livestream of the service below.

The declaration was co-signed by Rev. Jim Wallis, president of the progressive Christian organization Sojourners, which helped organize Thursday’s vigil.

Signatories included Bishop Vashti Murphy McKenzie, the first female bishop in the African Methodist Episcopal Church, and Rev. Dr. Joel C. Hunter, a former megachurch pastor from Florida who served as one of former President Barack Obama’s spiritual advisers. It also featured other prominent black Protestant, mainline Protestant, Catholic and evangelical leaders.

Following the service, the crowd participated in a silent march to Lafayette Square, a park facing the White House. There, leaders of the movement took turns reading out the declaration, The Guardian reports.

“Jesus is Lord. That is our foundational confession,” the declaration states. “It was central for the early church and needs to again become central to us. If Jesus is Lord, then Caesar was not—nor any other political ruler since.”

Watch a video by Sojourners about the Reclaiming Jesus declaration.The first of the four separate albums Kanye West has promised from his label G.O.O.D Music finally dropped on Friday with rapper Pusha T’s “DAYTONA.”

Produced entirely by Mr. Kim Kardashian West, the seven-song collection has already been hailed as Pusha T’s “best album in years,” but, of course, where West goes, controversy will follow. Look no further than the album’s cover art.

While Pusha T originally intended to use multiple photos for the cover, West apparently insisted that they use a photo of the late singer Whitney Houston’s bathroom in disarray.

Taken by one of Houston’s family members without her permission in 2006, the photo, which includes various drug paraphernalia, was sold to the National Enquirer amid the singer’s well-publicized struggles with drug addiction.

album 1 PUSHA T DAYTONA dropping 2mrw pic.twitter.com/M1UPvax5fa — KANYE WEST (@kanyewest) May 24, 2018

And as for the price of licensing such a photo? $85,000, according to Pusha T.

“1 a.m., my phone rings, no caller-ID. ‘Hey, yeah, I think that we should change the artwork. I like this other artwork.’ Now this other artwork is 85 grand,” Pusha T recalled West saying on “The Angie Martinez Show” earlier this week.

“Hey, I don’t want to pay for that. And I wasn’t even going to ask you to pay for that. We picked what we picked. It’s here, it’s ready,” he said responded to West.

“No, this what people need to see to go along with this music,” he said West told him. “I’ma pay for that.”

But the Bronx-born rapper had nothing but positive things to say about the last-minute switch-up.

“I feel like the cover represents an organized chaos. The energy of the album is a bit chaotic, but it’s all in place,” he explained to Entertainment Weekly. “Looking at that cover, I’m sure whoever frequents that bathroom or area knew whatever they wanted to find and knew where it was.”

Kanye West and Pusha T pictured together in 2013. Johnny Nunez via Getty Images

Houston died at age 48 in 2012, accidentally drowning in a bathtub with additional complications of heart disease and cocaine use. Three years later, Houston’s daughter, Bobbi Kristina, 22, was found unresponsive in a bathtub, and died six months later.

HuffPost has reached out to Houston’s estate for a comment, as it’s unclear whether West paid the National Enquirer or a family member to license the photo.

On Thursday, West celebrated the impending the release of the album, writing that he’s “really proud of what we put together.”

“We’ve spent a year and a half digging for samples and writing,” he continued. “I really appreciate the overwhelmingly positive response that we’ve been receiving. 🙏🙏🙏.”

Daytona is the first project out of Wyoming. I’m really proud of what we put together. We’ve spent a year and a half digging for samples and writing. I really appreciate the overwhelmingly positive response that we’ve been receiving. 🙏🙏🙏 — KANYE WEST (@kanyewest) May 24, 2018