Hillary Clinton, pictured with Vladimir Putin in 2010, called the Russian leader a "world-class misogynist" on Tuesday. AFP via Getty Images

Hillary Clinton has a pet peeve with Russian President Vladimir Putin: He’s a “world-class misogynist” who had no qualms about using his dog to intimidate a powerful woman.

Clinton, during a panel at The Wing workspace in New York City on Tuesday, accused Putin of using fear tactics against women leaders, People magazine reported. She pointed to a famous meeting between Putin and German Chancellor Angela Merkel in 2007 as a prime example.

“Angela Merkel came to visit him and he knew the intelligence and he knew that Angela Merkel was afraid of dogs,” Clinton said, per People.

“So, you have these one-on-one meetings. All of a sudden, while the press is still there, this very large black dog came into the room. It was meant to intimidate and embarrass Angela Merkel, who is one of the really great European leaders [of] post World War II.”

Clinton added: “He took joy in that.”

Vladimir Putin had his pet Labrador Koni greet Angela Merkel even though it was well known that Merkel was afraid of dogs. STRINGER via Getty Images

Putin has said he had no intention of frightening Merkel when he brought out his black Labrador Koni at his residence in Sochi. He said he wanted “to do something nice for her,” and apologized when he discovered she didn’t like dogs.

Merkel reportedly was bitten by a dog in 1995. Putin had been briefed by the Kremlin on Merkel’s fear of dogs in 2006, when he presented her with a stuffed toy dog, The New York Times reported.

Merkel said Putin pulled the dog stunt at Sochi “to prove he’s a man.”

Clinton told the gathering Tuesday that Putin is “a world-class misogynist and said things about me and other women on the stage, some pretty contemptuous things,” according to Newsweek.In a surprisingly firm interview, Fox News’ Ed Henry questioned Environmental Protection Agency Administrator Scott Pruitt about the recent scandals plaguing his tenure, including a report that he gave two staffers big raises after the White House declined to approve the pay increases.

The Atlantic reported on Tuesday that the EPA chief increased the salaries of two close aides by $28,130 and $56,765, invoking an obscure law that allowed the raises to go through even though the White House had officially denied the requests.

Henry said his interview with Pruitt “got a little combative” as the EPA chief denied knowing about or having any involvement in the pay raises. Henry would not let him off the hook, demanding to know who was responsible.

Henry: So, is somebody being fired for that?

Pruitt: That should not have been done. And it may be —

Henry: So, who did it?

Pruitt: There will be some accountability.

Henry: A career person or a political person?

Pruitt: I’ll have to — I don’t know. I don’t know who’s —

Henry: You don’t know? You run the agency. You don’t know who did this?

Pruitt: I found out about this yesterday, and I corrected the action.

Henry also called out Pruitt for giving a pay raise that is close to the median yearly income in the U.S., which was $57,617 in 2016, according to the U.S. Census Bureau.

“Are you embarrassed?” Henry asked.

The news comes after Pruitt had already been harshly criticized for wasting taxpayer money on first-class travel, which his office says is necessary because of safety concerns. Reports also recently surfaced that Pruitt had rented a condo for below-market rates for six months last year from the wife of a prominent energy lobbyist, a situation that raises ethics concerns.A U.S. district judge on Friday ordered Texas to change its online process so that people can check a box online indicating that they wish to register or update their voter registration when they use the state’s online portal to renew their driver’s license or change their address. TriciaDaniel / Getty Images

A federal judge gave Texas 45 days to implement a new process for taking voter registrations and changing registration information when residents use a state online information portal, after ruling the state’s current practice was illegal.

U.S. District Judge Orlando Garcia on Friday ordered Texas to change its online process by July 2 so that people can simply check a box online indicating that they wish to register or update their voter registration when they use the Texas Department of Public Safety’s online portal to renew their driver’s license or change their address. The order came as part of a lawsuit brought on behalf of four Texas voters whose voter registration information was not updated when they went online to update the address on their driver’s licenses.

If someone wanted to register or update their voter registration, the state required they print out, sign and mail in a separate form. Texas officials argued that state law required any voter application to be signed, but the challengers said that the state’s practice violated the 1993 National Voter Registration Act, which requires state motor vehicle agencies to offer people the opportunity to register to vote and to use the information in a driver’s license application simultaneously as a voter registration document if they want to register.

From 2013 to 2015, over 1,800 people complained they were unable to register to vote when updating their information online. There are over 15 million registered voters in the state.

Garcia sided with the challengers and permanently blocked Texas from continuing its current practice for online driver’s license renewals or changes of address. Lawyers for Texas Attorney General Ken Paxton (R) said in a court filing Monday they were appealing Garcia’s order to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the 5th Circuit. They asked Garcia to pause his order while the appeals court considered their request.

Beth Stevens, the voting rights director at the Texas Civil Rights Project, which brought the suit on behalf of the plaintiffs, praised Garcia’s decision.

“It’s long past time for the State to stop wasting time and resources defending its unlawful violation of this pivotal voting rights law,” Stevens said in a statement. “We urge State officials to come to the table and work with us to implement the court’s plan which will ensure that not one single voter loses their opportunity to vote.”

Garcia also gave the state two weeks to submit a proposed educational campaign using three forms of media to inform the public about the changes to the online process. He also ordered the state to provide annual updates to the Texas Civil Rights Project, including information on the number of voter registrations that resulted from online driver’s license renewals and change of address applications and the number of complaints it received about the process. He ordered the state to conduct monthly quality control tests until 2019 to ensure continued compliance with his order.Sinclair Broadcast Group, the largest owner of local TV stations in the United States, is under fire this week for requiring dozens of its local news anchors to recite a statement condemning “fake” news, an echo of language often employed by President Donald Trump.The updates do not ask for new rights to collect, use or share data and will not affect the settings people have chosen on their Facebook accounts, Rob Sherman, Facebook’s deputy chief privacy officer, said in a phone interview.

The company published draft revisions of two documents that apply worldwide, its terms of service and its data policy, and was seeking feedback on them in advance of making them final.

“This is intended to give people much more in the way of details,” Sherman said.

At more than 4,000 words, the draft of the new data policy is about 50 percent longer than the existing one.

All companies that touch personal information in the European Union must comply with a law taking effect there next month that creates landmark protections for data.

Zuckerberg said on Tuesday the company wanted to apply the same legal principles worldwide in spirit, but stopped short of such a commitment, which privacy advocates have demanded.

Facebook last revised its terms of service in January 2015 and its data policy in September 2016.

The draft of the new data policy includes wording such as the promise: “We don’t sell any of your information to anyone, and we never will.” Similar language has appeared in other Facebook documents, but was not spelled out in the most recent version of the data policy.

Facebook will collect feedback for seven days and may revise further afterward, Sherman said.Special counsel Robert Mueller is drafting a report about President Donald Trump’s actions in office as part of his ongoing investigation into Russian meddling in the 2016 election, The Washington Post reported on Tuesday.

Mueller met with Trump’s lawyers in early March to request an interview with the president, saying he needed to ask questions in order to finalize aspects of his investigation, including his determination of whether Trump obstructed justice. Such information would be gathered into a report that would then be sent to officials at the Justice Department.

However, two sources familiar with the conversation said Mueller told the lawyers Trump was not a criminal target at this point.

“They’ve said they want to write a report on this — to answer the public’s questions — and they need the president’s interview as the last step,” one of the sources told the Post.

Mueller reports to Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein ― since Attorney General Jeff Sessions recused himself from Russia matters ― and is required to confidentially share his report with him first. Rosenstein then can decide whether to share it publicly.

It’s unclear if Mueller believes he can indict the president or not, and there is some debate among legal scholars regarding the ability of the Justice Department to do just that.

Biggest news to me here is that Mueller is writing an obstruction report. I’m not sure POTUS can actually be a target if Mueller doesn’t believe a sitting president can be indicted. https://t.co/cM1yVHIcvT — Matthew Miller (@matthewamiller) April 4, 2018

But Asha Rangappa, a former FBI special agent, noted on Twitter that if Mueller determined Trump had obstructed justice, the report could eventually be used by Congress, who could then decide whether to launch impeachment proceedings.

Trump has said publicly several times that he’d be willing to meet with Mueller for an interview, going so far as to say he was “looking forward” to it. But some members of his legal team have cautioned him against the meeting and urged him to refuse the special counsel’s request, afraid the president would go off-script.Before Donald Trump was elected president, the large and expanding American trade deficit with China was widely recognized as a problem. China’s entry into the World Trade Organization in 2001 had destroyed millions of good jobs in the United States, eroded the earning power of American workers, and left many towns and communities economically gutted.

U.S. manufacturing jobs began disappearing almost immediately, and growing evidence suggests the “China shock” never really ended. Sustained U.S. trade deficits made the Great Recession worse and put a drag on economic recovery. Even today, with the unemployment rate down to 4.1 percent, the trade deficit with China continues to put downward pressure on U.S. wages, and many who lost their jobs never re-entered the labor force.

Tougher enforcement against unfair trade practices has long enjoyed bipartisan support in Congress, and when U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer announced a review of Chinese policies in August 2017, even top Democrats applauded the decision as long overdue.

Yet suddenly, Republicans and Democrats alike seem to be hailing the WTO and two decades of obvious failure as a smashing success. When Lighthizer announced a very modest slate of tariffs targeting Chinese-made goods last month, liberals and right-wing libertarians alike began tearing their hair out, while apocalyptic warnings about the supposedly devastating consequences of an imminent trade war began getting headlines. “China Just Gut-Punched Trump On Trade. Is It Time To Get Worried?” asked The Washington Post. “US-China trade war fears: How bad could this get?” mused CNN.

It would be nice to believe the intensity of the freakout is a result of the bizarre, needlessly inflammatory rhetoric Trump has invoked on trade. Last month he declared on Twitter that ”trade wars are good, and easy to win,” a statement which doesn’t seem to gel with today’s entry, “We are not in a trade war with China, that war was lost many years ago by the foolish, or incompetent, people who represented the U.S.,” to which Trump added the head-scratcher, “When you’re already $500 Billion DOWN, you can’t lose!” These are not the words of a stable and competent negotiator. The self-dealing and corruption that permeate his administration do not inspire confidence that trade talks with China, or anyone else, will generate results in the national interest.

“However outrageous Trump’s Twitter comments may be, the scope of what both his administration and the Chinese government are proposing just isn’t very big.”

But the truth is that Trump’s idiocy is being used to rehabilitate a lot of failed doctrines from the past few decades, and Democrats, eager to score partisan points against a racist and cruel opponent, are gleefully embracing discredited ideas and individuals.

Architects of the Iraq War and apologists for the CIA’s torture program have been transformed into sage foreign policy experts on liberal television programs. The WTO is receiving a similar makeover from the libertarian Cato Institute, The New York Times and The Washington Post ― all of which have recently offered paeans to globalization’s most powerful engine as the ideal venue for settling legitimate trade disputes. Instead of threatening tariffs, they argue, Trump should complain to the WTO.

But the WTO doesn’t work. If it did, we wouldn’t be where we are.

Trade policy is a diplomatic tool. The setbacks globalization has created for many American communities ― tragic as they have been ― could well have been justified if they secured other strategic goals. In the late 1990s, the Clinton administration pitched China’s entry into the WTO as a way to advance human rights causes. More trade with the United States, it was hoped, would encourage China to become more democratic. After more than 16 years, a verdict is long overdue. The WTO failed because it is structured to prioritize corporate profit and investment over human rights, the environment and worker wages. It isn’t equipped to alleviate tensions between an authoritarian government and a democracy.

These inadequacies were well understood before Trump took office. In September 2016, the New America Foundation held a major conference on American foreign policy and China, effectively acknowledging that the past 20 years had been a mistake. “The bottom line is that Chinese mercantilism is a growing problem, and the victims of that mercantilism have little to lose from a trade confrontation,” Paul Krugman wrote on New Year’s Eve 2009. Even the free-trading Obama administration believed the WTO was largely obsolete and ineffective, which was why it spent eight years negotiating the Trans-Pacific Partnership (which the U.S. ultimately failed to approve) with 11 other nations.

However outrageous Trump’s Twitter comments may be, the scope of what both his administration and the Chinese government are proposing just isn’t very big. Last year, U.S. imports from China increased by over $43 billion, to $505 billion. In that context, slapping tariffs on $50 billion worth of imports shouldn’t be terrifying, and neither should the prospect of a $50 billion retaliation from China. Our $130 billion in exports to China amounts to less than seven-tenths of one percent of the U.S. economy.

Trump has taken a few other, smaller trade enforcement actions that affect China, and it’s hard to predict where the back-and-forth will end. Trump, of all people, is perfectly capable of screwing the whole thing up. Effectively negotiating with China is a long game that will require reorganizing some supply chains, a process that will create its own winners and losers. Human rights, national security and political stability must be vital considerations ― not just consumer prices and gross domestic product. Trump doesn’t seem to be very good at managing any of that.A screenshot of a Deadspin video about the Sinclair Broadcast Group that went viral over the weekend. Deadspin

Last week, ThinkProgress and Deadspin both posted video compilations of anchors at television stations around the country reciting the same script regarding “the troubling trend of irresponsible, one-sided news stories plaguing our country.” This was no coincidence. The anchors all worked for the conservative-leaning Sinclair Broadcast Group, and the bosses at the corporate offices wanted them to toe the line.

The videos have led to a growing chorus of criticism directed at Sinclair and the local television stations it owns. CNN ran a piece with the headline “Sinclair’s fake-news zombies should terrify you.”

We spoke to a Sinclair anchor this week about the script, the blowback and what people have gotten right and wrong about Sinclair’s relationship with the local stations. The essay below, based on an interview with the source ― who requested anonymity for job security reasons ― has been edited and organized for clarity.

***

We were asked to do this, and I was actually the person who recorded it. I didn’t think that it was my job to say any of this, but I was very much made to feel like doing this was not a choice and that my job was on the line if I didn’t.¹

The CNN article just came out a month ago, and I just knew this was going to be on everybody’s radar.² But here’s an important thing: That thing ran twice a day every day last week, and we got not one complaint about it. It wasn’t until Deadspin put this video together that everyone freaked out about it. It’s been brutal. We got about 60 emails ― hateful emails ― yesterday, dozens of phone calls, people yelling profanity at us. I have people yelling at me, saying I’m a zombie, that I’m soulless, that I’ve sold my integrity, which is not nice to hear. So yeah, it sucks.

The video is very weird. It makes it seem crazy. It totally does. Did I think that we should have to do this? No, it’s not my job. All anybody in any of these stations wants to do is come to work and cover the news. That’s all we want to do.

But at the same time, if you really just listen to what we’re saying, it’s not that egregious. Everybody has to do things that they don’t necessarily agree with, but there’s a range on the scale of what is truly egregious, and I don’t think this is that bad. That nobody complained about it until this montage came out is evidence of that.

I would say that most of the people who are commenting on this have never even watched our local newscast. They see this thing on Deadspin. They see that we’re a Sinclair station. They assume what they want to assume about it. But we produce good news here. Sinclair does not tell us what to cover, who to talk to, or what to say in terms of local coverage. Our local news, it doesn’t have bias. If people are looking for it, they won’t find it.

So don’t call me a zombie. I do damn good work on a daily basis and anybody in my community would tell you that. We’re all over the place here. The problem is not the message of this promo. The problem is asking your local newscasters to do this in the first place. That’s not our role.

I’ve worked for Sinclair since [year redacted] and in that time, the only new thing that has started is the Boris Epshteyn thing.³ Other than that, we were never told, “Oh, you have to cover only Donald Trump,” or “You can only cover Hillary.” We were never told that. Nobody has ever said that to us.

It’s just the “must-runs” that they send us. And really, the only egregious “must-runs” they send us are Boris Epshteyn ― and we have these other ones that are by this guy named Mark Hyman.⁴ The Boris Epshteyn pieces, I mean, yeah, they’re crazy. They’re very clearly labeled as commentary. The other pieces that they send us are from the Washington bureau. Those pieces are basically covering the news of the day that happens in Washington. Those are not biased in any way.

All those people who are like, “I would quit,” that’s really easy for you to say. CNN put something out calling all the news anchors complicit or zombies or whatever yesterday, and I just think that portion of this is unfair. These jobs ― they’re very hard to come by. And if I quit, I owe the company 40 percent of my salary, plus a percentage of the [redacted] years remaining on my contract, plus any bonuses that they’ve paid to me and any reimbursements that they’ve paid to me.⁵ And they’re going to take me to court for it. And in the time that I’m in court, I’m not employable.

Would I prefer to work with no contract? Of course I would. Would it be great if they would outlaw contracts in the state of [redacted]? Absolutely. Outlaw contracts in the country? Sure. Will that ever happen? No. It’s the cost of doing business in this industry.

This promo, did I want to do it? No, because I don’t think it’s my job to say anything for anybody else. It’s my job to tell you the news. That’s it. But you know, it’s one thing if they were like, “Listen, I want you to do a promo that says Donald Trump is the greatest person that ever walked the face of the earth and everybody should vote for him.” That’s crazy. I would never do that. And at that point, I would say, “Listen, take me to court.” But saying these words, saying that I think balanced journalism is important ― I don’t think that’s worth quitting my job over.

If you want to stop watching us, I don’t care. If you want to boycott our advertisers, go for it. I greatly encourage people to do all of those things. But those things don’t hurt Sinclair.

If you want to make a difference, lobby your lawmakers to have them stop the Tribune deal from going through, because that is what is dangerous about this.⁶ It’s dangerous for any company to own as many stations as Sinclair does. Healthy competition is a good thing.

Talk to your lawmaker about it. That is what will actually make a difference. Hate-tweeting me? That doesn’t make a difference.

Footnotes

¹ “No one was told their job was on the line,” a Sinclair spokesperson said when reached for comment.

² CNN’s Brian Stelter published an article on March 7 that quoted local anchors at Sinclair stations “describing the company’s latest mandate, a promotional campaign that sounds like pro-Trump propaganda.”

³ Sinclair hired Epshteyn, a former Trump White House official, as a chief political analyst in April 2017.

⁴ Hyman is a longtime member of the Sinclair empire. In January, he announced he was stepping down as a commentator after being diagnosed with a brain tumor.

⁵ The terms of Sinclair’s contracts have been reported out by multiple outlets, including Bloomberg. When asked about the contracts, a Sinclair spokesperson said, “Liquidated damages are standard in our industry.”

⁶ Sinclair is awaiting federal permission to buy out Tribune Media, which would add more than 40 stations to its stable, according to the Chicago Tribune.Juli Briskman gave the one-finger salute to President Donald Trump's motorcade last fall. The image went viral. Brendan Smialowski/AFP

WASHINGTON ― Juli Briskman made headlines last fall after a photo of her flipping off President Donald Trump’s motorcade while riding her bicycle went viral ― and got her fired.

Now Briskman is suing her former employer, government contractor Akima LLC, for potentially breaking state law.

In a lawsuit filed Wednesday in Virginia’s Fairfax County Circuit Court, Briskman’s lawyers argue that Akima violated state employment law in firing her because it is illegal for a government contractor to terminate an employee out of fear of unlawful government retaliation.

According to the suit, Akima told Briskman she had to go because the photo, which she posted on her Facebook page, violated the company’s social media policy. But Briskman claims she was treated differently than another Akima employee who, earlier in 2017, wrote “You’re a fucking Libtard asshole” in a Facebook discussion about Black Lives Matter. That person was allowed to keep his job as long as he deleted his post.

Briskman’s Facebook page also did not identify her as an Akima employee, while the other worker’s Facebook page did name his employer.

That difference shows that Akima LLC did not force her out because of the supposed obscenity of flipping the bird, Briskman argues. Instead, she contends the company terminated her over concerns about upsetting the federal government and potentially losing business.

“I filed this lawsuit against my former employer today because I believe that Americans should not be forced to choose between their principles and their paychecks,” Briskman said in a statement. “Working for a company that does business with the federal government should provide you with greater opportunities, but it should never limit your ability to criticize that government in your private time.”

A spokesperson for Akima LLC did not return a request for comment.

I was fired from my job for flipping off @realDonaldTrump. Today, I filed suit with @GellerLawyers & @protctdemocracy because what happened to me was unlawful and un-American. — juli_briskman (@julibriskman) April 4, 2018

Briskman, a 50-year-old mother of two, doesn’t want her old job back. But according to her lawsuit, Akima said it would give her four weeks of severance pay and only gave her two, so she’s asking for those other two weeks of pay. She also wants the company to pay her legal fees. All told, she’s seeking $2,692.30.

Briskman became something of a hero to progressives last fall after the photo of her surfaced. A White House pool photographer traveling with the president in Sterling, Virginia, snapped the picture of her riding alongside the motorcade. She was anonymous until HuffPost tracked her down, and when she lost her job, supporters raised more than $130,000 for her through a GoFundMe account.

Briskman filed her lawsuit with the help of attorneys from The Geller Law Group and Protect Democracy, a nonpartisan nonprofit that describes itself as “dedicated to preventing our democracy from declining into a more authoritarian form of government.”Joshua Roberts / Reuters

A nonpartisan government watchdog agency released a report Wednesday outlining severe disparities between how white students and students of color are disciplined ― the same day Education Secretary Betsy DeVos met with groups to discuss possibly rescinding Obama-era guidance designed to reduce these inequities.

The Government Accountability Office report, which was requested by Reps. Bobby Scott (D-Va.) and Jerrold Nadler (D-N.Y.), comes as civil rights leaders are fighting tooth and nail to save this guidance. The 2014 guidance calls on schools to reduce their reliance on harsh disciplinary practices like suspensions and expulsions. It also warns schools they could run afoul of federal law if certain groups of students are disproportionately punished.

The Education Department data analyzed in this report is from the 2013-2014 school year, and reveals deep discipline disparities across student groups ― the very problem the guidance is intended to address. Independent of school poverty level, type of public school or type of disciplinary action, boys, students with disabilities, and black students are being punished at far higher rates than other students. For black students, these inequities start as early as preschool.

This is the first such analysis to explicitly compare schools at different poverty levels. In high-poverty schools, black students are overrepresented among students who receive suspensions by 25 percentage points, and in more affluent schools, they are overrepresented by 12 points, the data shows. Students with disabilities face similar problems. In affluent schools, students with disabilities are overrepresented among students who receive suspensions by 20 points, while in low-income schools, they are overrepresented by nearly 11 points.

Notably, some disability groups claim they were left out of Wednesday’s discussions with DeVos on the disciplinary guidance. Two advocacy groups told HuffPost they asked for an invitation to the summit but were either rebuffed or ignored. Spokespeople for the Education Department did not respond to HuffPost’s request for comment on the matter.

Even though black students only make up about 16 percent of public school students, they account for nearly 40 percent of students who are suspended from school, the report says. A similar pattern exists for students with disabilities, and for male students in general. Students with disabilities make up about 12 percent of public school students, but account for a quarter of those who are suspended, referred to outside law enforcement or arrested at school.

“The analysis shows that students of color suffer harsher discipline for lesser offenses than their white peers and that racial bias is a driver of discipline disparities,” Scott said in a statement. “This report underscores the need to combat these gross disparities by strengthening, not rescinding, the 2014 Discipline Guidance Package, which recommends specific strategies to reduce the disparities without jeopardizing school safety.”

Proponents of the Obama-era guidance say that having the federal government voice its priorities in this area is an important step in keeping students safe. Indeed, harsh school discipline can have far-reaching effects on a student’s life. Students who face suspensions are more likely to drop out of school or eventually enter the criminal justice system. Advocates say the guidance is designed to help stymie this cycle.

But critics say the pressure to reduce reliance on suspensions has meant keeping disruptive or dangerous students in the classroom, thereby posing a threat to other students and staff members.

One critic of the guidance, a mother who met with DeVos on Wednesday, previously told HuffPost she has watched her children’s school district become more relaxed in discipline.

“Whatever intentions were set forth in the guidance, the response to the guidance has been kind of knee-jerk in nature that has ended up hurting all of the children,” said Nicole Landers of Baltimore County when asked about her general feelings on the guidance. “It takes away the rights from the victimized students, as the offending students are left in the classroom to avoid suspensions.”

However, the GAO report shows that national suspension rates had already begun to fall before the guidance was implemented.Rebecca Dallet will be the newest justice on the Wisconsin Supreme Court. Rebecca Dallet campaign

Milwaukee County Circuit Judge Rebecca Dallet won a seat on the Wisconsin Supreme Court Tuesday, a victory for Democrats that gives more momentum for a potential blue wave in the November midterm elections.

State Supreme Court races rarely merit national attention. The Wisconsin election ― which gives justices a 10-year term ― was officially nonpartisan, but it was crystal clear where the partisan lines formed.

It’s the first time in 23 years that a liberal candidate won an open Supreme Court seat in the state. Dallet won by nearly 12 percentage points.

Dallet picked up endorsements from former Vice President Joe Biden, Sen. Cory Booker (D-N.J.) and former Rep. Gabby Giffords (D-Ariz.), while former Attorney General Eric Holder went to the state to campaign for her.

Dallet defeated Sauk County Circuit Judge Michael Screnock, an appointee of Gov. Scott Walker (R) who had his own big-time backing from the National Rifle Association.

“We beat the NRA, and we beat the millions in special interest money that flowed into our state,” Dallet said in her victory speech Tuesday night.

Conservatives will still control the court, although their majority drops from 5-2 to 4-3 with Dallet’s win.

Walker tweeted that the results in the race showed Democrats clearly had momentum on their side.

Tonight’s results show we are at risk of a #BlueWave in WI. The Far Left is driven by anger & hatred -- we must counter it with optimism & organization. Let’s share our positive story with voters & win in November. — Scott Walker (@ScottWalker) April 4, 2018

During the campaign, the two candidate criticized each other as beholden to outside interests and for being activist judges.

Outside groups spent more than $2 million on the race, about evenly split between the two sides.

With Dallet’s win, six of the seven justices on Wisconsin’s high court are women, as DailyKos noted, meaning the state ties with Washington for the greatest number of female Supreme Court justices.

These days, every state legislative race and special election ― which in other cycles might go by unnoticed ― is getting extra attention because of the message the results may send about what will happen in November.

Democrats, stunned by their losses in 2016, have thrown energy into organizing and mobilizing since President Donald Trump’s election. They’ve flipped 39 state legislative seats from red to blue during Trump’s term, plus the governor’s seat in New Jersey, the U.S. Senate seat in Alabama and the 18th Congressional District in Pennsylvania.

Republicans, meanwhile, have turned just four state legislative districts from blue to red.

In January, Democrats had another big win in Wisconsin: They took a state Senate seat that Republicans had held since 2001. Trump had won the district by 17 percentage points.

Republicans have a powerful political machine in Wisconsin, and Democrats recognize that picking up ― and holding onto seats ― in November won’t be easy, especially with Walker on the ballot seeking a third term.

But even Walker called Democrats’ surprise win in January a “wake-up call,” and House Speaker Paul Ryan (R-Wis.) said Republicans should absolutely “pay attention” to the results.Blake Lively, Tammy Reynolds and Ryan Reynolds attend the premiere for 'A Quiet Place' in New York City. ANGELA WEISS via Getty Images

Do not mess with the King of Twitter.

Just days after Ryan Reynolds made fun of rumors that he and wife, actress Blake Lively, were experiencing relationship problems, the actor defended his marriage once again.

On Thursday, the “Deadpool” star responded to the following tweet from Yahoo Entertainment, which had a photo of him, Lively and his mom attending the premiere of “A Quiet Place” on Monday:

Ryan Reynolds (@vancityreynolds) joins Blake Lively and his mom on red carpet after shutting down split rumors https://t.co/ev5woUQ2eZ pic.twitter.com/oG9MeF3hII — Yahoo Entertainment (@YahooEnt) April 3, 2018

Reynolds, who could easily teach a class in the art of the perfect clapback, fired back:

We’re never splitting. She’ll always be my mom. No matter how much jazz-cabbage she smokes with her rollerblading friends. — Ryan Reynolds (@VancityReynolds) April 4, 2018You don’t need to tell actor John Krasinski that Emily Blunt, his wife since 2010, is out of his league because a customs agent already did that for you.

The actor told Jimmy Fallon on “The Tonight Show” Tuesday that while Blunt — with whom Krasinski has two children — was filming “Mary Poppins,” he flew to London numerous times to visit her. He said that going through airport security was usually pretty breezy but that one agent “looked like he was ready to get a little surly” with him and made one trip through customs awkward.

Emily Blunt and John Krasinski at the Golden Globe Awards in 2015. Jason Merritt via Getty Images

The 38-year-old said the agent questioned him about his job as an actor and asked if he’d recognize him from anything. And although Krasinski directed, co-wrote and stars in the new horror flick “A Quiet Place,” he famously played Jim Halpert in the American version of “The Office.” When Krasinski told the agent about his claim to fame, things quickly went south.

“Strike one,” Krasinski said was the agent’s reaction. “He was like, ‘Oh, you took what we did perfect.’”

Things soon got as weird as a stapler in Jell-o when Krasinski later had to explain who he was visiting in jolly old England.

When Krasinski told the agent he was married to Blunt, the agent responded like this:

The Tonight Show Starring Jimmy FallonKelly Clarkson says she’s done with moments of silence. In honor of the victims of the Santa Fe shooting, Clarkson says she wants a moment of action.



Here’s how she opened the Billboard Music Awards tonight. It’s worth a watch. pic.twitter.com/z7b105Lc1b — Kyle Griffin (@kylegriffin1) May 21, 2018

An emotional Kelly Clarkson ignored a traditional moment of silence for victims and instead demanded action to honor the victims of the Santa Fe High School shooting at the Billboard Music Awards Sunday.

“They wanted me to do a moment of silence. I’m so sick of moments of silence,” said Clarkson, her voice breaking, in the cold open of the awards ceremony. “It’s not working. Like, obviously. So why don’t we not do a moment of silence? Why don’t we do a moment of action, why don’t we do a moment of change? Why don’t we change what’s happening? Because it’s horrible,” she added to huge applause from the audience.

She pointed out she’s a Texas girl, and mom of four children. “Once again, y’all, we’re grieving for more kids that have died for just an absolute no reason at all,” she said.

“Mamas and daddies should be able to send their kids to school, to church, to movie theaters, to clubs — you should be able to live your life without that kind of fear. We need to do better. We’re failing our communities, we’re failing their families.”

Clarkson then introduced the opening song, “No Tears Left To Cry,” a new single written and performed by Ariana Grande. A year ago, Grande had just finished up a concert in Manchester, England when 23 people, including the attacker, were killed in a terror bombing.

Apologizing for her tears, Clarkson returned to perform a medley of nominated songs.

Watch what she said in the video up top.American baseball fans are getting their first taste of “Japan’s Babe Ruth.”

Shohei Ohtani of the Los Angeles Angels hit his first Major League home run on Tuesday night, just two days after winning his first start as a pitcher.

In MLB tradition for a first homer, the 23-year-old rookie was initially given the silent treatment by his teammates when he returned to the dugout after his 397-foot blast.

But it didn’t last:

While Ohtani struggled through spring training, less than a week into the season he’s already living up to the hype as a two-way threat with skills on the mound and at the plate.

In addition to six strikeouts in Sunday’s often-dazzling start against the Oakland A’s, Ohtani’s homer made him 3-for-7 as a hitter as of midway through Tuesday night’s game.

AdvertisementThe actress added: “We’ve always had the same values. But we’re not perfect! Are you kidding? We fight like other couples, we disagree about things, we have days where we don’t really like each other.”

The two released an amicable statement announcing their split this week and insisted there were “no secrets nor salacious events at the root of our decision.”

“We have lovingly chosen to separate as a couple. We fell deeply in love so many years ago and have had a magical journey together,” the statement said. “Absolutely nothing has changed about how much we love one another, but love is a beautiful adventure that is taking us on different paths for now.”Hundreds of marchers attended a rally against racism in Washington on Wednesday to mark the 50th anniversary of the assassination of Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.

The ACT to End Racism event had support from a wide range of religious believers ― Catholics, Methodists, Baptists, Orthodox Christians, Hindus, Muslims, Reform Jews, Sikhs and others. It was coordinated by the National Council of Churches, a network of 38 religious denominations that include some of the nation’s largest mainline Protestant and historically black Protestant churches.

“Racism isn’t sad, racism is sin,” said Rev. Julian DeShazier, a hip-hop artist known as J.Kwest and pastor from Chicago who served as a host at the rally.

Rev. Dr. Leslie Copeland-Tune addresses faith leaders as they prepare for a silent march from the Martin Luther King Jr. Memorial to the National Mall on April 4, 2018, in Washington. Chip Somodevilla / Getty Images

DeShazier told attendees that Wednesday’s march was a starting point and that the dismantling of systemic racism is something religious people must fight for every day.

“The work has been done before us, but now finishing the work begins with us, in our hearts, in our minds, in our spirits,” DeShazier said. “It requires an awareness, an alertness, to wake up, to stay woke, to pray woke and to work woke.”

Christian hip-hop artist Julian “J.Kwest” DeShazier speaks to anti-racism marchers as they gather at the National Mall. Leah Millis / Reuters

The rally began early Wednesday morning with a mile-long silent prayer walk from the Martin Luther King Jr. Memorial to the National Mall, where the marchers attended an interfaith service. That was followed by speeches and performances.

Rev. Dr. Leslie Copeland-Tune, a Baptist minister who helped organize the rally, told HuffPost that she was inspired and encouraged by the turnout.

“People came from across the country to be here and to recommit to do the hard work to end racism,” Copeland-Tune said. “There was a lot of energy and excitement for what comes next.”

Marchers in Washington mark the 50th anniversary of the assassination of Martin Luther King Jr. SAUL LOEB / Getty Images

In the months before his death, King had started to focus his activism around economic inequality and poverty in the U.S. He traveled to Memphis, Tennessee, in March 1968 to support African-American sanitation workers who felt they were poorly treated.

King was assassinated on April 4, 1968, while standing on a balcony outside his room at the Lorraine Motel in Memphis. The civil rights leader was 39 years old.

Watch a video of some speeches from the ACT to End Racism rally below.

Rev. Jim Wallis, a progressive evangelical activist, told Wednesday’s crowd that racism is America’s “original sin.” He said that white Christians need to acknowledge that sin and take action against systemic racism ― by, for example, fighting voter suppression.

“Without confession to the sin of white racism, white supremacy, white privilege, people who call themselves white Christians will never be free,” Wallis said.

“If you believe in the image of God, you will make sure there is not one vote suppressed in this next election,” he added.

People begin their silent march from the Martin Luther King Jr. Memorial on April 4, 2018. ERIC THAYER / Reuters

Organizers of the ACT to End Racism rally expect about 350 people to stay in Washington for political activism training on Thursday. Religious leaders and lay activists will be taught how to lobby their members of Congress. Participants will receive information about current legislative proposals on issues like mass incarceration, education, voting rights, health care, and immigration.

Copeland-Tune said she hopes that participants leave the anniversary rally with a deeper commitment to racial justice.A California nurse who was fired from her job after saying Stephon Clark deserved to be killed by police has raised over $20,000 from a GoFundMe campaign to pay her bills.

Faith Linthicum launched her self-promoting fundraiser over the weekend, writing: “I’m a United States Military veteran who served as a medic, and then fulfilled my dream taking care of people by becoming a nurse. I was recently fired from my job as a nurse at Kaiser Permanente for exercising my First Amendment right to free speech. I am a proud supporter of this great Country, the First Amendment, the rule of law, and law enforcement.”

Linthicum said that she’s “not a hateful or discriminatory person” and that she was fired from her hospital job “without any investigation, and without giving me an opportunity to explain or defend myself.”

“I believe Kaiser Permanente violated my First Amendment right to free speech in order to protect themselves from the wrath of these activists,” she claimed.

Linthicum lost her job after she posted a comment on Facebook about the March 18 Sacramento police killing of Clark, 22, who was unarmed when two officers mistook his cellphone for a gun and shot him multiple times in his grandparents’ backyard.

“Yeah but he was running from the police jumping over fences and breaking in peoples houses … why run??!!! He deserved it for being stupid,” Linthicum wrote on Facebook, according to the Sacramento Bee.

Kaiser Permanente said Linthicum’s Facebook post about Clark’s death was a “serious matter” and confirmed she no longer worked for the company. “Kaiser Permanente does not tolerate hate or discrimination ... We are deeply saddened by the events associated with Stephon Clark’s death, and will continue to do our part to make sure the community is healthy, safe and inclusive,” an executive told the Sacramento Bee in a statement.

Pool via Getty Images

Linthicum says money she raises in her GoFundMe will “pay rent, buy food for myself and my two dogs (French Bulldog & Great Dane), or make my car payments/insurance.”

An anonymous person on Tuesday created a GoFundMe page titled: “Faith Linthicum Fired - Deserved It.” It seeks to raise $25,000, with the proceeds going to the Southern Poverty Law Center, a nonprofit specializing in civil rights litigation and tracking of hate groups.

AdvertisementSeth Meyers knows how hard it can be to keep up with teen slang.

“Nothing makes me feel older than when I realize I no longer understand the slang terms that teenagers are using,” the comedian said on Tuesday’s broadcast of “Late Night.”

So, in an effort to educate his audience, Meyers deciphered a new batch of terms (that his team came up with).For the spoof “Make American Great-A-Thon” special, Anthony Atamanuik as Trump introduced the “lone survivor of the Bowling Green Massacre” to the audience. Fake Conway then performed her “act,” which essentially involved her giving a positive spin on the atrocious actions of some of “the worst people in history” (similar to how she sometimes defends members of the Trump administration in real life).We can’t keep being reactive to this, thinking and praying it won’t happen again at our schools, jobs, or our community spots. It’s beyond time to evolve our policies. This is a simple and reasonable approach, and it won’t solve all, but it’s a good start: https://t.co/ADYalbaO57 https://t.co/nbXpH9DDyT“In between the two, there is something called the “subject.” That is someone who is under investigation but who may or may not be charged. Trump is a subject, and I don’t think that is particularly good news for him. It’s a big deal to be under criminal investigation by the FBI, particularly if you’re president of the United States.”Tom Williams via Getty Images

Education Secretary Betsy DeVos met with a group of civil rights leaders, parents and teachers Wednesday morning to discuss the impact of Obama-era guidance that calls on schools to reduce their reliance on suspensions and to consider whether racial bias plays a role in their disciplinary practices. The examination of this guidance is part of DeVos’ work as leader of a new Federal Commission on School Safety, although she has reportedly been thinking for months about rescinding the guidance.

Wednesday’s meeting, which took place on the 50th anniversary of the assassination of Martin Luther King Jr., involved leaders in some of the country’s most prominent civil rights groups, including the NAACP’s Legal Defense Fund, the Leadership Conference on Civil and Human Rights and the Lawyer’s Committee for Civil Rights Under Law ― all of which are strongly in favor of keeping the guidance. Other participants included leaders from the nation’s largest teachers union, the National Education Association, as well as teachers from the advocacy group Educators for Excellence and education researchers.

Later on Wednesday, DeVos also met with groups, parents and teachers who want to see the guidance repealed.

Liz King, senior policy analyst and director of education policy for the Leadership Conference, described the morning meeting as “frustrating and underwhelming.” King spoke directly to Education Department officials about how this administration’s actions are having a negative impact on school climate, especially for LGBTQ and immigrant students. She urged DeVos to maintain the existing guidance.

“Our children deserve better than this administration,” said King, who described DeVos as “very pleasant,” although “she didn’t say much.”

Evan Stone, co-CEO of Educators for Excellence, left the meeting with a more positive view, although he still suspects advocates of the guidance are fighting an “uphill battle.” He was heartened that DeVos opened the meeting by acknowledging the large racial disparities in how students are disciplined. DeVos said she was moved by the stories from educators in the room, according to Stone.

Stone’s group requested that DeVos come visit some of the communities that have had positive experiences with the Obama-era guidance.

“Hopefully the lived experience of teachers who are working to change things will have an impact,” he said.

In a country where students of color, students with disabilities and LGBTQ students are disproportionately subject to harsh disciplinary practices, like suspensions and expulsions, the guidance is seen as a tool to help reduce the flow of students who are pushed from school into the criminal justice system. The guidance warns schools that they could be found in violation of federal civil rights laws if they are disciplining some groups of students ― like students of color or students with disabilities ― at disproportionately high rates. It also encourages schools to adopt restorative justice practices as a way to deal with discipline issues, rather than punishments that push kids out of the classroom.

On the other side of the issue, critics say the guidance helps keep disruptive children in the classroom, putting teachers and students at risk. The guidance came under renewed scrutiny after the school shooting in Parkland, Florida, in February, when conservative leaders speculated that lax discipline policies allowed the accused shooter’s behavior to go unchecked. (The school’s responses to the suspect’s behavior appear entirely unrelated to the guidance. The Education Department had also started meeting with critics of the guidance months before the shooting.)

But even before Wednesday’s meetings began, DeVos faced critiques from the advocacy groups and civil rights organizations that had not been offered a seat at the table. Groups like the National Women’s Law Center sent DeVos a letter slamming what they called “the exclusive and non-transparent approach” of the summit. The letter was co-signed by groups like the Human Rights Campaign and the National Center for Transgender Equality. It expressed the groups’ support for the guidance.

A number of other groups asked to be included in Wednesday’s discussion but did not receive an invitation. A representative from the National Disability Rights Network told HuffPost they asked the Education Department’s Office for Civil Rights for an invitation last Friday, but the agency declined. The Council of Parent Attorneys and Advocates, a group that represents children with disabilities, also asked both the Education Department’s Office for Civil Rights and its Office of Special Education and Rehabilitative Services for an invitation, but did not hear back.

King said it was “was glaringly apparent there was no one from the disability community, the LGBTQ community, the Native American community, the Latino community, or the immigrant community in the room.”

Additionally, only one of the country’s major teachers unions was invited, with the administration leaving out the American Federation of Teachers.

“I find it very offensive that they don’t want to hear our opinions,” AFT President Randi Weingarten told HuffPost.

DeVos’ meeting with critics of the guidance included groups like the Manhattan Institute, as well as parents and teachers who believe the guidance should be rescinded. (The Education Department did not respond to HuffPost’s request for information about who would be present at this meeting.)

Nicole Landers of Baltimore County is one such parent. She says the relaxed disciplinary practices at her kids’ schools have come at the expense of student safety. Landers’ daughter was sexually harassed last year by another student when she was a fifth-grader. Her older son was bullied to the point where he became suicidal. Their tormentors, though, remained in the classroom, and she believes the Obama-era guidance helped make this situation possible.

“Whatever intentions were set forth in the guidance, the response to the guidance has been kind of knee-jerk in nature that has ended up hurting all of the children,” Landers said. “It takes away the rights from the victimized students, as the offending students are left in the classroom to avoid suspensions.”Two of Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.'s children, Martin Luther King III and Bernice King, speak at Mason Temple Church of God in Christ on April 3. Their father gave his final speech in that church on April 3, 1968, before he was assassinated the next day. Joe Raedle/Getty Images

Two of Martin Luther King Jr.’s surviving children gave powerful sermons Tuesday from the pulpit their father stood at when he gave his final speech on April 3, 1968.

During the I AM 2018 event on Tuesday, Bernice King informed the audience at Mason Temple Church of God in Christ in Memphis, Tennessee, that she was going to go a bit off-script as the holy spirit moved her to invite her brother, Martin Luther King III, to stand next to her as she spoke. She said their brother Dexter King, though not physically present, was standing with them as well.

The youngest King child then went on to reveal that on the day he was assassinated, her father told his mother the title of his next address: “America May Go to Hell.”

“If you would permit me, I think as I look at the landscape of our world today, America may still go to hell,” Bernice King warned. “So 50 years later, I’m here to declare and decree not only must America be born again but it’s time for America to repent.”

She said America has fumbled its responsibility to deal with the three evils her father warned about: racism, poverty and militarism.

“We have not, in 50 years, dealt with, as daddy challenged us to deal with, the last vestiges of racism,” she said. “We must repent because daddy challenged us to deal with a second evil: poverty, which we have refused to confront in this nation.”

She added that militarism “has robbed us of the necessary resources to address the social injustices and the social ills and the social discrepancies in our nation,” noting that her father said countries who spend more money on military than social advancement are “rapidly approaching a spiritual death.”

With a cadence in her voice similar to her father’s, Bernice King challenged America to break its “vicious cycles” and praised the Parkland, Florida, students for standing up against gun violence and “social decay.” She also noted that it wasn’t by chance that the granddaughter of the civil rights leader stood onstage during the recent March For Our Lives rally to call for a “gun-free world.”

“We will get to the Promised Land, but each one of us has to make an individual decision to repent of our ways, repent for being drawn into the divisive discourse in this nation,” she said.

After hugging his sister, Martin Luther King III took command of the pulpit, asking his daughter and wife to join him. He said he stands where his father stood the night before his killing with “mixed emotions.”

He reminisced about the day his father left their Atlanta home to go to Memphis.

“I remember saying, ‘Dad, don’t go,’” he said. “But I remember more important, him saying, ‘Don’t worry, I’ll be back.’ Obviously, he did not come back in the traditional physical sense.”

Though admittedly emotional, he said he was also excited by the potential of his father’s dream being realized. He praised the Black Lives Matter activists, the crusaders of the Me Too movement and those standing up with the Parkland students for continuing his father’s fight.

Martin Luther King III recalled his daughter’s words a week ago at the March For Our Lives rally. He said he didn’t tell 9-year-old Yolanda Renee King what to say, noting that she asked then-President Barack Obama two years ago, “What are we gonna do about these guns?”

“Dad taught us,” he said, “that it only takes a few good women and men to bring about change. So I want to rush to tell you, do not get anyways tired. Why? Because we’ve come much too far from where we started. You see, nobody ever told us that our roads would be easy, but I know ... our God didn’t bring us this far to leave us.”Kendrick Lamar performing at Coachella in Indio, California, in April. Christopher Polk via Getty Images

While headlining Alabama’s Hangout Music Festival on Sunday, Kendrick Lamar brought a white female fan onstage to rap his song “m.A.A.d City” but had to interrupt her after she repeatedly used the N-word featured in the lyrics.

The video, it should go without saying, includes some harsh language.

Kendrick Lamar brought a white fan on stage to rap "m.A.A.d City"....and then she dropped the n-word 🤐 pic.twitter.com/JeMaI0UsBv — MASS APPEAL (@MassAppeal) May 21, 2018

The woman, who identified herself as Delaney, uses the word three times during the song’s chorus before Lamar stopped her rendition.

“You gotta bleep one single word, though,” he said after cutting the music. She apologized, adding, “I’m used to singing it the way you wrote it.”Ritchie wrote that someone working security for golf’s first major of the year, which begins Thursday, told him that personnel at host site Augusta National Golf Club in Georgia received a sheet of prohibited words and phrases that should result in a spectator’s immediate ejection if shouted.

One of them is “Dilly! Dilly!” from Bud Light’s successful ad campaign that features a king and his subjects using the phrase as an affirmation or toast of sorts.

Security guards later confirmed to Golf.com that “Dilly Dilly” is indeed on the list.

For years, fans have yelled “baba booey,” “in the hole,” and other exclamations after players shoot. “Dilly Dilly” recently became part of the gallery lexicon.

Of course, the beer brand turned the ban ― Masters’ officials did not immediately respond to a HuffPost request for comment ― into a marketing opportunity. It sent 1,000 “Dilly Dilly” shirts to the tournament.

We’re thinking those will be plenty loud enough.

Our King weighs in on the Dilly Dilly ban. pic.twitter.com/rVxrD5dsNf — Bud Light (@budlight) April 3, 2018A federal judge ruled against Texas' procedure for registering to vote while renewing a driver's license online. RoschetzkyIstockPhoto via Getty Images

In June 2015, Texas resident John Woods moved from Travis County to Harris County. That fall, he went online to change the address on his driver’s license.

Woods had been registered to vote at his old Travis County address. When he was updating his driver’s license, he also checked a box indicating that he wanted to register to vote in Harris County.

Election Day arrived about two months later and Woods called Harris County election officials to find out where his new polling place was. Even though he had checked that box online, they told him he wasn’t registered in the county. He decided to vote anyway by casting a provisional ballot, which ultimately was not counted.

It turns out that when Woods checked the box online, he hadn’t actually registered to vote. Instead, the Texas website had directed him to go to a separate website with a voter registration form that he was supposed to complete, print out and mail in.

On Friday, a federal judge in San Antonio ruled that process violated the National Voter Registration Act (NVRA), a 1993 federal law requiring state motor vehicle agencies to offer people the opportunity both to register to vote and to use their driver’s license application or renewal form as their voter registration form.

The Texas Civil Rights Project, which brought the lawsuit on behalf of Woods and three other Texas voters, argued in court that the state’s process was needlessly duplicative and unjustified because officials got all of the information they needed for voter registration when someone updated their driver’s license online. The civil rights lawyers pointed out that, unlike the online process with its extra form, Texans who renew their licenses in person or by mail need only check one more box to register to vote.

The group asked Chief U.S. District Judge Orlando Garcia to compel Texas Secretary of State Rolando Pablos (R) to “take all appropriate measures necessary to remedy the harm” caused by the registration system. From 2013 until 2015, more than 1,800 people had complained to Texas officials that they were unable to register to vote using the online system. The state has over 15 million registered voters.

Texas officials argued in court documents that the case was moot because each of the plaintiffs had since successfully registered at their new address and was able to vote in the 2016 general election. They said that Texas state law requires a voter application to be signed and that anyone who renewed their license in person or by mail would have to submit a written signature. And they contended that the NVRA deals only with registration practices for federal elections and that Woods had not tried to vote in a federal election.

Garcia ruled in favor of the plaintiffs on Friday and said he would issue a full opinion soon. Sam Taylor, a spokesman for the secretary of state, declined to comment on the ruling in Stringer v. Pablos.

But Beth Stevens, voting rights director at the Texas Civil Rights Project, praised Garcia’s decision in a statement. “For too long,” she said, “the state of Texas has ignored federal voting rights laws intended to ensure that all eligible voters have an opportunity to register to vote.”

Stevens told HuffPost that the ruling would affect the more than 1 million Texans who update their driver’s license in any given year and that her group also planned to target other state agencies that are required by the NVRA to offer people the chance to register to vote.