WASHINGTON (Reuters) - President Donald Trump’s strategy for the U.S.-Mexico border includes mobilizing the National Guard, the White House said on Tuesday, after Trump had earlier spoken publicly to reporters about “guarding our border with the military” to stop illegal immigrants.

The White House statement was released after Trump met with Defense Secretary James Mattis, Attorney General Jeff Sessions and other officials on border issues. It gave no details on whether or when Trump’s strategy might be implemented.

The National Guard, part of the U.S. military’s reserve forces, has been used in recent years for surveillance and intelligence on the border, but not direct law enforcement.

The president’s earlier remarks sharpened his recurring anti-immigration rhetoric. He said he wanted to deploy U.S. military forces until his long-promised border wall is built.

“Until we can have a wall and proper security we’re going to be guarding our border with the military,” Trump told reporters at the White House, lamenting what he called “horrible” U.S. laws that left the southern border poorly protected.

Trump railed against a “caravan” of Central American migrants traveling from the Mexico-Guatemala border in the last 10 days toward the United States, journeys that have occurred annually since 2010 in an effort to draw attention to the plight of people fleeing violence in their countries.

On Tuesday night, Mexican Foreign Minister Luis Videgaray said on Twitter that the caravan “dispersed gradually and at the decision of its participants.” Mexican officials say privately that they believe Trump has exaggerated the caravan’s importance to renew pressure on Mexico over the renegotiation of the North American Free Trade Agreement.

After 14 months in office, Trump still hammers regularly on an anti-immigration theme that helped to energize conservative Republican voters who helped him win the presidency in the 2016 election. Trump took a hard line on illegal immigration during the campaign and has also sought to curtail legal immigration.

His efforts have thus far failed to produce a comprehensive overhaul of America’s immigration laws or full funding for his border wall in the Republican-led Congress. No major legislation was expected before November’s congressional elections.

LEGAL QUESTIONS RAISED

His latest comments immediately raised questions in Congress and among legal experts about troop deployments on U.S. soil.

The Posse Comitatus Act, a federal law on the books since the 1870s, restricts using the U.S. Army and other main branches of the military for civilian law enforcement on U.S. soil, unless specifically authorized by Congress.

But the military can provide support services to law enforcement and has done so on occasion since the 1980s.

Under Republican President George W. Bush, the National Guard between 2006 and 2008 provided border-related intelligence analysis, but had no direct law enforcement role.

In 2010, President Barack Obama sent National Guard troops to the U.S.-Mexican border to provide intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance support to U.S. Border Patrol agents.

Some specific statutes authorize the president to deploy troops within the United States for riot control or relief efforts after natural disasters.

“The details really matter here,” said Stephen Vladeck, a professor at the University of Texas School of Law.

“The real question is going to be if the president is serious about this, what kind of legal arguments do we get out of the White House and the Pentagon for such a deployment.”

A senior Republican aide in the U.S. House of Representatives said key lawmakers had not been briefed on the White House plan. The aide said there was no indication that a specific plan had even been formulated yet.

Geronimo Gutierrez, Mexico’s ambassador in Washington, said he had spoken to U.S. Homeland Security Secretary Kirstjen Nielsen about Trump’s remarks on the border and that Mexico had formally asked the U.S. government to clarify them.

“It’s certainly not something that the Mexican government welcomes,” Gutierrez told CNN.

Nielsen, who took part in the meeting with Trump, said in a Twitter message late on Tuesday that she had been told by Mexican officials “the caravan is dissipating.”

In southern Mexico, officials screened the dwindling number of hundreds of largely Central American migrants on Tuesday.

At a campaign rally, Mexican leftist Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador, who is leading most polls by double digits before the July 1 presidential election, said that if the U.S. government militarizes the border, thousands of his supporters would protest by forming a “big human chain of Mexicans for peace.”

Some members of Congress said they were uncomfortable with the idea of using the military at the border.

Democratic Senator Brian Schatz said Trump should have to seek approval from Congress for any such troop deployment. “We should put that new law to a vote in the Senate,” he said on Twitter. “I predict fewer than 20 votes.”

In a Twitter post earlier on Tuesday, Trump said the caravan “heading to our ‘Weak Laws’ Border, had better be stopped before it gets there. Cash cow NAFTA is in play, as is foreign aid to Honduras and the countries that allow this to happen. Congress MUST ACT NOW!” Congress is on vacation until next week.Taylor Swift and her family were threatened by Frank Andrew Hoover. Isabel Infantes - PA Images via Getty Images

A man who violated a restraining order and threatened to kill Taylor Swift was sentenced to 10 years’ probation on Monday, according to news reports.

Frank Andrew Hoover, who pleaded guilty to defying the lifetime protective order, will be monitored by GPS surveillance for at least a year, and must keep at least a mile away from the singer and her family, TMZ reported. He also has to give up any firearms and undergo psychological and drug testing.

Frank Andrew Hoover Austin Police Department

Hoover, under a lifetime restraining order issued in Kansas, was arrested in November 2016 while following Swift to the airport after a concert in Austin, Texas. Around the same time, he sent emails to her father, Scott Swift, according to E! News, which cited court documents.

In January, news sites reported that Hoover faced new charges because the emails contained death threats against the singer and her family. According to the indictment, Hoover wrote: “enjoy the brain aneurysms and death.”

“Decided that we are going to end all the Swifts on one day because I can’t stand that virus shit your daughter spread,” Hoover wrote.A guest on Tucker Carlson’s Fox News show gave a shout-out to a book the Southern Poverty Law Center (SPLC) has described as a “racist fantasy.”

On Monday night, Mark Steyn plugged Jean Raspail’s The Camp of the Saints, a 1973 French anti-immigrant book that is reportedly a favorite of Steve Bannon, one-time advisor to President Donald Trump.

“A lot of people on the left don’t like it, but it actually predicted what is happening before our eyes,” Steyn said of the book, which depicts a Europe being overtaken by waves of immigrants.

Kirkus Reviews slammed the book when it was released in the United States in 1975.

“The publishers are presenting The Camp of the Saints as a major event, and it probably is, in much the same sense that Mein Kampf was a major event,” the review stated.

The SPLC also dismissed the book as “the favorite racist fantasy of the anti-immigrant movement in the U.S.,” and noted that it was “revered by American white supremacists.”

Steyn, who is from Canada, defended those same white supremacists over undocumented immigrants earlier this year."You know me any excuse to dress up," Adele captioned a photo from the happy day. Danny Moloshok / Reuters

Adele made a friend feel her love.

The singer confirmed on Instagram Tuesday that she got ordained in order to marry her friend, comedian Alan Carr, and his husband, Paul Drayton, in her Los Angeles backyard.

“Seeing as the cats out the bag. I married two of my best friends in January. You know me any excuse to dress up ... ” the “Someone Like You” singer wrote.

A post shared by Adele (@adele) on Apr 3, 2018 at 7:57am PDT

Her post comes after Carr revealed the news on the U.K. program “This Morning” Tuesday. He said that Adele not only officiated his wedding earlier this year, she also planned it.

“She’s known me and Paul for ages,” Carr, 41, explained. “She said, ‘I want to do your special day. Let me do everything.’”

Paul Drayton (L) and Alan Carr attend the 2017 British LGBT Awards in London. David M. Benett via Getty Images

And she took her wedding planning duties very seriously. According to Carr, the 29-year-old also sang the song for the couple’s first dance, provided flowers, hosted a three-course meal and flew herself and the couple to Las Vegas to see Celine Dion perform.

Carr said Adele is “the kindest, most sweetest, loveliest person ever” — and she also has a fantastic sense of humor.

Apparently, during the Dion concert, Carr, Drayton and Adele were seated behind a huge fan that kept on shouting, “Celine! Celine! I love you, Celine!”

“And I said to Adele, ’If he knew Adele was sitting behind him’ ... ” Carr said on “This Morning.” “And she went, ‘Shall I whisper in his ear — Hello, it’s me?’”The Environmental Protection Agency approved a pipeline project last year during the same time period that administrator Scott Pruitt was renting a room from the wife of a lobbyist who represented the pipeline’s owner, The New York Times reported on Monday.

The news comes amid a growing controversy surrounding Pruitt’s unusual housing arrangement, in which he paid $50 a night to rent a room in a luxury condo from Vicki Hart, whose husband runs Williams & Jensen, a well-known energy lobbying firm.

The rental agreement, which was open-ended, offered a rate that was well below market value. The White House is conducting an informal review of the matter, unnamed officials told the Wall Street Journal and CNN.

At the same time that Pruitt had access to the condo, the EPA signaled its approval for a pipeline project from Enbridge Inc. The Canada-based company hoped to expand its Alberta Clipper pipeline and ship hundreds of thousands of barrels of additional oil to the U.S. each day.

Williams & Jensen was a registered lobbyist for Enbridge at the time, the Times reported. However, a spokesman from the firm told the newspaper that Williams & Jensen did not lobby the EPA or Pruitt on the project’s behalf.

Liz Bowman, Pruitt’s spokeswoman, also told the Times that “any attempt to draw that link is patently false.”

The State Department granted the permit last October. Since then, Enbridge has expanded the pipeline.

Critics say the $6,100 Pruitt paid for his rental over six months amounted to a sweetheart deal. Rates for a one-bedroom apartment in D.C. are typically thousands of dollars higher per month and often require a contract for a set amount of time, whether the occupant sleeps there or not.

On Monday, several House Democrats sent Pruitt a letter asking him to detail the arrangement surrounding the rental.

The EPA’s senior ethics counsel, Justina Fugh, said last Friday the agreement did not qualify as a “prohibited gift at all,” and described the deal as “a routine business transaction and permissible even if from a personal friend.”

AdvertisementPresident Donald Trump isn’t exactly known for his spelling skills, and his struggles to form all the best words have become fodder for a new game on “Jimmy Kimmel Live.”

The “Make America Grate Again Spelling Bee” is like a traditional spelling bee, but with a twist.

“You’ll be asked to spell the words I give you, not the way the liberal leftist dictionary spells them, but rather the way our president does: President Donald Jesus Trump,” Kimmel explained to his young contestants.Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. was laid to rest in Atlanta, Georgia, on April 9, 1968, five days after his assassination at the Lorraine Motel in Memphis. Many of those attending King’s memorial service and his funeral were, of course, nationally known ― activists, preachers, politicians, artists, athletes and others who had been by King’s side at countless marches and rallies through the years. But many, many more of the tens of thousands who lined Atlanta’s streets or walked behind the mule-drawn casket were “average” Americans: men, women, and children who came from around Atlanta and around the country to pay their final respects, in person, to a man who gave his life in the struggle for freedom, justice, and peace.

Here, in rarely seen pictures from the private service at King’s own Ebenezer Baptist Church and from the far larger public memorial afterward at his alma mater, Morehouse College, FOTO offers a portrait of that day ― a profile of a community in mourning, and yet unbowed.

Coretta Scott King (1927 - 2006) listens to one of the speakers at the public memorial for her slain husband in Atlanta, April 9, 1968. Archive Photos/Getty Images

In a tribute to women of the Civil Rights Movement, Joy Reid reminded FOTO that Coretta Scott King once "had ordinary dreams of being a famous entertainer, and instead she became the mother of the movement. She had to navigate being a mom, explaining to four little kids why the threat of death constantly surrounded them. She had to be MLK's voice when he was gone, and she did it regally, and with depth."

Robert F. Kennedy outside of Ebenezer Baptist Church, where the first memorial of the day was held for Dr. King. Archive Photos/Getty Images

Less than two months later, Robert Kennedy himself was killed in Los Angeles by a Jerusalem-born assassin named Sirhan Sirhan, who today is serving a life sentence at a prison in southern California. Other prominent figures at both the private and public memorials included Sammy Davis, Jr., Jackie Kennedy, Mahalia Jackson, Marlon Brando, Eartha Kitt, Wilt Chamberlain, Thurgood Marshall, Sidney Poitier, Nelson Rockefeller, and many more.

Actor, singer, and activist Harry Belafonte (center), his wife, Julie Robinson (left), and his son, David (seated in front of Belafonte), at the public memorial for Dr. King at Morehouse College. Archive Photos/Getty Images

Long one of the most high-profile and vocal celebrity activists in the U.S., Harry Belafonte supported the Civil Rights Movement from its earliest days, and was deeply involved in many of its signature events, from the Freedom Rides in the Deep South to the March on Washington in 1963.

Andrew Young speaking at the public memorial for Dr. King at Morehouse College. Archive Photos/Getty Images

Andrew Young was the executive director of the Southern Christian Leadership Conference (SCLC); marched in (and was arrested in) many of the signature protests of the era; and was in Memphis with King when the civil rights leader was murdered. Young went on to serve in Congress; was twice elected mayor of Atlanta; has been awarded the Presidential Medal of Freedom; and in his mid-80s remains active in progressive causes.

Part of the crowd of tens of thousands who marched in MLK's funeral procession in Atlanta. Bob Verlin/Pictorial Parade/Archive Photos/Getty Images

Of the service at Ebenezer Baptist, James Baldwin wrote in an essay for Esquire magazine that it "sort of washed over me, in waves. It wasn’t that it seemed unreal; it was the most real church service I’ve ever sat through in my life, or ever hope to sit through; but I have a childhood hangover thing about not weeping in public, and I was concentrating on holding myself together. I did not want to weep for Martin, tears seemed futile."

An overhead shot of Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.'s casket, during the procession from Ebenezer Baptist Church to Morehouse College. Archive Photos/Getty Images

“As we came out [of the church] and I looked up the road," Baldwin wrote, "I saw them. They were all along the road, on either side, they were on all the roofs, on either side … and they stood in silence. It was the silence that undid me. I started to cry, and I stumbled, and Sammy [Davis Jr.] grabbed my arm. We started to walk."

Onlookers crowding a rooftop in Atlanta on the day of MLK's funeral. Archive Photos/Getty Images

See the full collection of rare MLK funeral photos from FOTO here.

—

AdvertisementThe Justice Department will rate the performance of its immigration judges based on how many cases they complete in a push to reduce a backlog clogged with deportation arrests.

Beginning Oct. 1, immigration judges will be required to process a minimum of 700 cases annually in order to receive a top rating of satisfactory, according to a memo first obtained by The Wall Street Journal. A satisfactory rating also requires judges to complete 85 percent of removal cases within three days of a merit hearing.

The quota amounts to completing three cases per day, DOJ spokesman Devin O’Malley told The Washington Post, “so it’s not that big of a lift.” Judges have handled an average of 678 cases per year over the past five years, he said.

“The purpose of implementing these metrics is to encourage efficient and effective case management while preserving immigration judge discretion and due process,” James McHenry, director of the Executive Office for Immigration Review, wrote in an email to judges on Friday.

The Justice Department, which oversees immigration courts, floated judicial performance metrics in an immigration reform package in October as a way to help reduce the backlog of immigration cases, which has ballooned to more than 600,000 under the Trump administration’s increased deportation arrests. DOJ announced in November it would hire new judges, enhance technology and encourage judges to complete more cases.

Attorney General Jeff Sessions has imposed other measures to trim the backlog, including elimination of a provision that awards asylum seekers a full hearing before a judge.

Some judges affected by the new quotas noted that the emphasis on quantity over quality could damage the system.

“We’re incredibly concerned in that judges should not feel undue pressure to dispose of these cases rapidly in an effort to manage the enormous backlog,” Laura Lynch, senior policy counsel for the American Immigration Lawyers Association, told The Daily Beast. “We’re very concerned that cases will be rushed through the system and due process will be circumvented with these new quotas.”

Telling immigration judges “to simply ‘go faster’ will lead to some obvious problems,” tweeted Stephen Robbins, an immigration lawyer in Washington state. “Judges squeezing together hearings, allowing less time for testimony, issuing brief, often rushed decisions.”

Robbins also raised the issue of people who represent themselves in immigration court because they lack government-appointed lawyers.

AdvertisementLong-time Donald Trump ally and GOP “dirty trickster” Roger Stone said Sunday that he’s “prepared” if he’s hit with an indictment by special counsel Robert Mueller. But he insisted any charges would be “conjured up,” and that they would have nothing to do with Russian campaign collusion.

Asked about a possible indictment on NBC’s “Meet The Press,” Stone responded: “I am prepared should that be the case.” He said it’s “not inconceivable that Mr. Mueller and his team may seek to conjure up some extraneous crime pertaining to my business.”

Stone, who was an informal adviser to Trump during his campaign, insisted there could be no charges involving cooperation with the Kremlin because “no evidence whatsoever of Russian collusion” has been found — though Mueller has yet to share his final findings.

Stone said he would chalk up any action against him as an “effort to silence me.”

NBC’s Chuck Todd pointed out that he was hardly being silenced and was expressing his opinions even at that moment.

Stone has come under scrutiny because he admitted communicating with Guccifer 2.0, the Russian hacker or hackers who the FBI said leaked emails from Democratic National Committee members during the presidential campaign.

He also admitted publicly that he communicated with Julian Assange, who published the emails in WikiLeaks. The day before one of the batches of emails was leaked, Stone said Assange was going to deliver “a devastating expose” of Hillary Clinton.

Stone insisted on NBC that he “had no advance notice” of the content, source or timing of the WikiLeaks disclosures.

Stone said he has not yet been contacted by anyone on Mueller’s team. But he said that eight former colleagues have been “terrorized” by investigators.People have been bending and snapping ever since the 2001 movie “Legally Blonde,” but the origin of the incredible (and effective) pickup move is not well known.

For the unfamiliar, the “bend and snap” was introduced to the general populace when Elle Woods (played by Reese Witherspoon) teaches her manicurist Paulette (played by Jennifer Coolidge) how to do it. Paulette is desperate to woo the UPS guy who frequently stops by her salon, and Elle assures her that if she uses the bend and snap, it has an “83-percent return on a dinner invitation.”

Ultimately, Elle leads a bend-and-snap bonanza that has women all over the salon getting involved. One hairstylist emerges from the back to say, “Oh my God, bend and snap works every time!” as if to prove the move’s ubiquitousness.

All of this, obviously, raises the question: How did this deliciously campy moment come to life?

“Legally Blonde” co-writer Karen McCullah told Entertainment Weekly: Producer Marc Platt “wanted a B plot for Paulette (Jennifer Coolidge). At first we were like, ‘Should the store be robbed?’”

Co-writer Kirsten “Kiwi” Smith told the publication they “spent a week or two trying to figure out what the B plot and this big set piece should be. There were crime plots. We were pitching scene after scene and it all felt very tonally weird.”

Huh. Another crime subplot in the film probably would have been too busy. “Legally Blonde” already had one ammonium thioglycolate crisis.

Apparently, the ah-ha moment came to McCullah as she sat at a bar in Los Angeles.

“What if Elle shows [Paulette] a move so she can get the UPS guy?” McCullah asked Smith, who then drunkenly began demonstrating a move that ultimately became the bend and snap.

“It was a spontaneous invention. It was a completely drunken moment in a bar,” said Smith.

Despite the story of the bend and snap’s origin, director Robert Luketic gets the credit for making it the film’s big, silly musical number, Smith and McCullah told Entertainment Weekly.

It seems only fitting that the scene was born of alcohol ― it’s quirky, fun, and delightfully saucy in a way that bar nights can get.WASHINGTON ― A federal judge on Tuesday sentenced Alex van der Zwaan to 30 days in prison, a $20,000 fine and two months’ supervised release, making him the first person to be sentenced as part of special counsel Robert Mueller’s investigation into whether President Donald Trump’s campaign colluded with Russia in the 2016 election.

Van der Zwaan, an attorney who formerly worked at the high-powered law firm Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom, pleaded guilty in February of lying to the FBI about his communications with Rick Gates, a top aide to former Trump campaign manager Paul Manafort.

Both Gates and Manafort have been charged in Mueller’s probe with lying to investigators and conspiracy, tied to Manafort’s work as a lobbyist for pro-Russia politicians in Ukraine.

Documents filed in the U.S. District Court in Washington last week claimed that Gates and van der Zwaan had communicated with a former Russian intelligence officer in the months leading up to the 2016 election. That individual, identified only as “Person A” in the filings from Mueller’s team, is believed to be Konstantin Kilimnik, who worked for Manafort’s lobbying firm in Ukraine, according to Reuters.

“What I did was wrong. I apologize to the court for my conduct,” van der Zwaan said in a short statement at his sentencing hearing.

Van der Zwaan’s lawyers asked for no jail time, noting that his wife is pregnant.

“His career has been destroyed, he has been separated from his friends and family, and he faces the possibility of missing the birth of his first child. Although Alex committed a serious offense, just punishment does not require incarceration,” his attorneys wrote last week.

In February, Gates pleaded guilty to the charges against him and is now cooperating with Mueller’s investigation.Advertisers may have fled Laura Ingraham’s Fox News show, and the host may be taking an impromptu vacation this week, but the network that employs the conservative pundit is standing by her side.

In a statement released to the Los Angeles Times, Fox News co-president Jack Abernethy said the network supported Ingraham, suggesting she was the victim of “agenda-driven intimidation efforts” seeking to “censor” her.

“We cannot and will not allow voices to be censored by agenda-driven intimidation efforts,” he said. “We look forward to having Laura Ingraham back hosting her program next Monday when she returns from spring vacation with her children.”

Ingraham drew ire for mocking 17-year-old Parkland school shooting survivor David Hogg for not getting into some colleges. Hogg, who has emerged as a vocal proponent for gun control, hit back at the pundit by encouraging his Twitter followers to contact her advertisers.“We have a president that could not be more ill-suited to be president of the United States of America," says Gwen Graham. Bill Clark via Getty Images

WASHINGTON ― Florida Democratic gubernatorial candidate Gwen Graham is determined to make Donald Trump see her new campaign ad critical of his presidency, so it’s aimed at two of his favorite places: Twitter and Mar-a-Lago.

In the digital ad, which Graham unveiled Tuesday, she calls the president “an embarrassment” and vows to “bridge the divisiveness” that she sees Trump creating in Florida and around the country.

“Donald Trump is an example of a bully,” Graham says in the video. “I see it as my job to stand up to Donald Trump. It is the governor’s job to look out for the state of Florida, and I will look out for the state of Florida.”

According to her campaign, Graham is making “a significant buy” to promote the ad for the entire month of April on social media platforms including Twitter, where the president spends time on a daily basis. She is also making a targeted investment in the zip code around the president’s Palm Beach resort, Mar-a-Lago, where Trump spends many of his weekends and where he and other administration officials will gather for a mid-April summit with Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe.

The goal is to make the president see the ad “when he’s online in his gold-plated bedroom or on the golf course,” said Graham spokeswoman Bettina Weiss.

Graham, who served in Congress from 2015 to 2017, is running to fill the seat currently held by Republican Gov. Rick Scott, who is term-limited. Lots of people are running for the seat, but there is no clear front-runner. The primary is on Aug. 28.

Graham has gone after Trump throughout her campaign. She criticized him for trying to dismantle the Affordable Care Act and challenged his plans to drill for oil and gas off of Florida’s beaches.

“The people in elected office can make a positive or a negative impact on your life,” she says in the video. “We have a president that could not be more ill-suited to be president of the United States of America.”New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo (D) has declared a state of emergency at New York City’s Housing Authority following widespread complaints that include issues of lead paint, mold, and a lack of heat and hot water.

At a news conference Monday, where he signed his executive order, Cuomo recalled recently touring some of the housing authority’s 1,462 buildings, which he described as having “some of the worst living conditions I have ever witnessed.”

“The state has never contributed significant money to a housing authority because it’s between the city and the federal government. But this is different. We sent out [Health Commissioner Howard] Zucker, and he came back and he reported to me that this is a health emergency,” Cuomo said.

New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo tours a New York City Housing Authority building in the Bronx last month. Office of Gov. Andrew Cuomo

By signing the order, $250 million in emergency state resources will be provided to expedite necessary repairs, upgrades and construction, and to address environmental and safety hazards in the public-assistance housing units. That figure is in addition to $300 million previously committed to housing authority improvements over the last several years by the state, according to the governor’s office.

The order also requires the creation of an independent manager to oversee the remediation. That manager will be unanimously selected by the city’s mayor, the speaker of the City Council and the president of NYCHA within 60 days. If they are unable to make a selection, the city’s comptroller will have two weeks to make one.

Gov. Cuomo described the homes he saw on his tour as "some of the worst living conditions I have ever witnessed." Office of Gov. Andrew Cuomo

Cuomo’s signing was attended by a number of city officials, including city Comptroller Scott M. Stringer. Noticeably absent was Mayor Bill de Blasio.

The governor and mayor have engaged in a long feud over money and management issues.

Gov. Cuomo, flanked by city officials on Monday, signed an executive order that declared a state of emergency at the New York City Housing Authority. Office of Gov. Andrew Cuomo

De Blasio has publicly defended the housing agency and its chairwoman, Shola Olatoye, affirming in January that he is “convinced she is the person that can move us forward.”

He had not publicly commented on Cuomo’s emergency order by Monday evening. A request for comment from the mayor’s office was not immediately returned Monday.

Activists at City Hall protest poor living conditions and mold at NYCHA buildings in February 2017. New York Daily News Archive via Getty Images

In addition to squabbling over who should pay for NYCHA’s renovations, in recent months both de Blasio and Cuomo have also argued over who should pay for the city’s Metropolitan Transportation Authority, which both sides admitted needed improving. De Blasio had argued that the MTA is a state-run agency and that repairs should be paid for by the state.

On Friday, Cuomo passed a $168 billion budget deal that included the $250 million in new funding for NYCHA as well as a provision that would withhold city funding if de Blasio’s administration failed to pay a $418 million share of the MTA’s emergency repair plan, the Daily News reported.A Florida middle school social studies teacher whose white nationalist podcast was exposed in a HuffPost investigation resigned this week.

Dayanna Volitich, who taught social studies at Crystal River Middle School, submitted her resignation on Monday even as the investigation into her conduct continues, the Citrus County School District confirmed to HuffPost. The school district will finalize her resignation once the school board votes on the matter on April 10, according to CNN.

Volitich was removed from the classroom last month while the district investigated her conduct, which included hosting a podcast titled “Unapologetic” under the name “Tiana Dalichov” ― a moniker she used on a Twitter account and two Facebook pages. She made racist comments on both the podcast and on social media and, in one episode, said that she was “absolutely” a white supremacist. In the same episode, she bragged about being able to expose her students to white supremacy without the school administration’s knowledge.

She has also defended and praised the work of noted white supremacists like former Ku Klux Klan leader David Duke and anti-Semitic author Kevin MacDonald.Actress Taraji P. Henson’s impression of rapper Cardi B is spot on.

Henson and her “Acrimony” co-star Lyriq Bent recently sat down with Clevver News to discuss their new film. When Henson was asked about her love for the “Bodak Yellow” rapper, she did not hold back, throwing in a “Gimme that shmoney” and a Cardi B-famous “okurrrr!”

The “Empire” and “Hidden Figures” actress has been a fan of Cardi B since the beginning ― back when the rapper only had 70,000 followers on Instagram. Last year, Henson commented on one of Cardi B’s Instagram posts with support and love, writing: “SHINE BABY SHINE!!... Proud of you!!! Keep puttin in that WERK.”Jimmy Kimmel’s puppet version of Kellyanne Conway just loves spilling the beans about the Trump administration.

On Monday’s broadcast of “Jimmy Kimmel Live!”, the host poked fun at claims made in Ronald Kessler’s new book that President Donald Trump’s counselor was “the number one leaker” of information in the White House.

“Spokespuppet” Conway dished fabricated details about members of Trump’s inner circle in the spoof bit, but the revelations did come at a price…Mandel Ngan/AFP/Getty Images

WASHINGTON ― Donald Trump was supposed to be a different type of Republican. He’s frequently switched political parties, won over some traditionally Democratic voters and attacked well-regarded members of the GOP. Many establishment Republicans disavowed him, while others hoped his heterodox views ― antithetical to many pro-business elites ― could reshape politics.

But as president, Trump has mostly governed as a traditional Republican leader. His rhetoric may sound different, but his biggest accomplishments and policy initiatives are, at the end of the day, almost completely in line with an orthodox GOP agenda ― with more of an emphasis on nationalist policies.

Trump didn’t execute some hostile takeover of the party; he was readily welcomed by many in the rank and file as its chief, and his administration has already fulfilled many items on its wishlist.

“President Trump has absolutely governed as a Republican,” said Boris Epshteyn, a former Trump aide who is now chief political analyst at Sinclair Broadcast Group. “The president has had success on a wide range of fronts which are key to the Republican and conservative agenda, including deregulation, tax reform, decimating ISIS, repealing [Obamacare’s] individual mandate, reforming immigration, etc.”

“It is also important to note how involved the president has been in supporting Republican candidates throughout the country and working to keep GOP majorities in the House and the Senate,” he added.

The most significant accomplishments under Trump have as much to do with Congress as they do with the president. Legislatively, Trump’s biggest win was the tax cut law that delivered a massive permanent reduction for corporations. While Trump aides helped craft the legislation, it was something that congressional Republicans like House Speaker Paul Ryan (R-Wis.) have been preparing for years ― long before Trump ran for president.

“In many ways Trump is governing as a traditional Reaganite – less government regulation, less taxes and a stronger military.” - Newsmax CEO Chris Ruddy

Trump also nominated Neil Gorsuch to the Supreme Court, ensuring that conservatives continue to hold the majority on the bench. But the reason Trump was able to choose a justice at all was thanks to Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.), who refused to let the chamber vote on President Barack Obama’s nominee when Antonin Scalia’s death created a vacancy in early 2016.

And in filling the high court vacancy and others in lower federal courts, Trump has leaned heavily on recommendations from the Federalist Society, which has a deep network of conservative legal talent.

While Trump came in promising to “drain the swamp,” his lack of political experience has allowed the swamp to thrive. Lobbyists, special interest groups and even foreign nations have been able to find ways into the administration.

Trump initially appointed a number of outsiders to his cabinet and top staff. Recently, however, he has begun turning to Republican insiders and former GOP officials who are more ideologically aligned with the party establishment. Larry Kudlow, his new top economic adviser, is a long-time free trade and tax cut advocate. John Bolton, his new national security adviser, previously served as United Nations ambassador under President George W. Bush and is one of the most hawkish voices in American foreign policy who has fiercely defended the Iraq War.

A policy area where Trump has most radically broken with Republicans is on trade. Trump’s decision to impose tariffs on steel and aluminum, as well as additional steep tariffs on China, has spooked markets and sparked fears of an impending trade war.

While congressional Republicans have warned about the negative effects of Trump’s tariffs, few have indicated they will support legislation to nullify them. China, meanwhile, retaliated against the U.S. on Monday by imposing tariffs on 120 types of commodities, which is expected to primarily affect American farmers.

“In many ways Trump is governing as a traditional Reaganite ― less government regulation, less taxes and a stronger military,” Trump confidante and Newsmax CEO Chris Ruddy said. “Even on trade, Reagan was a hawk and Trump tapped his key trade [representative], Bob Lightizer. Trump often stakes out positions more extreme than Reagan, but observers should see this as a negotiating tactic for him. With Trump, always look at results and the bottom line; they tend to be quite reasonable and good.”

Former House Speaker Newt Gingrich (R-Ga.) agreed with the Reagan comparison, but said Trump put more emphasis on “things that have changed.”

“I think he would approve of Trump’s nationalism about controlling immigration and focusing on merit based immigrants,” Gingrich said. “Reagan had defense, economic growth and the deficit in that order and the recent Trump signature of the spending bill followed the Reagan pattern. Trump’s aggressive trade policy would have been understandable to Reagan because the world has changed. When the director of national intelligence in 2015 said China had stolen $460 billion in intellectual property in one year you clearly have to rethink your trader policies.”

The George W. Bush wing of the party, in contrast, was “more globalist and more anti-deficit.”

Trump recently chose former United Nations Ambassador John Bolton (left), as his new national security adviser. He'll work closely with Defense Secretary Jim Mattis. Mark Wilson/Getty Images

Trump often gives members of his party heartburn when he praises Russia and its president, Vladimir Putin. But he recently listened to his staff and agreed to expel 60 Russian spies and diplomats, the largest such expulsion in U.S. history. The move drew rare praise from lawmakers of both parties.

“This fits the pattern of our policy toward Russia in the Trump administration,” John Herbst, a Russia scholar at the Atlantic Council, told The Washington Post. “If you just look at policy, this administration has taken steps the Obama administration was not willing to, such as supplying antitank missiles to Ukraine. The president’s heart doesn’t seem to be in it, but for whatever reason, he’s willing to go along with his advisers.”

Immigration is perhaps the top issue that animates Trump’s base ― and therefore himself ― but he’s hardly the first GOP politician to use it to appeal to voters. During his 2010 re-election bid, for example, Sen. John McCain (R-Ariz.) starred in a memorable ad in which he walked along the U.S. border with Mexico and urged then-Sheriff Paul Babeu to “complete the danged fence.” In 2012, GOP presidential contender Mitt Romney urged undocumented immigrants to “self-deport.” And just last week, Romney said as a Senate candidate in Utah that undocumented immigrants who came into the country as children shouldn’t be allowed to obtain legal status at all.

Trump recently signed a $1.3 trillion government funding bill into law that will greatly increase the federal deficit by raising spending for domestic and military programs. During the Obama administration, Republicans railed against the federal deficit and called for cutting spending. But the fact that the omnibus sailed through was less a result of Trump being a new type of president then the reality that Republicans no longer need to make the deficit a political issue now that they have a GOP president.

On gun policy, Trump stunned lawmakers earlier this year when he publicly embraced several gun control measures and shot down GOP priorities like concealed carry reciprocity. He even, shockingly, said he would be fine taking away people’s guns without their permission, and told members of Congress that they should be willing to stand up to the National Rifle Association.

Shortly thereafter, however, order in Trump’s Washington was restored: The Republican president had realigned himself with conservative priorities and abandoned talk of pushing lawmakers to pass broader gun control proposals.

And on social policy, Trump has continued to restrict abortion access and block advancements for lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender people, staying in the space where Republicans have traditionally fallen.

“On most of the issues, the policies of this administration have fallen under traditional Republican policy,” GOP strategist and former Republican National Committee spokesman Doug Heye said. “This is seen not only in the measures advanced by the administration ... but also in the personnel that the administration has brought on board.”President Donald Trump inspects border wall prototypes in San Diego on March 13. MANDEL NGAN/AFP/Getty Images

WASHINGTON ― If President Donald Trump seems particularly agitated about his failure to secure money to build his long-promised wall along the Mexican border, he has millions of good reasons to be like that.

While most Americans are relatively unconcerned about Trump’s “Great Wall,” his supporters continue to expect it to be built, according to a new HuffPost/YouGov poll.

Fully 65 percent of those who voted for Trump in 2016 said the president was “likely to accomplish” his promise to build a wall and make Mexico pay for it. (Six percent said they believed it had already happened.) More Trump voters named the promise as a top three priority than anything else but his vow to “drain the swamp” in the nation’s capital.

It is precisely those loyal supporters whom Trump may be on the verge of alienating by failing to get funding for the wall in a $1.3 trillion spending bill he signed late last month.

“He lied to us. He lied to us all. He betrayed us,” said William Gheen, head of the hard-line group Americans for Legal Immigration. “He’s jumped into the D.C. swamp like it’s a Mar-a-Lago hot tub.”

Overall, only 30 percent of Americans think Trump will be able to build a wall and make Mexico pay for it, while 49 percent think he will fail. Only 13 percent of Americans generally rank the wall in the top three promises Trump made. Among Trump voters, the latter figure is nearly three times as high: 37 percent.

Mark Krikorian, of the similarly hard-line Center for Immigration Studies, said the lack of wall funding in the spending bill, which runs through Sept. 30, wouldn’t have been so bad had it not been for the large spending increases in other areas, including those favored by Democrats.

“If he was enjoying success more broadly, then the disappointing parts of this bill wouldn’t have that sting,” Krikorian said. “There’s no question that this is going to de-motivate a significant number of people. You can’t put up with betrayal forever.”

Trump appears to understand how poorly the spending bill has gone over with his base, which may be why he has spoken out so aggressively about the wall over the past week ― even, at one point, trying to get the military to pay for it out of its budget. (On Tuesday, he even suggested he might post troops along parts of the border until the wall gets built.)

“Embarrassingly stupid,” a Republican adviser close to the White House said on condition of anonymity. “Over a year in, just signed a $1 trillion spending bill and now whines about having the Army do it.”

Stan Collender, who for many years worked on Capitol Hill as a budget committee staffer, said he cannot see the Defense Department going along with a major reallocation of its funds. Nor can he see Congress going along with it, which it would need to do.

“He said Mexico was going to pay for the wall, and they turned him down,” Collender said. “Plan B was for Congress to pay for it, and they turned him down. Plan C is that he wants the Pentagon to pay for it, and they’re almost certainly going to turn him down.”

As the military option seemed to fizzle, Trump instead began claiming ― falsely ― that construction of his wall has already begun.

“We started building our wall. I’m so proud of it. We started. We started. We have $1.6 billion, and we’ve already started,” he said during a speech last week in Ohio. “And you saw those beautiful pictures, and the wall looks good. It’s properly designed.”

Those pictures he referred to were included in a message sent from Trump’s Twitter account the previous day: “Great briefing this afternoon on the start of our Southern Border WALL!”

The tweet included photos of a tall “bollard” fence under construction in Calexico, California. It is replacing a shorter existing fence, and the work has been planned for years. (It is unclear, however, whether Trump personally wrote or directed that tweet and added those photos. The president is not known to gather images or video from the internet on his own.)

Meanwhile, the newly passed spending bill contains only $641 million to build 33 miles of barrier along the border between Mexico and the United States in areas that are currently unsecured. That total includes 25 miles of “levee” fencing along the Rio Grande and eight miles of pedestrian fence. The remainder of the roughly $1.6 billion is to repair and replace existing fence or to upgrade other border security measures.

And completely absent from the discussion is the idea of Mexico paying for the project ― something that Trump promised hundreds of times on the campaign trail.

While most of his campaign positions were drafted weeks or months into his presidential run, Trump’s promise to build a structure along the southern border was a central point in his June 2015 announcement speech.

“I would build a great wall, and nobody builds walls better than me, believe me, and I’ll build them very inexpensively,” Trump boasted. “I will build a great, great wall on our southern border. And I will have Mexico pay for that wall. Mark my words.”

That vow drew an enthusiastic response, and Trump began including it in his standard stump speech. Often it would be in a call-and-response format, with the candidate asking, “Who’s going to pay for the wall?” and the crowd shouting, “Mexico!”

The vow did not go over well with Mexican leaders, and that country’s president, Enrique Peña Nieto, reportedly canceled a recent planned visit to the White House over his adamant refusal to stop saying that Mexico had no intention of paying for Trump’s wall.

Whether the funding element of Trump’s wall promise matters to his political base is unclear. The HuffPost/YouGov poll did not separate wall construction generally from the idea of Mexico paying for it. According to a Quinnipiac University poll from last May, 52 percent of Republican voters believed Trump would eventually find a way to make Mexico pay for the wall, while 39 percent did not and 10 percent did not know.

Some top Republicans wonder how meaningful these figures really are, pointing out that Trump has already suggested that renegotiating the North American Free Trade Agreement with Canada and Mexico should count toward his wall funding promise.

“Trump will likely argue that his great deal-making regarding NAFTA will prove that Mexico paid for the wall,” said one Republican National Committee member on condition of anonymity.

“Some of the polling I’ve seen indicates that voters don’t even care if it’s a bricks-and-mortar wall or a ‘virtual’ wall,” said GOP pollster Neil Newhouse. “They simply want our borders intact.”

But Gheen, of Americans for Legal Immigration, said Trump’s strongest and earliest supporters are quite clear about what they want.

“Millions of Americans were very serious about Donald Trump’s promises,” said Gheen, who noted he went to great effort to attend Trump’s inauguration because he was so enamored of the new president. “When they were chanting about building the wall, they weren’t joking around. It wasn’t some type of pep rally.”

Trump likely has only one chance left to make things right with his base before the November midterm elections. The new spending bill expires at the end of the federal budget year on Sept. 30. Congress will have to pass an extension or an entirely new spending plan prior to that deadline, and Trump last week appeared to signal that he intends to use that opportunity to demand his wall.

“On September 28th, we go further and we’re getting that sucker built,” he said. “And you think that’s easy? People said, ‘Oh, has he given up on the wall?’ No, I never give up.”

Whether Trump would be willing to shut down the government if Congress fails to give him his wall money remains to be seen. He wasn’t willing last month, and doing so at the end of September could reflect poorly on Republicans just five weeks before Election Day.

One former Trump aide, though, said he might not have a choice. If Trump fails yet again to get his wall, his most loyal supporters might just skip voting entirely, the aide said on condition of anonymity.

“Does he put his base to sleep for the midterms?” the former aide said. “Half of his base is pissed off because of the wall, and the other half is pissed because ‘Here we go again.’”

Use the widget below to further explore the results of the HuffPost/YouGov survey, utilizing the menu at the top to select survey questions and the buttons at the bottom to filter the data by subgroups:

The HuffPost/YouGov poll consisted of 1,000 completed interviews conducted March 28-29 among U.S. adults, using a sample selected from YouGov’s opt-in online panel to match the demographics and other characteristics of the adult U.S. population.

HuffPost has teamed up with YouGov to conduct daily opinion polls. You can learn more about this project and take part in YouGov’s nationally representative opinion polling. More details on the polls’ methodology are available here.Former presidential candidate Hillary Clinton is expected to endorse New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo's re-election campaign. Lucas Jackson / Reuters

Hillary Clinton is expected to hit the campaign trail this week to endorse New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo (D) in his re-election campaign.

Clinton, the 2016 Democratic presidential nominee and former New York senator, is planning on speaking for Cuomo at the state Democratic convention in Long Island on Wednesday, a Cuomo spokeswoman confirmed to HuffPost on Monday.

The endorsement was first reported by The New York Times.

Cuomo faces former “Sex and the City” star Cynthia Nixon in the Sept. 13 Democratic primary. He is expected to receive the Democratic Party’s endorsement later this week, The Associated Press reported.

Cynthia Nixon is seen at a campaign stop in Brooklyn in March after announcing her run for governor of New York. Shannon Stapleton / Reuters

A Quinnipiac University survey published earlier this month gave Cuomo a 22-point lead over Nixon.

Clinton’s endorsement would mark her return to campaigning for a political candidate after her crushing defeat in the 2016 election against President Donald Trump.

Then-Housing and Urban Development Secretary Andrew Cuomo is seen with then-New York Senate candidate Hillary Clinton during a Columbus Day Parade in New York in 2000. New York Daily News Archive via Getty Images

Clinton and her husband, former President Bill Clinton, have a long history with Cuomo and his family. Cuomo served as housing secretary in Bill Clinton’s administration. He endorsed Hillary Clinton’s presidential run shortly after it was announced in 2015.

Nixon also expressed support of Clinton’s presidential campaign that year, telling Bloomberg News: “I am definitely a Hillary person.”

Clinton also recently recorded an automated phone call that endorses Stacey Abrams for Georgia governor, the Times reported. Abrams is the former Democratic leader in the Georgia House.

This story has been updated with additional details about the relationship between Cuomo and the Clintons.WASHINGTON ― Reps. Carlos Curbelo (R-Fla.), Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-Fla.) and Elise Stefanik (R-N.Y.) called for Scott Pruitt’s resignation this week, becoming the first Republicans to demand the embattled Environmental Protection Agency administrator step down amid growing controversy over his spending and ties to lobbyists.

In a tweet, Curbelo said Pruitt’s “corruption scandals are an embarrassment,” and urged President Donald Trump to fire the nation’s top environmental regulator if he does not quit.

Major policy differences aside, @EPAScottPruitt‘s corruption scandals are an embarrassment to the Administration, and his conduct is grossly disrespectful to American taxpayers. It's time for him to resign or for @POTUS to dismiss him. https://t.co/gXWLDffqam — Rep. Carlos Curbelo (@RepCurbelo) April 3, 2018

Ros-Lehtinen, who is retiring from Congress this year, echoed Curbelo.

“When scandals and distractions overtake a public servant’s ability to function effectively, another person should fill that role,” the congresswoman said in a statement provided to HuffPost.

Stefanik, in a comment Thursday to The Daily Beast, called for Pruitt to step down.

“Congresswoman Stefanik believes it’s in the best interest of the EPA for Mr. Pruitt to resign,” a spokesperson said. “She will continue to be a strong advocate in Congress for environmental issues that affect our district, which is the proud home of the Adirondacks.”

Curbelo is one of the most vulnerable House Republicans running for re-election this cycle ― former Democratic presidential candidate Hillary Clinton won his majority-Latino district by 16 points in the 2016 election ― and he has said he’d welcome Trump’s help ahead of the 2018 midterms. Curbelo is up just five points over likely Democratic challenger Debbie Mucarsel-Powell, according to a survey the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee released this week.

Rep. Carlos Curbelo (R-Fla.) has joined Democrats and environmental groups in calling for Environmental Protection Agency Administrator Scott Pruitt to step down. Tom Williams via Getty Images

Curbelo, widely considered one of the GOP’s few hawkish voices on climate change, has been critical of Pruitt. In March 2017, he called Pruitt’s denial of carbon emissions’ impact on climate change “reckless,” and urged the administrator to “come to South Florida to see” firsthand the effects of sea-level rise.

Curbelo’s comments about Pruitt, one day after the EPA unveiled the administration’s plan to roll back Obama-era vehicle emissions rules, demonstrates how quickly the latest accusations of corruption against the administrator have spun out of control.

Pruitt’s housing in Washington came under scrutiny last week after ABC News reported that he rented a room in a luxury condominium co-owned by the wife of a top gas industry lobbyist. Pruitt paid $50 per night, a sweetheart deal well below the market rate for an upscale Capitol Hill townhouse. The EPA’s Office of General Counsel quickly issued a memo endorsing the rate, but the agency’s ethics lawyer struggled to defend Pruitt’s adult daughter’s use of another room at the residence.

Curbelo did not return a request for an interview on Tuesday afternoon.

Asked to comment on Curbelo’s remarks about Pruitt, EPA spokesman Jahan Wilcox sent a statement defending the administrator’s rental.

“As EPA career ethics officials stated in a memo, Administrator Pruitt’s housing arrangement for both himself and family was not a gift and the lease was consistent with federal ethics regulations,” the statement said.

The controversy comes after months of criticism over Pruitt’s spending on first-class flights and luxury hotels, including $2,600 airfare to Oklahoma, a $120,000 trip to Italy and a $40,000 visit to Morocco to promote liquefied natural gas, a questionable responsibility for an EPA administrator to take on.

Environmental Protection Agency chief Scott Pruitt is facing mounting pressure to resign. The Washington Post via Getty Images

Few other Republicans have publicly called on Pruitt to step down. A spokesperson for Rep. Mario Diaz-Balart (R-Fla.), who also represents a district in southern Florida, did not immediately return a request for comment.

However, former New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie (R), who outlasted the “Bridgegate” scandal that thwarted his presidential ambitions, on Sunday said he was concerned about the ethics of Pruitt’s rental.

“I don’t know how you survive this one, and if he has to go, it’s because he never should have been there in the first place,” Christie said on ABC News’ “This Week.”

Trump reportedly phoned Pruitt on Monday evening and told him to “keep your head up” and “keep fighting.” In a meeting with leaders of Baltic nations at the White House on Tuesday, Trump said, “I hope he’s going to be great.”

Democrats, meanwhile, are calling on Pruitt to resign “immediately.”

“It is long past time for Scott Pruitt’s tenure to end. From cozying up to industry insiders, to wasting taxpayer dollars and breaking ethical norms, Americans cannot trust Pruitt and he should resign immediately,” the Democratic National Committee said in a statement.

The Senate confirmed Pruitt last year by a vote of 52-46. Sens. Joe Manchin of West Virginia and Heidi Heitkamp of North Dakota, two vulnerable Democrats who are up for re-election this year in states Trump won in 2016, joined nearly every Republican in voting to approve Pruitt’s nomination.

Neither Manchin’s spokesperson nor Heitkamp’s spokesperson immediately responded to a request for comment about whether the senators thought Pruitt should step down.Sinclair Broadcast Group, the largest owner and operator of local TV stations in the U.S., is under fire this week for requiring dozens of its news anchors to recite an on-air critique of “fake” news stories, echoing the language of President Donald Trump and his allies in their attacks on the media.

Some employees have spoken out about their frustration at having to parrot the conservative politics of their employer. Others say they’d like to do more, but they’re wary due to what they say is Sinclair’s policy and practice of closely monitoring its employees.

Sinclair’s employee handbook, provided to HuffPost, states that the company “may monitor, intercept, and review, without further notice, every employee’s activities using Company’s electronic resources and communications systems.”

The handbook goes on to state, “To be very clear: you should not have any expectation of personal privacy in any communication using Company owned equipment.”

HuffPost

Read the entire Sinclair employee handbook here.

Labor lawyers tell HuffPost such language is common in workplace handbooks and contracts. But Sinclair employees say the company’s culture and behavior have made them particularly mindful of such policies.

“There’s a lot held over us,” a journalist at a Sinclair affiliate told HuffPost on the condition of anonymity. “They pay attention to what websites we’re on.”

The employee added Sinclair monitors its employees’ social media accounts “with a magnifying glass.”

On Tuesday, the TV News website FTLLive published an internal memo sent by the general manager of Sinclair affiliate KATU in Portland, Oregon, urging his staff to not speak with the press.

“I will also remind you that giving statements to the media or sharing negative information about the company can have huge implications,” Robert Truman, KATU’s general manager, wrote.

Sinclair employees say their parent company often pays especially close attention to its affiliates’ editorial activities, meddling in how they present their stories and graphics, and sometimes going so far as to delete offensive comments on an affiliate’s online articles before that station’s own web editors have a chance to do so.

Critics say the “fake news” statement, which aired on Sinclair affiliates last month and was brought to national attention by a video produced by the sports website Deadspin, is another example of a conservative agenda that the broadcast giant has pursued for over a decade. Such efforts include promoting favorable coverage of Trump’s 2016 campaign and requiring affiliates to air conservative commentaries by Boris Epshteyn, a former Trump adviser.

Employees at Sinclair affiliates tell HuffPost that the “fake news” script is in keeping with a culture fostered by their parent company that often makes them uneasy, forcing them to choose between their own journalistic standards and the ability to do their jobs and put food on their tables.

“The new scripted ‘fake news’ segment caused a lot of anguish where I work,” one Sinclair journalist told HuffPost. “If you choose not to air a must-run, you choose to flip off your parent company, in a sense, and risk losing resources.”

“Everyone, including the anchors and the producers and the news director, hates Boris,” the employee added, referring to Epshteyn’s segments. “Everything Sinclair gives us or forces upon us is met with uproar, but we have no choice.”

Epshteyn did not return a request for comment.

Another Sinclair affiliate employee, an on-air reporter, told HuffPost he and his colleagues are concerned about the effect the segment is having on their reputations for impartiality.

“I feel really bad for the anchors who are in the promos, because it paints them in a negative light and in a manner which is not truly who they are,” the reporter said. “The ‘fake news’ phrase automatically associates us with Trump and his administration and in turn the beliefs of that political party. The irony in the promo is that the message does in fact have an agenda and is not ‘unbiased.’”

“I spoke with both anchors at our station about the promo and they hate it,” the same employee added. “We all do.”

One anchor, who declined to comment, instead pointed HuffPost to a Facebook post by Norma Holland, anchor of “Good Day Rochester” the morning news program broadcast by WHAM-13, a Sinclair affiliate in Rochester, New York. In her post, Holland, who was one of the anchors who delivered the “fake news” script, described the dilemma posed to her and her colleagues.

“The Sinclair message you saw me and my colleagues in has damaged the trust you place in us — a trust that’s taken, me in particular, 22 years to build. That hurts,” Holland wrote.

“I could have chosen to quit, but who among us has an alternate career in their back pocket ready to go?” she continued. “I have a family to support. That’s not an excuse — that’s reality.”



On Tuesday, Bloomberg reported that Sinclair employees face stiff penalties for quitting or otherwise violating their contracts, including clauses that could cost them upward of 40 percent of their annual salary.

“Everything Sinclair gives us or forces upon us is met with uproar, but we have no choice.” - Sinclair employee

Scott Livingston, Sinclair’s vice president of news, sent employees a memo this week defending the company’s “fake news” segment, trumpeting the reporting of its affiliates and lambasting the practices and ethics of the company’s critics.

“Honestly, most of the Sinclair critics don’t seem to do their own original reporting,” Livingston said in the memo, first reported by CNN and obtained by HuffPost. “These reporters aren’t producing original journalism; they are aggregating often-flawed-reporting-content published by other media outlets without fact checking it ― or calling us to confirm any of it.”

Representatives for Sinclair declined to comment on the accusations of employee monitoring and instead directed HuffPost to a press release from Livingston released on Monday.

“We aren’t sure of the motivation for the criticism, but find it curious that we would be attacked for asking our news people to remind their audiences that unsubstantiated stories exist on social media, which result in an ill-informed public with potentially dangerous consequences,” Livingston wrote.

Trump on Monday also weighed in on the controversy surrounding Sinclair, tweeting, “So funny to watch Fake News Networks, among the most dishonest groups of people I have ever dealt with, criticize Sinclair Broadcasting for being biased.”

Trump expanded on that theme Tuesday morning with another Sinclair-focused missive posted to the social media service.

“The Fake News Networks, those that knowingly have a sick and biased AGENDA, are worried about the competition and quality of Sinclair Broadcast,” the commander-in-chief tweeted. “The ‘Fakers’ at CNN, NBC, ABC & CBS have done so much dishonest reporting that they should only be allowed to get awards for fiction!”

Advertisement