Some Villanova fans took celebration of their team’s NCAA basketball championship Monday night to dangerous extremes.

Video from Fox 29 shows revelers (below) jumping over a street fire amid a huge crowd near the school’s suburban Philadelphia campus. They appeared to be taking turns.

People jumping over a street fire while one kid watches from atop a traffic light. Safe to say the celebration's on pic.twitter.com/00gYzZe4VO — Sports Illustrated (@SInow) April 3, 2018

Students climbed trees to break off branches to fuel the blaze, The Associated Press reported. Police eventually directed people away from the flames.

Philadelphia-area fans got to take to the streets to enjoy another prominent sports championship recently after the Eagles won the Super Bowl.Ever seen a one-man alley-oop in a real basketball game?

Take your chance now, because this one is spectacular.

Tyler Williams of Modesto Christian High School provided the over-the-top highlight during the NorCal Sports TV senior all-star game on Sunday in Livermore.

Williams faked past his opponent, scooped the ball at the backboard, caught it with one hand and dunked it through.

What did I just witness pic.twitter.com/g1ZrHMmy02 — Mac Man (@aaron_macman) April 2, 2018

“The crowd had gone dead, probably from seeing the same old thing,” Williams told the Modesto Bee. “I had to spice it up a little bit ... get everyone going.”

It got outlets such as ESPN’s “SportsCenter,” Yahoo and Bleacher Report going as well.

And he got a nice shoutout from Modesto Christian.I remember walking down the long hall and opening the door to my room to find an entire flock of seagulls in my room. I didn’t have time to count, but there must have been 40 of them and they had been in my room, eating pepperoni for a long time.

In case you were wondering, Brothers’ TNT Pepperoni does NASTY things to a seagull’s digestive system. As you would expect, the room was covered in seagull crap. What I did not realize until then was that Seagulls also drool. Especially when they eat pepperoni.A South Sudanese refugee digs a pit latrine for his family in the Bidi Bidi refugee camp. Peter Martell

BIDI BIDI, Uganda ― As far as the eye can see, tents and huts stretch into the distance.

Neck-deep in a tight trench, Jackson Wani swats away buzzing flies as he shovels soil. The stench is strong from the collapsed wall of the latrine he is shoring up, a dozen paces from his family’s makeshift home.

Wani, a 35-year-old father of three, fled from his small farm in South Sudan in 2016 when soldiers torched his village. He trekked with his family for four days on narrow forest paths to the Bidi Bidi refugee camp in neighboring Uganda.

More than a million refugees ― a population twice the size of Miami ― have arrived in Uganda since civil war broke out in South Sudan in 2013. Last year, the conflict spiraled into a man-made famine, and the United Nations warned that the situation was “fertile ground” for genocide.

The South Sudanese refugee crisis could soon be Africa’s biggest since the Rwandan genocide of 1994, and few of the displaced people hope to return home anytime soon. The Bidi Bidi camp, one of a series of refugee centers in northern Uganda, houses some 280,000 people. For several months in 2017, it was listed as the world’s largest refugee camp. No longer accepting new arrivals, it is transitioning into a settlement for long-term residents. But the flow of refugees continues into the surrounding area.

Around the world ― from regions as varied as the Middle East, Southeast Asia and Central Africa ― staggering numbers of people have fled their homes in recent years to escape war, persecution, or political instability. Over 2.6 million of them live in officially recognized refugee camps, according to the U.N.

Proper sanitation and health care are major challenges in these camps, and the diseases waiting there can be as deadly as the conflict the refugees left behind.

Uganda Red Cross volunteers fix a pedal-operated soap dispenser for hand washing in an effort to reduce infections in the Bidi Bidi refugee camp. Peter Martell

Tens of thousands have been killed in over four years of South Sudan’s war. But researchers who have studied conflict worldwide suggest that the number of indirect deaths could be 15 times higher than those who died in actual fighting, and disease and sickness are a core part of that. (There are no precise figures for the number of deaths in Bidi Bidi due to disease.)

At the same time, there is a pernicious misconception that when refugees flee, they bring diseases with them and sicken uninfected populations. The World Health Organization is clear that there is no systematic association between refugees and disease. Instead, the problems that refugees face are common to all who struggle in poverty.

The risk of disease increases when refugee populations are severely impoverished, like those coming from South Sudan. Many people arrived in Bidi Bidi, for example, with nothing but the clothes they had on.

“With a large number of displaced people living in close proximity, with poor water, sanitation and hygiene conditions, it leads to a risk of waterborne diseases,” said Lisa Nelson, the Uganda country director for the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, which is supporting efforts to monitor health in the camps scattered across the forests and farmlands of northern Uganda.

For Wani’s family, like many recent refugees in Uganda, the top priority was building a shelter from fierce sun and hard rains. A family might dig out a latrine or construct a toilet much later. Many people in Bidi Bidi use communal latrines.

An aerial shot of the Bidi Bidi refugee camp in northern Uganda. Sumy Sadurni

Aid agencies are trying to encourage households to maintain their own toilets and latrines. But it can take weeks to get new arrivals set up with a waste system that functions properly.

“We made a toilet last month, but it was destroyed in the rains,” Wani said, resting in between shoveling. “Then we dug another, but it just filled up with water. This one will be stronger, I hope.”

In this sprawling settlement, cholera, hepatitis and typhoid fever ― all associated with exposure to human fecal matter ― are big risks. With large numbers of children together, measles is also a worry. And about a third of the cases seen by camp doctors involve malaria, which is spread by mosquitoes who breed in standing water.

Wani’s 2-year-old son was sick with a fever when he spoke to HuffPost. “The doctors say it is malaria,” Wani said. “This place has so many mosquitoes about.”

A baby is treated for malaria at a makeshift clinic in the Palabek refugee settlement in northern Uganda. Sumy Sadurni

The health care system in South Sudan was already in ruins from its decades-long war of independence from Sudan, but the new nation’s civil war has made things worse. Almost all of the major neglected tropical diseases recognized by the WHO are found in South Sudan. These frequently misunderstood illnesses tend to strike the poorest, most marginalized populations with the least access to health services. They include blinding trachoma, certain types of intestinal worms, and the ferocious visceral leishmaniasis fever. In recent weeks, South Sudan has declared an outbreak of Rift Valley fever, a viral disease that can cross from animals to humans, and reported suspected cases of meningitis.

Uganda, which has a far more robust health system, has been more successful in keeping these diseases at bay. But the risk grows with the limited care and paper-thin resources in refugee camps like Bidi Bidi. Communities already weakened by war and forced from their homes are more vulnerable to disease. All crowded camps face threats of infection, although the nature of the disease changes from place to place.

For example, refugees fleeing Syria last year struggled with an outbreak of cutaneous leishmaniasis, a parasitic disease spread by sandflies that causes boils and lesions.

A doctor treats a child showing symptoms of leishmaniasis at a hospital in Aleppo, Syria, on Feb. 11, 2013 Muzaffar Salman/Reuters

“A refugee camp is a hotbed for disease,” said virologist Dr. Julius Lutwama, deputy head of the Uganda Virus Research Institute, a government-backed center that tracks disease. “Congregation is one of the biggest problems for transmission.”

Soon after the South Sudanese refugees arrived, the Ugandan government handed out plots of land to each family in Bidi Bidi and the surrounding camps. The scrubland was enough to build a small hut and carve out a patch to plant crops.

But there was a reason the land here was sparsely populated. When the rainy season comes, some areas turn into bogs.

People wait at a clinic in the Palabek refugee settlement. Sumy Sadurni

Water and sanitation experts are trying to help the people who live in these settlements. Red Cross volunteers advise on the best way to construct latrines to withstand Uganda’s heavy rainy season and offer practical guides to installing handwashing stations and digging pits for trash. Yet overstretched doctors can barely cope with the flood of patients who come in every day.

Dr. Ogwal Daniel, working for the International Rescue Committee, runs the largest clinic in the Palabek camp, which unlike nearby Bidi Bidi is still expanding with new refugees. The one doctor and a team of nurses see over 100 patients each day.

“You have to make do with what you have,” Daniel said, waving at his clinic, a wooden frame with plastic sheeting for the roof and walls. On the other side of the flimsy structure, a baby with a malaria fever wails as a nurse slides a needle into his arm.

“Of course, we could always use more, but we adjust to the situation,” Daniel said.“I think the U.K. thing that I always have pitched and wanted to do is that Christmas special thing, where we do a Christmas special this year and then two years from now, or three years from now, we do another one,” he said. “I love that idea coming back finding out where everybody is. I would totally be down for that.”

Krasinkski added, “It’s one of those things where I’m sure people don’t believe me when I say I would totally do it, because the truth is I would totally do it.”

We’ll be waiting.A frightening traffic collision was caught on video in Plano, Texas, by a motorcyclist who had no time to react and filmed himself riding straight into the wreck.

No one was seriously injured in the Saturday incident, including motorcyclist Malik Elizee, who was recording his ride with a GoPro camera.

Elizee said a car ran a red light. His footage shows the vehicle slamming into an SUV, which turns over on its side and hits another vehicle:

“No one left in an ambulance, myself included,” Elizee wrote on YouTube. “I was wearing most of my gear (was only going up the road so only had on regular jeans and boots), gloves and jacket saved me what would’ve been some serious sliding damage.”

Amazingly, even the motorcycle was largely OK. The frame sliders were destroyed, but they served their purpose and saved most of the bike.

“Other than some broken plastic and mirror, the damage isn’t too serious,” he wrote. “Still can start up and ride, I actually rode it home.”

He told WFAA-TV, the Dallas ABC station, that it’s the third time he’s been hit in two years of riding.This squirrel is “Stayin’ Alive,” in some small part due to “The Office.”

Back in Season Five of the hit comedy TV series, Steve Carell’s character Michael Scott learns that a good tip for performing CPR is to do chest compressions to the beat of the Bee Gees’ 1977 disco hit.

And it was Carell’s hilarious scene that Central Michigan University student Natalie Belsito said she had in mind when she performed the life-saving technique on the critter, which a passerby had rescued from a pool on the Mount Pleasant campus as it was drowning.

Brought a squirrel back from the dead, what was your Wednesday like? #chipshelpingchips pic.twitter.com/htDv2ncjzI — nat belsito (@natbels7) March 29, 2018

“Honestly, when I was doing it, I was thinking of the episode of ‘The Office’ when they do CPR,” Belsito, 18, told student newspaper Central Michigan Life. “I was literally singing that song as I tried to do it.”

Belsito, who is studying biology wildlife conservation, revived the squirrel and took it back to her dorm, where she wrapped it in towels and warmed it with her hair dryer.

As the above footage that Belsito shared to Twitter on Thursday shows, she released the animal back outside, where it quickly scampered up a tree — much to the delight of her friends on the soccer team.

“Seeing the squirrel OK and running up the tree was an amazing feeling, and also having my team there to support the squirrel made it even better,” she told HuffPost on Tuesday. “I hope it’s inspiring people to help those that can’t help themselves!”

Belsito added to the student newspaper that “you gotta do what you gotta do if you’re going to save a squirrel’s life.”

The American Heart Association in 2011 used a public service announcement starring actor Ken Jeong to push “Stayin’ Alive,” with its 100-beats-per-minute tempo, as the perfect guide for performing CPR chest compressions:

This story has been updated with comment from Belsito.Pro-gun advocates rallied at the Vermont capitol over the weekend to protest a recently passed slate of gun laws, including a bill to implement universal background checks for all firearms purchases, raise the minimum gun purchase age to 21 years old, and ban the sale of bump stocks and high-capacity ammunition magazines.

The magazine restriction has raised particularly strong opposition among the gun rights crowd, which has characterized it as an unnecessary measure filled with loopholes. But at the gathering in Montpelier on Saturday, pro-gun activists also worked to actively exploit those loopholes by giving out free high-capacity magazines.

The scene followed a broader pattern of firearms enthusiasts criticizing gun control laws for being ineffective while subverting them out in the open. The laws could never work, the protest suggested, because we won’t let them.

“It’s a classic case of gun rights hypocrisy,” said Robert Spitzer, a professor at SUNY Cortland who’s written five books on gun policy. “They’re publicly doing everything they can to undermine the law.”

Chris Bradley, president of the Vermont Federation of Sportsmen’s Clubs, kicked off the rally by blasting lawmakers for supporting what he called an “unenforceable” magazine ban. State law enforcement officials, including the attorney general, have also stated that the provision could be difficult to enforce.

Minutes after Bradley spoke, Rob Curtis, the executive editor of Recoil Magazine, a gun lifestyle publication, began handing out 1,200 30-round magazines to the crowd. Curtis gave first priority to people under 21, who will be prohibited from purchasing ammunition magazines when the new law goes into effect, Bradley told HuffPost in an interview. Curtis did not respond to HuffPost’s request for comment.

Although the new law, S. 55, will prohibit the sale or transfer of any rifle magazine over 10 rounds and any handgun magazine over 15 rounds, it will not apply to the possession of any devices that are legally owned when the law takes effect. That means all of the high-capacity magazines given out on Saturday will remain legal.

The grandfathering of certain devices is a broader point of contention in the debate over bans on firearms or related accessories — some state laws have banned possession outright, regardless of when equipment was acquired. Grandfather clauses can make magazine restrictions particularly hard to enforce because it’s almost impossible to know which devices were legally obtained before the ban.

“Magazines are not serial-numbered, they are not marked with a date of manufacture, they may not even be marked with a manufacturer’s mark at all,” Bradley said.

Bradley also noted that Vermont neighbors New Hampshire, where high-capacity magazines remain legal. Although it would be illegal to import outlawed devices across the border, once they make it to Vermont, law enforcement might not be able to differentiate between illegal magazines purchased after the ban and legal pre-ban magazines.

“We’re trying to tell law-abiding Vermonters to abide by this, and many, many of them will, but that doesn’t mean that all of them will.” - State Sen. Philip Baruth

Supporters of S. 55 admit there will be challenges in enforcing the magazine ban, but they maintain that it will succeed in limiting access to high-capacity magazines that can radically increase the lethality of a weapon.

“We’re trying to tell law-abiding Vermonters to abide by this, and many, many of them will, but that doesn’t mean that all of them will,” said state Sen. Philip Baruth, who carries both Democratic and Progressive party labels.

Baruth likened the effort to his previous campaign to prohibit cellphone use while driving. Although critics of that measure also argued it would be impossible to enforce, he said that over time, many Vermonters have come to accept that you shouldn’t be on the phone when you’re in the car, whether out of respect for the law or concern for public safety. Baruth hopes gun owners will show a similar willingness to comply with new laws.

S. 55 will also allow authorities to crack down on vendors caught selling high-capacity magazines. Although the 1,200 new 30-round magazines given out over the weekend will make it a bit harder to keep tabs on these sorts of devices in general, over time, Baruth is confident the law will make them less ubiquitous and more difficult to get.

And that’s exactly what Bradley is afraid of.

“What they’re really hoping for is that down the road, as magazines start breaking, we’re not going to be able to replace them,” he said. “So, my generation’s protected, what about my son’s generation and my grandson’s generation?”

Bradley argued that limiting magazine capacity infringes on a gun owner’s right to self-defense. He said the Vermont Federation of Sportsmen’s Clubs is in the process of assembling a legal team to figure out the next step forward. Previous legal challenges against high-capacity magazine bans have failed in federal court, so it’s unclear what sort of recourse gun supporters will have in Vermont.

But Saturday’s magazine handout should serve as a reminder that some pro-gun advocates have little interest in engaging in a good-faith debate about the effectiveness of gun control. Vermont gun enthusiasts insisted that banning high-capacity magazines wouldn’t work, and were willing to sabotage the effort to help make their case.

“It essentially shows their contempt for the law,” said SUNY Cortland professor Spitzer.

To Baruth, Saturday’s show of resistance is proof that Vermont’s gun culture has become more radicalized over the past 25 years.

“We used to be a rural deer-hunting culture, and gun manufacturers have sort of piggybacked on that to wed people to the idea that military-style weaponry is akin to the traditional Vermont lifestyle, and it’s not,” he said.

A Wyoming-based firearms accessory manufacturer reportedly sent its magazines to Vermont for Saturday’s giveaway. Baruth argued that companies like this have a financial interest in preserving the sort of political environment in which people are free to be as “extreme in your gun rights position as possible.”

“Nobody grew up in a Vermont where you could kill 58 people ... in under 10 minutes,” Baruth said, referring to the mass shooting in Las Vegas last October. The gunman in that incident was equipped with around a dozen semi-automatic rifles outfitted with 100-round magazines and bump stocks, which allowed him to simulate automatic fire as he rained down more than 1,100 rounds on concertgoers attending a country music festival.

When S. 55 goes into effect, Vermont will join eight states and Washington, D.C., in restricting magazines of various sizes. The bill was part of a broader package of gun control legislation debated in the wake of the February school shooting in Parkland, Florida.

The day after that massacre, a Vermont teenager was arrested on charges that he was planning a similar shooting at a high school in Fair Haven, Vermont. The suspect in that case, an 18-year-old, was legally able to purchase a shotgun, but would not be under the new state law.

Vermont Gov. Phil Scott (R) has said he plans to sign S. 55 and other recently passed gun bills into law. In a statement last week, he said he understood that firearms advocates were “disappointed,” but maintained that the gun control measures were worthwhile initiatives.On the heels of police officers shooting a young, unarmed black man to death in Sacramento, California, last month, state lawmakers announced a first-of-its-kind bill on Monday that raises the standard for when officers may open fire.

The proposed legislation would change the guidance in California’s use of force laws so that police may open fire ”‘only when necessary’ rather than ‘when reasonable,’” Sacramento-based Assemblyman Kevin McCarty (D), said at a press conference Tuesday.

He co-authored the bill with fellow Democrat Assemblywoman Shirley Weber with support from the American Civil Liberties Union and fellow members of the California Legislative Black Caucus. They were joined at Tuesday’s press conference with Sacramento leaders from the NAACP and the Black Lives Matter movement, along with the grandfather of 22-year-old Stephon Clark, last month’s shooting victim.

“We should no longer be the target practice of a ‘shoot first, ask questions later’ police force,” Assemblyman Christopher Holden (D) said, before listing the names of several other unarmed black victims of police shootings.

The legislation is aimed at tackling the reality, as seen in studies, that police kill unarmed black men at disproportionate rates compared to unarmed white men. Supporters of the bill hope raising the standard for when lethal force is permitted will encourage officers to make de-escalation their first line of defense.

The current standard comes from an “over-100-year-old law that too often justifies deadly force incidents,” McCarty said.

In the weeks since Clark’s death, McCarty’s district has been stormed by protestors furious about the emerging details surrounding the shooting. Upward of 300 demonstrators gathered in Sacramento last Friday after an autopsy revealed the young father was shot at least seven times in the back in his own backyard.

“It’s clear that the current law protects the police, not the people,” ACLU legislative advocate Lizzie Buchen said at Tuesday’s announcement as activists recounted similar shooting incidents involving police.

Weber is confident the state can pave the way on this issue.Even days after his death, the civil rights leader managed to deliver a timely message at his own funeral. Previous assassination attempts, FBI surveillance and constant threats didn’t make it too impossible for King to foresee his own killing. But his teachings brought wisdom and foresight that carry on ― even 50 years later.

The question has been asked time and time again, quite possibly more recently than ever before: What would King say if he were alive to see the world today?

According to his daughter, he’s already said it.

“Dr. King, who fought against ... what he called the triple evils of poverty, racism and militarism, is very relevant to us now, and I think we need to heed some of the things that he was trying to instruct us on while he was with us,” Bernice said.

The minister fought many battles during his lifetime. He helped challenge racism in the South with boycotts, sit-ins and marches in the spirit of what’s known today as Kingian Nonviolence. For over a decade, King put his life on the line during these demonstrations and was instrumental in bringing forth the Civil Rights and Voting Rights Acts.Author Bill Konigsberg hopes his forthcoming novel will encourage readers not only to get swept away in a youthful romance but also to reconsider their biases around gender stereotypes.

HuffPost got an exclusive first look at the cover of The Music of What Happens, Konigsberg’s first gay-themed romance for young adults. Due out in January 2019, the book follows two teenage boys, Max and Jordan, in suburban Arizona. The sporty, confident Max may seem like an odd match for the poetic, introverted Jordan, but together, they prove chemistry can be found between total opposites.

Bill Konigsberg's The Music of What Happens hits retailers in 2019. Scholastic

The Arizona-based Konigsberg has repeatedly incorporated LGBTQ themes into his work, including 2013′s Openly Straight and its 2017 follow-up, Honestly Ben. The Music of What Happens, he said, ups the ante considerably as a love story between two fully formed queer characters.

“The first thing that comes to mind is that this book is utterly NOT about coming out. This is the story of two characters who happen to be gay, living in the suburbs of Phoenix,” he told HuffPost. “To me, that’s what we need more of now ― stories where LGBTQ characters are already out and living their lives.”

That isn’t to diminish the power of coming-out stories, of course. “It’s just been done,” the 47-year-old author explains, “a lot.”

The Stonewall-, GLAAD Media- and Lambda Literary Award-winning scribe said The Music of What Happens fits into a lot of forward-thinking discourse about LGBTQ people in that it “makes readers think about masculinity and femininity and balance.”

“As I wrote this book, I became very aware of my own biases and beliefs in terms of masculinity and femininity, and it really helped heal some of my own internal conflicts. In the end, we’re all both,” Konigsberg said. “We all contain multitudes, and it was so cool to watch my more feminine character ― Jordan ― find his inner warrior, and my more masculine character ― Max ― lean into a vulnerability he’d never experienced before.”Stephen Stills, Neil Young, Graham Nash and David Crosby of CSNY perform at Bridge School Benefit concert on Oct. 27, 2013, in Mountain View, California. Steve Jennings via Getty Images

What would it take for Crosby, Stills, Nash & Young to reunite?

Both Graham Nash and David Crosby recently suggested their mutual disdain for Donald Trump could spark a reunion of the classic supergroup.

But what does Neil Young think?

“I wouldn’t do anything for Trump,” Young quipped to HuffPost last month while talking about his new Netflix film, “Paradox.”

As far as a CSNY reunion goes ― Trump-inspired or not ― Young doesn’t have any current plans for it.

“I don’t plan things like that. They either happen or they don’t. I don’t have a plan,” Young said. “I want to make music with people who want to make music — that have the same sensibilities that I have. I don’t care who they are.”

Still, it sounds like other CSNY members think the current state of politics could serve as a catalyst.

When asked in March if a fifth member, or mediator, could unite them, Nash told the Cincinnati Enquirer: “Maybe Trump.”

“Just his existence,” he clarified, saying the members’ distaste for the man and his politics could propel the group ― known for their activism and politically inspired songs ― to reunite.

Crosby chimed in on Trump and a possible reunion back in February.

“We dislike him intensely because he’s a spoiled child who can’t do his job,” he told The Hollywood Reporter. “So a reunion is possible. We don’t like each other, but we like Trump a whole lot less.”

Either way, the individual members would have to put aside their own differences before joining forces again. Nash talked with the Enquirer about the sometimes explosive dynamic among the group’s four principals.

“There’s three, sometimes four, very strong personalities. I’ve had people try to get into arguments with the four of us, and we’ve tied them in … knots,” Nash said.

Nash doesn’t speak to Crosby, for one, though he does talk with Young and Stephen Stills “regularly.”

“We don’t get along, and we haven’t gotten along for a while. They’re all mad at me,” Crosby told THR, but wouldn’t elaborate on why. “You’ll have to ask them,” he said.

CSNY in 1974. Michael Putland via Getty Images

Young, meanwhile, said he’ll hit the road when he has some new music, hinting that he’d like to play again with Promise of the Real, the band featuring Willie Nelson’s son Lukas Nelson.

“I’d be out there playing with them more if I had more new material,” he said. “But I don’t have the new songs yet.”

That said, new music could come at any time.

“If I start hearing a melody or words, I stop doing what I’m doing and I do that. So, I make time. I don’t put aside time for that,” he said. “I just keep going and when it comes, it comes. And I’m there. I don’t go looking for it.”Former White House photographer Pete Souza was on a President Donald Trump-trolling roll over the Easter weekend.

Souza repeatedly threw shade at Trump by sharing a series of throwback snaps from his time documenting former President Barack Obama’s administration.

Souza kicked off on Saturday by posting this shot to Instagram, in what appeared to be a response to Trump’s earlier tweet where he insulted the governor of California by calling him Jerry “Moonbeam” Brown.

A post shared by Pete Souza (@petesouza) on Mar 31, 2018 at 6:51am PDT

On Sunday, Souza posted an old shot of Obama and the Easter Bunny “listening to the national anthem.” It looked like a subtle mocking of Trump for not singing all the words to the anthem at the College Football Playoff National Championship game in January:

A post shared by Pete Souza (@petesouza) on Apr 1, 2018 at 7:37am PDT

Souza later responded to Trump’s attacks on Amazon and the Washington Post with this picture and caption:

A post shared by Pete Souza (@petesouza) on Apr 1, 2018 at 8:00am PDT

Souza appeared to hit Trump on Monday over his tweets about a “caravan of migrants” trying to reach the Mexico-U.S. border:

A post shared by Pete Souza (@petesouza) on Apr 2, 2018 at 6:10am PDT

Souza ended his spree with this photo of Obama from the 2011 White House Easter Egg Roll.Vigilantes and religious police in Aceh often raid homes and places of work and detain people on suspicion of engaging in homosexual activity. CHAIDEER MAHYUDDIN via Getty Images

BANDA ACEH, Indonesia (Reuters) - Rights activists called on Tuesday for Indonesia’s Aceh province to release four people detained on suspicion of having homosexual sex, amid concerns over the persecution of the LGBT community in the world’s third-largest democracy.

Secular Indonesia is predominantly Muslim but ultra-conservative Aceh is the only province to follow sharia, or Islamic law, and criminalize gay sex.

Indonesia’s parliament is currently debating revisions to the national criminal code that could criminalize all sex outside marriage, including same-sex relations. Many believe the new rules could be used to unfairly target the LGBT community and other minority groups.

Authorities said the four suspects were rounded up by vigilantes and police and, if convicted, could face up to 100 lashes in public.

“We are completing their files and will soon hand over to prosecutors,” said Marzuki, head of sharia police investigations in the provincial capital, Banda Aceh.

Human Rights Watch said the punishment “constitutes torture under international human rights law.”

“Acehnese authorities should release the four and protect the public from marauding vigilantes who target vulnerable minorities,” said Graeme Reid, director of the lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender (LGBT) rights program at Human Rights Watch.

The provincial and central governments drew international condemnation last year when, for the first time, Aceh authorities publicly caned two men who were convicted under the province’s anti-homosexuality laws, which were introduced in 2014.

Vigilantes and religious police in Aceh often raid homes and places of work and detain people on suspicion of engaging in homosexual activity.

Aceh police detained 12 transgender women earlier this year and publicly shamed them by forcing them to cut their hair and dress in “masculine” clothing.

They were later released without charge, but activists say many have since gone into hiding for fear of further raids.Getty Images

Held annually on the first Sunday of April, participants parade gigantic phallic-shaped mikoshi (portable Shinto shrines), suck on penis lollipops, pose with sex-organ-shaped sculptures and get their hands on whatever penis-shaped souvenirs they can grab.Winnie Madikizela-Mandela leaves a fierce legacy to the people who called her "mother of a nation." Frennie Shivambu/Gallo Images/Getty Images

JOHANNESBURG, South Africa ― The news that Winnie Madikizela-Mandela had died on Monday at 81 years old brought South Africa to a standstill almost as dramatic as that which greeted the death of her husband, Nelson Mandela, five years ago. In an outpouring of memory and grief, she was hailed as a co-liberator of South Africa and the mother of the nation, as he was the father of the nation.

At her home in Soweto, crowds gathered as quickly and spontaneously as they had gathered outside Nelson Mandela’s Johannesburg home when he died.

As with Nelson Mandela, Winnie Madikizela-Mandela’s death was announced with gravitas by the presidency. This time, South African President Cyril Ramaphosa hailed her role as a heroine of the struggle and said she had lived a rich and remarkable life.

Madikizela-Mandela died a political figure as resonant in South Africa today as Nelson Mandela is. Indeed, his politics of peace, reconciliation and non-racialism are regarded with skepticism by a new generation, whereas her radical focus on African nationalism, land reform and militance make her legacy a less contested one these days.

This is because South Africa’s movement toward greater equality, more muscular land transfers and harmonious race relations has often been a tortured journey. And so with her death, Madikizela-Mandela’s legacy is quickly being reassessed. Her path, many believe, may have delivered the fruits of freedom more quickly than Mandela’s path, which favored peace and reconciliation over the more militant road that Madikizela-Mandela often said the African National Congress should not have forsaken.

She was the archetypal good bad woman. Her ungovernable, take-no-prisoners style is well-loved in South Africa where heroines are often crafted from the tough streets of political and social struggle. The website South African History Online tells the first page of her story like this:

Once, while quarreling with her younger sister, Princess, Winnie fashioned a knuckleduster out of a nail and a baking powder tin and accidentally struck her sister across the face while aiming for her arm. It was one of many instances for which her mother administered a hefty beating.

She was politicized while very young. One tale is that she begged her father to attend a welcome home ceremony for soldiers after the Second World War, but at the city hall, they were not allowed in because it was “for whites only.”

It was one of the many instances of oppression and segregation that created the freedom fighter who would someday be chronicled in books and films. Madikizela-Mandela chose social work as her field because it allowed her to both care for her community and organize politically.

She was drawn into the circles of ANC politics when she shared digs with Adelaide Tsukudu, who was then courting the ANC Youth League leader Oliver Tambo, who was then a partner at law with Nelson Mandela. Their introduction led to a marriage that lasted some four decades and a love that, arguably, did not end until he died. Madikizela-Mandela was at his bedside when Mandela died and, along with his widow Graça Machel, mourned him as a husband in the long days of official memorials and funerals that followed.

The two Mandelas were absolute equals. “It is worth reiterating that Winnie was already politically interested and involved in activism long before she met her future husband. She was particularly affected by the research she had carried out in Alexandra Township as a social worker to establish the rate of infantile mortality, which stood at 10 deaths for every 1,000 births,” notes SA History Online.

In the 1980s, released from government banishment, Madikizela-Mandela took to heart Tambo’s injunction to make apartheid South Africa ungovernable. Ungovernability, arguably, became an indelible and attractive part of her persona, both personal and political. As SA History Online explains:

Whilst Nelson and his Robben Island coterie had become more academic and statesman-like during their years cut off from grassroots politics, Winnie, on the other hand, was forced to become a soldier on the ground. During her decades of police intimidation and harassment; her emotional brutalization (having had her family torn apart and her closest friends betray her); and her physical imprisonment and banishment, Winnie had developed combative defenses against a world that was unfailingly hostile. Since the latter stages of her exile, rumors had begun to circulate about Winnie’s increasingly erratic behavior; her recourse to drink and her occasional bouts of violent behavior. Once established in Soweto, these rumors refused to dissipate and her frequent public appearances in khaki uniform did little to quell speculation that her approach to liberation was becoming increasingly military driven and violent.

Having been targeted by repeated banning orders and left alone as a very young woman to care for her children while Nelson Mandela was on trial and then imprisoned, Madikizela-Mandela went through a winter of discontent in the ’80s, when a soccer club that she helped launch to get young people off the streets turned into a vicious vigilante group.

The Mandela United Football Club used its political protection to undertake a reign of terror in Soweto, and the lid was blown wide open when 14-year-old Stompie Seipei died after falling out with the rest of the crew. It was believed that Seipei had been kidnapped and tortured by the club, along with three other young people. At trial, Madikizela-Mandela herself was sentenced to five years imprisonment related to those events, a punishment that was later commuted to a lesser sentence.

It was the worst of times for Madikizela-Mandela, and yet it intersected with a moment of rare elation when Nelson Mandela was released in 1990 after nearly three decades in prison. One of the world’s most iconic images remains that of Mandela leaving prison firmly holding his wife’s hand, both of them with raised fists. That unity was not to last, as the couple divorced when Mandela was stung by his wife’s affair with Dali Mpofu, then her deputy in the ANC’s social welfare department.

Though divorced, however, the two were never alienated from each other. Madikizela-Mandela remained a constant in the statesman’s life, through his subsequent marriage to Graça Machel and through his long illness.

As a deputy minister and as an ANC member of parliament, Madikizela-Mandela was a total rebel against the strictures and protocol of formal political life. She was a serial truant in parliament and, truth be told, a very poor deputy minister. Far more powerful for her was the battlefield of street struggle and other arenas where she could sit on a people’s pulpit and criticize what she believed was the “compradorist” politics of the ANC.

Enormously popular in the ANC (she always ended up at the top of the party’s leaderboards for national executive positions), she remained a vote-puller to the very end, although many felt that her politics had increasingly become more suited to those of the radical Economic Freedom Fighters (she is a heroic figure to that young party). The EFF is a splinter party from the governing ANC. It practices a brand of politics that is a copycat of the Latin American revolutionary parties of Cuba and Venezuela’s Hugo Chavez. It won 6.5 percent of the vote in the last election, but its circle of influence is much wider.Ben Solomon via Getty Images

Arike Ogunbowale drained a rainbow 3-pointer from the right corner with 0.1 seconds to play, lifting Notre Dame to a dramatic 61-58 win in the women’s NCAA Tournament championship game on Sunday at Nationwide Arena in Columbus, Ohio.

Taking an inbounds pass in a tie game with three seconds left, Ogunbowale drove into the right corner before firing up a high-arcing 3-pointer from the that was pure to give the Fighting Irish their first national championship since 2001.

ARIKE OGUNBOWALE JUST WON NOTRE DAME THE 2018 NATIONAL TITLE! pic.twitter.com/ZCNhyF1uIf — ESPN (@espn) April 2, 2018

Mississippi State was up by five with 2:01 to play, but Notre Dame’s Marina Mabrey hit a 3-pointer and Jackie Young knocked down a jumper to tie the score 58-58 and set up Ogunbowale’s heroics.

Jessica Shepard finished with 19 points for Notre Dame (35-3). Ogunbowale had 18, and Mabrey added 10.

Victoria Vivians scored 21 points, and Teaira McCowan capped a record-setting women’s NCAA Tournament with 18 points and 17 rebounds for the Bulldogs (37-2). Mississippi State lost in the national championship game for the second straight season.

McCowan recorded her 29th double-double of the season. The 6-foot-7 junior finished the tournament with a record 109 rebounds in the Bulldogs’ six-game run to the final.

The game featured the last two teams to knock off the Connecticut dynasty. Mississippi State beat UConn in last year’s Final Four but came up short against South Carolina in the championship game. Notre Dame outlasted the Huskies in overtime on Friday, with Ogunbowale hitting the game-winner in the semifinal as well.

Notre Dame averaged 92.4 points in its previous five tournament wins but struggled to establish any rhythm against Mississippi State’s pestering man-to-man defense. The Fighting Irish scored only three points in the second quarter and trailed 30-17 at halftime. The three points in the second quarter were the fewest in a period in Final Four history.

McCowan had a big hand in Notre Dame’s offensive woes. She had nine points, eight rebounds and two authoritative blocks in the first half. During one stretch midway through the second, she hit a jumper on end and then blocked an attempted layup from Mabrey that led to a turnover. Mississippi State forced 12 first-half turnovers.

Notre Dame stormed back in the third quarter. Ogunbowale converted a three-point play with a driving layup and free throw to trim Mississippi State’s lead to 41-38 late in the third quarter. The Irish closed out the quarter with a 16-1 run, tying the score 41-41 on a put-back by Shepard.

AdvertisementDado Ruvic / Reuters

Americans who use Facebook don’t trust the company with their personal data ― but most don’t trust it any less than its competitors, a new HuffPost/YouGov survey finds.

Sixty-three percent of Facebook users say they don’t trust the site to handle their personal data much or at all, while just 31 percent trust it somewhat or a lot. Those results are more or less unchanged from a spring 2016 poll, which found that 62 percent mistrusted Facebook’s handling of personal data.

Slightly over one-quarter of Facebook users currently say they trust the site with their data less than they trust other technology companies. Eight percent say they trust Facebook more, and the majority, 53 percent, say they trust it about as much as other sites. (One potential caveat to the results: Everyone taking the YouGov poll opted in to answering questions about themselves online, a decision that could plausibly be self-selecting for certain attitudes toward internet data and privacy.)

Fifty-seven percent of Facebook users also say they get news from the site sometimes or often. Among those who do, 52 percent trust that news “a great deal,” or “a fair amount,” and 40 percent trust it not very much or not at all.

Overall, 48 percent of all Americans view Facebook positively, while 44 percent view it negatively, for a net +4 favorability rating. Voters who backed Hillary Clinton in the 2016 election take a somewhat more positive view of the site, giving it a net +3 rating compared to Donald Trump supporters’ net -8.

But for once, there are steeper differences along other demographic lines, such as gender: Women give the site a net +19 to men’s net -12. The youngest and oldest Americans polled were also more negative about the site than those in the intervening age groups. Those under age 30 gave Facebook a net -9 rating, and those age 65 or older gave it a -3. Among Americans aged 30 to 64, the rating was a +11.

About two-thirds of the public say they’ve heard news stories about Cambridge Analytica obtaining data from Facebook, but just 30 percent report hearing a lot about the story. Clinton voters are by far the most likely to have paid close attention.

Among people who have heard at least something about the story, only 23 percent say they’re very or even somewhat satisfied with the way Facebook has responded. Another 54 percent are dissatisfied. A 51 percent majority of Trump voters who have followed the story, and nearly three-quarters of Clinton voters, say they’re dissatisfied with Facebook’s response.

Americans are split on how likely it is that Facebook helped affect the outcome of the 2016 election, with 37 percent saying it’s somewhat or very likely, and 43 percent that it’s less likely. Of those who think it’s at least somewhat likely that the social network had an effect on the election, nearly 70 percent believe it benefited Trump. About half of those who think Facebook swung the election say they think it did so unintentionally, with 30 percent believing it was intentional.

Use the widget below to further explore the results of the HuffPost/YouGov survey, using the menu at the top to select survey questions and the buttons at the bottom to filter the data by subgroups:

The HuffPost/YouGov poll consisted of 1,000 completed interviews conducted March 21-23 among U.S. adults, using a sample selected from YouGov’s opt-in online panel to match the demographics and other characteristics of the adult U.S. population.

HuffPost has teamed up with YouGov to conduct daily opinion polls. You can learn more about this project and take part in YouGov’s nationally representative opinion polling. More details on the polls’ methodology are available here.A Chinese space station re-entered the Earth’s atmosphere on Sunday, more than a year after the country lost contact with the school bus-sized structure, the China National Space Agency confirmed.

Although the Tiangong-1 mostly burnt up upon re-entry, some pieces of the station likely crashed into the Pacific Ocean shortly after 5:15 p.m. Pacific time. U.S. Strategic Command confirmed the re-entry in a statement on Sunday evening.

“One of our missions, which we remain focused on, is to monitor space and the tens of thousands of pieces of debris that congest it,” Maj. Gen. Stephen Whiting, deputy commander of the Joint Force Space Component Command (JFSCC), stated. “All nations benefit from a safe, stable, sustainable and secure space domain.”

The JFSCC does not track what happens to space debris after it re-enters the atmosphere.

The Tiangong-1 station, which translates to “heavenly palace” in English, has been a topic of discussion among space-watchers for weeks after its fall towards Earth began to accelerate. Analysts said it was likely the 9.4-ton structure would tumble back home sometime between March 30 and April 2.

Those predictions proved true on Sunday.

Two crews of astronauts visited the Tiangong-1 station after it was launched in 2011. However, since March 2016, China has been unable to communicate with the station.

An astrophysicist told Reuters that about 10 percent of the station may have fallen into the ocean northwest of Tahiti.

“Small bits definitely will have made it to the surface,” Brad Tucker, a research fellow at Australian National University, said. “Most likely the debris is in the ocean, and even if people stumbled over it, it would just look like rubbish in the ocean and be spread over a huge area of thousands of square kilometers.”

NW of Tahiti - it managed to miss the 'spacecraft graveyard' which is further south! pic.twitter.com/Sj4e42O7Dc — Jonathan McDowell (@planet4589) April 2, 2018

According to The New York Times, there were no immediate reports of injuries or damage. Most of the debris fell north of the Spacecraft Cemetery, where Russia’s Mir station arrived in 2001.

The Tiangong-2, China’s other space station, remains in orbit. The country plans to complete another station by 2022, the state-run Xinhua News reported.LOS ANGELES, (Variety.com) - Steven Spielberg’s latest blockbuster topped the domestic box office over the four-day holiday weekend.

Warner Bros.′ “Ready Player One” debuted in line with recent projections of $53 million from 4,324 locations. The film opened Thursday, getting a head start over its fellow weekend releases, “Tyler Perry’s Acrimony” and “God’s Not Dead: A Light in Darkness.”

The virtual reality fantasy, which currently holds an A- CinemaScore and 76 percent on Rotten Tomatoes, released internationally with $128 million since it opened on Tuesday, bringing its worldwide total up to a solid $181.2 million. The film based on Ernest Cline’s novel stars Tye Sheridan, Olivia Cooke, Ben Mendelsohn, Mark Rylance, Simon Pegg and T.J. Miller.

“Tyler Perry’s Acrimony” ― Tyler Perry’s 19th collaboration with Lionsgate ― secured second place with $17 million in 2,006 locations. Meanwhile, the third installment of the “God’s Not Dead” franchise premiered with $2.6 million in 1,693 locations.

Marvel’s “Black Panther” remains a powerhouse in the No. 3 slot, taking in $11 million in 2,988 locations. The blockbuster crossed the $650 million mark at the North American box office, making it the fifth-highest release in the U.S. of all time. It looks to shortly become the fourth-highest release after it passes “Jurassic World,” which made $652 million. Currently, “Titanic” is at No. 3 with $659 million.

Jaap Buitendijk

Over the Easter weekend, the Christian drama “I Can Only Imagine” stayed strong in fourth place with $10.5 million in 2,648 locations, totaling $55.3 million in its three weeks of release. Another faith-based film, “Paul, Apostle of Christ” saw $3.5 million at 1,473 locations. In two weeks, the film has made $11.5 million.

Rounding out the top five is Universal’s “Pacific Rim Uprising” with $9.2 million in 3,708 locations. The sci-fi actioner, which held the top spot last weekend, has taken in $45.6 million domestically. On par with its first weekend, the sequel to 2013′s “Pacific Rim” had an impressive international turnout with $22.2 million in 63 markets, bringing its international total up to $96.6 million.

Continuing its limited release, Wes Anderson’s “Isle of Dogs” made $2.9 million for a per screen average of $17,420 after expanding to 165 locations. Fox Searchlight Pictures’ stop-motion animation has grossed $5.9 million and looks to cross the $6 million mark in the upcoming week. Next weekend, “Isle of Dogs” will spread to between 450 and 500 locations.

In total, the box office is down 21.2 percent compared to the same weekend last year, while the 2018 North American box office is down 3.8 percent from 2017.

However, Paul Dergarabedian, a media analyst at comScore, says “Ready Player One” looks to have promising playability at the box office ahead of the debuts of “Blockers” and “A Quiet Place” next week and “Avengers Infinity War” at the end of April.

AdvertisementPhoto illustration: Yahoo News photos: Getty Images 2 Manuel Balce Ceneta/AP

Meghan Milloy’s mission is to get more Republican women in office. As co-founder and executive director of Republican Women for Progress, she believes “Democracy works better when it represents everyone,” and to her that means gender parity in both parties.

But while it’s her job to recruit, train and fundraise for female Republican candidates she finds herself telling many women to not run — at least not this year.

“It’s a Catch-22 for us,” she explains. “A lot of good moderate Republican women who want to run for office, our advice is ‘You’re a good candidate, you would probably win in any other year, let’s wait’”.

Female Republican candidates are having a harder time than usual in 2018. With all the talk of the surge in women seeking elected office this year, and of all the benefits of being a woman candidate in the Age of Trump, what is less often noted is that nearly all that energy and advantage seems to be on one side of the aisle.

“It’s a tough year to be a Republican woman,” agrees Anne Moses, who founded the non-partisan group Ignite eight years ago to educate high school and college women to become the next generation of political leaders. “It’s always been hard, but this year all the reasons it’s been tough make it even tougher.”

Yahoo

According to the Center for American Women in Politics, the number of Democratic women running for House seats this year increased 146 percent over 2016 (to 351), while the number of Republican women running for the House increased just 35 percent (to 99); on the other side of the Capitol there are only 14 Republican women running for Senate compared to 27 Democratic women.

The non-partisan group VoteRunLead has seen a three-fold increase in the number of women completing their candidate training program last year — from just over 3000 to just under 10,000 – but the proportion of Republicans has shrunk from 1 in 5 to 1 in 9, according to Erin Vilardi, the group’s founder and CEO.

In part this is because there have always been fewer Republican women in high office than Democratic women. Although Republicans are the majority in Congress, three quarters of the 104 women in the House are Democrats. This is the result of several factors, chief among them the historical tendency of women to identify as Democrats and the more robust recruitment pipeline for Democratic women, all of which are even more pronounced this year than previously. And the reason for that, candidates and strategists say, is the reason for so many other phenomena in politics at the moment – Donald Trump.

“You either run as pro-Trump or anti-Trump,” Vilardi says. “There’s no other dynamic now. Women are expected to have a stand on Trump, on #MeToo, and men aren’t even asked the question. Republican women have a harder time with that question and the consequences are greater for them whichever their answer.”

Kelly Dittmar, a scholar with the Center for American Women and Politics at Rutgers agrees. “The reason it’s particularly challenging for Republican women is there is an expectation put on all women that they will call out and reject some of the more misogynistic behavior and rhetoric that this president has put forth,” she says. “That leave less room for nuance, saying ‘I’m not with him on this, but I am with him on something else.’ Whether it’s fair or not, voters are not necessarily looking to men to specifically answer on those issues.”

Yahoo

Jenifer Sarver learned that first hand. She was one of 18 candidates for the Republican nomination in Texas’s 21 congressional district, a seat that opened when the incumbent retired. Texas has not sent a freshman woman to Congress in 22 years, “meaning an entire generation of young Texans has never seen a woman elected” to that job, so while her gender got her a bit of attention, not all of it was good.

She was regularly asked “who are you working for” at candidate gatherings, and when she answered ‘I’m the candidate’ “It was a surprise,” she says. The follow-up was often “Oh, what does your husband think of you running, what will you do with the kids if you go to Washington,” she recalls. “I would answer ‘I’m single, no kids,’ and they would say ‘oh, that’s good, this would be hard job to do with kids.’”

There were times when being a woman helped in the current climate, she says, such as the handful of doors she knocked to be told “Oh, you’re a female candidate, I’m only voting for females this year.” But there was at least one memorable and public moment when it hurt. During a candidate forum one of her male opponents asked if she had voted for Hillary Clinton and she said indeed she had. “When it came down to it, I couldn’t support candidate Trump,” she answered. “As a woman, I couldn’t do it.”

There were audible gasps in the room and, the Austin-American Statesman’s metro columnist wrote of the moment: “Just then, some of the dead animal heads on the walls turned toward Sarver with looks of shocked disbelief.” In the Texas primary a few weeks later she came in fifth with 5.6 percent of the vote.

Sarver is careful to say that she did not lose because she is a woman. But she also notes that she could not run as many Democratic candidates are doing, whether directly or obliquely – using the fact that they are women as a reason they should be elected.

Yahoo

The Republican Party, voters and candidates alike, has long been less accepting of what has become known as “identity politics.” “Democratic women are used to marrying their woman-ness to their reason for seeking office,” says Anne Moses, “in effect saying that there is an inherent good in electing more women, or women have first-hand understanding of certain issues, or lead differently than men, so ‘vote for me.’ Republicans reject that. It’s harder for a Republican woman to stand up and proclaim ’I am a Republican woman and there is merit in having more of us in office.”

The result, Dittmar says, can sometimes be “verbal gymnastics.” She cites Carly Fiorina’s message during her presidential primary campaign. “It became ‘don’t just vote for Hillary Clinton because she’s a woman, that’s playing the woman card’ but at the same time ‘I’m the best person to compete against Hillary Clinton because I’m a woman.’”

This become additionally complicated in an era when in fact many first-time candidates in both parties are in fact running because they are women. “That’s been the surprise gift of this administration,” says Milloy. “Trump winning has empowered so many women who wouldn’t have stepped up and gotten involved. The irony is that as his policies put women back several years, he is also inspiring women to run.”

Republican women and their advisers are handling these intersections, contradictions and complications in varying ways.

Some are simply aligning themselves with the president on policy while projecting a slightly eye-rolling air when it comes to his personal characteristics.

“What are Republican women doing about Donald Trump?” asked Missy Shorey, Executive Director of Maggie’s List, established in 2010 to fund conservative women who are running for federal office. “By recognizing that we now have the best tax policy since the 80s, that we see a booming economy where businesses that we either own or that are families work for are thriving thanks to deregulation, that the military is strengthened rather than gutted… That’s what they’re doing about Donald Trump.

Yahoo

“Do we wish we’ve seen some better behavior?” she continues. “Yes. Do many of us roll our eyes when we see the daily tweets? Absolutely. He is not a perfect candidate but he certainly beats the alternative and at the end of the day we are getting much of what we wanted.”

Others are shape shifting a bit, in a way candidates of both parties often do for the primaries. “We have a few women who are very moderate, very much against Trump,” says Milloy, “but in order to compete in their primaries they need to be a little more to the right than they actually are. If they win then the hope is they can express their views more freely in the general.”

A few are playing something that looks very much like identity politics, but with a Republican twist. Back in February, for instance, when Sen. Bob Corker briefly reconsidered his decision to leave politics, Rep. Marsha Blackburn fought back. Corker, a Republican from Tennessee, has been an outspoken critic of Trump, and told friends he might get back into the race because he feared his seat might flip to a Democrat. Blackburn, who proudly aligns herself with the president, is considered the front-runner for the GOP nomination in that race, and she sent her staff to call Corker out.

“Anyone who thinks Marsha Blackburn can’t win a general election is just a plain sexist pig,” Blackburn’s campaign spokeswoman Andrea Bozek told the Washington Post. “We aren’t worried about these ego-driven, tired old men. Marsha has spent her whole life fighting people who told her she wasn’t good enough, and she will do it again.”

Many others, though, are waiting. “I think this is a year of rebuilding for Republican women,” Vilardi says. Those who go through the VoteRunLead program traditionally craft a five-year plan toward an electoral run, but since 2016, she says, “Democratic women have shortened that timeline to the next election, with 60 percent saying they wanted to run by 2020. Republican women though have slowed down” their expected timeline, waiting to see if the landscape shifts.

Yahoo

“That doesn’t surprise me,” says Larissa Martinez, a co-founder of the Women Influencers Network, yet another of the many groups that are forming to train and fund conservative women candidates. “The enthusiasm and the energy now is very much on the left side. It makes for a very hostile election cycle. I’ve gone to a number of women panels and the women on the left see right leaning women as walking contradictions. It’s an unusual time to know how to navigate so I can understand some Republican women wanting to take a break.”

_____

Read more from Yahoo News: