TONIGHT: Oh, how we will miss former Trump lawyer (and man playing xylophone with two candy canes) Ty Cobb. #LSSC #TyCobb pic.twitter.com/PQdRlvkyEa — The Late Show (@colbertlateshow) May 3, 2018

Stephen Colbert is mocking President Donald Trump over a change to his legal team this week.

Trump replaced White House lawyer Ty Cobb with Emmet T. Flood, the attorney who represented President Bill Clinton during his impeachment proceedings.

“The crooked Clintons are the most corrupt people in the world,” Colbert said on Wednesday night, doing his Trump impersonation. “Get me their lawyer!”Officials in Knox County, Tennessee, are trying to gather more information about a cyberattack that crashed a government website that displayed election results to the public during its primary election for local offices on Tuesday.

Dick Moran, the county’s top IT official, believes Knox County was the target of a denial-of-service attack in which actors with both domestic and foreign IP addresses deliberately flooded the county’s servers with traffic to try and crash them. The county website displaying election results went down for about an hour as polls closed on Tuesday. The crash meant that people who went to check election results between 8 and 9 p.m. on election night received an error message, according to the Knoxville News Sentinel. While the website was down, election officials printed out hard copies of the election results and gave them to reporters, WBIR, a local NBC affiliate, reported.

Knox County Mayor Tim Burchett (R) said on Wednesday that the crash didn’t impact “vote tallies or the integrity of the election,” but that the county had hired a security firm to investigate the cause of the crash.

“This is not something that should happen,” he said in a statement. “I want to know what happened, and I think an independent review will help to determine that so we can move forward and work to prevent similar issues in the future.”

The attack comes amid increased scrutiny over the security of U.S. elections after the Department of Homeland Security notified 21 states last year that Russian hackers targeted their election systems during the 2016 presidential election. Some say the federal government hasn’t moved quickly enough to address the severity of the threat. Responding to those concerns, Congress allocated $380 million to states in March to improve election security. DHS officials say they have improved communication and resource-sharing with state election officials.

Scott McConnell, a DHS spokesman, said the agency was aware of the incident.

“We are aware of reports of a temporary outage affecting an election website in Knox County, Tenn. We have no information at this time that the outage was caused by a malicious actor,” McConnell said in a statement. “As is standard practice with any of our public or private critical infrastructure partners, we have offered our technical assistance and support to the county. We defer to the county to discuss any further details.”

Candice Hoke, a co-founder of the Center for Cybersecurity and Privacy Protection at Ohio’s Cleveland-Marshall College of Law, said it was premature for Burchett to say that no votes had been changed.

“Without a forensic evaluation, there’s no way for them to accurately conclude that ‘the crash did not affect the vote tallies or the integrity of the election,’” she wrote in an email. “We do not know if only the web servers were impacted by the attack or if a broader impact occurred. It’s often the case that a DDOS attack is used as a distraction while another more insidious attack — such as on the tabulation servers — is occurring.”

Hoke added that it was a positive sign that the county was bringing in a firm to analyze the incident, but wanted to know how thorough the analysis would be and whether the final report would be publicly available. She also said it was uncommon to see a denial of service attack on an election night, but expected them to increase this year because counties now store much more voter information online.

In an interview, Michael Grider, the Knox County director of communications, and David Ball, the county’s deputy director of IT, disputed Hoke’s assessment that any votes could have been altered because the systems that tabulate the official votes are never connected to the internet or any computers that are. Ball said the county hadn’t looked at the actual voting data from election night because there was no way someone could access the data. “There’s no way that anyone could’ve gotten into it,” he said.

“The issue that we had was one related to our web server. It was very simply an issue with how the election results were presented to the public, not how they were received in any official capacity,” Grider said.

“There is no network connection to the official results, nor to any of the voting machines at any point during the process or before and after the process. They have no network interface,” Ball added.

Hoke said that she knew of several examples where system owners believed their networks to be entirely disconnected from the internet when they actually had some connectivity and suggested that the Knox County officials could have been more cautious in their statements.

“It’s wonderful to be able to espouse confidence as they are, but they should not be espousing such unless they have actually had their network for the [election management server] totally assessed by someone whose qualified in network architecture,” she said.

The primary races on the ballot in Knox County on Tuesday included county mayor, sheriff and the county commission. The contest attracted some national attention after Glenn Jacobs, the former WWE wrestler known as Kane, won the Republican nomination for mayor.Kids draw the funniest things.

Jimmy Fallon shared a bunch of children’s amusing depictions of members of President Donald Trump’s administration on Wednesday’s broadcast of “The Tonight Show.”

Jim Carrey best watch out, as they could be after his satirical artwork crown.The Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences, which administers the Oscars, has expelled comedian Bill Cosby and director Roman Polanski, the organization announced in a statement Thursday.

Polanski, who won an Oscar for Best Director for the 2002 movie “The Pianist,” will keep his award, an Academy spokesperson told HuffPost.

The Academy said its board of governors voted on Tuesday to expel the two men, citing its newly adopted standards of conduct, developed in response to the scores of sexual misconduct allegations against disgraced Hollywood producer Harvey Weinstein.

“The Board continues to encourage ethical standards that require members to uphold the Academy’s values of respect for human dignity,” the organization said in a statement.

Comedian Bill Cosby was found guilty of sexual assault in April. Brendan McDermid/Reuters

Last week, Cosby was found guilty of sexually assaulting Andrea Constand, among dozens of women who have accused the comedian of sexual misconduct.

Polanski has lived in France since pleading guilty to raping then-13-year-old Samantha Geimer (then known as Samantha Gailey) in 1977. He fled the U.S. before his sentencing.

The director has also faced allegations of sexual assault from several other women that allegedly occurred when some of them were minors.

Director Roman Polanski pleaded guilty to raping a 13-year-old. He will keep his Oscar for "The Pianist," according to the Academy. Charles Platiau/Reuters

Last fall, the board of governors quickly voted to expel Weinstein following investigations from The New York Times and New Yorker that revealed years of sexual misconduct allegations against him. At the time, Weinstein was only the second member in the Academy’s history to be removed.When the Federal Emergency Management Agency in March published its latest plan for mitigating natural disasters, there was one thing missing: any mention of climate change.

Rep. Keith Ellison asked the agency why, and so far he’s not happy with the answer. In its latest response, FEMA says it basically forgot.

“There was no decision, and no direction, to deliberately avoid or omit any particular term in the writing of the 2018-2022 Strategic Plan,” FEMA Director Brock Long wrote on April 12, referring to the document the agency uses to help anticipate and prepare the nation for natural disasters.

Long’s claim is a remarkable one given that 2017 was the costliest, most-damaging year on record for weather and climate-related disasters in the U.S., and the third-warmest year on record. Experts predict those costs, which directly impact FEMA’s operation, will increase as the climate shifts further and further from its baseline.

The previous, Obama-era strategic plan identified climate change as a prime contributor to increasing disaster risk and urged action; the new, Trump-era document doesn’t mention it at all.

Ellison is now asking the agency to give a real explanation. On Wednesday, he asked FEMA to explain the “analytical basis” for why it omitted climate change from its five-year plan.

“Your April 12th, 2018, response did not adequately answer this question.” Ellison wrote in a letter to Long. “Although you reassured me that ‘the plan emphasizes all aspects of disaster preparedness, regardless of cause,’ you still have not addressed why the plan makes no mention of climate change.”

Where Ellison’s original letter asked FEMA to identify whom it consulted in drafting its new strategic plan, Long only cited “FEMA employees and external stakeholders,” as well as comments submitted online. Long’s responses to follow-up questions only referred back to that answer, including a request that FEMA specifically identify “any scientists or climate experts” who contributed to the decision.

Ellison’s new letter requests copies of those online comments, and again asks FEMA to specifically identify those “external stakeholders.” It also asks whether Long’s office consulted with the White House when formulating the plan’s “goals and objectives.”

In an emailed statement to HuffPost, FEMA public affairs director William Booher said it doesn’t matter whether climate change was mentioned in the document.

“It is evident that this strategic plan fully incorporates future risks from all hazards regardless of cause,” he said. “Building upon the foundation established by FEMA’s previous two Strategic Plans, this plan commits the agency, and the nation, to taking proactive steps to increasing pre-disaster investments in preparedness and mitigation.”

Ellison has requested a response by May 14. Read his letter below:In a letter addressed to Kim, Trump blamed North Korea for his decision. The president specifically flagging a statement by the North Koreans that he said showed “tremendous anger and open hostility.”

“You talk about your nuclear capabilities,” Trump said, “but ours are so massive and powerful that I pray to God they will never have to be used.”Back in the early 2000s, the critically panned “Star Wars” prequels hit theaters and a hilariously odd show called “Arrested Development” debuted. Who could have predicted then that, in 2018, Ron Howard would direct a “Star Wars” film and have the chance to narrate one of them in the style of “Arrested Development”?Deadpool continues to surprise us with some terrific content. He painted some amazing landscapes as Bob Ross, and the “Merc with a Mouth” even suited up in pink to say a big f**k you to cancer.

This time, he’s teamed up with the legendary Céline Dion for the music video “Ashes,” a song written exclusively for the upcoming “Deadpool 2” soundtrack.

By the end, Deadpool is completely blown away by Dion’s performance, and that’s a problem. This is for a movie sequel, and that means she’s got bring her game way, way down.

But Céline doesn’t phone it in for anyone.On Wednesday’s broadcast of “The Daily Show,” Noah said he normally “wouldn’t really care” about what West had to say “about slavery or black history.” But what sucked about West’s latest comments was how “every member of the Tiki Torch Club out there is going to use Kanye’s words to justify their hate,” Noah explained.Actor Mike Myers put in a star turn as President Donald Trump’s personal physician on Wednesday’s broadcast of “Jimmy Kimmel Live!”

The “Austin Powers” star disguised himself as Dr. Harold Bornstein, who on Tuesday claimed that Trump told him what to write in a 2015 letter detailing the then-presidential candidate’s “extraordinary” physical strength and stamina.

“May I say, in the long history of talk show hosts, you are the most virile and vigorous one of them all,” Myers as Bornstein told Jimmy Kimmel, before offering the host “uppers, downers, boner stuff,” and playing a spoof game of “hot and cold” about Trump’s health.Rev. Patrick Conroy, chaplain of the House, attending the 2013 National Days of Remembrance ceremony to honor the victims of the Holocaust. Tom Williams via Getty Images

House Speaker Paul Ryan (R-Wis.) said Thursday that he accepts House Chaplain Patrick Conroy’s decision to rescind his resignation.

“I have accepted Father Conroy’s letter and decided that he will remain in his position as Chaplain of the House,” Ryan said in a statement. “It is my job as speaker to do what is best for this body, and I know that this body is not well served by a protracted fight over such an important post.”

Conroy wrote a two-page letter to Ryan earlier on Thursday, accusing the speaker of ousting him from his role without cause last month, The Washington Post reported.

“I have never been disciplined, nor reprimanded, nor have I ever heard a complaint about my ministry during my time as House chaplain,” Conroy wrote.

NBC News tweeted a copy of the full letter:

House Chaplain Patrick Conroy rescinded his resignation on Thursday, according to a letter obtained by @NBCNews.



Read the two-page letter, which was sent to Speaker Paul Ryan, below: pic.twitter.com/ApvEH2qQ0U — Kurt Chirbas (@kchirbas) May 3, 2018

Conroy initially announced his resignation on April 15, and made it clear that it wasn’t his choice to go.

“As you have requested, I hereby offer my resignation as the 60th Chaplain of the United States House of Representatives,” Conroy wrote in a letter to Ryan, first reported by The Hill. His last day would have been May 24.

The priest’s ouster sparked furor and prompted lawmakers in both parties to work to try to save Conroy’s job.

It was unclear why Ryan wanted Conroy to go. The speaker reportedly told the House Republican Conference on April 27 that some House members believed their “pastoral needs” were not being fulfilled. But Rep. Gerry Connolly (D-Va.) told HuffPost that it may have stemmed from a prayer the priest made on the House floor last fall amid debate over the GOP tax bill.

In the Nov. 6 prayer, Conroy entreated that under the new legislation “there are not winners and losers under new tax laws, but benefits balanced and shared by all Americans.” As previously reported, the tax bill disproportionately benefits the rich over time.

In his letter on Thursday, Conroy suggested his faith may have played a role. The Jesuit priest noted that it was Ryan’s chief of staff, Jonathan Burks, who informed him that the speaker was asking for his resignation.

“I inquired as to whether or not it was ‘for cause,’ and Mr. Burks mentioned dismissively something like, ‘Maybe it’s time that we had a chaplain that wasn’t a Catholic,’” Conroy wrote.

In a statement shared with HuffPost, Burks said he disagreed with the Conroy’s “recollection” of the conversation.

“I am disappointed by the misunderstanding, but wish him the best as he continues to serve the House,” Burks said.

But Connolly, a Catholic, said he shared the priest’s suspicion, which was reinforced when Rep. Mark Walker (R-N.C.), chairman of the conservative Republican Study Committee, suggested the next chaplain should have a wife and a family. Such a requirement would automatically exclude Catholic priests from the position.

Walker later removed himself from a bipartisan committee to find a new House chaplain amid outcry from Catholics.

Conroy has served since 2011 as the House chaplain, a position that is filled by election every two years. In his letter to Ryan on Thursday, the priest said he intended to serve out his current two-year term and possibly “beyond,” unless he is officially terminated or not re-elected.

“You may wish to outright ‘fire’ me, if you have the authority to do so,” Conroy wrote, “but should you wish to terminate my services, it will be without my offer of resignation, as you requested.”Laverne Cox attends Planned Parenthood's Spring Gala honoring Cecile Richards on May 1, 2018, in New York City. Jared Siskin via Getty Images

The actress and activist was honored at the Planned Parenthood of New York City’s annual Spring Gala on Tuesday night, alongside outgoing president Cecile Richards. Cox praised Planned Parenthood for providing a much-needed service to trans people all over the country: affordable and accessible healthcare.

“So often when we talk about women’s health care, we leave out transgender women,” she told the crowd during her acceptance speech.

Planned Parenthood is thankfully different, Cox added.

“I’m so excited to stand before you this evening because I wanted to shout out to the world that Planned Parenthood is a welcoming place for transgender people,” she said. “I travel the country and meet transgender people all over who do not have access to life-saving healthcare.”

Transgender people face a multitude of hurdles when it comes to healthcare including discrimination, refusal of care and being unable to afford it. According to a 2017 Harvard public health report, 31 percent of trans people lack regular access to healthcare and many more postpone doctors visits due to discrimination.

Planned Parenthood offers hormone therapy and other resources to transgender support groups and networks in local communities.One person is dead and a suspect is in custody after a dispute at a Nashville, Tennessee, mall led to gunfire Thursday, police said.

Officers responded to reports of gunshots fired at Opry Mills Mall on Thursday afternoon, a spokeswoman for the Metropolitan Nashville Police Department confirmed to HuffPost. The department said one person was shot and later announced the victim had died.

A 22-year-old suspect is in police custody, the department said.

This is the pistol surrendered by the 22-year-old suspected shooter in the Opry Mills case. He has been taken to an MNPD facility to be interviewed. The 22-year-old shooting victim has died. The shooting was preceded by a physical altercation between the two. pic.twitter.com/OhT2jIZl23 — Metro Nashville PD (@MNPDNashville) May 3, 2018

The Nashville Fire Department previously said the male shooting victim, 22, had been transported to an area hospital in critical condition.

The Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives also responded to the scene.

BREAKING: ATF is responding to the scene of a shooting at Opry Mills Mall in Nashville, Tenn. pic.twitter.com/gbkdqjKSAh — ATF HQ (@ATFHQ) May 3, 2018

James Chick, 31, and his family were walking around the mall after stopping at Starbucks when they heard what they believed to be gunshots.

“A crowd of people came running,” Chick told HuffPost. “My wife Ashley and I grabbed our two little girls and started running out the nearest exit and straight to our truck. As we drove out of the parking lot, dozens of police vehicles came speeding to the scene.”

Group of armed Nashville officers just went back in the mall. Another group of shoppers just brought out. pic.twitter.com/M7NHh9D1yJ — Natalie Allison (@natalie_allison) May 3, 2018

The shooting happened just weeks after a gunman stormed a Nashville-area Waffle House, killing four people before being captured by police.WASHINGTON, May 2 (Reuters) - The United States announced on Wednesday the first transfer of a prisoner from the Guantanamo Bay detention center under U.S. President Donald Trump, lowering the prisoner population at a facility Trump has signaled he would like to repopulate.

The U.S. military said Ahmed Muhammed Haza al-Darbi’s transfer to Saudi Arabia reduced the detainee population to 40 from 41. He was the first prisoner to leave the U.S. detention center in Cuba since Jan. 19, 2017 - the day before Trump was inaugurated.

Reuters reported in March that al-Darbi’s transfer was advancing.

The U.S. military said Ahmed Muhammed Haza al-Darbi’s transfer to Saudi Arabia reduced the detainee population to 40 from 41. Handout . / Reuters

Commander Sarah Higgins, a Pentagon spokeswoman, noted that the transfer was provided under the terms of a 2014 plea deal, which will allow al-Darbi to serve out the rest of his 13-year sentence there.

“The United States coordinated with the government of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia to ensure the transfer took place in accordance with established standards for security and humane treatment,” Higgins said.

Saudi Arabia’s state news agency, SPA, said al-Darbi arrived in the kingdom late on Wednesday.

The prison, opened by Republican President George W. Bush to hold terrorism suspects captured overseas after the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks came to symbolize harsh detention practices that opened the United States to accusations of torture.

U.S. officials have not ruled out adding to the prisoner population again and have acknowledged trouble repatriating Islamic State fighters being held by U.S.-backed forces in Syria, raising the possibility that Guantanamo Bay could be seen as a viable option in the future.

‘BAD DUDES’

Trump’s Democratic predecessor, Barack Obama, reduced the inmate population to 41 from 242, but fell short of fulfilling his promise to close the jail before leaving office last year.

In contrast, Trump pledged during his campaign to repopulate the prison, saying he wanted to “to load it up with some bad dudes.”

Trump signed an order in January to keep the detention center open and hinted in his State of the Union address to Congress this year that Islamic State or al Qaeda fighters could be added to the prison population.

He also asked the Pentagon to re-examine the U.S. military’s detention policy.

To that end, the Pentagon said on Wednesday it updated its guidance on criteria for transferring new detainees to Guantanamo Bay.

“This policy provides our warfighters guidance on nominating detainees for transfer to Guantanamo detention should that person present a continuing, significant threat to the security of the United States,” said Higgins.

A White House National Security Council spokesman confirmed it had received the new detainee criteria.

“We have no further comment at this time,” the spokesman said.

The U.S. military has long struggled with what to do about prisoners of war in an open-ended battle against Islamist extremism, in which militants have come from all corners of the world to fight in places like Syria.

Defense Secretary Jim Mattis told reporters on Monday that there were well over 400 foreign fighters being held by U.S.-backed forces in Syria. Although there was an effort to send those fighters back to their home countries, that was not always easy, he noted.

“In some cases, those countries (where the fighters came from) have stripped them of their citizenship,” Mattis said.

“So they have a different view as far as what their status is today. So this is not simple.”Rudy Giuliani’s latest Fox News interview had CNN chief legal analyst Jeffrey Toobin stunned into laughter on Thursday.

Toobin appeared on the network to weigh in on the many bombshells Giuliani, former New York City mayor, dropped during his Wednesday night interview with Sean Hannity and his subsequent follow-up chat with “Fox & Friends” on Thursday morning.

During his interview with Hannity, Giuliani said President Donald Trump had reimbursed his lawyer Michael Cohen for a $130,000 payment he’d made to porn star Stephanie Clifford, known as Stormy Daniels, just before the 2016 election. Daniels says she had an affair with Trump and was paid for her silence.

Giuliani told Hannity the transaction was “perfectly legal,” and that “that money was not campaign money” and thus not a campaign finance violation. Trump supported that argument in a series of tweets on Thursday, stating that “Money from the campaign, or campaign contributions, played no roll [sic] in this transaction.”

Giuliani elaborated on the payment in a subsequent interview on “Fox & Friends,” saying: “Imagine if that came out on October 15, 2016, in the middle of the last debate with Hillary Clinton. Cohen didn’t even ask [if he should pay Daniels]. He made it go away. He did his job.”

After a clip of Guiliani’s statement on “Fox & Friends” was replayed, Toobin looked stunned and laughed.

“I hadn’t heard that clip before,” he said. “I mean, that’s a confession! That’s a confession this is a campaign finance violation because they wanted to shut her up in October of 2016.”

The legal analyst said it sounded as though Guiliani was engaging in “mindless riffing” during his recent interviews on Fox News.

“I mean, so that’s why the payment was made then,” Toobin continued. “It was obvious to all of us, but now you have the president’s lawyer confessing that this was a payment for the benefit of the campaign, which had to be reported.”A “horrible” kidney infection landed the recently married comic in the hospital for five days, causing her to miss the London premiere of her latest movie, “I Feel Pretty.” A photo the star posted of herself in a hospital bed on Friday showed her red-faced and not looking well.NEGUAC, Canada ― When the harbors aren’t frozen, Maxime Daigle and his older brother Jean-Francois often take to the cold waters off New Brunswick in one of their family’s flat-bottomed boats to harvest oysters. The siblings are among hundreds of producers along this rocky coast who grow oysters for La Maison BeauSoleil in the company’s distinctive floating bags.

For the Daigles this is a family business. Maxime’s father, Maurice, co-owns La Maison BeauSoleil, an oyster grower, packer and distributor that he runs with his business partner, Amédée Savoie, whose son, Allain Savoie, also works in the company.

When the business started growing and selling oysters from the coastal village of Neguac, at the southern end of the Acadian Peninsula, each wooden box was painstakingly packed by hand.

That was 18 years ago. La Maison BeauSoleil ― called simply BeauSoleil within the seafood business ― has since become Canada’s largest producer of cocktail-sized oysters. Demand for its tasty, teardrop-shaped product is at an all-time high. While the company is working hard to keep up, business as usual isn’t cutting it.

So a new generation of robots is coming.

While details are still closely guarded, the company is developing a state-of-the-art automated sorting and packing line that will revolutionize its business. Software-controlled robots, able to mimic the small, complicated movements of human oyster pickers, will give the company a new competitive edge, says Savoie, and allow them to double production.

This is the type of investment and technology that has often been missing from this country’s traditional fishing economy. Many of Atlantic Canada’s rural coastal communities have been treading water since overfishing caused cod to collapse in the 1990s, and falling further behind could signal the end for the region’s historic way of life.

But this is a family business, and the co-owners are trying to build a legacy for their children in this remote region.

Amédée Savoie owns and runs La Maison BeauSoleil, Canada's largest producer of cocktail-sized oysters. Karen Pinchin

According to a recent report from Ryerson University’s Brookfield Institute, 62 percent of resource-sector jobs, including those in the fisheries, are vulnerable to automation. While profoundly needed by most production-oriented industries, that isn’t always a good news story in a small town like Neguac, says Creig Lamb, a study co-author.

“There’s an understanding that automation is happening and you either adapt or perish,” he says. “The danger is that the people who either don’t want to or can’t acquire the new skills that are required, they’re the most vulnerable.”

Helping these workers, like BeauSoleil’s oyster packers, can be a major challenge, he says. But while many fear losing jobs to technological change, many industry observers ― including the Daigles and Savoies ― say a revolution can’t come soon enough.

Creepy Robots

Shellfish is not an easy sector to automate, particularly in a region like New Brunswick where fisheries harvest a hugely diverse range of species. While the same robot can be used to manufacture different types of cars or computers, for example, the physical differences between a crab and a lobster, or a shrimp and a scallop, mean the processing equipment needed is often radically different.

But innovation is happening. A few years ago, a short, slightly grainy video with the creepy vibe of a horror film was quietly posted online by a mechanical engineer. The video shows a robot methodically picking up a leggy snow crab by its central shell and depositing it into a clamp. With eerie precision, a round, spinning blade descends and rapidly dismembers the animal’s leg sections from its body.

That robot is now in commercial testing. It was developed by the St. John’s, Newfoundland-based Canadian Centre for Fisheries Innovation, a nonprofit organization owned by Memorial University. Managing Director Robert Verge says this type of device has been badly needed by processors in the region for a long time.

Another issue the shellfish industry faces is the seasonality of Canada’s fisheries. A million-dollar robot doesn’t provide great return on investment if it’s only used a couple of months a year.

Leola Plourde is over 60 years old and belongs to an older cohort of shellfish packers. Karen Pinchin

In coastal New Brunswick, like many rural Atlantic communities long kept afloat by seasonal employment in fish processing plants or on boats, demographics are becoming increasingly dire. Young people “vote with their feet,” as Verge says, by moving west and to more urban communities. The workforce is plummeting as demand for Canadian seafood spikes. Between 2011 and 2016, the region saw the biggest decline in the proportion of people aged 15 to 64 since 1871, according to Statistics Canada, and the largest increase in the proportion of seniors.

This sounds familiar to BeauSoleil’s Savoie, who says fish plant work often requires long days and physically demanding, repetitive tasks. Right now, two of his best oyster packers are over 60 years old.

“[They] have all said to their children, ‘Don’t do what we do, go for something else,’ and I don’t blame them,” he says. He’s concerned about finding enough workers, as well as competition on price and consistency from overseas producers.

“If industry doesn’t [adapt] in the next 10 years, there’ll be bigger problems,” Savoie says.

Anything You Can Do, It Can Do Better (Maybe)

Back when BeauSoleil first hit the North American market, oysters were typically sold by weight, so number counts didn’t matter. But as the company made a name selling its bite-sized, individually priced oysters into a seemingly insatiable market, the importance of getting the right number in each box became increasingly important. It invested in cutting-edge optical sorting machines from France in 2005 and was the first Canadian company to adapt the technology for use with oysters.

In 2004, the company sold 25 tons of oysters; in 2017, it sold 800 tons. The company currently employs about 50 people, says Savoie, and spends the equivalent of about $776,000 on wages every year. Without new so-called “pick and place” automation on its processing line, capable of packing boxes like a human worker, they’re at the point where growth is nearly impossible.

Plus, robots don’t make errors the way humans often do. “Human beings aren’t able to judge [precise measurements] perfectly,” software developer Michel Caissie says in French. He owns Infraprotech, the company contracted by BeauSoleil to program its new robots.

For 18 years, La Maison BeauSoleil has packed its oysters in blue-stamped, handmade wooden boxes. Karen Pinchin

Three years ago, when this project with BeauSoleil started, Caissie’s devices identified a whopping 29 individual human movements in the packing process, including picking an oyster up, measuring it, looking at it and eventually placing it in the box.

“Just to pick one oyster takes three-quarters of a second,” Savoie says. “That times 12 million oysters [the number they ship each year] ― that’s a lot of time.”

Then there’s the cost to human bodies. Automating the simplest, yet most straining tasks done by humans can dramatically reduce risk of workplace injury, says Caissie, whose software calculates where the most acute dangers are.

“We can’t continue working this way. The process isn’t adapted to human beings,” Caissie says. “That’s why people don’t like this work.”

Still, robots are fallible, and Savoie has been careful to build in workstations where humans can still pack boxes of oysters ― just in case the robots break down.

Not A Fear Of Change; Fear Of Loss Of Control

At a recent international seafood show in Boston, BeauSoleil bought a $7,000 waterproof remotely operated vehicle that can be used to locate oyster bags sunk to the ocean bottom for winter storage and help the company drill more accurately into the rocky seabed.

Maxime Daigle used it a couple of weeks ago and was thrilled to discover a cache of oysters that had drifted away from its GPS marker. He’s excited by the potential that technological advances, including automation, have for his industry.

Maxime Daigle often takes to the cold waters off New Brunswick in one of his family's flat-bottomed boats to harvest oysters. Karen Pinchin

“I think it makes my job way more interesting. When you’re sorting oysters by hand it’s the most boring thing,” he says. “With automation it goes by way faster, you’re able to focus on other things. It makes my job a bit more specialized.”

Currently the company’s youngest employee at 26, Daigle says it’s important for the company to be able to supply the demand for its product.

“You want to be able to face the future,” he says. “Particularly with the population of labor here in New Brunswick, which is dying a bit.”

Automation definitely scares some members of his community, says Savoie, but he’s emphatic that the company’s goal is to increase production, not to cut jobs. Yet, in the face of all this change, there’s at least one thing BeauSoleil says it won’t be automating: its blue-stamped, handmade wooden oyster box, which is manufactured year-round locally.

Verge, who spent much of his career helping businesses in financial trouble, says that Atlantic Canadians aren’t necessarily afraid of change.

“They’re afraid of being changed without any involvement or input or opportunity to direct their destiny,” he says. “The fishery, for a long time, was considered an employer of last resort.”

He says the region’s industry needs to be more efficient and humane, and technologies could help.

“We’ve got to reinvent this industry for the future, not perpetuate a model that really didn’t work that well in the past,” Verge says. “If we can do that, there’s tremendous opportunity.”

For more content and to be part of the “This New World” community, follow our Facebook page.South Korea was at a loss for words Thursday after President Donald Trump’s announcement that he was scrapping next month’s planned nuclear summit with North Korea.

“We are attempting to make sense of what, precisely, President Trump means,” South Korean presidential spokesman Kim Eui-kyeom said in a statement.

South Korean President Moon Jae-In urged both Trump and Kim to hold direct talks, South Korea’s Yonhap News Agency reported.

Secretary of State Mike Pompeo, testifying on Capitol Hill, wouldn’t comment on whether Trump’s letter blindsided the South Koreans.

The summit’s fate was thrown into question after North Korea backed away from the Trump administration’s demands to fully denuclearize. Trump then appeared to soften the demand, hinting first that he was flexible, but then saying there would be no meeting without full denuclearization.

Trump’s national security adviser John Bolton and Vice President Mike Pence sparked further North Korean outrage with comments comparing North Korea with Libya.

Just hours before Trump pulled the trigger to cancel the meeting, North Korean officials called Pence a “political dummy” and threatened to pull out of the summit themselves.“Sorry, I’m giving you a fact now that you don’t know,” Giuliani told Hannity.

He said the president was unaware of the “specifics” of the payments, “but he did know about the general arrangement that Michael would take care of things like this.”

Giuliani told The New York Times after his appearance on Hannity’s show that a monthly $35,000 reimbursement scheme was set up, coming out of a personal Trump family account. Trump ended up paying Cohen $460,000 to $470,000 in total, including funds for “incidental expenses,” he said.

Thursday morning, on “Fox & Friends,” Giuliani seemed to backpedal on his statement that Trump knew about the payments to Cohen.

“He didn’t know the details of this until we knew the details of it, which is a couple weeks ago ― maybe not even a couple weeks, maybe 10 days ago,” Giuliani said of Trump. “Remember when this came up ― October 2016 ... I don’t want to demean anyone, but $135,000 seems like a lot of money. It’s not when you’re putting $100 million into your campaign. It isn’t pocket change, but it’s pretty close to it.”

Giuliani also came to the defense of Cohen, who Trump has held at arm’s length since FBI raids last month seized records from the lawyer.

“I think he was trying to help the family,” Giuliani said of Cohen. “And for that, the man is being treated like some kind of villain. And I think he was just being a good lawyer and a good man.”A standoff with a man who police say had taken his estranged wife hostage culminated in a massive fire Wednesday night, as a barn on the couple’s North Haven, Connecticut, property exploded.

An unidentified body was found on the property early Thursday morning after emergency responders extinguished the blaze, the Connecticut State Police said in a statement.

Nine officers were injured in the blast, none of them seriously, state police said. The injured officers were sent to Yale-New Haven Hospital for treatment. The scene remains active as of Thursday afternoon.

Law enforcement were alerted to a domestic violence situation on Wednesday around 2:00 p.m. local time, police said, after the wife of the suspect escaped from the home, ran to a neighbor’s house and dialed 911, according to the Hartford Courant. She told them her husband had been holding her hostage for several days, although reports vary on the exact length of time.

The woman and her husband, who authorities have not named, have been going through a divorce, the Courant reported. The woman had reportedly been severely beaten and was taken for treatment at a hospital. Her current condition is unknown.

Multiple officers injured. I saw about four police officers being put into ambulances with possible injuries. Now being told to take shelter. Fire is still burning. #NorthHaven pic.twitter.com/OnMt4tVQnb — Kevin Galliford (@KallMeKG) May 3, 2018

State police detectives from the Fire and Explosion Investigation Unit and Central District Major Crime attempted to make contact with the man Wednesday and coax him out of the home where, with his wife gone, he had barricaded himself.

After several hours, as law enforcement attempted to enter the residence, the barn exploded with a force that neighbors say rocked their homes.

“North Haven shook. I mean everyone heard it,” neighbor Nancy Sundwall told the New Haven Register. “The whole sky turned pitch black with smoke.”

The Connecticut State Police Bomb Squad and New Haven Police Department Bomb Squad have responded to assist with the investigation. Unconfirmed reports suggest the suspect may have deliberately set up explosives on the property.

The structure burned through Wednesday night into Thursday morning as emergency responders from several communities worked to contain it. Flames from the barn spread to other nearby structures, authorities said, although they could not confirm who owned them.

A coroner will conduct a postmortem to determine the identity of the deceased and the manner of death.

North Haven is a generally quiet community north of New Haven, Connecticut, and about five miles from the Yale University campus.

As of Thursday afternoon, the status of the suspect and his location at the time of the explosion were unclear. Whether the barn explosion was intentional or accidental is also not yet known.Waste disposal workers reportedly found this alleged bone fragment of St. Clement in the garbage. Enviro Waste

A U.K. waste disposal firm is turning to the public for help after realizing that one man’s trash could quite literally be another man’s treasure.

The London-based Enviro Waste company claims its workers discovered a relic ― bearing a Latin inscription that identifies it as a bone of St. Clement, one of the earliest popes of the Catholic Church ― in a pile of trash collected from central London.

Employees reportedly found the wax-sealed leather case containing the relic while sorting through the trash to find recyclable items last year. On April 25, Enviro Waste’s blog called for suggestions from the public about what to do with the relic.

Religious relics are physical items associated with a saint or with Jesus Christ ― such as a fragment of bone, a shirt, or something the saint touched during his or her life. Catholics believe relics are vehicles through which God can work miracles. Relics are often kept inside churches and venerated by the faithful.

James Rubin, Enviro Waste’s CEO, told HuffPost he suspects the case came from commercial premises, but because workers collected it on a run through several sites, it’s hard to pinpoint exactly who disposed of it. Rubin said he’s seeking help from a U.K. university’s carbon dating laboratory to confirm the relic’s authenticity.

Rubin said no one has reached out to claim the item, but he’s heard from 150 people who have ideas about where it should reside.

“I had a few ideas where it should end up, with the British Museum being the best idea,” Rubin wrote in an email. “We have had a historic churches adviser in Central London recommend that it should be handed back to the Church of San Clemente in Rome.”

The Basilica of St. Clement in Rome. PHAS via Getty Images

The story of St. Clement dates back to the earliest days of the Christian church. He is considered to be either the third or fourth pope of the Catholic Church and a companion to the early Christian leaders, Saints Peter and Paul. According to Catholic tradition, Clement died as a martyr around the year A.D. 100, after a Roman emperor ordered him to be thrown into the sea near Crimea with an iron anchor tied to his body.

The Basilica of St. Clement in Rome and an abbey in Abruzzo, Italy, house relics they attribute to Clement.

It’s rare for relics that undergo carbon dating tests to date back to the period they’re supposedly from. They’re more likely to come from a later historical period.

Rev. Dennis O’Neill, a Catholic priest in the Chicago area who collects Christian relics, told HuffPost that he has relics of St. Clement in his Shrine of All Saints in Morton Grove, Illinois.

O’Neill said that the relic Enviro Waste found could be authentic, given its red threads and red wax seal. But he also said the relic’s container and inscription did not appear to be older than the 19th century.

The biggest problem the relic faces, however, is that its certification may have been misplaced, O’Neill said.

“What is missing is an accompanying document, which would have been issued at the time it was certified, with the signature and the seal of the bishop who certified it,” O’Neill wrote in an email. “Without this document, it is unlikely that anyone will re-certify it.”

Joyce Ann Zimmerman, a theological consultant for the Maria Stein Shrine of the Holy Relics in Ohio, told HuffPost that the relic couldn’t be displayed for public veneration if the certificate is missing. In addition, the wax seal on the item didn’t appear to her to be intact ― another requirement for relics.Dennis Kucinich is running to become Ohio's next governor. Anadolu Agency via Getty Images

Democrats in Ohio are increasingly worried that former Rep. Dennis Kucinich’s ties to fringe groups ― including supporters of Syrian President Bashar Assad and those who promote conspiracy theories around the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks ― will destroy their chances of winning the governor’s mansion in November.

“Democrats interested in winning are shitting themselves,” one Democratic elected official told HuffPost on condition of anonymity. “It’s not just baggage. It’s funky baggage. What Democrat is friendly with Assad? What Democrat praised [President Donald Trump’s] inauguration?”

“If [Kucinich] wins the primary, he brings down everybody but Sherrod,” said Sandy Theis, former executive director of nonprofit Progress Ohio and a former statehouse bureau chief for the Cleveland Plain Dealer. “He’s so outside of the mainstream.” (“Sherrod” is a reference to the state’s senior senator, Democrat Sherrod Brown.)

Kucinich’s backers wave off these concerns as the fretting of out-of-touch establishment Democrats.

“It’s easy for the political insiders to say that,” said Nina Turner, president of Our Revolution, the Bernie Sanders-aligned group that has endorsed Kucinich, and a former Ohio state senator. “The heart the congressman has, his history of service to Ohio, that’s what matters, not these made-up boogeymen.”

And they see an echo of the 2016 presidential primary, when many of them backed Sanders, the independent senator from Vermont, over eventual Democratic nominee Hillary Clinton.

“It seems to us the same argument that Hillary supporters used against Bernie. What it really means is we don’t want to go face-to-face with you on issues and positions, so we’ll argue you can’t win,” said Steve Holecko, the political director of the Cuyahoga County Progressive Caucus.

The gubernatorial primary battle between Kucinich and former Consumer Financial Protection Bureau chief Richard Cordray has been the premier Democratic fight of the 2018 electoral cycle so far, pitting a two-time presidential candidate who has the backing of Sanders’ political organization, if not Sanders himself, against a former Ohio attorney general with the backing of Sen. Elizabeth Warren (D-Mass.).

Kucinich’s longtime support for a range of progressive priorities, including Medicare-for-all, marijuana decriminalization and free college tuition, along with his attacks on Cordray’s past support of gun rights, has created a close primary contest. The winner will take on the victor in the GOP primary battle between state Attorney General Mike DeWine and Lt. Gov. Mary Taylor.

Most Democrats who spoke to HuffPost remain hopeful that Cordray will prevail in the May 8 primary. Cordray has spent $1.5 million on television ads meant to raise his name identification. But the high number of undecided voters in public polls means that Democrats can’t feel completely confident about the front-runner.

Plus, that spending gap may soon close. Kucinich is expected to launch his first television ads on Thursday, according to two sources tracking media buys in the race, and a group founded by a backer of Lt. Gov. Taylor is spending on TV ads attacking Cordray from the left.

“Why do Republicans love Rich Cordray so much?” a narrator says at the start of the 30-second ad from the Citizens Policy Institute, as Cordray’s face morphs into Trump’s. The ad goes on to attack Cordray for once having an A+ rating from the National Rifle Association and for resigning from his post as head of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, allowing Trump to name his replacement. “We can’t win with Republican lite,” the ad concludes. “Is Rich Cordray really a Democrat?” (Kucinich has also hammered Cordray over his past NRA support.)

The founder of the Citizens Policy Institute is Tony George, a Syrian-American Cleveland-area restaurateur and a prominent local Trump supporter. His organization is spending about $62,000 on two ads in the Cleveland television market, according to the media-buying sources ― the spot attacking Cordray and another criticizing a local GOP legislator.

George, who has a long history of controversy and feuds with local elected officials, has also donated more than a quarter-million dollars to a PAC supporting Taylor in the GOP primary. George, who couldn’t be reached for comment, told BuzzFeed News that the anti-Cordray ad had “nothing to do” with trying to boost Kucinich’s chances of winning the Democratic primary.

While much national coverage of Kucinich has focused on his support for progressive ideals long before they were popular within the Democratic Party, his ties to Assad, former Texas Rep. Ron Paul (R) and other controversial figures are what worry state Democrats more than his domestic policy positions.

Kucinich received $20,000 to speak at a London conference of the Association for Investment in Popular Action Committees, an event that critics derided as propaganda for the Assad regime. The CEO of that association is also a board member of the nonprofit Architects and Engineers for 9/11 Truth. (Kucinich is returning the $20,000 fee.)

The candidate has also questioned special counsel Robert Mueller’s investigation into the Trump campaign, saying it had a “high BS quotient.” He serves on an advisory board of the Ron Paul Institute, alongside Lew Rockwell, who ghost-wrote Paul’s infamous newsletter. He has appeared dozens of times on the RT news channel, which is funded by the Russian government. He called President Barack Obama’s decision to bomb Libya in 2011 an “impeachable offense.” And he’s echoed Trump’s concerns about the so-called deep state and praised his inaugural address.

“Don’t we want someone who’s willing to go into territory that’s unfriendly and try to win people over?” - Nina Turner, president of Our Revolution, who supports Kucinich

Turner, the Our Revolution president, said Kucinich’s dealings with Assad supporters are part of his efforts to bring peace to the Middle East, noting that Kucinich supported the creation of a U.S. Department of Peace when he was running for president. She described his work with Republicans as simply outreach.

“Don’t we want someone who’s willing to go into territory that’s unfriendly and try to win people over?” Turner asked. She suggested the local progressive groups that recommended Our Revolution back Kucinich were unconcerned by his views in this area. “Those groups didn’t bring up Russia or Syria,” she said.

“It’s curious that one of the ways they’re trying to malign his character is to bring up things no governor of Ohio would have to deal with,” Turner added.

Holecko admitted that Kucinich’s ties to Assad were a “flaw in Dennis’ résumé,” but said the focus on that issue showed establishment Democrats didn’t want to discuss policy positions.

Kucinich’s campaign spokesman, Andy Juniewicz, dismissed the idea that his candidate would struggle to win over voters in the general election as a “phony argument.”

“He ran for mayor of Cleveland against an incumbent Republican and won,” Juniewicz wrote in an email. “He ran for the Ohio State Senate against an incumbent Republican and won. He ran for the U.S. House of Representatives against an incumbent Republican and won. Richard Cordray already lost to Mike DeWine the last time they faced off. Whoever is raising the question of electability is obviously unfamiliar with the facts.”

Kucinich clearly isn’t concerned with appearing too close to Russia or Syria. On Sunday night, he went on Larry King’s talk show to deplore how unelected elements within the U.S. government were pushing Trump to be “more hawkish, more interventionist” toward Syria.

The network? RT.The gods of irony must have been looking down at the White House with pride as President Donald Trump proclaimed Thursday a National Day of Prayer ― hours after he acknowledged he’d reimbursed personal attorney Michael Cohen’s hush money to porn actress Stormy Daniels so she wouldn’t discuss their alleged affair.

Today, it was my great honor to celebrate the #NationalDayOfPrayer at the @WhiteHouse, in the Rose Garden! Proclamation: https://t.co/4jAxJnBJoq pic.twitter.com/AsWTfpu290 — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) May 3, 2018

Trump probably didn’t find the coincidence very funny ― he and Rudy Giuliani, the former New York City mayor now serving as Trump’s outspoken new lawyer, claim the payment wasn’t illegal, and Trump denies he was involved with Daniels.

But many Twitter users gave the president hell. Some suggested relevant Bible verses that Trump might want to familiarize himself with.

Others suggested that the president picked a good to start praying for salvation.

Did you do some extra praying? You are sure going to need them !!! — Mickma (@Mickma2) May 3, 2018

You need more than a day of prayer after it was just revealed that Cohen’s phone was tapped by the FBI before the raid. They don’t normally tap the innocent. My guess is your ass is in DEEP SHIT. Today would be a good day to RESIGN. Things are getting real STORMY — BlueDuck🌊 (@orblueduck) May 3, 2018

You need to pray to fix all the damage you've caused to humans and our planet — Deborah Von Brod (@DeborahVonBrod) May 3, 2018

Others had questions. Lots of questions.

Bruh are you praying for Giuliani to keep his mouth shut? I’m not. — 🔥 Trumpster Fire 🔥 (@topher_blunt) May 3, 2018

Did you spend your days praying Mueller goes away and that Guiliani shuts his face? — S_Shan_Shan (@S_Shan_Shan) May 3, 2018

Some believed the country was the beneficiary of divine intervention.

Our prayers have been answered. It is being reported Michael Cohen's phone was tapped and at least one phone call with the Whitehouse was intercepted and I think Rudy confessed that you and Cohen laundered money. It's not even noon. — Toby Nelson (@PugMafia66) May 3, 2018

Some people just weren’t convinced Trump was “all in” on the National Day of Prayer.

If the national prayer is such a great honor for you try something new… Speak from the heart not the Teleprompter — Ruth Ann Share (@RuthShare) May 3, 2018

Others imagined how the president might interact with the King of Kings.MICHELE EVE SANDBERG via Getty Images

DORAL, Fla. – The United States has never had kings, dukes or even barons, but President Donald Trump’s most loyal subjects have found a way to pay him millions of dollars in tribute anyway.

New Jersey Republican congressman Tom MacArthur spent $15,221 to hold a fundraiser at Trump’s golf course in Bedminster, according to a HuffPost analysis of Federal Election Commission filings. Mark Meadows, a North Carolina Republican and a close Trump ally in the House, spent $689 for an office Christmas party at Trump’s hotel a few blocks from the White House. The Illinois-based Family PAC paid $3,183 to Trump’s hotel in Chicago to hold a conference there.

And the Republican National Committee this week will likely spend in the neighborhood of a half-million dollars at Trump’s resort in Doral, a few miles west of downtown Miami, for its spring meeting — not counting hundreds or even thousands of dollars RNC members must pay out of their own pockets for airfare, hotel rooms and some meals.

The golf resort boasts plenty of ornate chandeliers and baroque fountains — but lies directly beneath the flight path of Miami International Airport’s takeoffs and landings, and is miles from the closest beach.

RNC members said they like it anyway, even if it means that some of their own money winds up in the president’s pockets.

“Well, we elected a president who’s a businessman,” noted one RNC member on condition of anonymity. “A shrewd businessman.”

Cindy Siddoway, the RNC committeewoman from Idaho, said she didn’t know how the RNC settled on Trump’s golf resort but had no objection. “I don’t have a have a problem with it,” she said. “It’s a lovely hotel.”

“In terms of the optics of it? We’re way past that at this point.” - GOP official

In all, some 70 Republican candidates and parties from Washington state to Washington, D.C., have spent $1.9 million of their donors’ money at the president’s golf courses, hotels and restaurants thus far this election cycle. A portion of every one of these dollars enriches Trump and his family personally.

“If you are a politician who, A, has no principles and, B, wants Donald Trump’s endorsement, then of course you will want to host your fundraising event at a Trump property,” said Robert Weissman, president of Public Citizen, an open-government advocacy group that has successfully sued Trump for access to White House visitor logs. “There’s no better way to appeal to the transactional president, no better way to make a mark with the no-attention-span president.”

One GOP official, on condition of anonymity, acknowledged the unsavoriness of funneling donor money to the president and his family but said that ― given Trump’s brazenness about profiting from his presidency — the party had essentially given up. “In terms of the optics of it? We’re way past that at this point,” the official said.

Paying The President

For years, the entire system of donors with financial interest in particular legislation and regulations giving campaign contributions to candidates who will then craft those same laws and regulations has been derided as corrupt and tantamount to legalized bribery.

But candidates must abide by strict rules on what they can and cannot do with that money. Using it to personally enrich themselves is illegal.

Trump’s refusal to divest himself of his hotels and golf courses — despite his promises to do so during the campaign — has made it possible for Republican candidates and parties to put money directly into his pocket.

“It’s a scary reality when we’re discussing whether the president is susceptible to the influence of people paying him while president, but it is our current reality,” said Jordan Libowitz of the group Citizens for Responsibility and Ethics in Washington, which has sued Trump for violating the constitutional prohibition from taking payments from foreign and domestic government officials.

The biggest source of GOP money flowing to Trump’s properties is the Republican National Committee, which essentially went under the control of Trump since his election in 2016. Through its March filing, it has spent $763,335 at Trump properties since Jan. 1, 2017. That includes $106,646 for a dinner at Trump’s Washington hotel in January, $224,858 for a weekend of meetings and fundraisers at Trump’s Mar-a-Lago resort in March and $237,310 in advance payments to Trump’s Doral golf resort for this week’s spring meeting. In past meetings, the RNC would typically pay half of the total cost of the event beforehand, and the remainder afterward.

A view of the Trump resort in Doral, Florida. SV DATE/HUFFPOST

The next biggest spender at Trump properties is the president’s re-election campaign, which is wholly under the president’s direct control. Thus far it has funneled $551,643 of its donors’ money to his hotels and golf resorts as well as to Trump Tower in Manhattan, where it rents office space and buys food from Trump’s restaurants there.

Other high-profile spenders include Great America Committee and America First Action, two Trump-supporting political action committees that occasionally host fundraisers at his Washington, D.C., hotel.

But Trump properties also draw smaller committees as well as candidates for House and Senate races, who choose to pay the higher prices that Trump venues often charge compared to nearby competitors.

Illinois’ Adam Kinzinger, Kansas’ Kevin Yoder, New York’s Peter King, California’s David Valadao and Florida’s Ted Yoho are all Republican House members who reported spending at Trump properties.

Both the National Republican Senatorial Committee and the National Republican Congressional Committee have held events at Trump properties, as did the Morris County, New Jersey, Republican Party — reportedly with dire results.

After paying Trump’s Bedminster golf course $24,487 and a Fox News host $30,000 to serve as keynote speaker, the fundraiser actually wound up losing money, leaving the local party with shaky finances.

A fountain at one of four golf courses at Trump's Doral resort. SV DATE/HUFFPOST

Omar Navarro, a Republican who hopes to replace Democratic Rep. Maxine Waters in Los Angeles, reported spending thousands at Trump’s golf resort in Palos Verdes. He conceded that the high costs at the Trump resort ate into the total he collected, but said it was the only venue that would agree to host him.

“Trump is the only place where I can hold an event without being shut down,” Navarro said. “They don’t get intimidated by fascist people who keep us from having campaign events.”

He said longtime Trump confidante Roger Stone headlined his first fundraiser and former Arizona sheriff Joe Arpaio his second. “It’s expensive. It’s not cheap,” he said.

Hoping For A Payoff

CREW’s Libowitz said it is obvious why candidates and incumbent Republican officials alike spend money at Trump properties: in the hopes of winning Trump’s support and endorsement.

“If someone wanted to try to literally buy his favor, they have a direct and legal line to do so. This is why we’ve seen a sudden influx of spending by Republican candidates and committees at Trump properties where they had not previously spent,” Libowitz said. “They have to have their events somewhere, so many may believe that allowing the president to profit off of them will give them a leg up in gaining his support.”

One Republican close to the White House, though, scoffed at the idea that Trump’s political office — known for its dysfunction — had the initiative or discipline to keep track of which candidates were frequenting Trump properties. “No,” he said. “Please.”

Another Republican official close to Trump, who believed that the use of Trump properties by GOP candidates was ethically troubling, agreed that Trump’s political team is not paying any mind to who is spending money at his golf courses and hotels and who is not. “I don’t know that it is noticed by anyone,” the official said. “Maybe it is.”

For Corey Stewart, a U.S. Senate candidate for Virginia, time is running out for somebody in the president’s political world to notice his Trump-brand loyalty.

Stewart jumped into the Senate race not long after losing the primary for the Republican nomination for Virginia governor last year. In October and November of 2017, he spent $1,422 at the Trump hotel in Washington on meals as “meeting expenses.”

Stewart said he hosts get-togethers with small groups of “high-dollar donors” there – although at least on one occasion in November, he appeared to be socializing with tourists and other visitors at the bar, not meeting with donors. His FEC report for that period included a bill for $355 for that date.

“I might have been just hanging out there,” he said, adding that the hotel has become a “clubhouse for conservatives” in the area. “We like to host events there because there are a lot of MAGA folks who like to meet there,” he said.

Notwithstanding his frequent visits there, Stewart said he does not expect Trump to endorse him prior to the June 12 Virginia primary, in which he faces two opponents.

Navarro, of Los Angeles, similarly does not expect a Trump endorsement, but said he would continue to use Trump properties. “I’d rather do business in a place where someone has my values,” he said.

And — notwithstanding his own website that calls for “an end to accepting bribes” and ridding “corruption/greed” in government ― he rejects the idea that Trump is doing anything wrong by profiting from his businesses while in office.