Parkland shooting survivor David Hogg on Friday pilloried Fox News host Laura Ingraham, declining to accept her apology after she mocked him for getting rejected from several colleges ― one of several right-wing attacks against the student activists of Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School.

“She’s only apologizing after a third of her advertisers pulled out, and I think it’s really disgusting, the fact that she basically tried promoting her show after apologizing to me,” Hogg, 17, said on CNN’s “New Day.” “If she really wants to do something, she could cover inner-city violence and the real issues that we have in America.”

On Wednesday night, Hogg called on his Twitter followers to pressure advertisers to cut ties with Ingraham’s TV and radio shows. By Friday evening, at least 14 companies had announced they were pulling their ads or had otherwise sought to distance themselves from Ingraham:

Nutrish

TripAdvisor

Wayfair

Expedia

Nestlé

Johnson & Johnson

Stitch Fix

Hulu

Jos. A. Bank

Office Depot

Jenny Craig

Miracle-Ear

Liberty Mutual

Principal

Some of the companies did not specify whether their decision was directly tied to Ingraham’s comments. But a number of them did criticize the host’s remarks.

“As a company, we support open dialogue and debate on issues,” a spokeswoman for the home goods retailer Wayfair said. “However, the decision of an adult to personally criticize a high school student who has lost his classmates in an unspeakable tragedy is not consistent with our values.”

Ingraham apologized Thursday afternoon, attributing her apology to “reflection, in the spirit of Holy Week.” She also invited Hogg to appear on her show “anytime for a productive discussion.”

"I think it's great that corporate America is standing with me," David Hogg says of his call for advertisers to boycott Laura Ingraham's Fox News show, "They cannot push us around, especially when all we're trying to do here is save lives" https://t.co/kL7RrM6fHF pic.twitter.com/yvz1PpXMxg — New Day (@NewDay) March 30, 2018

“We will no longer advertise with The Laura Ingraham Show moving forward,” a representative for Office Depot told HuffPost on Friday. A representative for Duracell, meanwhile, said the company “does not comment on media buys and placements.”

A spokesman for Jos. A. Bank told HuffPost the company did not specifically have ad spending on Ingraham’s Fox News show, “The Ingraham Angle.” Ads that aired on Wednesday night were likely “bonus ads” from the network.

Principal told HuffPost, “We are distancing ourselves by removing our advertising from ‘The Ingraham Angle’ show at this time.”

Also on Friday, Hogg praised “corporate America” for “standing with me and the rest of my friends,” and accused Ingraham of creating a distraction.

“It is important that we stand together as corporate and civic America and show them that they cannot push us around, especially when all we’re trying to do here is save lives,” he said. “And when people try to distract, like what Laura is trying to do right now, from what the real issue is, which is gun violence in America, it’s not only sad, it’s just wrong.”

“I am not the issue here,” Hogg went on. “The issue is gun violence in America, but she is trying to distract from that, and I hate it.”

Hogg also told CNN that he may take a gap year in order to continue his activism through the midterm elections and work with candidates who support gun control measures.

Other than her apology on Twitter, Ingraham did not address the matter Thursday evening on her Fox News show. A representative for the network declined to comment beyond Ingraham’s apology.Bill Cosby arrives for a pretrial hearing for his sexual assault trial in Norristown, Pennsylvania, on March 29, 2018. Jessica Kourkounis / Reuters

A suburban Philadelphia judge overseeing comedian Bill Cosby’s upcoming retrial on sexual assault charges rejected a defense request to quit the case because his wife advocates for victims of sexual abuse.

Montgomery County Common Pleas Judge Steven T. O’Neill said a $100 donation in his wife’s name was made to an anti-abuse group more than a year ago for her job, and the contribution involved neither her own money nor the couple’s shared assets.

“She is an independent woman, and she has a right to be involved in anything she believes in,” O’Neill said in rejecting the recusal motion on Thursday, according to The Washington Post. “It’s difficult to have her accomplishments trivialized.”

In a last-ditch attempt to delay the retrial, scheduled to begin jury selection on Monday, Cosby’s attorneys pointed to the donation to an organization that helped fund an activist group that plans to protest outside the retrial, The Associated Press reported. The judge’s wife, according to her LinkedIn profile, is a social worker at a sexual trauma center at the University of Pennsylvania.

Cosby, 80, is charged with three counts of aggravated indecent assault for allegedly drugging and sexually assaulting Andrea Constand, a former women’s basketball coach at Temple University, in 2004. A jury in June deadlocked on the charges and a mistrial was declared. More than 50 women have accused the entertainer of sexual assault, with many saying he drugged and raped them.

Cosby has pleaded not guilty.

O’Neill reportedly was visibly upset by the latest defense attempt to delay the retrial. The AP reported the veteran judge told Cosby’s attorneys they had presented an “antiquated view of marriage in which spouses must agree on everything.”

Cosby was reportedly smiling and laughing under his breath in the courtroom while his attorneys and O’Neill discussed the recusal request.

Testimony in the retrial is scheduled to begin April 9.Shock jock Howard Stern definitely knows how to make David Letterman very uncomfortable: talk about the interviews he had with Donald Trump about the president’s daughter Ivanka’s sexiness.

Trump famously allowed Stern to refer to his daughter as “a piece of ass” on the radio legend’s show in 2004. And Stern dishes on what it was like interviewing Trump in an episode of Letterman’s Netflix series, “My Next Guest Needs No Introduction″ that airs May 31.

In the preview clip below, Stern discusses how Trump’s lack of a filter made him a great guest.

“He would get on, and no matter what I asked him, he would answer. In a very sincere and thought-out way. I’d say... and I always called him Mr. Trump, he liked that, I’d say Mr. Trump, ‘Who are the great beauties? If I ask you some names, can you tell who the great beauties are?’”

Stern was amazed by Trump’s reasoning.

“He goes, first of all ― straight face ― the great beauties, Howard, are not actresses,” Stern continues. “It’s models ... Anyone works in the entertainment industry, really, I’ve only seen sixes and sevens.”

Stern was also surprised at who Trump thought was hot.

“I’d say... ‘I think Angelina Jolie is a great beauty.’ ‘Seven!’ ‘Really, why?’... He goes, ‘You know who’s a great beauty?’ I go, ‘Who?’ ‘My daughter Ivanka. Now she’s a 10.’”Sean Penn delivered an unflattering assessment of Steve Bannon when he opened up about working with President Donald Trump’s former chief strategist in the 1990s.

On Thursday’s broadcast of “Conan,” the Academy Award-winning movie star said Bannon “exerted the same level of charm” on the set of the 1991 film “The Indian Runner” that “he does today.”

He also called Bannon, who was listed as the movie’s executive producer, a “crook.”

Penn claimed he “didn’t even know it was the same Steve Bannon” who had ascended to Trump’s inner circle “until I looked at him closely and imagined the Steve Bannon I knew but with the toxins of the soul so deteriorated.”

“I don’t think you can age like that without hating people,” Penn added.

Penn was on the show to promote his new novel Bob Honey Who Just Do Stuff. It followed his memorable interview on Monday’s “Late Show” in which he lit up cigarettes in front of host Stephen Colbert and admitted to earlier popping an Ambien.

Penn has previously called Bannon a “bitter Hollywood wannabe who went rogue by way of toxic narcissistic iconoclasm.”

“But, deep in his heart, he’s just a conniving hateful bloated punk who despises mankind,” Penn said in April 2017.Larry Nassar listens to victim impact statements during a sentencing hearing on Jan. 16, 2018. Scott Olson via Getty Images

Michigan State University paid a public relations company $517,343 to monitor and track social media activity surrounding the recent Larry Nassar sexual abuse case, the Lansing State Journal reported on Wednesday.

Many of the social media accounts the New York-based firm Weber Shandwick monitored included accounts of survivors, their families and notable celebrities, journalists and politicians. The Lansing State Journal included screenshots of Weber Shandwick’s report to MSU that quoted specific survivors’ tweets, retweets and commentary. The PR firm also outlined news articles that created spikes in conversation surrounding the Nassar case.

MSU’s Office of Communication and Brand Strategy had initially been collecting and tracking the information, but handed the majority of the work over to Weber Shandwick in December.

“Michigan State University hired Weber Shandwick in December 2017 to provide crisis communications counsel as well as additional media staffing to handle the high volume of communications tasks related to the Larry Nassar matter,” a spokeswoman for the university told HuffPost. “The relationship ended in early March and we are no long working together.”

Story updated to include screenshots of emails sent from the firm to MSU staff regarding tracking social media posts related to the Larry Nassar case https://t.co/LOA1tgBOkU pic.twitter.com/mdI4Zw1U2f — Lansing State Journal (@LSJNews) March 28, 2018

Although this type of monitoring is not uncommon in criminal cases, the explosive report garnered intense media attention and prompted many Nassar survivors to criticize the surveillance as invasive and triggering.

Weber Shandwick responded to the criticism in a press release provided to HuffPost.

“The majority of our work involved crisis counsel to address the tragedy. We were not hired to monitor victims’ social media accounts. As with any assignment, we forwarded to our clients traditional media and publicly available social media pertaining to the horrible tragedy at MSU, including statements made online by the victims,” the statement reads. “The victims were and continue to be the most important voices in the conversation.”

Criminal defense attorney Stuart Slotnick, who is not affiliated with the Nassar case, told HuffPost that while MSU’s move may appear to be borderline unethical, it is not unheard of and usually doesn’t violate any laws.

“Monitoring social media accounts is not uncommon in the world of litigation. Although it may appear to be unseemly, when monitoring the accounts of victims of the crime, MSU could have been being proactive in addressing complaints by hearing them directly the source,” he said. “There are no legal implications to monitoring social media accounts, so long as they are public accounts and not private.”

“I was absolutely disgusted to learn that MSU was using such an invasive tactic. I felt violated all over again.” - Larissa Boyce, Nassar survivor and former MSU gymnast

Still, many survivors feel the university unjustly invaded their privacy. Finding out that MSU was surveilling them the entire time they were screaming for justice has made many survivors feel they’re being targeted yet again ― and by the very institution that so horribly failed them in the first place.

“I was absolutely disgusted to learn that MSU was using such an invasive tactic,” former gymnast and Nassar survivor Larissa Boyce told HuffPost in an email. “I felt violated all over again.”

Boyce, who says that Nassar began abusing her when she was 16 years old in 1997 and continued until 2001, told then-MSU gymnastics coach Kathie Klages of the abuse the year it started. Klages, who has since retired, told Boyce she must have misunderstood the medical procedure and sent the teenager back to Nassar.

After everything Boyce has endured at the hands of MSU, she said she’s not surprised by the university’s most recent move.

“Sadly, I’m not surprised, as this is yet another example of how [MSU is] more concerned about protecting their brand than survivors,” she said. “They’ve been saying that they are on our side but this proves once again they are re-victimizing us and trying to find ways to attack our character. Time to start looking at their own house! That money should have been used to check all of their employees computers & social media!”

Rachael Denhollander, the first woman to publicly accuse Nassar of sexual abuse, reacted on Twitter to the surveillance news Wednesday.

“If MSU wanted to know about me and other survivors, they could have just talked to us. We had outstanding offers [to] meet with them,” she wrote.

If MSU wanted to know about me and other survivors, they could have just talked to us. We had outstanding offers meet with them.

https://t.co/TvDupykfHF — Rachael Denhollander (@R_Denhollander) March 28, 2018

Nassar served as the team doctor for USA Gymnastics and for several different sports teams on MSU’s campus. Over the course of two decades, he sexually abused over 260 young girls and women under the guise of medical treatment. He recently received three concurrent sentences of 60 years, 40-125 years and 40-175 years in prison for child sexual abuse and child pornography.

Although Nassar will spend the rest of his life in prison, many survivors have called for heads to roll at USA Gymnastics, the U.S. Olympic Committee and specifically MSU, claiming those institutions enabled Nassar’s abuse.

Imagine if MSU had spent this kind of time and money monitoring its own employees instead. #Nassar #Strampel @michiganstateu https://t.co/cYUIjNifoL — Brenda Resch (@BrynneMawr) March 28, 2018

Attorney John Manly, who represents more than 100 Nassar victims, tweeted his disappointment as well: “Michigan State paid $500,000.00 in January to spy on Nassar survivors and their families on social media. The MSU Board was copied on these reports. Not one Board member had the moral courage to say this is wrong. Stop it. Not one. Shame on MSU. Shame on each and every Trustee.”

Morgan McCaul, a Nassar survivor and current first-year student at MSU, explained to HuffPost how invasive it felt when she found out the university had been tracking her social media all along.

“While MSU tracked our social media cries for accountability and justice, they ignored and enabled yet another predator ― and they did it at an incomprehensible cost,” McCaul said, referring to Nassar’s longtime boss, William Strampel, who was recently arrested on multiple sexual misconduct charges for allegedly sexual harassing and assaulting female MSU students.

I'm eighteen years old, & my first thought when I woke up this morning was whether I shall ever see decency from @michiganstateu. They've traumatized me, maligned my character, and stalked my social media activity for months. I'm eighteen years old, and I've had enough. #MeTooMSU — Morgan McCaul (@fatherjuanmisty) March 30, 2018Like many infamous prisoners before him, accused Florida gunman Nikolas Cruz is receiving torrents of fan mail from people across the country.

Piles of letters, including greeting cards and even provocative photos, have been mailed to the jail cell of the 19-year-old gunman, who is currently facing the death penalty after being accused of murdering 17 students and staff members at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School on Feb. 14.

“I reserve the right to care about you, Nikolas!” one Texas woman wrote in a letter to Cruz just six days after the mass shooting, according to the Sun-Sentinel.

An 18-year-old girl, who identified herself as a high school senior, also wrote to the accused killer, saying, “When I saw your picture on the television, something attracted me to you.”

“Your eyes are beautiful and the freckles on your face make you so handsome,” she continued. “I’m really skinny and have 34C sized breasts.”

A third, older Chicago woman mailed Cruz suggestive photos, including a shot of her cleavage and another of herself in a skimpy bikini eating a popsicle.

Someone even deposited $800 into Cruz’s commissary account, which he can use to purchase snacks, personal hygiene products and other goods while in prison.

Cruz’s lawyer, Public Defender Howard Finkelstein, confirmed to the Sun-Sentinel that the accused killer has indeed been receiving massive amounts of fan mail.

“There’s piles of letters,” said Finkelstein. “In my 40 years as public defender, I’ve never seen this many letters to a defendant. Everyone now and then gets a few, but nothing like this.”

“The letters shake me up because they are written by regular, everyday teenage girls from across the nation,” he continued. “That scares me. It’s perverted.”

However, Finklestein said that since Cruz is on suicide watch, he hasn’t seen most of the letters.

“We read a few religious ones to him that extended wishes for his soul and to come to God,” he said. “But we have not and will not read him the fan letters or share the photos of scantily-clad teenage girls.”The original "The Golden Girls" aired from 1985 to 1992. ABC Photo Archives via Getty Images

A new comedy series that’s being billed as a gay take on “The Golden Girls” has been given the go-ahead.

“Silver Foxes,” which follows four gay men living in Palm Springs, California, has been picked up for development by the Turner Broadcasting-owned production company Super Deluxe, Variety reports. The show has direct “Golden Girls” ties, too: Screenwriters Stan Zimmerman and James Berg were co-writers on a number of episodes of that classic sitcom, which ran from 1985 through 1992.

Though details of “Silver Foxes” are scarce, the show is believed to have been inspired by “Gen Silent,” an acclaimed 2011 documentary that explored the issues many LGBTQ seniors face in assisted-living facilities. The series will follow two older gay men and one younger man who rescue their friend from a homophobic nursing home and bring him back to their Palm Springs house.

Casting for the show has yet to be announced, but a 2016 reading featured George Takei, Leslie Jordan, Bruce Vilanch and Todd Sherry as the central foursome.

Zimmerman posted a photo of that reading to his Instagram for posterity.

A post shared by Stan Zimmerman (@zimmermanstan) on Jun 12, 2017 at 9:33am PDT

Zimmerman and Berg have stressed that while “Silver Foxes” is “inspired” by “The Golden Girls,” it isn’t intended as a formal reboot. Still, it’s been reported that the pair have written a cameo for original “Golden Girls” star Betty White.

Just as “The Golden Girls” touched on hot-button topics like same-sex marriage and the AIDS crisis, “Silver Foxes” will touch on current issues in America’s political climate, Zimmerman told HuffPost in 2017. The show, he said, “has much to offer the world, especially after ... we had a president tweeting a trans ban in the Army and our own government arguing in court against basic rights for LGBTQ people in housing and employment.”Do we get her a rocking chair?

Actress Cameron Diaz says she is retired, apparently confirming what was dismissed as a joke just weeks ago.

In a conversation with “The Sweetest Thing” costars Selma Blair and Christina Applegate, published Thursday by Entertainment Weekly, the three discussed getting together again.

When Applegate explained that she was “semi-retired,” Diaz responded: “I’m semi-retired, too, and I am actually retired, so I would love to see you ladies.”

It was Blair who started the speculation about Diaz’s showbiz future when she declared in an interview this month that Diaz had, in fact, ended her acting career. But then Blair tweeted that she was joking.

Diaz, 45, whose prominent films include “There’s Something About Mary” and “Charlie’s Angels,” last appeared onscreen as Miss Hannigan in 2014′s “Annie,”

But would she really call it quits at this point, rejecting good parts if they came along? Or did her comment reflect that roles weren’t coming as they once did? Or has she had it with Hollywood?

People wrote that Blair’s original comment stemmed from EW’s interview and that Diaz was joking as well, but the “actually retired” part got entertainment sites buzzing.Hackers breached MyFitnessPal, a popular calorie-counting app and website, and acquired private data from about 150 million users.

Under Armour Inc., which owns the nutritional app, announced Thursday that an “unauthorized party” gained access to the data in late February. Information acquired by the hackers included user names, email addresses and hashed passwords, the company said.

Social Security numbers and driver’s license numbers were not affected since the app doesn’t collect that information. Payment card information was also unaffected because the company collects and processes that information separately.

The company says it does not know the identity of the party responsible for the security breach.

MyFitnessPal allows users to track their daily meals, count how many calories they consume and search for the nutritional information of specific foods.

In a notice to the app’s users, Under Armour Chief Digital Officer Paul Fipps said the company learned of the breach on Sunday. The company alerted its users four days later.

“We are working with leading data security firms to assist in our investigation,” Fipps wrote. “We have also notified and are coordinating with law enforcement authorities.”

The company is urging MyFitnessPal users to change their passwords immediately.

Under Armour is the latest victim of a string of security breaches affecting companies in all industries.

Orbitz, a travel booking site, announced this month that it had a security breach that affected about 880,000 payment cards from the site’s users.

Equifax also announced this month that it had another massive data breach affecting 2.4 million customers in 2017, six months after it revealed a previous breach that affected 143 million additional people.WASHINGTON ― President Donald Trump marveled Thursday at all the federal court vacancies he gets to fill and wondered why President Barack Obama left him so many ― apparently unaware that Senate Republicans blocked Obama’s judicial nominees to those seats for years in hopes that a GOP president would fill them.

“You know, when I got in, we had over 100 federal judges that weren’t appointed,” Trump said at an infrastructure event in Ohio. “I don’t know why Obama left that. It was like a big beautiful present to all of us. Why the hell did he leave that? Maybe he got complacent?”

The whopping 108 court vacancies Trump inherited when he took office was a present ― that’s double the number that Obama inherited when he became president ― but it wasn’t from Obama. It was from Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.), whose record of blocking Obama’s judicial nominees will go down as his greatest legacy.

Under McConnell’s leadership, Republicans leaned on every procedural rule in the book to stop Obama’s court picks. They refused to recommend judicial nominees to Obama’s White House. They slow-walked committee hearings. If a nominee cleared the committee, Republicans made the person wait three times longer for a Senate confirmation vote than did President George W. Bush’s nominees. Their efforts to deny judicial nominees the ability to even get a vote on the Senate floor ultimately led Democrats to change the rules in order to make it easier to advance nominees.

When Republicans won control of the Senate in the fall of 2014, it got even harder for Obama’s judicial nominees. By the fall of 2015, the GOP was confirming judges at the slowest rate in more than 60 years and had left the federal bench emptier than it had been in decades. By the end of Obama’s presidency, Republicans had driven up the number of judicial emergencies ― when a court is so overburdened it can barely function ― from 12 to 43 in the span of two years.

McConnell, of course, also prevented Obama from filling a Supreme Court seat in early 2016. Trump’s first major achievement as president was confirming Neil Gorsuch to that seat ― the final step in a plan that McConnell had set in motion a year earlier.

This was the strategy all along by McConnell: hold open as many court seats as possible under Obama so a future Republican president could fill them. It worked.

But for now, Trump is just mystified at how he got so lucky.

“We were left a present!” he told the Ohio crowd. “It was like the gift from heaven. We were left judges .... Amazing. It was the gift. Thank you very much, President Obama. We all appreciate it. What happened? How did he do that? How did he do that?”Imagine being 16 years old and getting mowed down by thousands of people at a mall. That’s what happened to a young Jesse McCartney in Chicago during a meet-and-greet around the time his song “Beautiful Soul” came out.

“We got there, and they were like, ‘We might have to shut the mall down. There are 8,000 people here and we don’t really know how to get you in,’” McCartney told HuffPost at Build Series.

His security team even had a difficult time navigating through the crowd of screaming fans.

“Immediately they just started going down one by one — all the security guards. … I’m helping them up,” he said. “It was like my first real experience with sort of mania, but I wouldn’t trade it for the world.”

By that point, McCartney had been accustomed to the spotlight, but not quite like this. He entered the music scene at 12 years old as part of the boy band Dream Street. The group disbanded in 2002, and it didn’t take long for McCartney to break out on his own. He released his debut solo album in 2004, featuring the hit “Beautiful Soul.”

Now 30 years old, McCartney is far from a teenager but he’s still a “heartthrob” to many of his fans. Outside Build Series in New York City on Wednesday, people of all ages waited for him to exit the studio, just to say hello or sneak in a selfie or two.

“This group of fans has amazed me time and time again,” he said.

Particularly now.

Jesse McCartney Theo Wargo via Getty Images

McCartney’s last studio album, “In Technicolor,” arrived four years ago. Since then, he has done some acting gigs, including a stint on “Young and Hungry” and appearances on “Fear the Walking Dead” and “Major Crimes” ― not a stretch for the singer, who previously starred in “All My Children” and “Summerland.” But he’s stayed largely quiet on the music front as of late.

“I’ve been traveling quite a bit. I’ve been exploring different creative avenues and not necessarily music. … I did a lot of like learning how to cook, learning how to barbecue, learning how to be a grill-master. I’ve been doing music for so long that I’ve never really had a chance to go see the world without having to work,” he said. “And I never got to see people and meet people and experience different cultures like people get to when they’re traveling.”

During that time, McCartney also took part in a songwriters workshop in Nashville, which triggered his interest in writing again. The result is “Better With You,” his first new song in four years, unveiled this month. Reminiscent of the sound of his earlier music, the track is inspired not only by his own life but also by what’s been happening around him.

“It was kind of a crazy time last year. I felt like there was a lot of division among everybody. It was very intense both politically and socially and I just felt like there needed to be a song that would make people feel better and bring people together,” he said. “And I think everyone can kind of relate to knowing or finding somebody that just makes them a better version of themselves.”

He says it’s definitely autobiographical.

“I have a special somebody,” McCartney said, hinting at his longtime girlfriend Katie Peterson. “And I think everybody has a special somebody in their life that they know — just brings the best out of them. Whether that’s your significant other, or your mom or your pet.”

So far, reaction to the single has been really positive, McCartney said.

“I didn’t know what it was going to be like to re-engage after four years. I didn’t know what the reaction was going to be,” he said. “They made it pretty clear immediately that they were there and they were ready for new music.”

And music they will get.

Now an independent artist, McCartney has the luxury of releasing songs on his own timeline. He doesn’t have plans for a full-length album release yet but promises more tracks will come soon.

“I have the best job. I really do,” he said. “It’s just the best gig ever.”ORLANDO, Fla. — Noor Salman, the widow of the Pulse nightclub shooter, was found not guilty on Friday of helping her husband with his deadly attack.

A federal jury acquitted Salman on charges of aiding and abetting her husband, Omar Mateen, in providing material support to the self-described Islamic State, as well as obstruction of justice. She was facing life in prison.

The 2016 attack claimed the lives of 49 people. At the time, it was the deadliest mass shooting in modern U.S. history. Salman was arrested in January 2017, seven months after the attack, and has been held behind bars ever since.

Salman, 31, cried as she heard the verdict. The first thing she said was “thank you,” her lawyers said.

Salman has maintained that she was completely in the dark about Mateen’s plans, and was herself a victim of his depraved violence inside the home.

Noor Salman's defense team has maintained she was not her husband's collaborator in the 2016 massacre. Charles Treadwell

The jury began deliberating around 1:46 p.m. on Wednesday and reached its verdict around 9:40 a.m. on Friday. Hours later, Salman walked free.

In comments outside the federal courthouse, Salman’s uncle Abdallah Salman thanked the jury, the judge and Salman’s pro bono team of lawyers.

“We are looking forward to taking my niece and hiring the best therapist for her,” he said. “I don’t know how to make up for the past two years.” He said her son, now 5, has already been notified his mother is coming home to California.

“Her son is the only thing she wants,” he said.

Susan Adieh, Salman’s cousin, expressed deep sympathy for the victims of the Pulse shooting, but said she was grateful that Salman did not become the final victim of the tragedy. “She is innocent,” Adieh said.

Salman’s family said they hoped to have her home in time to color Easter eggs with her son.

Noor Salman walks out of jail after being acquitted: https://t.co/6xZCWYvhZE pic.twitter.com/QSyrf0QTRQ — WESH 2 News (@WESH) March 30, 2018

In a statement sent to the Orlando Sentinel after the trial, the unnamed foreman of the jury said jurors suspected Salman knew her husband was planning something, even if she didn’t know the date or location.

The foreman — who said his statement spoke only for himself, not the other members of the jury — noted that jurors were not tasked with deciding if Salman knew about Mateen’s desire to commit an attack, but rather if she helped him in some way.

They found she did not.

The trial upended many ingrained assumptions about the massacre. Despite initial speculation based on the location of the shooting ― a gay nightclub ― investigators found nothing to suggest Mateen was motivated by homophobia.

Government lawyers said Pulse was not Mateen’s initial target that night. He first drove to Disney Springs, a hub of shops and restaurants at Disney World, and found security to be tight. He then Googled “downtown orlando nightclubs,” and drove to EVE Orlando, where he also encountered strict security. Finally, he moved on to Pulse.

During the massacre, he called 911 and pledged allegiance to the Islamic State. Investigators who analyzed his phone and computer found he regularly read about terrorism and air strikes in the Middle East, and watched beheading videos.

Salman is pictured with relatives. Many said that although they supported her, they were scared to come to the trial. Family handout

In contrast, investigators could not find a single social media post or internet search on Salman’s phone to suggest she had any interest in extremism.

Prosecutors proposed to jurors that Salman, who was not radicalized, was motivated by money instead. Mateen bought her a diamond ring in the days before the shooting, which prosecutors posited bought her support of his heinous plan.

It is extraordinarily rare for the federal government to lose a terrorism case, said Mia Bloom, a terrorism expert at Georgia State University.

The government’s case was undone by the fact that its key evidence ― an alleged confession signed by Salman after an 11-hour interrogation ― was contradicted by forensic data, Bloom said.

“Why was there no video or audio of it?” she added. “It was very problematic.”

In a statement, which was handwritten by an FBI agent, Salman said she knew her husband was going to Pulse that night, had seen him looking at Pulse’s website, and had cased the nightclub with him the week before.

Those claims were undercut by evidence presented at trial that Mateen picked the club at random that night, and cell phone data showing Salman had never been near Pulse, contradicting her FBI statement. None of the couple’s electronic devices had ever accessed the club’s website either.

Investigators found no evidence that Salman was interested in extremism. Charles Treadwell/Central Florida Media

In a statement, Pulse owner Barbara Poma said she respected the criminal justice process, and would trust that the jury made its decision free of bias.

“Those of us directly affected by this tragedy must find peace in our hearts and remember that he was the one who pulled the trigger that night,” she said. “He was the perpetrator, and he should not have one more minute of power over our lives.”

Charles Swift, one of Salman’s lawyers, said that the trial helped clear up misperceptions about Salman that flourished in the press after the massacre.

“A year and a half ago, you believed she dropped him off the Pulse!” he chided a gaggle of reporters. “You believed they scouted Pulse!”

None of that was true, as shown in court, he said.

“We pursued the truth, and the truth was to her benefit,” he said. “The jury, 12 ordinary citizens, were heroes today.”

Linda Moreno, another one of Salman’s lawyers, said Salman was overwhelmed and emotional, and will need time to recover from her 14 months in jail.

“It did not destroy her, but of course it changed her,” she said.

This story has been updated with a statement from the jury foreman.

CORRECTION: Due to an editing error, the headline on a previous version of this story indicated Salman had been found guilty.Rev. KirbyJon Caldwell is the pastor of Houston's Windsor Village United Methodist Church. Bob Levey via Getty Images

A Texas megachurch pastor stands accused of using his influence to lure “vulnerable and elderly” people into a financial scheme that caused some to lose their life savings.

Rev. Kirbyjon H. Caldwell, the pastor of Windsor Village United Methodist Church in Houston, is facing federal charges of defrauding investors out of more than $1 million using obsolete Chinese bonds. A federal grand jury has handed a 13-count indictment charging Caldwell and Gregory Alan Smith, a financial planner from Louisiana, U.S. Attorney Alexander C. Van Hook of the Western District of Louisiana said Thursday. The charges against the men, who allegedly conspired with each other, include wire fraud and money laundering.

Van Hook’s office claims Caldwell used his status as pastor of the Houston church to help gain investors’ trust.

The Securities and Exchange Commission is also suing Caldwell and Smith in federal court for allegedly violating financial laws.

Dan Cogdell, an attorney for Caldwell, told HuffPost in a statement that the accusations against the pastor are “simply false.”

Cogdell said his client believed the bonds to be legitimate and had invested a significant amount of his own money into the scheme. He also said Caldwell “never used his status as a Reverend at all regarding the investments.”

Rev. Kirbyjon Caldwell (top right) attends the presidential inaugural prayer service at the Washington National Cathedral on Jan. 22, 2013. The Washington Post via Getty Images

The SEC says that between April 2013 and August 2014, Caldwell and Smith allegedly convinced 29 people, many of them “vulnerable and elderly,” to invest more than $1 million in bonds issued by the former Republic of China.

These bonds are not recognized by China’s current government and have no value beyond being collectors’ items. But Smith and Caldwell reportedly promised their investors high rates of return, sometimes three to 15 times the value of the investments.

Smith was responsible for finding the investors, according to the SEC complaint. Caldwell would then instruct them to wire transfer money to an associate or to a company he and his wife controlled in Wyoming.

“Instead of investing the funds, the defendants used them to pay personal loans, credit card balances, mortgages, vehicle purchases and other personal expenses,” Van Hook’s office said.

Throughout 2014, Caldwell and Smith reportedly sent emails and texts to investors promising them they would be paid. The SEC states that these “lulling emails” provided “elaborate” explanations about why the investors had yet to see returns. Caldwell also reportedly used “religious references” to give investors hope that they would be repaid, repeatedly telling them to “remain faithful.”

Many of the investors were allegedly “unsophisticated retirees” who followed Smith’s advice to liquidate their annuities to invest in the scheme. The SEC says none of the investors received any return on their investments, and that the majority never made back their principal investment.

“Although many investors did not understand the investment, they ultimately trusted Smith and took comfort in the fact that a high-profile pastor was offering the investment,” the SEC complaint reads.

Cogdell claimed his client refunded unsatisfied investors with his own money.

George W. Bush stands with his wife Laura and Rev. Kirbyjon H. Caldwell after services at Tarrytown United Methodist Church in Austin, Texas, on Dec. 14, 2000. Caldwell has long been a spiritual adviser to Bush. Reuters Photographer / Reuters

Caldwell has been a prominent religious figure in Texas and the U.S. for many years.

Caldwell has led Windsor Village Church since 1982, helping the congregation grow from 25 members to more than 16,000, according to the church’s website.

He also served as a spiritual adviser to President George W. Bush, and officiated the wedding for his daughter Jenna in 2008. Caldwell went on to be one of President Barack Obama’s spiritual advisers, publicly endorsing the candidate in 2008 and reportedly donating to his political campaign.

Before becoming a United Methodist Church pastor, Caldwell was an investment banker and bond broker, The Washington Post reports. He also wrote a book in 1999 called The Gospel of Good Success: A Road Map to Spiritual, Emotional and Financial Wholeness, in which he said God wants Christians to be successful in all aspects of their lives, including their finances.

Don Thomas, media director at The Window Village Church, told HuffPost on Friday evening that Caldwell never advertised the bonds at church events. Thomas said he does not expect Caldwell to take a leave or be fired from the church during the course of the investigation.

“The church community is very supportive and affirming during this time,” Thomas wrote in an email.

A spokesman for the Texas Annual Conference of the UMC told HuffPost on Friday afternoon that Caldwell remained a pastor there.

“The United Methodist Church has high standards for the moral conduct of its clergy, and we recognize the seriousness of the charges against him,” wrote Scott J. Jones, the conference’s bishop. “We will walk through this difficult situation with Rev. Caldwell and the Windsor Village congregation and keep them in our prayers. We have faith that the judicial process will find the truth.”

Caldwell plans to preach at Windsor Village Church this weekend, reports local news outlet KTRK, citing Cogdell.

The attorney said the pastor will surrender to authorities in Louisiana “in the next week or so.” He said he expects Caldwell to be released on bail pending trial.

Caldwell and Smith each face 20 years in prison for the wire fraud charges, and 10 years for the money laundering charges. They also each face a $1 million fine.Justice Neil Gorsuch wrote the anti-employee decision for a 5-4 Supreme Court. Matt McClain / The Washington Post via Getty Images

Me Too just got dealt a major blow by the Supreme Court.

On Monday, in an opinion written by Trump appointee Neil Gorsuch, the court ruled 5-4 that it is legal for employers to require workers to sign away their right to file class-action lawsuits against the employer ― and instead be forced to take their disputes to individual arbitration, a private court system in which companies typically have the upper hand.

For many women, the ruling means they will no longer be able to band together to fight systemic sexual discrimination or harassment in court. Women’s rights advocates were quick to decry the decision in Epic Systems Corp. v. Lewis.

“It is a real blow to women in the workplace. We have seen from the Me Too movement the power that comes from women’s voices coming together,” said Emily Martin, a vice president at the National Women’s Law Center. “This decision makes it so much harder for employees to challenge harassment or other forms of discrimination, which means those workplace abuses are more likely to continue.”

Class-action lawsuits have been effective in forcing companies to change policies or practices that reinforce various forms of discrimination, including sex discrimination and gender pay disparities, said Nantiya Ruan, a professor at the University of Denver’s Sturm College of Law.

“An individual cannot change the way a corporation does business,” said Ruan, who is also of counsel at Outten & Golden, a law firm that represents employees in discrimination cases ― including one she is working on now against Goldman Sachs.

Going it alone, the most a woman can generally hope for is a monetary judgment. But banding together, women who file class actions can do far more to ensure that a company stops discriminatory behavior.

In the past, Ruan said, class actions have forced companies to change their ways. She pointed to a case that Home Depot settled in 1997, agreeing not only to pay the women suing the company millions of dollars but also to change its policies.

There’s also a class-action arbitration right now in which hundreds of women who worked at Sterling Jewelers are collectively pursuing the company over sex discrimination and harassment. If those women had been forced to go it alone, as individuals, it’s doubtful whether many of them would have bothered to sue.

“It is a real blow to women in the workplace.” - Emily Martin of the National Women’s Law Center

The Supreme Court ruling comes at a time when women are increasingly speaking up about discrimination and harassment ― and when more companies are being put on notice that such mistreatment will no longer be tolerated. The decision is also a painful reminder that Me Too is facing a major hurdle in the top federal court, thanks in no small part to President Donald Trump.

“The fact that Neil Gorsuch is the author of this opinion and he and the majority are exhibiting an incredible lack of understanding of what’s going on in today’s workplaces ― it brings it back to Trump,” said Catherine Ruckelshaus, general counsel at the National Employment Law Project. “He nominated Gorsuch and brought him in. Trump’s not for the worker and he’s not a women’s rights president.”

Writing for the majority, Gorsuch held that agreements requiring employees to arbitrate must be enforced and that these agreements do not violate federal labor laws that guarantee workers the right to join forces in “mutual aid and protection.”

“The policy may be debatable but the law is clear: Congress has instructed that arbitration agreements like those before us must be enforced as written,” Gorsuch wrote.

The Monday ruling, which covered three cases against three different companies, involved situations in which employees were allegedly not paid for work. But the decision has far-reaching consequences for many types of cases, including those raising racial and sexual discrimination and harassment claims.

The decision will disproportionately impact low-income workers, who often lack the financial incentive or wherewithal to file complaints on their own. The costs of going to court, for example, would typically far outstrip the amount of back pay to which a woman experiencing pay discrimination in an hourly job would be entitled.

Even for better-paid women, the expense of filing a case individually is often overwhelming. In a blistering dissent in the Epic Systems ruling, Judge Ruth Bader Ginsburg noted that it would have cost one employee of Ernst & Young $200,000 to recover $1,867.02 in overtime pay. The consulting firm was one of the companies sued.

“The inevitable result of today’s decision will be the underenforcement of federal and state statutes designed to advance the well-being of vulnerable workers.” - Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg

“Those most vulnerable to workplace violations are going to be harmed the most,” said Martin.

That point was echoed by Ginsburg, who called the majority’s ruling “egregiously wrong.” The 85-year-old justice, whose dissent was joined by the two other female justices, Elena Kagan and Sonia Sotomayor, and by Stephen Breyer, said that joining together in litigation is beneficial for workers because it reduces the risk of retaliation. It’s harder for a company to fire hundreds of women than to get rid of one.

“The inevitable result of today’s decision will be the underenforcement of federal and state statutes designed to advance the well-being of vulnerable workers,” Ginsburg wrote.

She also noted that forcing many individual cases into arbitration will result in a lot of conflicting opinions ― which means those individual cases, typically settled in secrecy, won’t produce any meaningful clarity on the treatment of women at work.

Right now, about 60 million workers have already signed away their right to go to court by agreeing to arbitrate disputes with their employers, according to an Economic Policy Institute analysis released last year. About 30 percent of those workers have also signed the kind of class-action waivers that were at issue in this decision.

Expect that number to rise, said Ruckelshaus. She told HuffPost that she recently sat on a panel with an in-house lawyer who said companies were watching this case and if it came down in their favor, more would require employees to sign these agreements.

Under massive public pressure, a few companies had recently said they would no longer require women who’d been harassed on their watch to go to arbitration. Most recently, Uber made such a pledge.Donald Trump tweeted a series of photos as he hailed the beginning of the construction of his long-promised border wall. “Great briefing this afternoon on the start of our Southern Border WALL,” he gushed on Wednesday.

In a speech in Ohio on Thursday, Trump called the construction a “thing of beauty.”

One problem: The construction isn’t part of Trump’s border wall. It’s the replacement of a fence dating back to the 1990s in Calexico in Southern California. The fence, made mostly from metal scraps, is being torn down and replaced with a 30-foot-high barrier using steel bollards, or posts, along a two-mile stretch.

Great briefing this afternoon on the start of our Southern Border WALL! pic.twitter.com/pmCNoxxlkH — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) March 28, 2018

U.S. Customs and Border Protection officials pointed out last month that the Calexico construction had been planned for years and clarified that it’s not Trump’s wall.

David Kim, assistant chief patrol agent for the Border Patrol’s El Centro sector, told The Desert Sun: “We just wanted to ... let everybody know that this is a local tactical infrastructure project that was planned for quite some time.” He said he wanted to ensure that “there is no confusion about whether … this is tied to some of the bigger immigration debates that are currently going on.”

The Border Patrol identified the project in 2009 as a priority, Kim said, long before Trump proposed his wall. Funding for the Calexico project ― about $18 million ― was allocated last year, the Sun reported.

Calexico’s mayor, Maritza Hurtado, told CNN: This is “not the beginning of a wall project for the Trump administration. It is completely different.” A border barrier has existed there for decades.

A CNN panel went bonkers Thursday debating the barrier. Stephen Moore, former senior economic adviser for the Trump campaign, insisted: “The wall is being built, but they don’t have enough money to finish it.” Host Anderson Cooper responded: “It’s not being built. Where actually is the wall being built? ... Am I going crazy?” Christine Quinn, former speaker of the New York City Council, quipped: “You can see a chicken as a penguin, but it’s still a chicken.”

Trump was given $1.6 billion for border projects earlier this month in the new spending agreement, but that didn’t include money for wall construction. The Department of Homeland Security has estimated a wall would cost at least $21.6 billion to build, though other estimates are substantially higher.Reddit has an entire “Shower Thoughts” subreddit dedicated to “the miniature epiphanies you have that highlight the oddities within the familiar.” In honor of those weird, wonderful and sometimes profound musings, here are 25 of the best posts from the last week:President Donald Trump on Thursday returned to one of his favorite targets, attacking online retail giant Amazon over taxes, its effect on brick-and-mortar stores and one other thing that caused some head-scratching.

That has people wondering: Isn’t the United States Postal Service supposed to be in the delivery business?

It’s in their mission:

“The Postal Service mission is to provide a reliable, efficient, trusted and affordable universal delivery service that connects people and helps businesses grow.”

The USPS says on its website that it’s “the only delivery service that reaches every address in the nation,” and notes that it delivers 47 percent of the world’s mail.

Trump seems to imply that the company’s heavy use of the USPS is, as he tweeted, “causing tremendous loss to the U.S.”

While the USPS has for years been losing money, including a $2.7 billion net loss for the 2017 fiscal year, package delivery is one of the few bright spots.

“That’s actually the solution right now,” former Postmaster General Jack Potter told The Wall Street Journal. “It’s well justified that they deliver those packages, and they make money on it.”

While Trump has attacked Amazon for its use of the USPS before, its contract by law is reviewed and has to be profitable, CBS News notes.

That has people wondering what, exactly, is wrong with Amazon using the USPS as a “delivery boy.”

Um, isn't the Postal Service EVERYBODY'S delivery boy?



Is that its entire function? It's very reason for existence? https://t.co/KhGrEG0V2e — Stonekettle (@Stonekettle) March 29, 2018

How dare they use the postal service like a “delivery boy” https://t.co/x03J5CXN9k — Judd Legum (@JuddLegum) March 29, 2018

Ha @realDonaldTrump - I too use the Postal System as my “Delivery Boy” - just try and stop me! — Dave Doherty (@_dave_doherty) March 29, 2018

Imagine using a postal service as "a delivery boy". That's really despica.... wait, hang on... — Deb Murphy (@FeckinLife) March 30, 2018

"uses postal system as... delivery boy"

Ummmmm. 🤔 — Chris (@dampnuts4potus) March 30, 2018

You do realize that we pay for postage, right? The entire concept of the postal system is to act as a “delivery boy.” The US Postal Service is making a small fortune from Americans that shop online. I can’t believe I actually have to explain this. 😂 — Rhonda (@akitadais) March 30, 2018Baton Rouge Police Chief Murphy Paul released four previously unseen videos of the 2016 shooting death of 37-year-old black man Alton Sterling.

“The videos you will see and hear are graphic and shocking to the conscience,” Paul said at a press conference on Friday evening.

The graphic videos from two police body cameras, a dashboard camera and a store surveillance camera show Baton Rouge Parish police Officers Blane Salamoni and Howie Lake II, both of whom are white, confronting Sterling, 37, outside the Triple S Food Mart on July 5, 2016. The officers, Paul said, were responding to a call about a man with a gun.

The footage appears to show Salamoni and Lake attempting to subdue Sterling in front of the store. After a brief scuffle, Salamoni can be heard shouting profanities at Sterling. “I’m going to shoot you in your fucking head,” Salamoni appears to yell, before hitting Sterling with a stun gun.

The officers are then seen pinning Sterling to the ground, and shortly afterward, three shots are fired. Sterling, still alive and with a visible wound to his chest, moves his left arm toward his head and face. Moments later, an officer can be heard telling Sterling to “Get on the ground.” Three more shots are fired. As one of the officers sits on the ground, the other can be seen pulling an object from Sterling’s right pocket.

Warning: The videos below are graphic and disturbing to watch.

BREAKING: This is the body camera video from Baton Rouge police Officer Blane Salamoni, who shot & killed Alton Sterling. It was just aired by @WAFB - Officer Salamoni was fires today, he refused to answer all questions at his disciplinary hearing, on the advice of his attorney pic.twitter.com/ZiLR8e8ZmR — David Begnaud (@DavidBegnaud) March 30, 2018

This is part 2 pic.twitter.com/o3SlBcd2Qs — David Begnaud (@DavidBegnaud) March 30, 2018

Paul, the police chief, announced on Friday that Salamoni had been fired over the shooting, and Lake had received a three-day suspension.

“Officer Blane Salamoni has been terminated from the Baton Rouge Police Department as of today,” Paul said.

“We have two officers involved in one incident, two different perspectives, and they perceived the threat differently [and] one officer did not follow tactics or training,” the police chief said of the shooting.

“My finding is based on the actions of the officers,” Paul said. “These actions were not minor deviations from policy as they contributed to the outcome that resulted in the death of another human being ... Officer Howie Lake answered all of the questions that was presented during the hearing. On the advice of his attorney, Officer [Blane] Salamoni chose not to answer any of our questions.”

It’s unclear whether other evidentiary items, including audio recordings and eyewitness statements, will be released.

Alton Sterling is seen in an undated photo released after his death. The Advocate

The release of the footage and the disciplinary actions against both officers come almost two years after Sterling, a father of five, was killed outside of the store.

Cellphone videos of the events surrounding Sterling’s killing went viral on social media in its immediate aftermath and sparked heated protests in Baton Rouge and elsewhere.

Those videos had showed that Lake wrestled Sterling to the ground, and that Salamoni shot him multiple times at close range in the back and chest. But it was unclear from the videos whether Sterling had been a threat. Following the shooting, Salamoni argued that Sterling had reached for a gun during the encounter. Authorities said the officers found a loaded revolver in Sterling’s pocket.

Attorneys for Sterling’s family demanded the release of the police videos last year, when the Justice Department declined to pursue federal civil rights charges against the officers.

Just four days ago, Louisiana Attorney General Jeff Landry announced that his office, too, would not pursue charges against Lake or Salamoni.

“Both officers acted in a reasonable and justified manner in the shooting death of Mr. Sterling,” the prosecutor argued on Monday, adding that Sterling was shot because he resisted arrest.

With the federal and state investigations concluded, it was up to Paul to decide whether to discipline or fire the officers.

“Policing isn’t easy,” Paul said. “Treat our police officers with the respect that they deserve … Please stop resisting. Stop running. When a police officer gives you direction, listen … please, it’s important.”

This post will be updated when all videos become available.

AdvertisementGolden words he will pour in your ear

But his lies can't disguise what you fear

For a golden girl knows when he's kissed her

It's the kiss of death from

Mister Goldfinger

Pretty girl beware of this heart of gold

This heart is coldhttps://t.co/aU55FYXFLl via @peoplePublic schools closed in at least 25 Kentucky counties on Friday as teachers staged a quasi-strike after legislation was passed that would overhaul the state pension system.

Kentucky teachers called in sick or absent to protest the legislation, which passed mostly along party lines on Thursday night. The closures affected schools across the state, including in its two largest school districts: Jefferson County Public Schools in Louisville and Fayette County Public Schools in Lexington. More than one-third of all school employees in Lexington called out of work, the Fayette County school district said.

11 A.M. UPDATE: Added Lewis and Magoffin to callouts. Henderson, Trigg pre-planned. RED = Out due to call outs, GREEN = Pre-planned (Spring Break, PD, Holiday), YELLOW = "soft close" Lots of callouts! #120Strong #HoldTheLine pic.twitter.com/0XDUizU96w — Kenny Colston (@Kenny_Colston) March 30, 2018

Kentucky’s public pension system is among the worst funded in the nation. Gov. Matt Bevin (R) has prioritized reforming it since he was elected in 2015, and Republicans have taken up the issue since gaining control of both houses of the state legislature in 2016.

Teachers and public employees have fought the proposed changes, which have included transitioning new hires into a “hybrid” system that more closely resembles a 401(k). They argue that such changes would lead to steep cuts to their retirement systems and could violate their contracts with the state.

Educators have spent weeks protesting the proposed pension plans, and appeared to have derailed any potential reform earlier this week as Kentucky’s 2018 legislative session drew to a close.

But on Thursday afternoon, Republicans tucked many of their proposed changes into a piece of legislation relating to public sewage. And after mere hours of debate, both state legislative chambers approved the bill in late-night votes, with the state Senate voting around 10 p.m. to send the bill to Bevin’s desk.

Senate gives final passage to SB 151, which started today as a sewage bill and turned into a pension bill. Teachers and Democrats are livid, but they don't run the legislature, Republicans do. The bill goes to Gov Bevin. ^JC pic.twitter.com/bhlKIXPcDh — Bluegrass Politics (@BGPolitics) March 30, 2018

The 291-page bill dropped some reform proposals that had drawn the most opposition, such as cuts to annual cost-of-living raises for teachers and a Bevin-backed provision that would have increased the amount teachers have to pay into their health insurance funds.

Still, it included major changes to the system. If the bill becomes law, for example, it will take longer for new teachers to gain eligibility for retirement benefits. And the bill would end a contractual obligation that prohibits lawmakers from changing pension plans or reducing retirement benefits for any teacher already under contract, according to the Lexington Herald-Leader.

Bevin is expected to sign the bill into law, and praised its passage. He tweeted that “49 members of the Kentucky House and 22 members of the Kentucky Senate voted not to keep kicking the pension problem down the road.”

Tonight 49 members of the Kentucky House and 22 members of the Kentucky Senate voted not to keep kicking the pension problem down the road



Anyone who will receive a retirement check in the years ahead owes a deep debt of gratitude to these 71 men & women who did the right thing — Matt Bevin (@MattBevin) March 30, 2018

The potential financial impact on Kentucky’s pension system is unclear, as lawmakers suspended legislative rules requiring an actuarial analysis of the bill ahead of the vote.

But Kentucky teachers, who have stressed throughout protests that they are not eligible for Social Security to help fund their retirement, say they are well aware of how changes to the pension system will affect them.

“Our pension is our only fallback,” said Katy Smalley, who teaches first and second grade in Bullitt County, where schools remained open Friday. “I don’t get Social Security. So taking anything from that is changing the way I have to plan for retirement. It’s huge.”

“They had a 291-page bill that was still warm from the copier, and that they had not read. And they were given it to vote on.” - Anita Davis, retired teacher

Educators also criticized the rushed and opaque process used to pass the bill.

“They had a 291-page bill that was still warm from the copier, and that they had not read. And they were given it to vote on,” said Anita Davis, a retired teacher who was among those protesting at the state Capitol building in Frankfort on Thursday. “Even if it was the best bill in the world, the way it came about [would make] everybody very suspicious. Put that on top of the rhetoric that has been stirred up, and it has poisoned the well for so many teachers in terms of having trust for the governor and so many representatives and senators.”

Students also joined the protests, even in some districts where schools didn’t close.

The Kentucky Education Association called the legislative process “shameful.” Chris Brady, a member of the Jefferson County Public Schools Board of Education, tweeted that the lawmakers who had voted in favor of the bill had “voted not to be re-elected.”

Kentucky Attorney General Andy Beshear announced Friday that he planned to sue over the legislation, which he said violates the state constitution.

“Last night we saw government at its worst,” Beshear said in a video posted on Facebook. “Last night, the House and Senate ... broke their word, but I am going to keep mine.”

“We will take this to court,” Beshear said.

Kentucky Gov. Matt Bevin (R) has made overhauling the state pension system a priority since taking office in 2015. But his proposals have drawn anger from teachers and other public employees. Joshua Roberts / Reuters

It’s unclear whether the protests will lead to extended closures in Kentucky, especially since many of the districts that were shut down Friday are approaching spring break. But with a state budget proposal that includes cuts to education funding still looming, the closures are at least a hint that the pension reform bill could turn into a breaking point for Kentucky’s teachers.