WICHITA, Kan. — An FBI informant who infiltrated a Kansas militia group recounted in court Wednesday the horrifying moment he thought a militiaman was going to murder two Muslim women because of their faith.

The informant, Dan Day, testified that he was driving a truck with militia group member Patrick Stein in February 2016 during a mission to conduct “surveillance” of Somali Muslim immigrants in Garden City, Kansas, when they spotted two dark-skinned women in headscarves walking across a parking lot.

“I could knock ’em off, kill ’em right there,” Stein said, according to Day. “Those fucking raghead bitches,” Stein also said, loud enough for the women to hear, as he grabbed a black handgun in the truck.

“Did you do anything to possibly stop him?” the prosecutor asked Day in court Wednesday.

“As [Stein] was pulling out his weapon, I was actually pulling out my weapon also,” Day recalled. The prosecutor asked why.

“Um,” Day responded, choking back tears. “I was not going to let him kill these innocent women because they were who they were, because they were Somalis or Muslims.”

“It was very scary,” he added. “I thought I might have to kill somebody. I’m not a killer.”

Day said he eventually calmed Stein down and they drove away. He still remembers the “fear” in the eyes of the two women.

Stein and two other men — Curtis Allen and Gavin Wright — are on trial this week at a federal courthouse in Wichita, accused of being part of a 2016 terrorism plot to massacre Muslims. Prosecutors say the three men, all members of a militia group called the Crusaders, had planned to bomb a Garden City apartment complex that housed Somali refugees, whom the men referred to as “cockroaches.” Prosecutors say the trio scheduled the attack for the day after the 2016 presidential election, so as not to hurt President Donald Trump’s chances of victory.

Curtis Allen 49, left, Gavin Wright, 49, and Patrick Eugene Stein, 47, are shown in 2016 booking photos in Wichita, Kansas. Sedgwick County Sheriff's Office via Reuters

Their plot was foiled, however, in large part due to evidence collected by Day, whom the FBI recruited as an informant in 2016, the prosecution said.

Wednesday marked Day’s first appearance in the trial, which started last week. Stein, Allen and Wright have pleaded not guilty to charges of conspiring to use a weapon of mass destruction and conspiracy against civil rights. The trial is expected to last through April, when a nearly all-white jury will determine the militiamen’s fate. If convicted, they face life in prison.

As an informant, Day secretly recorded the men openly discussing killing Muslims. “The only good Muslim is a dead Muslim,” Stein said in one taped conversation. “If you’re a Muslim, I’m going to enjoy shooting you in the head.”

But the defendants’ attorneys have thus far characterized such talk of slaughtering Muslims as mere bluster. “Locker room talk” is what Allen’s attorney, Rich Federico, called it. “Bull sessions” is how Wright’s attorney, Kari Schmidt, referred to it.

But in court Wednesday, Day made it clear that he thought Stein, the ringleader of the group, really wanted to massacre Muslims.

“He could be a normal person,” Day said of Stein. But when he talked about Somalis, Day said, Stein “did a total 180. It was like Dr. Jekyl and Mr. Hyde. He got angry, very angry.”

Day recounted another incident when he and Stein monitored Somali Muslims in Garden City back in 2016. (Anti-government militia groups in America have become increasingly paranoid about, and hateful of, Muslims in recent years. It’s common for such groups to surveil peaceful Muslim communities.)

Day says he and Stein were driving by the Somali apartment complex that Stein, Allen and Wright allegedly would go on to target in their bomb plot.

“He was irate that there were so many Somalis,” Day recalled.

“Muslims are like cockroaches,” Day said Stein told him. “You can’t kill one of them. You have to kill all of them. They keep coming back. You have to exterminate them all.”

Day is expected to take the stand again Thursday morning.

AdvertisementThe Trump administration has abandoned a policy of generally releasing pregnant women from immigrant detention, according to a directive publicly shared by Immigration and Customs Enforcement on Thursday.

Under the new policy, pregnant women will be released from immigrant detention only on a case-by-case basis.

Thomas Homan (right), the acting director of Immigration and Customs Enforcement, outlined the agency's policy change in a Dec. 14 directive. Leah Millis/Reuters

Since at least 2011, ICE had implemented a policy that generally favored releasing pregnant women from detention. But the policy also provided exemptions for women facing mandatory detention or security threats. In practice, ICE detained more than 500 pregnant women in 2016, the last full year the policy was in effect.

With the change, outlined in a Dec. 14 directive signed by acting ICE Director Thomas Homan, ICE will no longer presumptively release pregnant women from detention. It supersedes a 2016 memo, also signed by Homan, that codified the policy against detaining pregnant women except under “extraordinary circumstances or the requirement of mandatory detention.”

Under the new policy, ICE will detain “only those whose detention is necessary to effectuate removal, as well as those deemed a flight risk or danger to the community,” according to a fact sheet obtained by HuffPost. ICE will generally not detain pregnant women during their third trimester.

Philip Miller, deputy executive associate director for ICE’s Enforcement and Removal Operations, told reporters on Thursday that many pregnant women encountered by immigration enforcement are already subject to mandatory detention by law, particularly if they were apprehended at the border and are not deemed eligible to move forward with any claims for relief.

Others may be subject to mandatory detention because they committed certain crimes within the U.S. Since the policy went into effect in December, ICE has detained a total of 506 pregnant women, according to ICE, though the agency did not say how many of those women were later deported or released into the U.S. He said that on March 20, the last date for which ICE has the data, there were 35 pregnant women in detention, all of them subject to mandatory detention.

“To miscategorize this as some wholesale change or some kind of draconian act is really just hyperbole,” Miller said. “We’re aligning this policy, as we have with all of our policies, with the direction from the president.”

The changes, which will apply to pregnant women seeking asylum, bring ICE policy closer in line with an executive order signed by President Donald Trump a week after taking office last year. That order scrapped the Obama-era prosecutorial discretion policy instructing officers to deprioritize detaining and deporting certain immigrants.

Several human rights organizations filed a complaint with the Department of Homeland Security in September on behalf of pregnant women detained by ICE. The complaint alleged that ICE was failing to abide by its own policy against detaining pregnant women and that the women were not being given adequate care.

“Not detaining a pregnant woman doesn’t mean she won’t have to go through the immigration legal process.” - Michelle Brané, of the Women’s Refugee Commission

Critics maintain that ICE detention centers are ill-equipped to treat the complex medical issues pregnant women face. Two women told HuffPost they lost pregnancies at ICE detention centers last year.

Immigrant women in detention are also sometimes the victims of rape, said Kathryn Shepherd of the American Immigration Council, which was one of the groups that filed a complaint last year against the detention of pregnant women.

“Being in detention is not an appropriate setting for not just a pregnant woman, but a pregnant woman who may or may not be pregnant as a result of a significant trauma like that,” she said.

Michelle Brané of the Women’s Refugee Commission, which was also part of the complaint, said ICE did not notify her organization after the directive in December, even though the two groups have been in communication with each other. Still, she said she was not surprised by the policy change ― it is one that immigrant rights advocates feared was coming after Trump’s executive order last year.

She said it is impossible to know for sure whether the number of pregnant detainees will go up, but “it’s pretty clear that the intent is to reduce the number of pregnant women who are released.” Alternatives to detention, like mandatory check-ins or ankle bracelets, are both more humane and less expensive for taxpayers than detaining pregnant women, she said.

“The crazy thing about it is they’re claiming it’s because they should be treated like everyone else and that they’re going to go after everybody who has immigration status issues, but the reality is that those aren’t your only options,” Brané said. “Not detaining a pregnant woman doesn’t mean she won’t have to go through the immigration legal process.”Roseanne Barr was in no mood to talk about an ex on “The Wendy Williams Show” Wednesday ― and she made that clear by snapping back at the host.

Williams mentioned to Barr that her former husband, Tom Arnold, had positively reviewed the relaunch of her sitcom “Roseanne” for The Hollywood Reporter. She pressed the comedian for a response.

“I don’t like talking about husbands . . . Right, Wendy?” Barr cracked, presumably referring to a tabloid report that Williams’ husband, Kevin Hunter, has cheated on her for years.

As the audience groaned at the smirk-accompanied remark, a surprised Williams, who has denied the story, shifted into recovery mode. “I don’t mind talking about husbands ... he’s fabulous,” she said.Congratulations to former Secretary of Veterans Affairs David Shulkin for the end of his service and his induction into Trump's #HalloftheBestPeople!



We'll never forget the way he put family first by getting taxpayers to cover his wife’s airfare for an 11-day European trip. pic.twitter.com/QOwKwvwC0XWASHINGTON — For years, the U.S. military used waterboarding, a centuries-old torture technique, to train American troops to resist interrogation if captured. Torture apologists have long cited this fact in defense of the CIA’s past use of torture to interrogate terrorist suspects.

Now Gina Haspel, a veteran CIA officer who reportedly oversaw a secret prison where an alleged terrorist was waterboarded, is President Donald Trump’s pick to become the next director of the agency — and some of her supporters are again citing the military’s use of waterboarding to defend her. Bush-era “enhanced interrogation” techniques “were the same as those used on our own people,” Liz Cheney, a Republican congresswoman and the daughter of former Vice President Dick Cheney, tweeted in defense of Haspel earlier this month.

Here’s what Cheney, and other torture apologists, don’t mention — and perhaps don’t know: By 2002, several branches of the military had backed away from using waterboarding in training — and in November 2007, the Pentagon quietly banned it altogether.

The military decided waterboarding “provided no instructional or training benefit to the student,” Thomas Crosson, a Department of Defense spokesman, told HuffPost in an email. Crosson declined to release the 2007 directive forbidding the practice, citing classification issues. The existence of the document has not been previously reported, and HuffPost has requested a copy of it under the Freedom of Information Act.

The military’s decision made sense, veteran military interrogator and intelligence officer Steven Kleinman told HuffPost. Waterboarding “teaches failure,” he said. “No one succeeds. They can’t teach a strategy during that. Literally, it was absolutely so painful.”

The Pentagon never publicly announced the internal decision. Crosson didn’t explain why, but people who have been through the survival training program that once included waterboarding, known as Survival, Evasion, Resistance and Escape, or SERE, told HuffPost that the military is intentionally opaque about the program’s curriculum so students arrive without knowing what to expect.

The program is supposed to push trainees close to their limits ― but not actually break them. SERE alumni told HuffPost they were slapped, slammed into a wall, deprived of sleep, and hosed with water outside in the middle of winter while instructors posing as interrogators tried to get them to give up information. The goal is to teach members of the military how to survive similar treatment at the hands of the enemy. Unlike an actual torture session, SERE students know their “captors” won’t kill them, and they have access to mental health professionals. SERE instructors examine students’ medical records and adjust the training accordingly. Students also know they can ask for the torture stop. But if a student taps out, they risk failing the training, former students told HuffPost.

Abu Zubaydah, the CIA’s torture guinea pig, was waterboarded 83 times at a CIA prison in Thailand. Haspel, Trump’s nominee for CIA director, began running the prison in Thailand after Zubaydah’s interrogation. Abd al-Rahim al-Nashiri, an al Qaeda suspect accused of bombing the USS Cole, was reportedly waterboarded three times after Haspel arrived at the prison.

SERE students were typically waterboarded once, for less than a minute. And by 2002, the year Zubaydah was waterboarded, the practice was already prohibited at SERE schools run by the Army, Air Force, and Joint Personnel Recovery Agency, according to a 2008 Senate Armed Services Committee report.

The problem with waterboarding SERE students was that too many trainees broke, said James Mitchell, a psychologist who was deeply involved in SERE and later reverse-engineered it to develop the CIA’s torture program. “We thought it was too effective,” Mitchell wrote in a 2016 book defending his role in the CIA torture program. When members of the military were waterboarded, they “capitulated, even if it cost them their jobs,” Mitchell continued.

“The experience of torture at SERE surely plays a role in the minds of the graduates who go on to be interrogators, and it must on some level help them rationalize their actions. It’s not hard to imagine them thinking, ‘Well, if I survived this, then it’s OK to do it to this guy.’” - David Morris, from a 2009 argument against waterboarding military trainees

There’s no doubt that waterboarding is an effective way to make people talk. But it’s not necessarily a reliable way to get people to tell the truth or give up valuable intelligence, according to Malcolm Nance, a retired interrogator.

“The entire [SERE] program is designed to show you how it doesn’t work,” Nance told HuffPost. “You will say whatever the interrogator wants you to say. The severity of it makes your mouth open — your desire to survive.”

That was part of why the military ultimately turned against the practice.

Instead of making trainees more resilient to brutal treatment, waterboarding “leaves students psychologically defeated with no ability to resist while under pressure,” Brendan G. Clare, an Air Force colonel, wrote in an internal 2007 memo — obtained by Truthout in 2010. The memo recommended that the military ditch the technique.

“Once a student is taught that they can be beaten, and there is no way to resist it, it is difficult to develop psychological hardiness,” Clare wrote in the memo, which Jeffrey Kaye, the author of the Truthout report, recently made public at HuffPost’s request.

The military’s final ban on waterboarding came down later that year. The North Island Navy school in San Diego was the last facility to waterboard students. By 2007, the CIA’s interrogation program had already been exposed and Democrats on Capitol Hill were pushing for legislation that would ban waterboarding and other so-called enhanced interrogation techniques.

President George W. Bush’s administration, then on its way out, had worked with Mitchell and another psychologist, John “Bruce” Jessen, to reverse-engineer SERE techniques for use on terrorist suspects. But that was a perversion of the original intent of the program — hardening U.S. soldiers against other countries’ illegal use of torture. Before undergoing their fake interrogations, SERE trainees are taught that the treatment they will be exposed to is unlawful — but could be used by countries that don’t adhere to the Geneva Conventions.

“We teach personnel to protest the use of these methods, to cite their legal protections under the law of war,” Blake Herzinger, an active Navy reservist who completed SERE training at the North Island facility in 2011, told HuffPost. “We teach them to fall back on that, to say, ‘I’m a legal captive, you cannot torture me.’”

But David Morris, who attended SERE school in 1995 as part of the Marine Corps, has warned that the training could have a more problematic effect.

“The experience of torture at SERE surely plays a role in the minds of the graduates who go on to be interrogators, and it must on some level help them rationalize their actions,” he wrote in 2009. “It’s not hard to imagine them thinking, ‘Well, if I survived this, then it’s OK to do it to this guy.’”

Haspel and the CIA are “fully committed to complying with U.S. law governing detention and interrogation,” CIA spokesman Dean Boyd wrote in an email.

Haspel, who spent her career in the CIA undercover, has never spoken publicly about her role in the torture program. But she will likely face contentious questioning on the matter at her Senate confirmation hearing.The snout of the phytosaur Pravusuchus discovered within the original boundary of Bears Ears National Monument. Robert Gay

BLANDING, Utah — In 2016, paleontologist Robert Gay and a group of students stumbled upon a trove of prehistoric fossils in southeastern Utah, in what is part of the more than 1 million acres President Donald Trump recently cut from the Bears Ears National Monument. The team had been en route to another excavation site when an outcropping of rocks from the Triassic period caught Gay’s eye.

They stopped to investigate and immediately began picking up fossilized chunks of bone.

“The entire surface was carpeted with fossil bones,” Gay, the education director at the Colorado Canyons Association, told HuffPost. “Everywhere on the hillside, for 60 meters.”

“This is the find of a lifetime. I will probably spend the rest of my career working on this site.” - Paleontologist Robert Gay

What Gay’s team discovered could be the densest bed of Triassic-era fossils in the nation, and maybe the world. During an initial excavation at the site last year, he unearthed the intact skulls of three long-snouted phytosaurs, a reptile that lived more than 200 million years ago. That’s nearly 120 million years before Tyrannosaurus rex showed up.

During the Triassic period, which spanned 251 million to 199 million years ago, dinosaurs and a slew of other bizarre creatures roamed the Earth. There were many crocodile-like reptiles — armored plant-eaters, a two-legged species with a beak, and another with a blowhole on its head — along with “salamanders the size of cars, with toilet bowl lid heads,” Gay said. The period ended with a global extinction event that wiped out some 76 percent of marine and terrestrial species. And thus began the Jurassic period, the age of the dinosaurs.

Gay says he’s only scratched the surface of the fossil record at this Utah site, a record he believes could prove key to understanding how dinosaurs were able to respond to rapid climatic changes and came to dominate the landscape.

“This is the find of a lifetime,” he said. “I will probably spend the rest of my career working on this site.”

Meet @paleorob, who discovered that trove of crocodile-like phytosaur fossils in Bears Ears. He told me it's "the find of a lifetime."

"I will probably spend the rest of my career working on this site. It gives us a new, unparalleled look into the dawn of the age of dinosaurs." pic.twitter.com/N5CvvF29Le — Chris D'Angelo (@c_m_dangelo) March 27, 2018

HuffPost talked to Gay this week at the first of two public scoping meetings the federal government held to receive input on managing what remains of Bears Ears National Monument. Trump’s December announcement cut Bears Ears by 85 percent, to just over 200,000 acres, opening the door for new mining, drilling and other development on lands now left outside of the monument.

Gay still has a permit to work the site, but because it is no longer part of a national monument, he and his team are unable to use the $25,000 grant they received through a special Bureau of Land Management program that funds research on conservation lands. Gay said he can use the funds for other sites still in the monument, but not this one.

Work at the site will remain stalled until the team locates another source of funding. Gay has applied for other grants and is exploring partnerships that would allow for his team to continue field work there.

The question he’s looking to answer: “Why did dinosaurs come to rule the world?”

The latest fossil discovery is one of several important paleontological sites within the area cut from the monument. And Gay, who opposes the monument rollback, said there is much more to be discovered.Hi! I'm the one who answered this correctly on the show. Yes, you & your family are famous enough to appear as clues on Jeopardy!. I expect your father will make more appearances in the future under the categories "Political Embarrassments" & "Self-Promoting, Lying Jackasses."Tuesday’s premiere of the rebooted “Roseanne” TV series was a ratings hit.

And President Donald Trump reportedly couldn’t wait to congratulate the show’s star Roseanne Barr on its runaway success.

Trump personally phoned Barr Wednesday to salute the ABC sitcom hitting 18.2 million viewers, according to The New York Times.

Trump also reportedly thanked Barr, who plays Trump-supporter Roseanne Conner in the show, for her real-life support.Ali Alghamdi, a 24-year-old engineering student at Texas A&M University, was running an errand early this month in Kingsville, Texas, when he noticed the car in front of him running a stop sign.

It was odd, Alghamdi told HuffPost, but not that uncommon. But as the car drove on, the driver kept slamming on the brakes, forcing Alghamdi to do the same. Alghamdi grew worried, he said.

Suddenly, the driver of the black Chevrolet swerved and blocked Alghamdi at a corner. A man stormed out of his car and began screaming racist profanities at Alghamdi, calling him a terrorist, the 24-year-old said.

That’s when Alghamdi decided to start recording ― “in case something happened to me,” he explained. He was worried the man might have a gun.

“I was just shocked; honestly, I was scared,” Alghamdi said.

The video he filmed shows a man in a cowboy hat accusing Alghamdi of tailgating him. Alghamdi uploaded the footage to YouTube and submitted it to HuffPost’s Documenting Hate project, a database that tracks incidents of hate and bias.

“This is America, dumbass,” the driver can be heard saying halfway through the expletive- and slur-laden video below.

“You better learn how to drive in America,” the man says. “This isn’t Pakistan, bitch. This is not Pakistan, Afghanistan or Kuwait, motherfucker.”

“What?” Alghamdi can be heard asking from his car. “Say that again.”

“This is not Pakistan, Afghanistan or Kuwait. We have rules in this fucking country,” the man rants, later adding, “You sound like a fucking Arab.”

Almghadi said the driver eventually ended his racist tirade and got back into his car. But just when Alghamdi thought the encounter was over, he said, the man followed him to his destination, then spoke to a clerk while Alghamdi finished his errand. The man left shortly thereafter.

Minutes later, four police officers arrived and asked Alghamdi for identification, Alghamdi said.

When Alghamdi told the officers that he had recorded the entire incident, “I swear, that’s when the whole process changed 180 degrees,” he said. The police asked Alghamdi to file a police report and turn over the video so that they could look into what had happened.

By Monday, Kingsville police had identified the man in the video, though his name has not been publicly released. Officials will pursue disorderly conduct charges against him, Lt. Bradley Lile told HuffPost.

Ali Alghamdi, pictured, quickly realized that his run-in with an angry driver wasn't just a regular case of road rage; it was an incident motivated by hate. Photo provided by Ali Alghamdi

Alghamdi said he realized when he started filming that this wasn’t just a regular case of road rage. This was an incident motivated by hate, he said.

“Yes, it’s road rage, it happens to everyone,” Alghamdi said. But as soon as the man realized “I look different, that’s when the incident went further,” he added.

“Absolutely, race was part of it.”

Alghamdi said he visited the police department at least three times since the incident and wants to make sure that other minorities are aware of their legal rights. He signed an affidavit form, which HuffPost reviewed, and said he plans to follow up in court, should the case go to trial.

“I didn’t know what this guy is capable of,” Alghamdi said. “But just because I look different, just because I sound different, doesn’t mean you can attack me.”

America does not do a good job of tracking incidents of hate and bias. We need your help to create a database of such incidents across the country, so we all know what’s going on. Tell us your story.WASHINGTON ― The Trump administration’s justifications for adding a question about citizenship to the 2020 census aren’t particularly strong.

Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross said his decision to add the question was based on three things. First, he wrote in a memo, while the census’ long-form American Community Survey (ACS) already asks about citizenship, the data it collects aren’t specific enough for the Department of Justice to best enforce the Voting Rights Act. Second, he said, he saw “limited empirical evidence” that a citizenship question would decrease response rates. And third, a citizenship question was already well-tested because the decennial census had asked about it in the 19th and 20th centuries (it stopped after the 1950 census), and the ACS questionnaire asks about it.

The Trump administration’s justifications, which have already shifted, are going to come under more scrutiny as civil rights groups and Democrats file lawsuits challenging the decision. The challengers say the decision to add a citizenship question is politically motivated and will lead to an undercount of immigrants and minority groups, who will be afraid to respond to the survey.

The ACS has asked about citizenship since 2005, but John Thompson, the director of the Census Bureau from 2013 to 2017, noted that the ACS is a completely different form than the decennial census. The ACS consists of a few dozen personal questions about things such as income, rent, disabilities and transportation to work, in addition to citizenship. It goes out to 2.6 percent of the population each year. The 2010 decennial census was just 10 questions long and asked very basic questions, including how many people were living in a given household, telephone number, race or ethnicity, and housing status. Thompson noted that there is much more attention paid to the short-form census that’s meant to be answered by everyone every 10 years.

Justin Levitt, who served as deputy assistant attorney general for civil rights at the Department of Justice from 2015 to 2017, noted that the ACS has lower stakes than the decennial census, which he said is the first responsibility the Constitution gives the federal government. If there’s a low response rate on the ACS, he said, there are ways for officials to correct their data. But the Constitution mandates that the federal government count all people. An inaccurate count could disproportionately affect certain states. For instance, if immigrants are not fully counted in an immigrant-rich state because many fear answering a citizenship question, that state could lose congressional seats as well as a fair allocation of hundreds of billions of dollars in federal money.

“If we get the percentage of population wrong that happens to have indoor toilets or outdoor toilets, it’s not of constitutional magnitude,” Levitt said. “If you’re asking people for a lot of information, and they’ve already signed up to deliver that other information, then also asking them for information about whether they’re a citizen, feels ― many people have said ― less aggressive and less worrisome.”

Two former top officials at the Justice Department charged with enforcing the 1965 Voting Rights Act, which is intended to protect the voting power of minorities, say the Trump administration’s idea that existing ACS citizenship data aren’t good enough to enforce the law is untrue.

“I oversaw the enforcement of the Voting Rights Act for just under 2½ years in the prior administration and can tell you in clear terms that rigorous enforcement of the Voting Rights Act has never required the addition of a citizenship question in the census,” said Vanita Gupta, the president and CEO of the Leadership Conference on Civil and Human Rights, who served as head of the Department of Justice’s Civil Rights Division from 2014 until 2017. The Leadership Conference has lobbied against adding the citizenship question.

Levitt said that most jurisdictions were large enough that any error in the ACS estimate was eliminated. The only places where the ACS did not produce reliable citizenship estimates were tiny towns and municipalities. Any increase in accuracy from asking about citizenship, Levitt says, would be outweighed by the potential for error caused by adding an untested question.

“By attempting to increase that precision, from 9.99999 to 10, they are introducing such profound chaos and such intentional and predictable undercount that the amount of error they will introduce into the process swamps, by exponential levels, any incremental accuracy that they are purporting to bring,” he said in an interview.

“If the reason for this is: ‘There are some cases we can’t bring because the data on the survey isn’t accurate enough,’ to believe that adding this question in this environment, without testing it ― and that is unthinkable ― it’s essentially setting off with the Titantic saying, ‘We’re pretty sure that this won’t create a problem, but just in case, yeah, let’s throw a massive iceberg in the way.’”

“If we get the percentage of population wrong that happens to have indoor toilets or outdoor toilets, it’s not of constitutional magnitude.” - Justin Levitt, former deputy assistant attorney general for civil rights

Even though the Census Bureau can spend years testing the wording of a question, it hasn’t done any testing at all on the effect of adding a citizenship question. It will go into the 2020 test essentially blindfolded, taking the risk that a citizenship question won’t suppress response rates. Civil rights groups say that immigrants and other minority groups are less likely to respond to a citizenship question because of fear that the Trump administration could use their answer to find them and deport them or deport someone they know.

Six former directors of the Census Bureau warned Ross against adding the question, saying it was too risky. But Ross and the White House have downplayed the risk, saying its presence on the ACS is a test and there’s “limited empirical evidence” that fewer people will respond.

The Census Bureau took the citizenship question off in 1960 and started asking about it only on the longer questionnaires in 1970 as the practice of sampling the population became more popular in the 20th century, said Margo Anderson, a historian of the census at the University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee. But asking a question on those long-form surveys isn’t a substitute for testing the effect of the question on the actual decennial form.

“1950 is a long time ago,” Anderson said. “The normal method would be to say, ’OK, if you want to do this, let’s test it.”

Kathleen Joyce Weldon, director of data operations and communications at the Roper Center for Public Opinion Research, said pollsters are careful about including questions about citizenship in polls out of fear that people won’t respond. The seriousness of the census, a government-conducted national survey, could only further discourage people from responding.

Beyond the differences in content between the long-form ACS and the decennial census, it’s risky to assume that a question that works well on one survey will work on a different one. Social scientists are careful about the way any question on a survey is asked and even the way questions are ordered because the wording of a single question can influence how a person responds to all other questions or if they choose to continue responding at all.

In a January letter to Ross, the American Statistical Association warned that adding a citizenship question could invalidate all of the careful testing and calibration the Census Bureau had done so far to prepare the questions for the decennial survey.As a playful tribute to my wife who I’m proud of in endless ways. She works extremely hard in her professional life and her commitment to exercise, healthy diet is admirable and the benefits show. Yes she’s wearing a bikini at age 47 and will no doubt wear one for many years to come. If that offends you in some way, if it triggers you, or some other psychosis you’re suffering from, I suggest you get over it and get used to it. To all the males that had something negative to say, I suggest you bring it up with me if ever I’m lucky enough to run into you. I’m going to get back to my vacation now. thanks for allowing me to express myself.We believe strongly in the values of our company, especially the one that says, “We are better together.”

We also believe Americans can disagree while still being agreeable, and that the free exchange of ideas within a community, in a peaceful manner, is the cornerstone of our democracy.

We do not, however, condone the inappropriate comments made by this broadcaster. In our view, these statements focused on a high school student, cross the line of decency. As such, we have made a decision to stop advertising on that program.Tetra Images via Getty Images

A judicial oversight committee says an embattled New Jersey judge violated rules of conduct when he asked an alleged rape victim during a May 2016 hearing whether she knew to close her legs to prevent sexual assault.

The state Supreme Court’s Advisory Committee on Judicial Conduct detailed the incident along with three other alleged code violations in a complaint against Superior Court Judge John F. Russo filed on Monday.

The woman had been seeking a restraining order against the man who allegedly raped her.

During the hearing, the plaintiff said she and the defendant had just returned from a trip to Home Depot when he raped her. The two share a daughter.

Later, Russo took over a line of questioning from a defense attorney aimed at illustrating that the plaintiff could have done more to prevent the assault. When Russo asked whether she knew “how to stop somebody from having intercourse” with her, the plaintiff gave several responses, saying she would either physically harm the assailant, tell them no or run away.

“Close your legs? Call the police? Did you do any of those things?” Russo continued, according to the court transcript.

The complaint stated that the judge “mistreated the victim” with his “irrelevant” and “discourteous” questions.

In another instance detailed in the complaint, Russo allegedly violated rules of conduct when he ruled on an alimony case in which he admitted to knowing both parties. The judge reduced the amount of back alimony owed by the man involved in the case from $10,000 to just $300.

“Judge Russo looks forward to a public hearing in which he will be able to respond to the allegations against him,” attorney David Corrigan said in a statement provided to KPVI, a local NBC affiliate. “We have respect for the process as well as the advisory committee on judicial conduct, and therefore won’t comment further.”

Russo was placed on paid administrative leave from New Jersey’s Ocean County Courthouse in May. According to the Asbury Park Press, the decision came after he allegedly threw a file at a female law clerk, although there are other previous complaints about his behavior.Roseanne Barr is having a good week.

should I go on Anderson Cooper's show? what do you think? — Roseanne Barr (@therealroseanne) March 29, 2018

should i go on @seanhannity ? — Roseanne Barr (@therealroseanne) March 29, 2018

Trump’s eldest son, Donald Trump Jr., tweeted back that the comedian should definitely appear as a guest on “Hannity” since his audience is “her people.” Barr is an outspoken supporter of the president, and her character in the “Roseanne” reboot also supports Trump.

100% @seanhannity’s people are your people... that, and when you leave he won’t have a panel of 7 people who ALL despise you waiting to dissect and intentionally misinterpret everything you say. https://t.co/7hqE9u89c0 — Donald Trump Jr. (@DonaldJTrumpJr) March 29, 2018

But it was Hannity himself who might have sealed the deal.

“Roseanne, would you like to host my show one night?” he asked. “DONE!! Just say yes!”

Roseanne, would you like to host my show one night? DONE!! Just say yes! https://t.co/eehgntkK0k — Sean Hannity (@seanhannity) March 29, 2018

The actress was quick to respond.

dm me! — Roseanne Barr (@therealroseanne) March 29, 2018Ben Affleck has finally addressed his very real eyesore of a tattoo.

The “Justice League” actor, who typically stays away from social media, broke his silence on the pressing national conversation about his body ink, which he previously claimed was “fake for a movie.”

The giant tattoo of a rising phoenix spanning from shoulder to shoulder and presumably all the way down his backside first caught our eye in 2015, amid Affleck’s divorce from actress Jennifer Garner.

A New Yorker piece published this week, titled “The Great Sadness of Ben Affleck,” renewed interest in the tattoo, and addressed the rising tide of Sad Affleck memes that have ricocheted around the internet since the actor was caught looking particularly despondent during a “Batman v Superman” interview.

” @ NewYorker I’m doing just fine,” Affleck wrote on Twitter Thursday. “Thick skin bolstered by garish tattoos.”

@NewYorker I’m doing just fine. Thick skin bolstered by garish tattoos. — Ben Affleck (@BenAffleck) March 29, 2018

Thick skin certainly couldn’t hurt after Affleck’s exes weighed in on his new look with less than stellar reviews.

In a particularly candid Vanity Fair profile, Garner, who shares three children with the star, was one of the first to comment on her ex’s ink.

“You know what we would say in my hometown about that? ‘Bless his heart,’” Garner said, adding, “Am I the ashes in this scenario? . . . I refuse to be the ashes.”

Affleck’s ex-fiancée Jennifer Lopez also didn’t hold back, declaring that his tattoos have always been “awful.”

“I would tell him, ’What are you doing?” Lopez said on “Watch What Happens Live with Andy Cohen” back in 2016. “It has too many colors. His tattoos always had too many colors.”

Longtime friend and collaborator Matt Damon, however, was much gentler with his reaction to Affleck’s aesthetic choices.Adnan Syed leaves the Baltimore City Circuit Courthouse in Baltimore, Maryland, on Feb. 5, 2016. Carlos Barria / Reuters

Adnan Syed, whose case was made famous by the 2014 podcast “Serial,” has the right to a new trial, a Maryland court ruled Thursday.

Syed has maintained that he was wrongfully convicted of murdering his ex-girlfriend Hae Min Lee as a teenager in 1999. The Maryland Court of Special Appeals upheld Syed’s claim that he received “ineffective assistance of counsel.”

Thursday’s decision could go next to the Maryland Court of Appeals. A representative for the office of Maryland Attorney General Brian Frosh told The Baltimore Sun that the state’s attorneys are “currently reviewing today’s decision to determine next steps.”

“Serial,” which meticulously re-examined the murder in Baltimore and original 2000 trial, helped bring renewed attention to Syed’s case. The case was later reopened.

“‘Serial’ was enormously helpful,” a lawyer for Syed, Justin Brown, said at a press conference shortly after the verdict was read. “[Syed] asked me to convey his deep gratitude and thanks from the bottom of his heart to all those who have supported him and believed in him.”

Syed’s lawyers may try to secure bail to get him out of prison ― where he has been for 19 years ― as they hope for a retrial.

“If we get back in court for a jury trial, we like our chances,” Brown said. “We like them a lot. We think that we would win a trial.”

Today, Adnan Syed’s appeal in his case was affirmed by the Court of Special Appeals of Maryland. https://t.co/kMALyCmTGq — Serial (@serial) March 29, 2018

In 2016, a lower court judge in Baltimore vacated Syed’s murder conviction and determined he had the right to a new trial, citing poor legal counsel he received at the time. The podcast had revealed that Syed’s attorney, Cristina Gutierrez, did not contact a key witness, classmate Asia McClain.

“‘Serial’ kind of shook the trees and that enabled us to get in contact with Asia McClain,” Brown said.

Gutierrez also did not include an expert on cell phone towers, and Syed’s original conviction relied heavily on potentially faulty cell phone data.

Prosecutors appealed the lower court’s decision, but, on Thursday, the panel of appeals court judges upheld the original ruling.

Brown said the state now has 30 days to file a petition to appeal once more, a move that could result in another year, or more, of legal proceedings.

Brown and Rabia Chaudry, a lawyer and family friend who originally brought Syed’s story to the creators of “Serial,” celebrated the news over Twitter.

WE WON THE APPEAL. #FreeAdnan — Justin Brown (@CJBrownLaw) March 29, 2018

WE WON WE WON WE WON WE WON!!!!!!!!!#FreeAdnan — rabia O'chaudry (@rabiasquared) March 29, 2018

“Serial” creator Sarah Koenig declined to comment when reached by HuffPost.

Sara Boboltz contributed reporting.The newest “Avengers: Infinity War” trailer dropped last week, and it’s hard to imagine how it could be any better, short of the full movie.

But now we know how. Just add Deadpool.

Istanbul-based digital animator Saruhan Saral replaced just about every character in the official “Infinity War” trailer with Deadpool, and even got a voice actor who sounds strikingly similar to Deadpool actor Ryan Reynolds.Ania Boniecka/Adobe Stock

Stock photography is synonymous with outdated and ridiculous gender stereotypes. There’s women laughing alone with salad ― a viral meme that has morphed into women laughing alone with tablets ― and the many shots of alpha men sitting at the head of boardroom tables or barbecuing steaks. The models in all these examples are usually white and extremely heteronormative.

But stock photo companies are increasingly trying to reflect our current culture. In the past few years, Getty, Adobe and Shutterstock have all tried to break away from the clichés they’re known for reinforcing, especially as a new crop of stock photo startups focus exclusively on diverse images.

Giants like Getty started with tackling female stereotypes, teaming up with Sheryl Sandberg in 2014 to create the “Lean In” collection, which shows women working in labs and hiking, no romaine lettuce in sight. Now the company is turning its lens on men by focusing on the theme of “Masculinity Undone.” Getty recently released a compilation of images that feature men parenting, hugging one another and looking pensive as they stare out windows.

Launched in January, the photos include men of color, men with long hair, and men who are shirtless despite lacking well-defined pecs and biceps.

“We’re trying to focus on imagery that represents a more complex version of manhood and a more gentle side,” Guy Merrill, Getty’s global head of art, told HuffPost. “We’re breaking away from stereotypes: the business leader, the absent father and buffoon … the lonely guy who doesn’t need any friends or community.”

JRL via Getty Images

Portra via Getty Images

Shutterstock has created a “Modern Man” collection full of male nurses, gay couples and guys who love to garden, while Adobe is showcasing “The Fluid Self,” which includes photos of men wearing makeup, earrings and dressed in drag, as well as portraits of the transgender community.

The shift comes amid an ongoing cultural conversation about what it means to “be a man.” There’s been a backlash against the type of aggressive, authoritative manliness embodied by President Donald Trump and white nationalists, along with a growing awareness that men struggle with mental illness and high suicide rates. Today’s hip young male celebrities are less macho in appearance and demeanor ― think Timothée Chalamet and Harry Styles. Jay-Z talks openly about being in therapy, Jaden Smith wears dresses, and in every episode of “Queer Eye,” the Netflix makeover series, a man breaks down in tears.

Advertisers have taken note: Last year Axe body spray launched a campaign called “Is It OK For Guys?” that tackles the vulnerabilities men are taught to suppress (Is it OK to be skinny? Is it OK to be depressed?). And Lululemon released videos of men talking about emotional strength.

Stock photo companies say data, client feedback and cultural trends have pushed them to focus on changing definitions of masculinity and gender fluidity. In the past few years, Getty searches for “man meditation” went up by 126 percent, “man looking worried” by 100 percent and “gay dads” by 53 percent, according to the company. A recent Shutterstock survey found that 41 percent of U.S. marketers think it’s important to use images that reflect “modern day society.”

“Younger people are getting into college and moving into the workforce and they have much more modern ideas about masculinity and femininity,” said Robyn Lange, Shutterstock’s curator. “There’s no longer buckets you place these [genders] into. It’s more of a spectrum.”

HEX/Adobe Stock

In theory, stock photography is well-poised to help people think more progressively about gender. These images are ubiquitous, appearing on billboards and storefronts and in online articles and videos, where they are constantly tempting us to take out loans, travel to Hawaii and whiten our teeth.

“People aren’t aware of how much stock they’re seeing every day, everywhere, on every platform,” said Brenda Mills, Adobe’s principal of creative services and visual trends. “And so it has a huge influence over people’s lives.”

Raising the visibility of men with regular bodies being emotionally vulnerable or working in traditionally “female” jobs would allow them to become normal aspects of masculinity, rather than effeminate anomalies.

“Part of what we need are images to help us create a new reality,” said Tristan Bridges, an assistant sociology professor at the University of California, Santa Barbara. “What would it look like if men and women didn’t have to wear different types of clothes or we didn’t have to imagine them in different types of jobs?”

Shutterstock

But Giorgia Aiello, an associate media and communication professor at the University of Leeds in England who studies stock photos, sees these diversity collections as “branding exercises” ― a way to appear “cutting edge” rather than to truly change gender norms.

“Although Getty images in particular tries to really confer a political kind of tone to what they are doing with stock photography, in the end the bottom line is purely commercial,” she said. “In some ways it is good they are doing it, but it’s certainly not going to really deeply affect their business model.”

Stock photo businesses have little control over what their photographers shoot and how clients use those images. Getty and Shutterstock both have more than 200,000 contributors, ranging from iPhone amateurs to professionals, who all earn royalties every time their work is licensed. While companies send out reports detailing the type of shots they want ― more men sitting in half lotus, please ― once contributors have been accepted onto the platform, they can upload whatever images they choose, so long as they aren’t offensive or illegal.

Getty’s “Lean In” collection, for example, represents just 0.01 percent of the company’s more than 190 million images. “If someone wants to shoot pictures of women eating salad, despite all the memes, we can’t stop them,” said Merrill, though he noted that Getty art directors are working directly with some of their professional contributors on “Masculinity Undone”-themed shoots.

Image Source/Adobe Stock

Stock photo companies also have no control over how clients use the photos. In 2007, Getty’s top-selling image for the search term “woman” was a half-naked woman lying on a bed. Now it’s a woman hiking a rocky trail. But Aiello said that doesn’t necessarily equal progress. She has found that photos from the “Lean In” collection most often appeared in “lightweight” lifestyle articles or articles on gender discrimination.

“Quite a few of these images showing women as scientists were not used in general science journalism,” she said, “but in articles that talked about how difficult it was for women to have a career in science.”

While it’s possible that images of diverse masculinity will be confined to pieces about fashion or the evolution of manhood rather than used to illustrate more general topics, Adobe’s Mills doesn’t think that’s a problem. Her “fashion and grooming” clients currently have the biggest appetite for non-stereotypical images of men, she said, because those photos help them reach a new market. But more companies have begun to show interest.

“I’m surprised by some of the clients, who I thought might be more conservative, being incredibly open to this ‘Fluid Self’ trend,” Mills said. “They’re actually incredibly hungry for it.”

Getty’s Merrill said that even if his customers aren’t begging for more nuanced photos of men, his team has a responsibility to push them in a more progressive direction.

“It’s not simply our jobs to create the images our customers want ― we also want to re-picture clichés for them,” he said. “This is where we need to be in a year or two. Our customers might not be there yet, but we know they are going to be. And we want to make sure they have the pictures and the imagery when that happens.”The Brooklyn Museum hired a white curator for its African art exhibits. Brad Barket via Getty Images

The Brooklyn Museum is having a “Black Panther” moment.

The museum announced on Monday that it had appointed two new curators: Drew Sawyer for photography, and Kristen Windmuller-Luna, who will manage the museum’s African art collections.

People are not happy that both curators, but particularly Windmuller-Luna, are white.

Most critics of the choice, including scholars who work in the field of art history, wondered why the museum couldn’t find a qualified black candidate as a curator of African art. Some said the hire highlighted a general lack of diversity in the arts, while others suggested the hires were just another sign of Brooklyn’s gentrification.

BETTER HEADLINE: "Brooklyn Museum Welcomes Two New Cultural Colonizers for African Art and Photography"



Seriously, @brooklynmuseum? There goes the neighborhood for good. https://t.co/Ssdt4FUofI — Ernest Owens (@MrErnestOwens) March 27, 2018

BROOKLYN MUSEUM WELCOMES TWO NEW CURSTORS FOR...............

***AFRICAN ART AND PHOTOGRAPHY** pic.twitter.com/EzmoiREAhr — 𝑹𝑨𝑼𝑳 🦋 (@fauxdeity) March 27, 2018

Were the majority of African Americans privy to this.job opening? I'm not questioning their credentials I'm questioning @brooklynmuseum process in making their choice. — SpinsterExtraodinair (@msorvam) March 28, 2018

Meanwhile, other Twitter users are comparing the hire to the museum heist scene from the hit film “Black Panther.” The scene begins with antagonist Erik “Killmonger” Stevens browsing through a museum while security watches closely over him. A white female curator eventually approaches Killmonger and gives him the history of the West African artifacts he’s looking at.

When Killmonger tells her that one of the artifacts actually originated from the fictional Wakanda and was stolen by British soldiers, the curator looks surprised.

“How do you think your ancestors got these,” Killmonger asks the woman, after saying he would take the artifact. “Do you think they paid a fair price? Or did they take it, like they took everything else?”

I feel like I’m in a scene from #BlackPanther. This is new Brooklyn. https://t.co/2K2xflrciv — Erica Buddington (@ericabuddington) March 27, 2018

“We as museum professionals need to talk about the inclusion of this scene,” writes Casey Haughin, a Johns Hopkins University art student and editor of The Hopkins Exhibitionist, in an op-ed that went viral in February.

“The museum is presented as an illegal mechanism of colonialism, and along with that, a space which does not even welcome those whose culture it displays,” she continued.

That scene from the fictional Marvel film, and now the Brooklyn Museum’s latest hire, illustrate the very real lack of diversity in the art world.

African-Americans made up a mere 4 percent of all curators, conservators, educators and museum leaders, while Hispanics made up 3 percent and Asians made up 6 percent, according to a widespread museum demographic survey completed by the Andrew W. Mellon Foundation in 2015. White scholars occupied those roles at overwhelming rates, while people of color were more represented at museums through janitorial or security roles.

“Art history, generally, has not always attracted people of color or first-generation students,” Chika Okeke-Agulu, a professor of African art at Princeton University, told HuffPost in an email.

“And there is still not enough black and African students in US institutions interested in studying and making a career in ancestral arts of African societies, the sort of art that still form the core of African art collections of museums like Brooklyn.”

But Okeke-Agulu, whom Windmuller-Luna studied under while earning her Ph.D., does not think that museums should only hire black curators to oversee African exhibits.

“Do I think that museums should only hire black curators to oversee their African art collections? Absolutely not; or we might as well prevent non-black students from studying or seeking a career in the field,” he said.

“Should museums make sure that they don’t overlook qualified black curators in their curatorial and senior management job search process? Absolutely.”

“African-Americans made up a mere 4 percent of all curators, conservators, educators and museum leaders.”

Mariët Westermann, vice president of the Andrew W. Mellon Foundation, noted in the summary for the foundation’s 2015 survey that underrepresentation of people of color is a well-known phenomenon within museum circles.

That’s partly why art scholars of color are angry over the Brooklyn Museum’s hire.

“These are fraught issues, and the curator in question is a highly qualified scholar poised to do great work,” Ananda Cohen-Aponte, an art historian who teaches at Cornell University, wrote on Twitter.

“But we’re in a complex cultural moment where institutions are being held accountable in unprecedented ways, [especially with] social media bringing many more into the [conversation].”

This by no means discredits the achievements& qualifications of these curators, but saw this story making the rounds on my FB & can't help thinking how tropes of museum curators as gatekeepers (eg, #BlackPanther) draw on real world examples #POCarthistory https://t.co/0LJmRABroD — Ananda Cohen-Aponte (@drnandico) March 27, 2018

These are fraught issues, and the curator in question is a highly qualified scholar poised to do great work. But we're in a complex cultural moment where institutions are being held accountable in unprecedented ways, esp w social media bringing many more into the convo... — Ananda Cohen-Aponte (@drnandico) March 28, 2018

I think some of the bigger issues getting looped into these discussions are a rapidly whitening Brooklyn as gentrification & housing bubble reach all-time high. Brooklyn Museum has been great for the community but some see this as in step w/broader structural trends... — Ananda Cohen-Aponte (@drnandico) March 28, 2018

I just hope we can shift the conversation to productive dialogues around structural issues rather than individual ppl and museums. About pipelines to the profession, & longstanding barriers that exist in academia & especially art history vis a vis communities of color. — Ananda Cohen-Aponte (@drnandico) March 28, 2018

While people are criticizing the museum of hiring Windmuller-Luna, Okeke-Agulu thinks that the Brooklyn Museum has done a fair job of encouraging a diverse staff ― especially considering the art world’s general elitism.

“The art world ― as constituted by scholars, curators, critics, collectors, dealers, schools, museums, and art administrators ― has always been elitist, and that won’t be changing anytime soon, largely because of the long-established entanglement of art, money and power,” he told HuffPost, adding that the diversity of “any given society’s elite class has direct bearing [on] the diversity of its art world.”

“Still, some museums have done more in diversifying its curatorial staff than others,” Okeke-Agulu added. “And I think that Brooklyn has been much more active in this respect than many of its peers in New York and elsewhere in the US. Take a look at its curatorial staff.”

In a statement to HuffPost on April 6, a week after this story was first published, Brooklyn Museum director Anne Pasternak said the museum “unequivocally stands by” its decision to hire Windmuller-Luna.

“We were deeply dismayed when the conversation about this appointment turned to personal attacks on this individual,” Pasternak said. “Many respected scholars in the field have expressed the same sentiment.”

Pasternak cited Nigerian-American arts leader Okwui Enwezor as a scholar who is disappointed in the backlash against Windmuller-Luna, his former student.

“The criticism around her appointment can be described as arbitrary at best, and chilling at worst,” Pasternak quoted Enwezor as saying.

According to Pasternak, a museum committee made up of members from several departments completed a yearlong search to fill the position of African art curator and “unanimously selected” Windmuller-Luna due to her expertise and experience.

According to several biographies of her published by universities and museums, she has received her Ph.D. in African Art History from Princeton University, worked as an African Arts research specialist at Princeton’s art museum, and is a lecturer at Columbia University.

While Brooklyn Museum supports Windmuller-Luna’s hiring, Pasternak said the museum is aware that the “longstanding and pervasive issues of structural racism profoundly affect the lives of people of color.”

“It is right to press museums and other institutions to diversify their leadership,” she added.

To be sure, Windmuller-Luna is qualified for her new job. But the question many people are asking is whether there was an art scholar of color suitable for the role, too. And, in case the museum couldn’t find one, Cohen-Aponte has started a #POCarthistory Twitter thread filled with exceptionally qualified candidates.Edith “Little Edie” Bouvier Beale and Lee Radziwill at Grey Gardens in New York in 1972. IFC Films

In a signature scene from “Grey Gardens,” Edith “Little Edie” Bouvier Beale parades down a staircase in the decaying East Hampton, New York, mansion she shares with her eccentric mother, “Big Edie,” aunt to former first lady Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis. It’s the fall of 1973, and Little Edie hoists a small American flag in her outstretched hand. As her upper body enters the frame, clad in a black leotard and red-trimmed headscarf, she waltzes straight toward the camera crew stationed across the room.

At last, an audience!

Grinning, Edie twirls the flag like a dance partner, spinning it to and fro, filled with a joie de vivre unlikely for someone who has fallen from high-society beneficiary to highly scrutinized recluse.

Little Edie’s performance is the sort of display that’s inescapable today. Our televisions and social media feeds are crawling with people eager to find the nearest camera, desperate to cash in on the proverbial 15 minutes they thought might never come. The Beale women were America’s reality stars before the term “reality star” existed. They satisfied the same archetypes ― catty, attention-starved, delusional, staunch ― that have come to define that genre of contemporary entertainment.

As the ultimate mark of a reality pro, Little Edie loved “Grey Gardens,” the 1975 documentary that portrayed her and her mother as curiosities in the capitalist treasure chest that is American pop culture. Instead of seeing it as a woeful slice of opportunism, she presumably viewed the film as we do: a delicious tribute to a woman who remained unflinching despite her troubled existence ― an unfiltered product belonging to an era that never was the Camelot it sought to be.

“That Summer,” a new documentary that acts as a de facto prequel to “Grey Gardens,” has a scene that’s equally evocative. It’s June 1972, and Little Edie points to a shed in her overgrown yard, telling cousin Lee Radziwill (Onassis’ sister) that she claims the building as her own. “There’s a song called ‘My Adobe Hacienda,’ and this is it,” Edie says in her posh lilt. And then, as if suddenly remembering there’s a camera observing her, she whips around and launches into the opening verse, scurrying toward the lens as if it’s her stage.

The same proud grin that accompanied that American flag spreads across her face.

“Little Edie” and two of her cats, at Grey Gardens circa 1973. Tom Wargacki / Getty Images

Little Edie’s routine encapsulates how divine it is to spend another precious 80 minutes with the Beale duo, who became a societal fixation in the 1970s after a New York magazine cover story and the Maysles brothers’ immortal “Grey Gardens” brought their tale of squandered wealth out of the tabloids and into the national limelight.

In the intervening years, their saga has been mythologized and dramatized umpteen times over: a Beale-themed photo spread captured for Italian Vogue in 1999, a Broadway musical in 2006, an HBO film starring Jessica Lange and Drew Barrymore in 2009, multiple impersonations on “RuPaul’s Drag Race,” a “Documentary Now!” parody featuring Bill Hader and Fred Armisen in 2015, various quips on “Gilmore Girls,” “Modern Family” and Joan Rivers’ Comedy Central roast.

Little Edie and Big Edie are caricatured enough for “That Summer” to serve as both correction and confirmation. Yes, as pop-culture emblems, they really were that kooky and fascinating; just look at Little Edie’s makeshift wardrobe or the way Big Edie hollers at Little Edie from across their unkempt manor. But as humans, they were, of course, far more complex. Their backstory includes familial acrimony and misguided decisions ― fodder that captivated the public in the days before mass-media oddities were a dime a dozen. But if their interactions in “Grey Gardens” were sometimes careless and stormy, “That Summer” is downright tender by comparison.

“Oddly enough, I think the Beales’ situation is much about how it is to be a woman, the limits of how you could behave and be eccentric as a woman,” Göran Hugo Olsson, the Swedish director of “That Summer,” said by phone last week. “They are protected by their cloths and their privilege, up to a certain extent. And then when they cross that limit and be too eccentric for the community or the society, society hits back at them.”

“Big Edie” and “Little Edie” during the filming of “Grey Gardens.” Tom Wargacki via Getty Images

Olsson’s theory holds up. In the 1920s, having married a well-heeled lawyer named Phelan Beale and become the matron of the home known as Grey Gardens, Big Edie mounted amateur singing pursuits and formed opinions that her image-obsessed Bouvier clan considered subversive. She was steadily ostracized from the family and written out of her rich father’s will. Post-divorce, she retreated into the mansion she retained, more or less trapping her daughter inside ― a decision that would alter the younger Edie’s life forever. By the time the Maysles came knocking, the $65,000 trust fund they’d subsisted on since 1948 had dwindled.

Without writing off their extreme peculiarities ― Big Edie and Little Edie stopped cleaning, rarely left their property and faced constant threats from authorities ― it’s fair to suspect their bloodline prevented the Edies from becoming their own women. Both had beautiful voices that could have yielded fruitful music careers, had they been encouraged to pursue such paths. But Big Edie, an artist? The Bouviers, forever chasing straight-and-narrow affluence, wouldn’t hear of it. As she became more and more of a spectacle, her daughter’s potential became less and less abundant. You’d go mad too, stuck inside that sprawling home with a mother who insists you stay within shouting distance.

“I’ve never had privacy in my whole life,” Little Edie gripes in “That Summer” after her mother tells her she lacks the cojones to leave Grey Gardens, as she has long threatened. (“It’s boring, boring, boring here! I’ll go anywhere to be free!” she declared in the New York profile, published in 1972.)

“Little Edie” Bouvier Beale and Peter Beard in “That Summer.” IFC Films

Consider, too, a scene in which Little Edie recounts a phone conversation with Onassis. City officials had hosed down the house’s rotting walls, and Little Edie brags about ringing up her famous cousin to complain. It’s the perfect snapshot of the “Grey Gardens” lore: the oversimplified image of the upscale White House alumna who left her relatives in squalor (Onassis actually saved them from eviction), pitted against the oversimplified image of the onetime country-club patrician now too hapless to help herself (after her mother’s death in ’77, Little Edie moved to New York City and later to California and Florida).

Would we be as fascinated with the Beale pair today? Presidential ties aside, I’m not so sure.

You see, “Grey Gardens” is a relic of an age before reality television, when hoarders and doomsday obsessives and Vanilla Ice going Amish weren’t primetime fodder. Vérité documentary ― a fly-on-the-wall treatment that catalogs reality without talking heads, directorial flourishes or a score ― was still a relatively new concept. We were two decades away from “The Real World,” O.J. Simpson, Lorena Bobbitt and Tonya Harding creating the perfect storm that accelerated the 24-hour news cycle. The “Survivor”–“Big Brother”–“Fear Factor” boom of the early 2000s, which gave way to tasteless curios like “Here Comes Honey Boo Boo” and “Best Funeral Ever,” makes “Grey Gardens” look like more of a human-interest oddity than a sliver of bona fide cultural intrigue.

Lee Radziwill in “That Summer.” IFC Films

Big Edie and Little Edie unwittingly helped to shape the reality TV model that proceeded from them. They represent the same paradigms that define today’s programming. They’re loudmouths with a tenuous claim to fame who clearly thrive on attention, even if they don’t ask for it. In 1976, The New York Times called “Grey Gardens” a “circus sideshow,” a description that also befits “The Bachelor,” “Teen Mom,” the “Real Housewives” and Kardashian franchises, “The Apprentice,” “Catfish” and so much more.

But, like “Grey Gardens,” those programs aren’t sideshows because they have nothing to offer the world; they’re sideshows because they mold their characters into one-dimensional exhibitions, delighting us with an inherent familiarity that lends itself to armchair gossip. The Edies were the original one-dimensional exhibition. When Little Edie speaks directly to the camera, it’s as if she is recording the confessionals that are now obligatory for reality series. What then seemed off-kilter can now be considered prescient.

Fast-forward a few decades, and Lee Radziwill’s daughter-in-law, the former TV journalist Carole Radziwill, is a cast member on “The Real Housewives of New York City,” a show on which another cast member, socialite Sonja Morgan, once said, “There’s nothing grey about my gardens.” The evolution comes full circle.

Carole Radziwill, Bethenny Frankel and Tinsley Mortimer on “The Real Housewives of New York City.” Bravo via Getty Images

“That Summer” is compiled using footage from Lee Radziwill and then-boyfriend Peter Beard’s 1972 trip to visit her aunt and cousin in an attempt to have them narrate her childhood memories. According to the movie’s prologue, the footage has been “lost” for 40 years. What a joy to have it today, both as an archival exploration of Americana and a counterpart to the complexities often omitted in the sparseness of “Grey Gardens.”

“I never thought of the Beales as unfortunate or sad or anything except very excellent at feeling what it was like to hold on to the past,” Beard says in “That Summer.”

The film is rife with cameos from the Studio 54 staples with whom Beard and Radziwill caroused — Andy Warhol, Bianca Jagger, Mick Jagger, Truman Capote, Paul Morrissey. Amid these famous faces, another American contradiction emerges: All those artists who spent their lives courting fame are considered normal, but as for the two who chose to carry out theirs in seclusion? Well, that’s just positively insane.