HOUSTON ― Thomas Nguyen’s childhood likely mirrors that of many Asian-Americans growing up in the South. Fort Bend County, Texas, was a mostly white community in the 1980s, and many kids had never met an Asian person before, Nguyen recalls. His parents were “boat people” ― refugees from the Vietnam War who escaped the fall of Saigon in 1975.

They lived in Chicago, where Nguyen was born, before settling down in Texas. In school, he was quiet, and most kids left him alone. His race was never really an issue until he got to college at the University of Texas at Austin.

“We would almost get into a fight every weekend,” Nguyen said. “It was always because some guy would get drunk. It was the first time he had ever seen an Asian, and he would have to say something stereotypical.”

Nguyen said he’s often been on the receiving end of stereotypes and mockery for being Asian, enduring everything from slant-eye gestures to sibilant accents.

Similar stories are not uncommon in the Asian-American community ― the more an ethnic group branches out, the greater the likelihood for discrimination. Asian-Americans have become the fastest-growing ethnic group in the U.S., and the growth is happening fastest in the South, according to Asian American and Pacific Islander (AAPI) Data, a policy research program at the University of California, Riverside.

The number of Asian-Americans in the South increased by 69 percent between 2000 and 2010, according to an analysis of U.S. Census Bureau data from the group Asian Americans Advancing Justice.

“The South is the new destination for Asian immigrants.” - Karthick Ramakrishnan, AAPI Data

The growing Asian population in the South includes transplants from other regions of the U.S. and immigrants from Asia, with job opportunities and a lower cost of living drawing people to the region, according to demographers.

“The South is the new destination for Asian immigrants,” said Karthick Ramakrishnan, the founder of AAPI Data.

In Georgia, for example, the number of Asian-Americans grew 136 percent from 2000 to 2016, and now accounts for 4 percent of the total population. The number of Asian-Americans in Virginia grew 113 percent in the same period.

The effects of the population growth are vast. In areas where Asian-American communities have been firmly established, experts say Asian-Americans have slowly gained the potential to affect school curriculums and influence elections.

Asians are also the only ethnic group in the U.S. with more members born outside the country than inside it, according to AAPI Data, with most Asian immigrants coming in on either employment-based visas or family-based visas. This leads to diverse Asian-American communities, with distinct challenges in navigating majority-white areas and gaining political influence.

Nguyen, now in his 40s, has witnessed those changes at home in Texas, where he’s now the co-owner of the popular South African restaurant group Peli Peli in Houston.

“I’m just amazed at how a city that used to be very vanilla, very conservative, has now grown to be a city of innovation and diversity,” Nguyen said. “It was steak and potatoes. It was pretty plain Jane, and now Houston is so vibrant to me.”

Phonexay Do, right, casts her vote with her children at the Gwinnett County Fairgrounds on Nov. 8, 2016, in Lawrenceville, Georgia. Jessica McGowan via Getty Images

Voter Suppression And Shifting Politics In Georgia

Despite growing visibility, many Asian-Americans are still fighting to have their voices heard in politics.

During the 2016 election, Asian Americans Advancing Justice’s Atlanta chapter launched a major initiative to register new Asian-American voters. The state rejected thousands of registrations because applicants’ Westernized names contained middle names or hyphens that were slightly different from their other identification forms. These different spellings were the side effect of the various romanization systems used to translate Asian names ― not an example of voter fraud, AAAJ had argued.

“Voter suppression is very real here, and it’s definitely institutionalized in a way I did not understand, coming from California,” said Stephanie Cho, the executive director of AAAJ’s Atlanta chapter. “Mostly people of color were getting kicked off the rolls. We saw all of these names come back from the secretary of state, and they were all Korean and Vietnamese names.”

AAAJ, along with other civil rights groups, ended up filing a lawsuit against the state, arguing that Georgia’s failure to recognize these voters was a violation of the Voting Rights Act. The groups won an injunction shortly before Election Day, which got more than 8,000 newly registered people added back to the voting rolls.

“Voter suppression is very real here, and it’s definitely institutionalized in a way I did not understand, coming from California.” - Stephanie Cho, Asian Americans Advancing Justice, Atlanta chapter

Community advocates still find challenges in getting Asian community members registered, especially in the South.

Many potential voters are still learning English, and may be daunted by language barriers or generally unaware of the registration process in their state. That means many may not even try to register to vote in the first place.

“In Georgia, as well as in many places in the South, there is little to no outreach into immigrant communities by state or local officials when it comes to elections,” James C. Woo, AAAJ’s outreach associate, wrote in an email. “We are just starting to see bilingual staff at one county elections office for Spanish [speaking] voters, but other than that, our State has yet to implement policies, procedures, or effective staffing to be able to work with communities of color, specifically immigrants.”

But there has been progress. The number of Asian-Americans registered to vote in Georgia doubled from 2004 to 2012, and turnout increased 168 percent. Around 80 percent of Asian-Americans voted Democrat in Georgia, Cho said.

And even if Asian-Americans are the smallest racial group in Georgia, the number is still big enough that Asian voters could close the margin in a tight election. Asian-Americans have had the strongest impact in the Atlanta suburbs of Gwinnett County, which turned blue in 2016 when Hillary Clinton took 51 percent to Donald Trump’s 45 percent. It’s the first time the county has voted Democrat since Jimmy Carter was a candidate in the 1970s.

There are also more Asians seeking political office. In 2016, Sam Park, the son of Korean immigrants, was the first openly gay man ever elected to Georgia’s state House and the second Korean-American to serve following B.J. Pak’s election in 2011. In December, Georgia picked Bee Nguyen, the first Vietnamese-American woman elected to the Georgia House of Representatives in a close runoff for Dekalb County.

“There hasn’t been enough Asian-American Pacific Islanders or immigrants that have really taken their power ... so it’s just starting to turn,” Cho said.

Virginia State Delegate Mark Keam speaks to adopted children and their adoptive families in Middleburg, Virginia, on July 10, 2010. Hyungwon Kang / Reuters

How A Tech Boom Brought Asian Immigrants to Virginia

Experts note that immigrants tend to migrate to established enclaves, either areas that relatives have scouted out and moved to already, or cities that have a community from their home county. These initial ethnic huddles grow into demographic hotspots.

Shekar Narasimhan remembers people staring at his wife when she wore her sari back when they first moved to northern Virginia from India in 1979.



“If you came here today and went into some of the shopping centers, and women were wearing … [their] native dress, you wouldn’t even blink,” Narasimhan, the founder of the Super PAC AAPI Victory Fund, told HuffPost. “It’s just like California. It’s changed that much.”



Part of that change happened when AOL (now a brand of Oath, HuffPost’s parent company) set up shop in northern Virginia in the 1990s, attracting a large number of Asian tech workers to the region. While Asians represented 3.2 percent of the northern Virginia population in 1980, they now make up about 15 percent, according to census data.

“Virginia is showing what the rest of the South can be in the next 15 to 20 years.” - Virginia state Rep. Mark Keam (D)

The growth of the Indian population in Virginia can be traced back to robust numbers of highly skilled software and engineering labor moving to northern Virginia, Ramakrishnan said. Virginia currently ranks third in the nation for the best high-tech industry economy.

“The move away from government contracting to technology innovation and entrepreneurship has brought people here, especially immigrants, and they’ve started businesses and weaved their way into the fabric,” Narasimhan said.

Whereas 40 years ago, 1 in 100 Virginians were born outside the U.S., that percentage is now 1 in 9, according to University of Virginia researchers. Asian-Americans now make up an estimated 7 percent of Virginia’s population, with people of Indian, Filipino, Chinese and Korean descent having the strongest presence. It’s led to Asian cultures fusing into the townscapes, from restaurants to small businesses to prominent houses of worship.

HuffPost

The level of civic engagement and political visibility within the Asian-American community of Virginia has never been higher, said J.R. Smith, the chair of the Virginia Asian American Advisory Board, which advises the governor. He pointed out that there are currently more senior AAPIs in the cabinet of Gov. Ralph Northam (D) than at any other time in Virginia’s history.

From 2004 to 2012, the number of Asian-Americans who voted in Virginia increased 180 percent. Though it’s taken a while for Virginia to build an Asian-American community, civic and political leaders feel that they finally have a seat at the table.

“Virginia is showing what the rest of the South can be in the next 15 to 20 years,” said Mark Keam, the first Asian immigrant elected to the Virginia House of Delegates.

Shahid Malik, Tarek Hasan and Usman Ghumman inspect a vandalized window at the Mubarak Mosque in Chantilly, Virginia, on Feb. 17, 2012. Tracy A. Woodward/The Washington Post via Getty Images

As Population Grows, So Do Racial Conflicts

The rising visibility of the AAPI community in the South has not come without its share of racism. A report released last year showed a higher number of hate incidents in the region during the 2016 election cycle than elsewhere in the country.

Nationwide, the overall number of reported violent and xenophobic incidents against South Asian and Middle Eastern communities increased 45 percent in one year, between November 2016 and November 2017, according to South Asian Americans Leading Together, a civil rights advocacy organization.

“What we’ve increasingly seen, which has frankly surprised us, was an uptick in the hate violence incidents occurring in places where our communities are well-established,” said Suman Raghunathan, the executive director of SAALT.

Within the Asian demographic, South Asians are the fastest growing group, according to SAALT. In the South, the South Asian-American population has doubled from about half a million to more than 1 million since 2000.

“When our communities become more visible ... that, in turn, appears to spur hate violence and xenophobic political rhetoric.” - Suman Raghunathan, South Asian Americans Leading Together

“What we concluded was that when our communities become more visible by virtue of building houses of worship, by virtue of establishing community centers, by virtue of gaining prominence in local conversations and local politics, that, in turn, appears to spur hate violence and xenophobic political rhetoric,” Raghunathan said.

SAALT blames the current state of politics and the rhetoric of the Trump administration for creating a climate that hurts the Asian community. The organization’s latest report found that following the 2016 elections, 20 percent of perpetrators of racially motivated violence explicitly invoked a Trump administration policy, campaign slogan or the president’s name itself. Of the incidents documented over the past year, 82 percent were found to be motivated by anti-Muslim sentiment.

A School System In Texas Integrates Asian Culture

When Chavez High School in Houston celebrates the Lunar New Year, you might see a parent picking up their kids on horseback while students practice a traditional dragon dance.

“Two horses, and each kid hops up onto the saddle behind the adult,” said the school’s principal, René Sanchez. “That’s just Texas for you.”

The Houston area has the highest Asian population of any Southern metropolitan area, and the rise of the Asian population has prompted school officials to evolve their approach to engage more students and parents.

In 2004, the Houston Independent School District ― the largest in Texas ― formed the Asian Advisory Committee to address the growing Asian population and to make sure Asian immigrant parents’ voices were being heard. Since then, the committee has led the way in celebrating Asian culture with regular district events and in making sure Asian parents who aren’t fluent in English are well-versed on issues affecting the district.

“Amid the backdrop of a traditional dragon dance at Chavez High School, a parent might pick their kids up on horses.”

“We’re kind of like the odd one out in the Southern states,” said Annie Song, the HISD representative on the district’s Asian Advisory Committee. “You really don’t feel a challenge being an Asian immigrant because the community here is so big.”

Asians currently make up around 8 percent of the Houston area population, according to the U.S. Census Bureau, with Vietnamese people making up the largest group. From 2000 to 2016 in Texas, the Asian population rose 132 percent, per AAPI Data. The Houston school district has a Mandarin immersion school, and currently, the Asian Advisory Committee is working on introducing an Asian history and culture awareness curriculum in the schools.

HISD staff have also been on learning delegations to Beijing and Shanghai to enrich their programs back home. Various district schools are now partnered with nearly a dozen schools in China so students in Texas can practice their language skills via video chat with students abroad. In December, HISD’s superintendent, Richard Carranza, was in Taiwan, where he signed a school partnership agreement.Environmental Protection Agency Administrator Scott Pruitt speaks during an event on Nov. 17, 2017, in Washington, D.C. Alex Wong via Getty Images

The Environmental Protection Agency on Tuesday evening sent employees a list of eight approved talking points on climate change from its Office of Public Affairs ― guidelines that promote a message of uncertainty about climate science and gloss over proposed cuts to key adaptation programs.

An internal email obtained by HuffPost ― forwarded to employees by Joel Scheraga, a career staffer who served under President Barack Obama ― directs communications directors and regional office public affairs directors to note that the EPA “promotes science that helps inform states, municipalities and tribes on how to plan for and respond to extreme events and environmental emergencies” and “works with state, local, and tribal government to improve infrastructure to protect against the consequences of climate change and natural disasters.”

But beyond those benign statements acknowledging the threats climate change poses are talking points boiled down from the sort of climate misinformation EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt has long trumpeted.

“Human activity impacts our changing climate in some manner,” one point reads. “The ability to measure with precision the degree and extent of that impact, and what to do about it, are subject to continuing debate and dialogue.”

The other states: “While there has been extensive research and a host of published reports on climate change, clear gaps remain including our understanding of the role of human activity and what we can do about it.”

The email was sent under the subject line: “Consistent Messages on Climate Adaptation.”

In a Wednesday statement to HuffPost, the EPA confirmed the memo and said the agency’s “work on climate adaptation continues under the leadership of Dr. Scheraga.”

Later Wednesday afternoon, Liz Bowman, an EPA spokeswoman, disputed HuffPost’s characterization of the email.

“This is not an official memo; this is simply an email among colleagues, based on information developed by someone in our office,” she said, adding that “implying we are telling people to downplay climate change is a gross over misrepresentation of the facts.”

President Donald Trump invites Pruitt to the podium after announcing his decision to withdraw the United States from the Paris climate agreement on June 1, 2017. Kevin Lamarque / Reuters

The delivery of the talking points comes a week after Pruitt announced plans to restrict the agency’s use of science in writing environmental rules, barring the use of research unless the raw data can be made public for other scientists and industry to scrutinize. That directive would disqualify huge amounts of public health research conducted on the condition that subjects’ personal information will remain private. Two former top EPA officials called the move an “attack on science” in a New York Times op-ed published Monday.

Last year, the EPA reassigned the four staffers in the policy office who worked on climate adaptation, shuttered its program on climate adaptation and proposed eliminating funding for programs that deal with rising seas and warming temperatures.

Pruitt personally oversaw efforts to scrub climate change from EPA websites, and staunchly defended President Donald Trump’s decision last June to withdraw the United States from the Paris climate accord. In October, Pruitt proposed repealing the Clean Power Plan, one of the only major federal policies to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.

The agency had also suggested zeroing out funding for most of its major climate and regional science grant programs, only to see Congress reject most of the cuts in the budget bill passed last week.

The assertions made in the new EPA talking points are not rooted in science. Ninety-seven percent of peer-reviewed research agrees with the conclusion that emissions from burning fossil fuels, deforestation and industrial farming are enshrouding the planet in heat-trapping gases, and are the primary causes of rising planetary temperatures. A research review published in November 2016 found significant flaws in the methodologies, assumptions or analyses used by the 3 percent of scientists who concluded otherwise.

But for the past three decades, a Big Tobacco-style misinformation campaign funded primarily by oil, gas and coal interests has fueled political debate over the integrity of the scientific consensus.

“Administrator Pruitt encourages an open, transparent debate on climate science,” the final point states.

Here’s the full email (emphasis theirs):

Dear Colleagues: During the recent meeting of our Cross-EPA Work Group on Climate Adaptation, several individuals suggested it would be helpful to develop consistent messages about EPA’s climate adaptation efforts that could be used across all Program and Regional Offices. I’m pleased to report that the Office of Public Affairs (OPA) has developed a set of talking points about climate change that include several related to climate adaptation. These talking points were distributed today by Nancy Grantham (OPA) to the Communications Directors and the Regional Public Affairs Directors. The following are the talking points distributed by OPA. I have highlighted those relating specifically to our adaptation work. EPA recognizes the challenges that communities face in adapting to a changing climate. EPA works with state, local, and tribal governments to improve infrastructure to protect against the consequences of climate change and natural disasters. EPA also promotes science that helps inform states, municipalities, and tribes on how to plan for and respond to extreme events and environmental emergencies. Moving forward, EPA will continue to advance its climate adaptation efforts, and has reconvened the cross-EPA Adaptation Working Group in support of those efforts. Human activity impacts our changing climate in some manner. The ability to measure with precision the degree and extent of that impact, and what to do about it, are subject to continuing debate and dialogue.

While there has been extensive research and a host of published reports on climate change, clear gaps remain including our understanding of the role of human activity and what we can do about it.

As a key regulatory voice, it is important for the Agency to strive for a better understanding of these gaps given their potential significant influence on our country’s domestic economic viability

Administrator Pruitt encourages an open, transparent debate on climate science. Best regards, Joel Joel D. Scheraga, Ph.D Senior Advisor for Climate Adaptation Office of PolicyWASHINGTON ― Democrats and voting rights advocates are alarmed by the Trump administration’s plan to add a citizenship question to the 2020 census, fearing it will suppress votes and unfairly shift electoral power to rural states. But the move could also mean negative electoral consequences for populous states that voted for Donald Trump in the 2016 election.

The decennial census, the gold standard in government data, has not asked about all households about citizenship since 1950. Those who oppose the Commerce Department’s plan to add such a question say it will make people less likely to respond to the survey, especially in communities with large populations of immigrants. The Trump administration’s aggressive rollback of immigrant-friendly policies may add to the reluctance.

“We strongly believe that adding an untested question on citizenship status at this late point in the decennial planning process would put the accuracy of the enumeration and success of the census in all communities at grave risk,” six former directors of the Census Bureau wrote in a letter to Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross on Tuesday.

Accuracy of census results is critical. Data produced by the survey helps determine how federal and local government funding is distributed, including money for emergencies, housing, education, health care and transportation.

The census also helps determine representation at all levels of government. Undercounting, for example, could shortchange how congressional seats are apportioned among the 50 states. Because most undocumented immigrants in the U.S. reside in large metropolitan areas, populous states like New York, California, Texas, and Florida may face the greatest repercussions from a citizenship question, potentially costing them electoral college votes in presidential elections.

“If I am a strategic Republican congressional partisan right now, I am livid at this,” Justin Levitt, a professor at Loyola Law School in Los Angeles and a former deputy assistant attorney general under President Barack Obama, told HuffPost. “Because what this reliably does is make sure that areas where people are afraid, where there are fast-growing communities, are likely to be undercounted, and those are precisely the areas where Republicans are likely to be in control of redistricting after the next census. ... But if there’s not a full count, those are presumptively Republican seats that are gonna vanish.”

Fast-growing states are projected to gain congressional seats after the 2020 census. Texas, a Republican stronghold, stands to gain three or four congressional districts, and Florida should gain two. Arizona, Colorado, North Carolina and Oregon should each gain one, according to estimates by Election Data Services based on the latest census data.

A count that excludes non-citizens, however, could reverse some of those gains. California would lose three seats in 2020, Florida and Texas would each lose two, and Arizona would one seat, according to projections by demographer Dudley Poston of Texas A&M University and Amanda Baumle, a sociologist at the University of Houston.

Republican lawmakers dismissed criticism of adding a citizenship question to the census, saying it wiill give a more accurate picture of the U.S. populace.

Sen. Ted Cruz (R-Texas), in a statement Tuesday, hailed the move as a “reasonable, commonsense” step, adding that “it is imperative that the data gathered in the census is reliable, given the wide ranging impacts it will have on U.S. policy.”

Sen. Marco Rubio (R-Fla.) also shrugged off the prospect of electoral repercussions in 2020, arguing that including undocumented people in the count diluted the voting power of legal residents.

Latest absurd freak out is over #census2020 citizenship question. In every nation citizenship matters, so shouldn’t we know how many we have? And districts apportioned based on # of people not here legally dilutes the political representation of citizens & legal residents. — Marco Rubio (@marcorubio) March 28, 2018

The Constitution, however, simply requires a count of the “whole number of persons in each State.” At least 12 states, including California and New York, say they will challenge the Trump administration’s move on constitutional grounds, arguing they stand to lose billions of dollars in federal funding as well as fair representation in Congress if the census asks respondents about their citizenship.

But the problem could be particularly acute in Texas, which is notoriously hard to count and contains many poor and minority counties. The state also has three metro areas with the largest populations of people living in this country illegally: Houston, Dallas-Fort Worth and Austin.

“This isn’t about politics, it’s about Texas receiving its fair share of resources and representation. It is not a Democratic issue or a Republican issue ― it’s a Texas issue,” Democratic state Rep. César J. Blanco, who represents an area of El Paso, said in a statement on Tuesday. He called on Gov. Greg Abbott (R) to join the lawsuit against the Trump administration.

Texas GOP strategist Matt Mackowiak acknowledged a possibility that a citizenship question in the 2020 census could negatively affect the state. But he argued that “the upside of getting a more accurate count [of the state’s population] outweighs the downside of risking a new congressional seat.”

“Is there a risk to the state of Texas in that perspective? Yes,” Mackowiak added. “But again, my guess is … that among the populace and the elected officials, this is going to be popular.”

Even Kansas Secretary of State Kris Kobach, who has long claimed without proof there is widespread voter fraud by noncitizens, conceded that adding the question to the census could affect the apportioning of congressional districts in Republican states.

Kobach said Tuesday he suggested to Trump last year that the administration consider adding a citizenship question to the 2020 census. He claimed some states with large immigrant populations, like California, have had their “congressional seats inflated by counting illegal aliens.”

Asked whether Texas numbers also may be inflated, Kobach said he was not sure.

“There may be some,” he said.

AdvertisementHoward Stern said he was offended when he learned that President Donald Trump is calling old friends for advice, but hasn’t reached out to him.

“He’s never once called me and asked for advice,” Stern said. “Which kind of got me a little upset.”

If Trump did reach out to the “King of All Media,” he would get some pretty blunt suggestions.

“My advice would be, like, get the fuck out of there, man,” Stern said on his Sirius XM radio show on Tuesday, according to The Hill. “Why do you need that for? Go back to Mar-a-Lago and hang.”

“Just give it over to (vice president Mike) Pence,” he added. “Let him do his thing.”

Stern supported Democratic nominee Hillary Clinton in 2016, but has called Trump ― a frequent guest over the years ― a friend.

“I like Donald very much personally. I was shocked when he decided to run for president, and even more shocked that sort of, people took it seriously,” Stern said last year, according to CNN.

He said he wished Trump had never run and warned that the presidency would be “very detrimental to his mental health.”President George W. Bush poses with Dr. Frank Page (second from left) and his wife Dayle, and another Southern Baptist leader, in 2006. At the time, Page was the president of the Southern Baptist Convention. JIM WATSON via Getty Images

A leading figure in America’s largest Protestant denomination has resigned from his job over a “morally inappropriate relationship in the recent past.”

Frank Page, who served as the president and chief executive of the Southern Baptist Convention’s executive committee, announced his retirement on Monday. A day later, he followed up with a statement explaining that he was stepping away from active ministry because of a “personal failing” that has “embarrassed my family, my Lord, myself, and the Kingdom.”

“Out of a desire to protect my family and those I have hurt, I initially announced my retirement earlier today without a complete explanation,” the pastor said in a statement released to Baptist Press on Tuesday. “However, after further wrestling with my personal indiscretion, it became apparent to me that this situation must be acknowledged in a more forthright manner.”

Page, 65, added that he’s seeking to rebuild his relationship with his wife and two daughters.

No further details have been reported about the nature of the relationship, or who the other party was. The SBC did not respond to a request for comment for this story.

Page served as president of the SBC from 2006 to 2008. He was elected as president of the denomination’s executive committee in 2010, and was tasked with overseeing a budget of nearly $200 million, according to The Associated Press.

The executive committee is an administrative body that coordinates the national ministries of the SBC and handles its financial affairs. The SBC consists of a network of more than 47,000 independently operating Baptist churches, with a total membership of more than 15 million people.

Stephen Rummage, the executive committee’s current chairman, said Page has expressed “deep regret” about how his actions have caused pain for others.

Rummage said the executive committee recognized that it needed to share the news about Page’s resignation with the “watching world” and other Southern Baptists “with truth and candor.”R. Kelly performs at Little Caesars Arena on February 21, 2018 in Detroit, Michigan. Scott Legato via Getty Images

R. Kelly faces fresh allegations of sexual misconduct in a new BBC documentary — the latest in a decades-long string of sex abuse claims against the R&B singer.

The documentary, “R Kelly: Sex, Girls and Videotapes,” released on Wednesday, features several people who accuse Kelly of predatory behavior. Kelly’s musical career has been relatively unscathed by previous accusations, but the documentary raises the possibility he may finally face a Me Too reckoning.

Ex-girlfriend Kitti Jones says in the film that the singer forced her and other women to have sex with him in a “sex dungeon.” She also said Kelly, whose real name is Robert Kelly, groomed an underage girl to be his sex “pet.”

“I was introduced to one of the girls [in the ‘dungeon’] that he told me he ‘trained’ since she was 14, those were his words,” said Jones, according to The Guardian. “I saw that she was dressed like me, that she was saying the things I’d say and her mannerisms were like mine. That’s when it clicked in my head that he had been grooming me to become one of his pets. He calls them his pets.”

Jones, a radio DJ who dated Kelly for two years starting in 2011, said the singer once made the unidentified woman “crawl on the floor towards me and perform oral sex on me, and he said, ‘This is my fucking pet, I trained her. She’s going to teach you how to be with me.’” The Guardian reported that the age of the woman at the time of the encounter is not known.

Lovell Jones, a collaborator of Kelly’s, says in the documentary that the singer’s “liking for young girls” was “common knowledge.” He said Kelly had instructed him to find girls who “looked young” at after-show parties.

Kelly has previously denied accusations of sexual and physical abuse.

Sexual misconduct allegations date back at least to 1994, when he allegedly married his protégé Aaliyah, who was then 15. In 2008, he was acquitted on child pornography charges after a video showed him allegedly having sex with and urinating on a 14-year-old girl. Kelly reportedly made out-of-court settlements with multiple women, including one who accused him of having sex with her when she was 15.

Kitti Jones, in interviews last year, described Kelly’s sex “cult” involving several women.

“He controls every aspect of their lives: dictating what they eat, how they dress, when they bathe, when they sleep, and how they engage in sexual encounters that he records,” BuzzFeed writer Jim DeRogatis wrote.

Jones told Rolling Stone Kelly forced her to “stand up and greet daddy” every time he walked into a room, physically abused her and forced her into uncomfortable sexual situations. She mentioned the incident in which another woman crawled toward her.

“I’ve trained this bitch. This is my pet,” Jones quoted Kelly as saying.There’s rarely a day when Chrissy Teigen doesn’t delight us with her funny tweets or adorable photos of baby Luna on Instagram.

Just this week, she made headlines twice. First for announcing that she’s quitting Snapchat.

I stopped using snap. The update, the constant complaints of people not being able to find me, plus the Rihanna poll...no bueno — christine teigen (@chrissyteigen) March 24, 2018

Then Teigen garnered a lot of attention for suggesting she knew which actress bit Beyoncé in the face at a party in December ― after Tiffany Haddish spilled the beans without naming names in a GQ interview.

Update it is NOT the person I think is the worst. IM DONE — christine teigen (@chrissyteigen) March 26, 2018

My initial guess was wrong. The real person? I *never* would have guessed. I’VE SAID TOO MUCH — christine teigen (@chrissyteigen) March 26, 2018

In between her tweets and ’grams, Teigen is busy hosting “Lip Sync Battle,” raising her daughter and preparing for baby No. 2 with husband John Legend.

She also recently teamed up with Pampers, signing on as the first-ever creative consultant for Pampers Pure Collection. As part of the gig, she’ll collaborate with designers, marketing, and research and development teams on diaper prints.

We caught up with Teigen this week to ask her about motherhood, leaving Snapchat and the Beyoncé biter story.

This interview has been edited for clarity and length.

Changing diapers. You got quite a bit familiar with doing that in the last year or so.

They do not faze me at all. I think it comes from having so many animals my entire life. John didn’t grow up with dogs, but through me he has quite a few. He’s very good about changing diapers. We don’t think anything of it. I think it’s funny when movies and things make such a scene out of it. Like, listen, they’re going to poop. They’re going to pee. It’s going to be fine. … It always helps when they’re distracted, I realize. I have all sorts of tricks to distract them during the diaper process. With Luna, you have to sing to her and do a jingle and hand her ... something she can eat while she’s being diapered.

Does she understand that she’s getting a baby brother?

Not at all. She’s so young. She’s not even 2 yet. I think she knows that there’s something in my belly. She will touch my belly and say “baby.” But also, I’m not positive she knows what a “baby” is. She has her baby dolls and she takes care of them. And she’s very nurturing and loving. We’re going to give a little boy doll to her the same day the little boy is born. And, hopefully, I’ve been told, she will nurture and love on her baby while I’m nurturing and loving on mine.

What’s the biggest difference being pregnant this time around versus the last time?

Nothing, except I’m just bigger. I feel great. I have energy and stuff, but I have just gotten bigger, faster and I just keep growing. I just learn to embrace it. It just becomes funny at one point. Like sometimes I get out of the bathtub and I look at myself and I just walk to John and I’m like, “Look at me, this is hysterical.” You just have to come to terms with it and laugh at it. And I think it’s so funny how the body changes with each pregnancy and I also think it’s kind of beautiful and fascinating. But more than anything, it’s funny. … Like I could have worked out, but how much is that going to do?

A post shared by chrissy teigen (@chrissyteigen) on Mar 10, 2018 at 4:55am PST

How would you describe John as a dad?

He’s so hands-on. John and I are opposite in so many ways and that really helps with parenting because he’s so good with having full conversations with Luna. He’s so good with language. He’s so good with explaining things patiently. He’s a teacher at heart. … It’s really nice to have that balance because she needs all those things. I’m very touchy and lovey and kissy. And she really is so good about knowing which one of us is going to help both of her needs.

Do you spend a lot of time crafting tweets, or do they come naturally to you?

No, if I did then I wouldn’t ever get in trouble. I’ve learned. I will write a tweet and then I’ll read it to myself and will say, “Do I feel like dealing with this?” And then 90 percent of the time I backspace on it. Like I had so many things to say the other day during the Stormy [Daniels] thing. I have been very, very good. And it doesn’t mean that I don’t believe these things or I don’t want to say these things. It’s just I don’t want to deal with it. I’m exhausted. I’m mentally tired sometimes. And I don’t have the energy to explain myself to everybody. So, I just have grown so much in that way.

Yesterday, with the Beyoncé biting tweet. That got a lot of traction.

I know, it really brought us together as a nation. … It was nice to have a lighter day.

I know you already said, “I said too much.” Is there anything you can say about how you know?

I think it comes from being on social media for so long. I’ve always really respected the journalists I’ve gotten to meet and gotten to talk to ― and it’s so funny because I received the most random texts yesterday and the most random direct messages. And I brought this upon myself, of course. And now that they know I know, I look like the one who’s withholding information. But I will say my first guesses were completely wrong. And I love everybody involved. I don’t mean to hold it from everybody, but man, if it didn’t resonate with me so much. Like I’ve had those moments where I’ve done and said something on “Lip Sync Battle” to some celebrity, and I don’t know, I feel for this person so much. ... I totally could have been this person. Like I told John, “This wasn’t me, right?” I really had to check. It was a serious question.

But you did say that in the past you’ve done and said a lot of “shit.”

Oh, my goodness. The amount of awards shows we’ve been to, the celebrities that come through “Lip Sync” — I’m sure there are so many people who have a crazy story. I’m just blessed enough that they haven’t been shared.

You also made headlines this week by backing out of Snapchat.

I didn’t want people to boycott them or anything. I’ve always been the kind of person, like when it came to anything, if you didn’t agree with what somebody said then I’m the kind of person who personally just won’t use the brand, support the brand or the person. I never called for a mass boycott. It just wasn’t working for me. I was upset about the Rihanna thing, honestly. That just didn’t sit well with me. So, I don’t know. I didn’t love it.For Martin, learning to live as his authentic self didn’t have an age limit.

An 86-year-old photographer, he opens up about his decision to come out as gay as part of 5 Gum’s “No Regrets” online short film series. He said concealing his true identity for 85 years left him riddled with insecurities and self-doubt.

“It’s tough to be an outsider,” he explains in the clip, which can be viewed above. “I regret being such a sissy, so nervous, so bloody shy.”

Later in the clip, Martin beams as he watches video footage of young LGBTQ people saying how his personal journey affected them, then he steps out into a crowd of dancers at his very first LGBTQ pride parade.

A post shared by 5 Gum (@5gum) on May 16, 2018 at 9:52am PDT

“Regret is a powerful, universal emotion, and 5 Gum believes that you regret the things you don’t do in life more than the things you do,” 5 Gum’s brand manager Ashley Findlay told HuffPost. “When we heard Martin’s story, we knew we had to help him share it with the world to encourage younger generations to live life to the fullest.”Trying to make out with the Easter Bunny isn’t egg-zactly appropriate behavior ― especially when kids are watching ― but that’s what police said an Ohio woman did.

Ladonna Hughett, 54, was arrested on Saturday after police said she lewdly propositioned and grabbed an Easter Bunny working at a carousel park in Mansfield.

When Hughett posed for a photo with the rabbit, witnesses said she inappropriately grabbed the costumed character and made suggestive comments within earshot of families at the indoor park, according to local station WLW.

Someone called Mansfield police.

“We received a report from a citizen, an unusual report from a citizen, that called us to the Richland Carrousel Park of an intoxicated female doing some lewd acts on the Easter Bunny,” Assistant Chief Keith Porch told the TV station.

WJW TV

Arriving officers found Hughett on the carousel, the station reported.

According to an arrest report obtained by The Smoking Gun, officers said Hughett seemed to be drunk with slurred speech, bloodshot eyes, and “a generally wobbly demeanor.”

Hughett was charged with public drunkenness and booked into the county jail. She was released eight hours later, according to WLW. Police didn’t charge her with assaulting the Easter Bunny.

Hughett’s Facebook page seemed amazingly prophetic, featuring a comment that she ″can be a handfull but most of the time i am just a idiot,” according to Metro.com.Former USA Gymnastics team doctor and Michigan State University trainer Larry Nassar during his second sentence hearing on child sexual abuse charges. Rebecca Cook / Reuters

Police have arrested a former Michigan State University dean who supervised ex-USA Gymnastics physician Larry Nassar before the sports doctor was arrested and convicted of sexually abusing female athletes, the county sheriff said on Monday.

“William Strampel is currently lodged at the Ingham County jail,” Ingham County Sheriff Scott Wriggelsworth told Reuters.

Wriggelsworth declined to say on what charges Strampel, 70, was arrested until the defendant was arraigned at a court hearing scheduled for Tuesday.

A jail website listed the former dean of Michigan State’s College of Osteopathic Medicine as an inmate there but gave no other information.

The Detroit Free-Press newspaper reported that he faces multiple charges, at least one a felony.

An attorney for Strampel, who has been on medical leave from the university since December, could not be reached by Reuters for comment on Monday evening.

Michigan State University President John Engler said in February he was moving to revoke tenure for Strampel for failing to enforce 2014 guidelines created for Nassar in treating young athletes after complaints of sexual misconduct against him.

The college has been criticized for its handling of complaints about Nassar stretching back for years.

Michigan State terminated Nassar in September 2016 for his failure to follow those protocols, including having another person present when he performed the procedures.

Numerous women said they were assaulted even after the guidelines were put in place.

Nassar was sentenced in February to up to 125 years in prison after some 200 young women testified about decades of abuse at his hands.

He had already received a sentence up to 175 years in a neighboring Michigan county, and was sentenced to a 60-year federal term for child pornography convictions.Gina Haspel, President Donald Trump's nominee to head the CIA. Handout/Reuters

Americans are split on whether overseeing torture should disqualify Gina Haspel, President Donald Trump’s nominee to be the next CIA director, from getting the job, a new HuffPost/YouGov survey finds.

Few Americans have been paying much attention to the brewing Senate fight over Haspel’s confirmation: Only 15 percent say they’ve heard a lot about her in the news, and barely more than half that they’ve heard anything at all.

Told that Haspel reportedly supervised a “black site” where CIA personnel tortured suspected terrorists to gain information, 20 percent say they consider that to be a good thing and 39 percent view it as a bad thing.

Just under a third consider that record sufficient reason for her not to be confirmed to head the CIA, while 36 percent say it is not.

Those polled appear more troubled by reports that Haspel also helped to destroy videotapes documenting the torture of detainees. By a 2-to-1 margin, 44 percent to 22 percent, they say those actions should disqualify her from becoming the CIA’s director.

Opinions are sharply politicized ― most Hillary Clinton voters say that both supervising a black site and destroying tapes should be disqualifying, and a majority of Trump voters say that neither should be.

HuffPost chart created with Datawrapper

The American public also remains divided about the acceptability of torture as part of the nation’s anti-terrorism efforts, with a significant share unsure of their stance on the subject.

Americans are about evenly split on whether torture is ever acceptable in the fight against terrorism, with 36 percent saying that it is, and 37 percent that it is not. But they say, 43 percent to 26 percent, that it’s possible to fight terrorism without the use of torture.

Just a quarter say information gained from the use of torture against suspected terrorists is mostly reliable, with a third considering it unreliable and the remaining 42 percent unsure.

The public broadly believes waterboarding detainees to be a form of torture. Twenty-seven percent consider its use acceptable, with 44 percent saying it’s unacceptable and the remainder undecided.

The views expressed in the most recent poll show little evidence of any significant shift since 2014 when Americans said, 47 percent to 30 percent, that fighting terrorism without torture was possible and were about evenly split on whether information gleaned from its use was reliable.

Opinions on torture remain starkly divided along political lines, with Clinton voters more than five times likelier than Trump voters to say torture is never acceptable.

HuffPost chart created with Datawrapper

Use the widget below to further explore the results of the HuffPost/YouGov survey, using the menu at the top to select survey questions and the buttons at the bottom to filter the data by subgroups:

The HuffPost/YouGov poll consisted of 1,000 completed interviews conducted March 20-22 among U.S. adults, using a sample selected from YouGov’s opt-in online panel to match the demographics and other characteristics of the adult U.S. population.

HuffPost has teamed up with YouGov to conduct daily opinion polls. You can learn more about this project and take part in YouGov’s nationally representative opinion polling. More details on the polls’ methodology are available here.The White House is investigating whether loans made to the Kushner family real estate business after finance executives met with Jared Kushner in his role as senior adviser violated ethics laws.

Kushner Companies received $325 million from Citigroup and $184 million from Apollo Global Management after executives met with Kushner at the White House, The New York Times reported last month. Kushner, President Donald Trump’s son-in-law, stepped down as CEO of his family’s business when he followed Trump to the White House, but retains a major financial stake.

The U.S. Office of Government Ethics revealed an investigation has been launched in its response to a letter from a House Democrat.

“Your letter raises questions about the ethical implications of a senior White House official holding a broad portfolio of government responsibilities while also maintaining a financial interest in active business entities ... and meeting with potential investors and creditors in those business entities,” David Apol, acting director of the ethics office, wrote to Rep. Raja Krishnamoorthi (D-Ill.) in a letter dated March 22.

“I have discussed this matter with the White House counsel’s office in order to ensure that they have begun the process of ascertaining the facts necessary to determine whether any law or regulation has been violated,” Apol added. “The White House informed me that hey had already begun this process.”

The Times reported that billionaire and Apollo founder Joshua Harris met several times with Kushner as he advised the Trump administration on infrastructure policy. They also discussed a possible White House job for Harris, according to the Times, which didn’t happen. The Apollo money to refinance the mortgage on a Kushner Chicago building was three times the typical loan by Apollo’s real estate lending operation, the Times reported.

Citigroup said in a letter to lawmakers last week that its Kushner Companies loan was “completely appropriate” and was being “considered” in 2016, The Wall Street Journal reported. CEO Michael Corbat was unaware of the loan when he met with Kushner on March 3, 2017, the bank said. The $325 million loan — for a Kushner building in Brooklyn — came through less three weeks later. Corbat discussed trade policy with Kushner, according to the letter, and nothing about the loan.

Kushner owns 6.5 percent of the Brooklyn building, part of Kushner Companies’ 47.5-percent interest in the property, the Citigroup letter says.

Citigroup also recently loaned $200 million for a New Jersey building partly owned by Kushner Companies and Jared Kushner. Other funding for that building was obtained through the EB-5 visa program, which offers green cards to immigrants who invest at least $500,000 in certain businesses. Kushner Companies’ use of the visa program in another development is under investigation by the Securities and Exchange Commission and the U.S. Attorney’s Office in Brooklyn.

Apollo attorney Kevin Downey said in a statement to CNN that the company “engaged with the professional managers of Kushner Companies, which did not include any members of the Kushner family,” to arrange its loan. “To our knowledge, Jared Kushner did not play any role on behalf of Kushner Companies with respect to the Chicago loan.”

Kushner didn’t immediately respond to news of the ethics investigation.

Kushner’s continued stake in his family’s company has caused repeated entanglements with his White House job. His failure to obtain security clearance is likely linked to private interests that complicate his relationships with other countries and businesses.

Kushner’s father met with the Qatari finance minister in New York last year in a failed bid to secure financing for the firm’s troubled signature property, 666 Fifth Ave., The Intercept reported. The Trump administration later surprisingly backed a blockade of Qatar led by Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates.

Kushner buildings are the target of lawsuits by Maryland tenants. New York City is investigating documents filed by the company that misstated the number of rent-regulated residents in Kushner properties.Zachary Quinto needs a latte more work to stay anonymous in public.

The “Star Trek” Spock recently used an alias to order coffee at a Starbucks in Ann Arbor, Michigan, and got called out on Twitter for it.

Host James Corden displayed the user’s response on Monday when Quinto visited “The Late Late Show.”

“Zachary Quinto thinks he can come into MY Starbucks, use the fake name Josh for his order, and not get recognized??” the post said.

Quinto believes the tweeter was a woman who was snickering at him in the store.

The actor sheepishly apologized for his ruse, saying he gets nervous when he’s alone. “Maybe people don’t know me and I can go undercover,” he said. “Clearly that’s not always the case.”

We suspect the guy would have to boldly go where no man has gone before to avoid detection.Uber will not renew its permit to test self-driving cars in California, a decision the state’s Department of Motor Vehicles discussed in a letter to the company on Tuesday.

The permit is set to expire March 31, but Uber indefinitely halted its autonomous vehicle testing nationwide following a fatal crash last Sunday night in Tempe, Arizona. The collision killed 49-year-old Elaine Herzberg as she walked her bike across a road, and was the first fatal crash between an autonomous vehicle and a pedestrian.

“In addition to this decision to suspend testing throughout the country, Uber has indicated that it will not renew its current permit to test autonomous vehicles in California,” California DMV deputy director and chief counsel Brian Soublet wrote to Uber.

Uber confirmed the news in a statement to PBS NewsHour:

NEW: @uber confirms to me they’ve suspended self-driving operations in California, company will not reapply for the state DMV permit pic.twitter.com/JX3LHoL5Mu — Courtney Norris (@courtneyknorris) March 27, 2018

Should Uber want to begin testing in California again, the company will need to re-apply for a permit, a process that will require it to provide a thorough explanation of the crash in Arizona, Soublet wrote in his letter.

“Prior to resuming autonomous vehicle testing operations in California, Uber must apply for a new autonomous vehicle testing permit” he added. “Any application for a new permit will need to address any follow-up analysis or investigations from the recent crash in Arizona and may also require a meeting with the department.”

In deciding to let its permit lapse in the state where it’s headquartered, Uber’s decision carries more symbolic weight than strategic significance.

The bulk of the company’s testing takes place elsewhere. Uber’s Advanced Technologies Group, the unit tasked with developing self-driving cars, is headquartered in Pittsburgh. Uber also has self-driving cars in Phoenix, San Francisco and Toronto.

Uber was already on thin ice with California regulators. In 2016, the state gave Uber’s self-driving cars the boot after the company refused to get government approval to test there. Instead of applying for the $150 permits, Uber shipped its autonomous Volvo SUVs to Arizona, where regulations are more relaxed.

Unlike Arizona, California requires car companies to report how often human drivers have to take over from the autonomous system, a hard measure of just how capable the car’s driving abilities really are. Given Uber’s reported engineering struggles, it would be to the company’s advantage to log more miles elsewhere.

AdvertisementFacebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg has refused a request from the U.K.’s Parliament to directly answer questions about the recent Cambridge Analytica data scandal, with the company offering to send a senior deputy instead.

In a letter shared by Member of Parliament Damian Collins on Tuesday, a Facebook official offered either Chief Technology Officer Mike Schroepfer or Chief Product Officer Chris Cox.

The letter did not state a reason for Zuckerberg’s decision not to attend. A Facebook spokesperson reached by HuffPost via email on Tuesday did not elaborate on why the CEO will not appear.

“Both Chris Cox and Mike Schroepfer report directly to Mr. Zuckerberg and are among the longest serving senior representatives in Facebook’s 15 year history,” reads the letter signed by Facebook UK’s head of public policy, Rebecca Stimson. “Both of them have extensive expertise in these issues and are well placed to answer the Committee’s questions on these complex subjects.”

Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg has declined a request by U.K.'s Parliament to answer questions on data misuse. The company has offered two senior officials instead. Carlos Garcia Rawlins/Reuters

Collins is chair of the House of Commons’ Digital, Culture, Media and Sport Committee, which sent Zuckerberg the request last week. He blasted Facebook’s response during a committee hearing on Tuesday.

“I think it is absolutely astonishing that Mark Zuckerberg is not prepared to submit himself to questioning in front of a parliamentary or congressional hearing, given that these are questions of the fundamental importance and concern to Facebook users and as well as to our inquiry as well,” he said. “I think I would certainly urge him to think again if he has any care for people who use his company’s services.”

Considering the evidence that has been heard today with @chrisinsilico and @podehaye , Chair @DamianCollins reinforces the need for @facebook's CEO Mark Zuckerberg to come and give evidence directly to @CommonsCMS. pic.twitter.com/qnjcaSWZuV — Digital, Culture, Media and Sport Committee (@CommonsCMS) March 27, 2018

Collins on March 20 asked that Zuckerberg appear and answer questions about how Facebook and other social media companies acquire and retain user data. Lawmakers in the U.S. have made similar requests to the CEO, though he hasn’t declared publicly whether he will testify before Congress.

Collins’ letter followed revelations that Facebook users’ private information had been shared without their knowledge to Cambridge Analytica, a U.K.-based company that was hired by political campaigns, including that of President Donald Trump.

In his letter, Collins accused Zuckerberg and other Facebook executives of misleading the committee and of understating the risk of users’ data being used without their consent.

“It is now time to hear from a senior Facebook executive with the sufficient authority to give an accurate account of this catastrophic failure of process,” Collins’ letter reads.

I have today written to @facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg calling on him to give oral evidence to @CommonsCMS following recent reports in @guardian and @nytimes pic.twitter.com/y5xnGHzaNI — Damian Collins (@DamianCollins) March 20, 2018

Though Collins requested that “a senior Facebook executive” appear for questioning, he stressed to Zuckerberg: “I hope that this representative will be you.”

Facebook shares fell more than 5 percent following the FTC’s announcement, a drop of more than 23 percent from their Feb. 1 peak.

In advertisements that were printed in newspapers in the U.S. and U.K. on Sunday, Zuckerberg apologized to users for what he called “a breach of trust.”The fight of Linda Brown and her father led to the Brown v. Board of Education case, setting the stage for students like me to avoid the kind of discrimination she suffered. I'll always argue that she was one of the most important Americans who ever lived. https://t.co/lR2r4MYdc8TONIGHT: Trump watched 'Shark Week' with Stormy Daniels thus confronting his two biggest fears: sharks and genuine intimacy. #LSSC pic.twitter.com/zrNNwcwPXOJames Corden is forecasting wild weather for the White House.

On Monday’s broadcast of “The Late Late Show,” the British host used a spoof meteorological forecast to summarize new developments regarding porn star Stormy Daniels’ claims that she had an affair with President Donald Trump in 2006.

“The jet stream will be hot and steamy amidst the possibility of additional accusations,” quipped Corden, later adding that the next five days would be “unreasonably hot for President Trump.”A group that spent more than $1 million blocking ex-con coal baron Don Blankenship's Senate bid was funded entirely by a super PAC affiliated with Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell. Bloomberg via Getty Images

Two outside groups that successfully meddled in West Virginia’s Republican Senate primary this month by spending millions of dollars on advertising were funded entirely by donors from outside the state.

The super PACs Mountain Families PAC and Duty and Country revealed in reports filed with the Federal Election Commission on Sunday that they were funded by major donors affiliated with Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell of Kentucky or Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer of New York, respectively.

Neither group received a single cent from West Virginians.

The filings show how big donors, party leaders and consultants can dramatically alter the outcome of elections without disclosing who funded the ads until after the election is over. West Virginia Attorney General Patrick Morissey, the winner of the May 8 Republican primary, was subject to far fewer attacks from the super PACs than his two opponents, ex-con coal baron Don Blankenship and Rep. Evan Jenkins.

Morissey will face Democratic Sen. Joe Manchin in November in a race that will be critical to control of the U.S. Senate.

Mountain Families PAC, which raised $1.4 million from the McConnell-controlled Senate Leadership Fund, aired ads blistering Blankenship for his role in the deaths of 29 miners in the disaster at Upper Big Branch in 2010. The campaign led to an ugly fight between Blankenship and McConnell, culminating in Blankenship using racist attacks against McConnell’s wife, Elaine Chao, and infamously calling the majority leader “Cocaine Mitch.”

After Blankenship’s third-place primary finish, Senate Leadership Fund didn’t exactly hide its excitement.

Senate Leadership Fund, based in Washington, has raised nearly $24 million this election cycle. Just one donation ― a $5,000 check from Swanson Industries in August ― came from West Virginia.

Duty and Country aired ads attacking both Morrisey and Jenkins, but Jenkins, a Democrat-turned-Republican who ousted Rep. Nick Rahall in 2014, was their primary target. Some Democratic strategists thought Jenkins’ strength in southern West Virginia would make him the most formidable opponent against Manchin in the fall. Duty and Country spent $1.8 million on ads attacking him.