Republican Pennsylvania Congressman Ryan Costello announced Sunday that he will not seek re-election in November, boosting Democratic Party hopes of taking another seat, officials said.

Costello’s announcement comes on the heels of a Democrat upset in a special congressional election March 13, in an area handily won by U.S. President Donald Trump in 2016, prompting Republicans to sound alarm bells of more possible Democrat wins.

In that race, Republican Rick Saccone conceded his loss to Democrat Conor Lamb on March 21 in the razor-close race for the state’s 18th Congressional District, a Republican stronghold.

Costello announced Sunday to Kasie Hunt, on the MSNBC program Kasie DC, that he will not seek re-election, citing both the redrawn suburban-Philadelphia district that now favors Democrats and his desire to spend more time with his family.

“It’s the most difficult decision I can recall having to make,” he told Hunt on Sunday night. “I have an 8-month-old. I have a 4-year-old. And it’s a very challenging job, serving in Congress with a young family.”

National Congressional Campaign Committee Chairman Rep. Steve Stivers told ABC News that Costello’s retirement is a “great loss.”

He said in a statement to the news agency, “We will work tirelessly to ensure this seat remains in Republican hands.”

The Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee said in a statement that other Republicans should take heed of Costello’s decision.

“Costello’s exit should set off alarm bells for vulnerable House Republicans, who will also have to explain to middle-class voters why they’ve given repeated handouts to the rich and biggest corporations, and who will face similarly tough, well-financed challenges from our deep field of impressive candidates,” said spokesman Evan Lukaske in a press release.

Neither Costello nor his representatives were immediately available for comment.

(Reporting by Rich McKay; Editing by Michael Perry)The movie, which won a screenplay Oscar this month, was withdrawn from the Beijing International Film Festival set for April, Sony Pictures Entertainment told Reuters, declining to comment on the reason.

Homosexuality is not illegal in China, but activists say conservative attitudes in some sections of society have led to occasional government clamp-downs.

In July last year, a lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender (LGBT) conference in the western city of Chengdu was called off after the venue canceled the booking, citing conflicting events. Lesbian dating app Rela was also shut down last May.

A blacklist of banned audiovisual online content last year also controversially included homosexuality, underlining a long-standing attitude in China toward same-sex relations despite often-thriving gay scenes in major cities.

The pulling of “Call Me By Your Name” also comes as China tightens its grip on media content. Parliament this month voted to scrap term limits for President Xi Jinping and hand control over film, news and publishing to the Communist Party’s publicity department.

The film follows the summer romance in Italy between a 17-year-old boy and an older student. It was pulled after the screening proposal submitted was not approved by regulators, a person with knowledge of the matter said.

In an initial screening list dated March 16, the organizer had listed “Call Me By Your Name” along with other foreign films like “Lean on Pete” and art parody “The Square.”

The festival organizer declined to comment. Reuters couldn’t reach China’s State Administration of Press, Publication, Radio, Film and Television.

“This movie is in deviation from the policy environment in China,” said Wu Jian, a Beijing-based film analyst, adding that it was “quite embarrassing for China” that it had been pulled.

China has long censored violence or sexual content in film releases, with a growing focus on socialist core values. Films with gay themes have met with a mixed reaction with some banned, though others have been given the go-ahead.

“There is no clear policy on this issue, so we are always confused,” said Xin Ying, executive director of the Beijing LGBT Centre, adding that following the recent reshuffle of the media regulators it was getting even harder to get clear direction.This article originally appeared at TomDispatch.com. To receive TomDispatch in your inbox three times a week, click here.

By John Feffer

Donald Trump has a plan to solve America’s drug crisis: kill the drug dealers.

“We have pushers and drugs dealers, they are killing hundreds and hundreds of people,” Trump said at a recent White House summit on opioid abuse. “Some countries have a very, very tough penalty ― the ultimate penalty ― and by the way, they have much less of a drug problem than we do.”

Trump claims he got the idea for killing drug dealers from his pal, Chinese president for life, Xi Jinping. That’s a first: an American president openly borrowing a criminal justice program from an autocrat (and a Communist one, to boot). To be fair, Trump clearly also had in mind the experience of a democratic country. In the last two years, Philippine President Rodrigo Duterte has encouraged a spree of extrajudicial police executions aimed at the drug trade that, according to Human Rights Watch, has left more than 12,000 Filipinos dead. Although the International Criminal Court has launched an inquiry into Duterte’s “crimes against humanity,” Trump has praised him for doing an “incredible job” with his anti-drug program.

The president’s embrace of the death penalty for drug dealers is but one example of his across-the-board scorn for human rights as he buddies up with the world’s most notorious autocrats and directs the Pentagon to ensure that ongoing human rights catastrophes around the world grow even worse. Meanwhile, he’s proposed slashing State Department programs promoting democracy and human rights, while trying to roll back movements for rights and freedoms in the United States.

Think of him as a driver who’s been licensed to operate the world’s largest vehicle despite his utter contempt for the rules of the road. Not surprisingly, the traffic forecast is bleak: with hardliner Mike Pompeo about to take over as secretary of state, his department will prove even less of a speed bump in the president’s dangerous game of chicken with the global community.

Two Cheers for Hypocrisy

U.S. foreign policy used to be reliably two-faced. Washington would regularly call out its adversaries on human rights abuses while largely ignoring the egregious violations of its closest friends. During the Cold War, for instance, the U.S. routinely lambasted the Soviet Union for its appalling record on human rights but handed out free passes to Ferdinand Marcos of the Philippines, the Shah of Iran, and others of their ilk.

Sure, the State Department has been issuing an exhaustive annual report on human rights violators that, for half a century, provided grim details on repressive governments like those of the Saudis and Egyptians. But that didn’t stop successive administrations from supplying those same autocracies with virtually all the weapons and military aid they claimed they needed, even as Washington maintained an arms embargo on China instituted after Beijing cracked down on the Tiananmen Square protests in June 1989. And when the United States does lift such embargoes, as with Vietnam in 2016, it has everything to do with geopolitics (containing China) and nothing to do with human rights.

Now along comes Donald Trump, a thoroughgoing hypocrite on practically every subject ― except human rights. There, he has extended the blind eye of American policy to just about everyone. With a few exceptions that prove the rule, he could care less about such abuses, even when they involve his own administration ― including wife-beaters, Nazi sympathizers, and the incorrigibly corrupt, not to mention U.S. military personnel abroad (or ICE employees in this country).

Consider these telling changes in the Trumpian era. When the State Department released last year’s human rights report, Secretary of State Rex Tillerson didn’t even bother to hold the traditional press conference or present the findings himself, though he was in Washington at the time. This year’s report, unreleased and overdue, will reportedly give shorter shrift to women’s rights and discrimination of various kinds, prompting an outcry from more than 170 human-rights organizations. “This sends a clear signal that women’s reproductive rights are not a priority for this administration, and that it’s not even a rights violation we must or should report on,” an unnamed State Department official typically told Politico.

The writing has been on the wall in big block letters from the earliest moments of the Trump era. In May 2017, in his first town hall meeting with State Department staff, Tillerson warned that human rights should not become an obstacle in the U.S. pursuit of national interests, a shot across the department’s bow that contributed to a wave of subsequent resignations. Similarly, the administration’s first National Security Strategy barely mentioned human rights.

The diminished impact of the State Department reflects the diminished state of the department itself. Expect Pompeo to be even more aggressive than Tillerson at de-staffing it through unfilled ambassadorial positions (including South Korea and the European Union), the purging of staff for political reasons, cash buyouts for early retirements, and major reductions at embassies like the new one in Cuba. Among the many top positions that remain unfilled, there aren’t even nominees for undersecretary for civilian security, democracy, and human rights or assistant secretary for democracy, human rights, and labor (or, for that matter, special envoy on North Korean human rights). The Trump team proposed slashing the State Department budget by 25% from $53 billion to $39 billion. Congress, however, rebelled and reduced the shrinkage to just 6% in the final budget bill signed by the president last week. As part of these ostensible austerity measures, Trump wanted to effectively eliminate the bulk of “democracy promotion” by gutting the National Endowment for Democracy (NED) and its associated institutions.

Critics of the NED ― and there are many of them with telling points to make ― will rejoice. But let’s not kid ourselves: the alternative world Trump is creating will be even grimmer.

Bullets, Not Ballots

Trump’s assault on diplomacy does not represent any across-the-board reduction in America’s engagement with the world. After all, Pentagon spending is slated to rise by $80 billion a year or nearly twice the (reduced) budget of the shrunken State Department. And keep in mind that the Pentagon is actively involved in human rights abuses globally.

It is, for instance, giving Saudi Arabia billions of dollars in weapons (including cluster bombs) to bomb Yemen back to the Stone Age, while air-refueling American-produced F-16s that the Saudis are deploying and providing further logistical support for this devastating air war. The result has been a catastrophe, including more than 5,000 dead civilians, a devastating famine, and a health crisis that, in 2017, already led to more than 2,000 casualties from a cholera epidemic and 50,000 children dead from malnutrition and other diseases.

As a presidential candidate, Donald Trump promised to “bomb the shit” out of the Islamic State and he’s been as good as his word. The Trump administration upped the number of aerial attacks against that group without regard for civilian casualties in 2017. Up to 20,000 bombs were, for instance, dropped on ISIS’s “capital,” the Syrian city of Raqqa. In one particularly gruesome case, the U.N. has accused the U.S.-led coalition of violating international law by bombing a school building near that city in March 2017, killing 150 people among the displaced families sheltered there. Such acts have only been compounded by the Trump administration’s indifference to war crimes committed by the Syrian government and its Russian ally.

In Afghanistan, Trump has similarly given the U.S. military free rein to attack the Taliban. From August to the end of last year, Washington conducted almost as many air strikes there as it had in 2015 and 2016 combined. Who then could be surprised that Afghanistan experienced more civilian deaths in 2017 than during any other comparable period in the 16-year war?

Occasionally, the White House still talks about defending human rights, as in an executive order issued as 2017 ended that targeted “serious human rights abuse and corruption around the world.” That order, however, focused on only 13 individuals, including the former president of Gambia, an arms dealer in the Balkans, a Guatemalan politician, and the son of Russia’s prosecutor general.

In Trump’s universe, in other words, human rights abuses are committed only by a handful of “bad hombres.” The world’s greatest human rights abusers aren’t on that list ― because many of them are among the president’s BFFs.

Despots Galore

President Trump has made a point of establishing close working relationships with some of the worst autocrats on the planet. His first official trip overseas in May 2017 was typical. It wasn’t the usual inaugural jaunt to Canada, Mexico, or Europe. Instead, he made a beeline for Saudi Arabia, a country that lacks democracy, subordinates women, has never allowed freedom of speech or assembly, and imposes severe restrictions on its Shiite minority. Just Trump’s kind of place! He gave a speech in Riyadh condemning terrorism without once mentioning Saudi contributions to Sunni extremism around the world and capped things off by promising $110 billion in weaponry for the kingdom.

Saudi Arabia has been a friend of the United States since the days of President Franklin D. Roosevelt. Trump, however, wants to bind Washington and Riyadh even more closely in an anti-Iranian front (an impulse the appointment of Mike Pompeo, a well-known Iranophobe, can only strengthen). And the Saudi royals were just one entry on a crowded Trumpian list of despots that includes Duterte and Russian President Vladimir Putin. (“I’ve always had a good instinct about Putin.”) Also on the list is Recep Tayyip Erdogan, whom Trump praised (“We have a great friendship”) even as the Turkish leader was throwing journalists in prison and conducting a military campaign against the country’s Kurdish minority. As for his chum Xi, Trump recently eulogized the Chinese president for making himself ruler for life, wistfully regretting that an unnamed American president couldn’t do the same.

Then there’s Egyptian strongman Abdel Fattah el-Sisi, who seized power in a violent coup in 2013, killing hundreds, jailing tens of thousands, and torturing his opponents. For Trump, these were merely signs of a stiff spine. “I just want to let everybody know that we are very much behind President Sisi; he has done a fantastic job in a very difficult situation,” he said on welcoming the Egyptian leader to the White House in April 2017.

Such “friendships” are actually green lights for bad behavior. Soon after Trump shook the hands of the leaders of various Arab states in Saudi Arabia in May 2017, for instance, Bahrain cracked down on its free press and extrajudicial killings rose dramatically in Egypt. Saudi Arabia launched a blockade against Qatar, in part because of its support for democracy movements during the Arab Spring and the relative freedom of its state-supported media outlet Al-Jazeera. Although Qatar has been a close military ally of Washington ― the largest American military base in the region is located there ― Trump immediately tweeted his support for the blockade.

Perhaps his closest overseas soul mate, however, has been Benjamin Netanyahu. The Israeli prime minister has taken full advantage of that relationship to ratchet up pressure on the Palestinian community through extrajudicial executions, expanded settlements, police crackdowns, and the ever-punishing blockade of Gaza. In return, Trump has given Netanyahu whatever he wants, including an American embassy in Jerusalem and recognition of that city as Israel’s capital.

Trump has raised the issue of human rights abuses only in the case of four countries: Iran, Cuba, Venezuela, and North Korea. And after spending his first year in office trading insults with Kim Jong-un, he’s recently made a dramatic pivot, offering to sit down and negotiate with the North Korean leader, reducing his “axis of evil” to three.

Except for those outliers, his position has been that sovereign states should be allowed to do whatever they like within their own borders, as he himself moved with visible enthusiasm to suppress human rights at home. Like his friend Viktor Orban in Hungary, Trump took aim at immigrants; like Putin in Russia, he targeted LGBT advances; like Erdogan in Turkey, he accused the mainstream press of being the enemy; and like his alt-right buddies in Europe, he navigated close to neo-Nazis. No wonder Amnesty International has labeled Trump a “threat” to human rights.

Smashing the International Community

The Trump administration has continued to wage America’s ongoing wars across the Greater Middle East and Africa. At various moments, the president himself has also threatened to attack both North Korea and Venezuela. And with Pompeo heading for the State Department and the even more Iranophobic and bloodthirsty John Bolton becoming national security advisor, a military conflict with Iran may well be in the offing.

So far, however, the only new “war” President Trump has launched is a metaphoric one against the international community ― with all-too-real consequences.

He promptly withdrew from the Trans-Pacific Partnership and then the Paris climate accord, while regularly threatening to deep-six a multilateral nuclear agreement with Iran signed by the Obama administration ― all acts reflecting his disgust for anything that smacks of internationalism (or Obama himself).

His assault on the global human rights order has been even more dramatic. One of his first gestures was to re-impose a “global gag rule” restricting U.S. funding for organizations worldwide that provide family-planning assistance. Over the summer, his administration quietly prepared to close the State Department office that investigates genocide and war crimes. In October, it announced its future withdrawal from the U.N. cultural organization UNESCO (because of alleged anti-Israel bias).

Soon after, the administration pulled out of a global migration pact that Obama had enthusiastically endorsed the year before. A month later, it cut funding for the U.N. Relief and Works Agency, which helps Palestinian refugees, and is now preparing to reduce cooperation with the International Criminal Court. Its biggest target so far, however, has been the U.N. Human Rights Council. U.N. Ambassador Nikki Haley presented that council with an ultimatum: “If it fails to change, then we must pursue the advancement of human rights outside of the council.” Although the Council has yet to bend to U.S. demands, Trump and company are undoubtedly uninterested in its “reform.” (Washington hasn’t even bothered to replace its special representative on the Council.)

No international initiative has proven too small for his administration to target, even the Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI), a global standard implemented by 52 countries whose task is to reduce corruption in the energy and mining sector. As Adam Davidson commented in the New Yorker, “[T]he Trump Administration is actively implementing, in real policy, its avowed distrust ― even contempt ― for international compacts designed to improve the lives of people around the world. Abandoning EITI is not for show; it is a move toward dismantling the architecture of global governance.”

At a gut level, Donald Trump just hates “globalism,” which represents the antithesis of his America First doctrine. If he gets his way, the United States will not simply withhold its support for global initiatives, it will undermine any kind of global planning or cooperation that has a peaceable bent to it. Just as British Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher believed only in individuals, not “society,” Trump dismisses the U.N. and believes only in powerful actors. As his then-loyal adjutants, National Security Advisor H.R. McMaster and former chief economic advisor Gary Cohn, put it in a Wall Street Journal op-ed in May 2017, “The world is not a ‘global community’ but an arena where nations, nongovernmental actors, and businesses engage and compete for advantage.” Thanks to the Trump team, the international community is quickly devolving into World Wrestling Entertainment.

At first, the new president’s global belligerence had a certain unifying effect. Even as the United States withdrew from the Paris climate accord, for instance, the last two holdouts (Syria and Nicaragua) signed on and the rest of the world’s nations recommitted themselves to achieving the agreement’s goals without U.S. participation. In the face of a possible U.S. withdrawal from the Iran nuclear deal, the other signatories (Europe, Russia, China, and Iran) redoubled their efforts to preserve it.

But bullies have a pernicious influence on social norms, which means that a single powerful rule-breaker can do much to undermine global institutions. As such, the Trump administration’s withdrawal from the climate deal has largely deflated that global effort. The Europeans have reluctantly agreed to form a working group with the U.S. on altering the Iran nuclear deal, while the Iranians recently indicated that they might withdraw from it if the Europeans can’t keep Washington on board. Having broken the international rules of the road, Trump is now rewriting them to reflect his extreme version of American exceptionalism.

After the genocidal bloodletting of World War II, the U.N. and its foundational documents on human rights represented a different, more humane trajectory for the world. Donald Trump is attempting to rewind world history to an earlier era of blood and soil, of a nationalism red in tooth and claw, and of unfettered capitalism. He has brokered an informal alliance of autocrats and financiers worldwide against the U.N. and human rights more generally.

In this reincarnated version of an older order, the rich and the strong will prosper ― at least for a while. Trump and friends will make out like bandits ― at least for a while. And until citizens unite across borders to rescue the human rights order from this onslaught, the weak and the outnumbered will have ever fewer places to turn on an increasingly heartless planet.Larry Kudlow, director of the National Economic Council, on April 6. Bloomberg via Getty Images

President Donald Trump’s top economic adviser, Larry Kudlow, says it’s not his job to weigh in on his boss’ repeated threats against private e-commerce company Amazon.

“That’s not in my lane,” Kudlow, who chairs the White House’s National Economic Council, said Sunday on ABC’s “This Week.” “I can’t really comment specifically. I haven’t looked at that.”

“Well it comes under the National Economic Council, doesn’t it?” asked host George Stephanopoulos.

“Well, I suppose so,” Kudlow responded. “I haven’t really been involved in that discussion. Look, the president is a man of many opinions. It’s up to him. He may be carrying the ball. I can’t really comment on it.”

Trump has ramped up his attacks against Amazon in recent weeks, accusing the company of avoiding taxes and running a “post office scam.” He has also targeted The Washington Post, which is owned by Amazon CEO Jeff Bezos, calling the newspaper a lobbyist organization for the company.

Amazon CEO Jeff Bezos is a favorite target of President Donald Trump's. Lindsey Wasson / Reuters

On Friday, The Los Angeles Times reported that Trump “personally pushed U.S. Postmaster General Megan Brennan to double the rate the Postal Service charges Amazon.com and other firms to ship packages,” a move the newspaper said would cost the companies billions of dollars.

Many of Trump’s claims about Amazon’s business and its relationship with the U.S. Postal Service are outdated or plainly false, according to the website PolitiFact. Amazon pays taxes in most states, and it has “provided some help to the financial picture of the Postal Service,” according to the agency.

But Kudlow, a free market advocate who opened his former CNBC television show “The Kudlow Report” by reciting the motto, “We believe that free market capitalism is the best path to prosperity,” again declined to push back on the president’s claim that Amazon was costing the Postal Service money.The fine folks of Pawnee, Indiana, said “Knope” to gun violence over the weekend.

Actress Natalie Morales, who played Lucy on “Parks and Recreation,” posted a photo to Instagram on Saturday that features herself and other notable cast members and guest stars from the NBC sitcom attending the March For Our Lives protest in Washington, D.C.

A post shared by Natalie Morales (@nataliemoralesloves) on Mar 24, 2018 at 9:23am PDT

Scott, Plaza and Eichner also posted the picture.

Plaza and Morales boasted signs that promoted the Everytown for Gun Safety movement, while Eichner toted a sign that read “Change gun laws or change Congress.” Rudd wore a T-shirt that said “Protect kids, not guns.”

Although “Parks and Rec” star Amy Poehler (Leslie Knope) isn’t featured in the photo, she did show her support for the protest with a photo of herself wearing a March For Our Lives T-shirt on the Amy Poehler’s Smart Girls Instagram account.

“‘We stand with you, young people. I applaud your bravery and your incredible poise, and the fire that you have started will not go out. It will only get stronger, and we will help fan the flames.’ - Amy Poehler,” the caption reads.

A post shared by Amy Poehler's Smart Girls (@amypoehlersmartgirls) on Mar 24, 2018 at 8:49am PDT

Many “Parks and Rec” actors, including Nick Offerman (Ron Swanson) and Ben Schwartz (Jean-Ralphio) who are not pictured at the rally, have been showing support for the Parkland survivors’ movement since the students announced the rally for gun policy reform in February.

Check out some of their posts below:

A post shared by Adam Scott (@mradamscott) on Feb 23, 2018 at 11:40am PST

A post shared by Nick Offerman (@nickofferman) on Mar 16, 2018 at 8:39pm PDT

A post shared by Ben Schwartz (@rejectedjokes) on Mar 24, 2018 at 2:10pm PDT

A post shared by aubrey plaza (@plazadeaubrey) on Mar 23, 2018 at 9:01pm PDT

A post shared by Billy Eichner (@billyeichner) on Feb 18, 2018 at 2:04pm PST

A post shared by Amy Poehler's Smart Girls (@amypoehlersmartgirls) on Feb 18, 2018 at 4:39pm PST

A post shared by Amy Poehler's Smart Girls (@amypoehlersmartgirls) on Feb 16, 2018 at 11:00am PST

A post shared by Amy Poehler's Smart Girls (@amypoehlersmartgirls) on Feb 15, 2018 at 7:47am PSTWarning: Spoilers ahead.

Mark Hamill just gave a glimpse at what could have been.

“Star Wars” creator George Lucas had other plans for Hamill’s character, Luke Skywalker, the actor said in an interview with IGN published Monday.

“I happen to know that George didn’t kill Luke until the end of ‘[Episode] IX,’ after he trained Leia,” Hamill said, referring to a forthcoming film in the series.

This is the first we’ve heard of Lucas ever planning to kill off Luke. The character dies at the end of 2017′s “The Last Jedi,” which was directed by Rian Johnson. Lucas sold the rights to the series to Disney and is not writing or directing any installments in the latest trilogy.

Actor Mark Hamill poses on his star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame after it was unveiled on March 8. Mario Anzuoni / Reuters

This is also the first we’ve heard of Leia becoming a Jedi in one of the films. She is portrayed as one in other “Star Wars” products. To many fans’ dismay, Lucasfilm announced in April 2014 that stories depicted in books, video games and comics would no longer be considered authorized “canon.”

With Luke’s exit in “The Last Jedi” ― though he could return as a “Force ghost” ― and Carrie Fisher’s death in December 2016, Lucas’ version is not one we’re ever going to see.

Lucas did famously save one character from an early demise: Han Solo. Screenwriter Lawrence Kasdan and Harrison Ford, who played Han, thought the character should die in the first trilogy.The Boston Celtics played the hometown Kings in Sacramento, California, on Sunday, but before the game they were on the same team.

Members of both NBA squads wore black T-shirts calling attention to the police shooting death of Stephon Clark on March 18, Sacramento’s CBS affiliate reported. “Accountability. We are one,” the front side of the shirts read, while the back was emblazoned with #StephonClark.”

Two Sacramento police officers shot 20 rounds at Clark, a 22-year-old unarmed black man and father of two, in his backyard after a foot chase with cops who were investigating break-ins in the neighborhood. Police officials have said the officers believed they saw Clark with a gun, but he was carrying only a cellphone.

The basketball players also came together to produce a public service video demanding law enforcement accountability. Some players then repeat Clark’s name.

Kings player development staffer Akachi Okugo came up with the shirt idea, but Kings guard Garrett Temple made sure there was follow-through, the CBS station said.

Police have “probably the toughest job in America and I applaud them for putting their lives on the line every night, every day, but with that comes responsibility,” Temple said, per NBA.com. “That’s the mantle that they carry and the burden that they bear.”

The Sacramento Kings' Justin Jackson and Vince Carter wear their Stephon Clark shirts during warmups. Sacramento Bee via Getty Images

The Celtics’ Jaylen Brown told reporters, per USA Today, “As NBA players and people of influence, we have to continue to speak up about things and continue to serve as part of change.”Unconfirmed reports circulated on Monday that the travel-averse North Korean leader Kim Jong Un may be visiting China.

Speculation swirled after video footage surfaced that appeared to show the arrival in Beijing of a green train carriage of the sort Kim’s late father and predecessor, Kim Jong Il, rode when he visited the capital in 2011.

The South Korean news agency Yonhap, citing a Japanese report, said Monday that a “high-ranking North Korean official” was visiting China ahead of summits with South Korean and American leaders.

Citing three unnamed sources, Bloomberg later reported that Kim himself was making the visit. It would be his first overseas trip since taking power in 2011.

Asked about the rumors during a news briefing on Monday, White House deputy press secretary Raj Shah said he couldn’t confirm the reports.

“I don’t know if they’re necessarily true,” Shah told reporters.

The office of Moon Jae-in, South Korea’s president, said in a statement about the reports: “We are closely monitoring any related movements, using various channels to try to confirm them.”

Chinese Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Hua Chunying said she was unaware of the situation, Reuters reports.

China and North Korea are historical allies but have experienced strained relations in recent years. Beijing has backed sanctions against its neighbor that have reduced the country’s exports of coal and other key sources of foreign currency. Chinese leaders have also harshly criticized Kim’s aggressive pursuit of a nuclear arsenal capable of striking the U.S.

Kim has not met with any major world leaders since assuming leadership of North Korea in 2011. However, he met with South Korean envoys on March 5 and agreed to meet with Moon in the border town of Panmunjom in late April.Almost two dozen countries across Europe, plus Australia and Canada, have joined the United States in expelling Russian diplomats in response to the poisoning of a Russian ex-spy in the British city of Salisbury earlier this month.

A total of 16 EU member states, including France, Germany, Poland and the Czech Republic, plus Ukraine, Albania and Macedonia announced the expulsion of the envoys on Monday. Additional measures aren’t off the table, European Commission president Donald Tusk said.

Minutes before the European countries announced their own measures, the White House said that it would eject 60 diplomats, including intelligence officers from Russia’s mission to the United Nations, and close Russia’s consulate in Seattle.

“The United States takes this action in conjunction with our NATO allies and partners around the world in response to Russia’s use of a military-grade chemical weapon on the soil of the United Kingdom, the latest in its ongoing pattern of destabilizing activities around the world,” according to the official statement.

Canada also announced the expulsion of four Russian diplomats “in solidarity with the United Kingdom.”

Australia followed suit on Tuesday, giving two Russian diplomats seven days to leave. This brings the total to 23 countries that have announced expulsions of more than 115 Russian diplomats around the world, British Prime Minister Theresa May said.

The moves follow the British decision to expel 23 diplomats, which Prime Minister Theresa May said was necessary due to Russia’s repeated denial of responsibility in the incident.

“The United States took a very bad step by cutting what very little still remains in terms of Russian-American relations,” he said.Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke testifies before the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee March 13 in Washington, D.C. Win McNamee via Getty Images

The Interior Department is denying a CNN report published Monday that alleged Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke repeatedly has said the agency shouldn’t prioritize hiring diverse candidates.

Three unnamed high-ranking officials within the department said Zinke has made it clear he doesn’t care about diversity and would rather concentrate on “having the right person for the right job,” according to CNN.

“[Zinke] flat out said, ‘I don’t really think that’s important anymore. We don’t need to focus on [diversity] anymore,’” one unnamed Interior Department official reportedly told the outlet.

Heather Swift, a spokeswoman for the Interior Department, said the allegations against Zinke were “untrue.”

“As a woman who has worked for him for a number of years in senior positions, I say without a doubt this claim is untrue, and I am hopeful that they are a result of a misunderstanding and not a deliberate mistruth,” Swift said Monday in a statement emailed to HuffPost.

Swift pointed to the several Interior Department appointments under Zinke ― including Brenda Burman, the first woman to lead the U.S. Bureau of Reclamation ― and his previous invitations to speak at Martin Luther King Jr. Memorial Foundation events, to suggest the secretary is committed to diversity.

“The Secretary has surrounded himself with experienced professionals from diverse backgrounds,” Swift said.

Zinke came under fire in June when he unexpectedly reassigned 33 senior executives. An attorney for one of the reassigned staffers told CNN she believed at least 15 were minorities.

More than 70 percent of the Interior Department’s 68,000 employees are white, CNN reported, citing data from the Office of Personnel Management.

A leaked version of the department’s 2018-2022 strategic plan also did not have the diversity and inclusion mandate laid out by the previous administration, Outside magazine reported in November.

The department’s 2014-2018 strategic plan under President Barack Obama called for a “highly skilled and engaged workforce that reflects the diversity of the Nation. Differences in background, thought, education, and experience contribute to the varied perspectives in the workplace and create a synergy for higher performance and success in the achievement of DOI’s mission goals.”A Chicago man who was convicted of a crime he didn’t commit resumed his former job with the Chicago White Sox on Monday after spending 23 years behind bars.

Nevest Coleman, 49, who was officially exonerated by a Cook County judge last month thanks to DNA evidence, returned to Guaranteed Rate Field as a groundskeeper. His old colleagues welcomed him with an official Sox jacket and hat.

“I’d like to be an independent person, I don’t want nobody to give me nothing. I like to work for what I have,” Coleman told WGN-TV. “Just by coming to work like this here every day is a blessing.”

Coleman was a 25-year-old father of two who had worked at the ballfield ― then named Comiskey Park ― for two years when he was wrongfully arrested, along with co-defendant Darryl Fulton, for the April 1994 rape and murder of a young woman named Antwinica Bridgeman, according to his attorney.

Nevest Coleman, 49, on Monday resumed his old job at the White Sox's Guaranteed Rate Field in Chicago. CBS2

There was no physical evidence linking Coleman or Fulton to the crime, and both men said they were coerced by police into making false statements. But they were each sentenced to life in prison.

Coleman narrowly escaped the death penalty after prosecutors made an unsuccessful plea to the judge, the Chicago Tribune reported.

Both men’s charges were dropped late last year after a DNA test on bodily fluids recovered from Bridgeman’s clothing and body yielded a match with a serial rapist, according to a release from Coleman’s attorney.

During his time behind bars, Coleman missed watching his children grow up and wasn’t around when his parents died, but he says he doesn’t live with anger.

“The past’s in the past now. There’s no more anger, upset, frustration, nothing,” he told WGN. “When I was in there I was miserable. But now I have my loved ones behind me, standing by my side, that misery’s gone now.”

Nevest Coleman returns to work with the Chicago White Sox — recently released from prison after 23 years for a murder he didn’t commit @ABC7Chicago pic.twitter.com/zw4j8bXVKk — Megan Hickey (@MeganHickeyABC7) March 26, 2018

Upon his release, people close to Coleman reached out to the baseball team on his behalf to see if he’d be able to resume his job there as a groundskeeper, a spokesperson for the Sox told HuffPost.

He went through the application and hiring process, the spokesperson said, and was hired as a seasonal member of the grounds crew.

“We’re grateful that after more than two decades, justice has been carried out for Nevest,” the team said in a statement. “It has been a long time, but we’re thrilled that we have the opportunity to welcome him back to the White Sox family. We’re looking forward to having Nevest back on Opening Day at home in our ballpark.”

“It has been a long time, but we’re thrilled that we have the opportunity to welcome [Coleman] back to the White Sox family.” - Chicago White Sox statement

As life for Coleman moves on, so does a lawsuit against the city of Chicago, several police officers and Cook County state’s attorney’s officials on his behalf.

“The Defendants’ misconduct in this case was not an isolated occurrence,” says the lawsuit, filed last month. “To the contrary, they were the result of the City of Chicago’s policies and practices of pursuing wrongful convictions through reliance on coerced statements and profoundly flawed investigations.”Michael Bublé and his wife, Luisana Lopilato, walk the red carpet at the 2018 Juno Awards. Phillip Chin via Getty Images

Michael Bublé and his wife, Argentine actress and model Luisana Lopilato, are expecting a third child together.

The Canadian crooner made the announcement on Sunday while hosting the Juno Awards in Vancouver.

“You have filled me up with joy and love and luck,” Bublé, 42, told the audience during his opening monologue at the Canadian music awards. “Five years ago, when I hosted the first time in Regina, you brought me luck and I was pregnant ― I mean, my wife was ― I mean, we were pregnant with our first child.”

“Oops, you did it again: My wife and I are pregnant with our number three,” he said before giving a shoutout to Lopilato. “I love you so much, mi amor.”

Rumors about their growing family have been swirling after People reported last month that Lopilato, 30, was pregnant.

The pair has two sons, Elias, 2, and Noah, 4, who was diagnosed with liver cancer in 2016. Both Bublé and Lopilato put their careers on hold to focus on their family.

“We are devastated about the recent cancer diagnosis of our oldest son Noah who is currently undergoing treatment in the US,” the couple said on Facebook at the time. “We have always been very vocal about the importance of family and the love we have for our children.”

Last February, Bublé gave an update on Noah’s treatment, telling fans that the child had been “progressing well” and that his doctors were “optimistic” about his future.

A post shared by Michael Bublé (@michaelbuble) on Oct 16, 2016 at 7:25am PDT

Months later, Lopilato opened up about her son’s diagnosis and how it changed her outlook on life.

“Thank God my son is well,” she said during a press conference for her latest film. “When things like those that happened to us occur, your take on life changes. Now I value life much more, the now and the today.”

AdvertisementDraylen Mason died without knowing he had accomplished one of the biggest goals of his life.

The 17-year-old bass player was killed two weeks ago by a package bomb left outside his Austin home.

At the time of his death, he was waiting to see if he had been admitted into the prestigious Oberlin Conservatory of Music in Ohio. Turns out he did make it: Mason was one of 130 students admitted into the school this fall out of 1,500 applicants, according to CNN.

Mason would have found out about the admission on Friday, according to Oberlin admissions director Michael Manderen.

“It is tragic that he could very well have been one of those select incoming students,” Manderen said. “This is so sad, and our hearts go out to the family and community.”

Mason, an aspiring neurosurgeon and black belt martial artist, was killed March 12 when the bomb exploded in his East Austin home, according to USA Today.

Mason had been preparing for a morning workout with his mother when it happened. Mason’s mom used a knife to open a package that had been left on their doorstep. Mason “kind of shielded her and it killed him instantly,” his cousin Mark Glover told The New York Times.

His mother, whose name has not been released, was also injured in the blast and hospitalized.

The bombing was one of a series that happened in the Austin area this month, killing two people and injuring five. The suspected bomber, Mark Anthony Conditt, died last Wednesday after a device exploded in his car during a confrontation with police.

Mason’s funeral will be held Saturday at Greater Mount Zion Baptist Church. Meanwhile, Manderen said the conservatory has been in communication with Mason’s bass teacher and that the school plans to hold a memorial event for him sometime in the future.The rapper faced enormous backlash on social media after NRATV shared video of him criticizing National School Walkout Day.

“I told my kids on the school walkout, ‘I love you, [but] if you walk out that school, walk out my house,’” he says in the interview.

“We are a gun-owning family, we are a family where my sister farms, we are a family where we’ll fish and hunt, but we are not a family that jumps on every single thing that an ally of ours does because some stuff we just don’t agree with.”AFP Contributor via Getty Images

WASHINGTON ― Top Trump administration officials and a bipartisan group of powerful lawmakers have formed a tacit alliance that could be the best hope for hundreds of thousands of Rohingya Muslims who fled violence and persecution in Myanmar last year.

The State Department and the White House have taken striking steps to push Myanmar to punish those responsible for the crackdown. And on Capitol Hill, Democrats and Republicans have rallied behind measures to increase pressure on Myanmar’s leaders.

President Donald Trump has been largely silent on the Rohingya so far. But the unlikely collaboration on one of the world’s largest human rights crises could result in one of the few major international accomplishments of his time in office thus far — if Trump decides to personally join the effort, that is, and if Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.) stops blocking votes on the issue.

“We really think this could be a success story for the administration,” said Francisco Bencosme, an advocacy official at the nonprofit group Amnesty International. “There’s been high-level engagement. But at the same time, the buck stops with the president. We haven’t seen President Trump speak out for the Rohingya. Until there’s presidential leadership, we still think there’s room for more.”

Myanmar’s military and allied Buddhist militias killed and raped thousands of Rohingya last year after Rohingya militants attacked security outposts in August. Some 700,000 members of the historically demonized ethnic and religious minority group fled from Myanmar’s western Rakhine state to neighboring Bangladesh because of the violence.

Trump aides have been working to help the Rohingya refugees leave the cramped camps, rebuild their burned-down villages and gain the full citizenship rights they have been denied for decades. In October, the administration cut off U.S. assistance for Myanmar military officials involved in operations in Rakhine, and the following month it declared the assault “ethnic cleansing.” Trump placed sanctions on a prominent Myanmar general involved in the offensive in December. And last month, Reuters revealed that a State Department team has been gathering Rohingya allegations of abuse that could be used for further sanctions and international prosecution of Myanmar officials.

“There’s a high level of interest in the administration over this,” Sam Brownback, the U.S. ambassador for international religious freedom, told The Wall Street Journal after visiting the camps in April.

On Monday, Nikki Haley, the U.S. ambassador to the United Nations, chastised Myanmar ally China for watering down a U.N. Security Council statement on the issue. At a refugee camp the next day, U.S. Agency for International Development chief Mark Green said the State Department will provide new policy recommendations to the president later this summer. He also announced $44 million more in U.S. humanitarian aid to feed and house the Rohingya, bringing the total to nearly $300 million.

The steps have won the Trump team uncommon praise from Congress, where parallel efforts are in the works. Sen. Jeff Merkley (D-Ore.), a leader on the issue who led lawmakers on a trip to the region last year, said he was encouraged by both the State Department’s use of the “ethnic cleansing” label and the tough language from Haley.

“This is a massive case of horrific ethnic cleansing — and, some would say, a genocide,” Merkley told HuffPost. “It was a horrific assault on these defenseless villages and America should be in the forefront of the world’s action.”

Rohingya refugees line the streets as United Nations Security Council vehicles pass outside Kutupalong Refugee Camp in Cox's Bazar, Bangladesh, April 29, 2018. Kevin Fogarty / Reuters

Merkley has sponsored a Senate resolution urging the “safe, dignified, voluntary and sustainable” return of the Rohingya to Myanmar. Co-sponsored by six GOP senators, it’s one of two bills on the situation that passed out of the Senate foreign relations committee this spring. The other, sponsored by Sen. John McCain (R-Ariz.) and supported by 19 other senators, makes similar demands and outlines procedures for pressuring Myanmar by placing sanctions on military officials and reducing U.S. purchases of the jade and rubies that are among its top exports. Both proposals have the support of the No. 2 Democrat in the chamber, Sen. Dick Durbin (Ill.), who went on the trip with Merkley, and are linked to parallel legislation in the House.

Support from Trump for those bills could help them overcome opposition from McConnell.

The Senate majority leader is a longtime supporter of Aung San Suu Kyi, the activist and Nobel Peace Prize winner who was held under house arrest by Myanmar’s military until 2010. McConnell pushed hard for her release, and for the junta to begin loosening its grip on power. Now, Suu Kyi is the most powerful civilian in the country’s government ― but she’s facing major international criticism for her failure to acknowledge the Rohingyas’ suffering or publicly challenge Myanmar’s generals.

McConnell has said the U.S. should acknowledge the crisis but be wary of upending the power balance in the country. “Publicly condemning Aung San Suu Kyi — the best hope for democratic reform in Burma — is not constructive,” McConnell said in September, referring to Myanmar by its former name as U.S. officials often do.

That argument has some powerful supporters within the State Department, which led an Obama-era policy of limited engagement that involved easing U.S. sanctions on the country as its military rulers made concessions like releasing Suu Kyi. The agency’s top Asia official, acting Assistant Secretary Susan Thornton, is reluctant to publicly condemn Myanmar or China for fear of reducing U.S. influence over them or weakening Suu Kyi’s position, Trump aides and congressional staffers say.

Those working for the Rohingya see that thinking as outdated, given Suu Kyi’s track record in recent years.

“I’m a big supporter of Suu Kyi... all the Rohingya supported her,” said Imam Abdul Malik Mujahid, an American Muslim leader involved in lobbying around the issue. But “she has enough authority and she doesn’t do anything with it. We hope that McConnell will have a second look.”

A strong statement from the White House might acknowledge that reality and trigger faster, stronger American action. Trump has not publicly spoken about the crisis despite private commitments during his first official trip to Asia last year.

Merkley believes the lack of a presidential statement creates a global perception of indifference. “If the president doesn’t know about it or, worse yet, knows about it and doesn’t care about it, either one is an enormous failing,” he said.

Spokespeople for McConnell and the White House did not respond to requests for comment.

Aung San Suu Kyi speaks to a crowd at the University of Louisville in Louisville, Kentucky, Sept. 24, 2012. John Sommers II / Reuters

The situation may soon get worse because of monsoon season, which often brings cyclones and floods. Humanitarian groups are worried about its impact on the refugee camps in Bangladesh, and the possibility that a fresh catastrophe could exacerbate budding Bengali resentment toward the refugees.

Meanwhile, Myanmar’s government is dampening hopes of a peaceful return by aggressively transforming the Rohingyas’ homeland and limiting supplies of food and medicine to those Rohingya who still live in the country. It has prevented United Nations officials, rights groups and the media from freely exploring the area ― though some have snuck in to document ongoing government crackdowns, and Rohingya have been sharing accounts of arson and worsening poverty through social media.

Top congressional staff working on the issue discovered the lengths Myanmar’s leaders would go to downplay abuses during a visit this spring, an aide told HuffPost: While they flew over Rakhine state, the windows on the government plane carrying them were blacked out so they could not see burned-out Rohingya villages.

That only strengthened the feeling that something needs to change fast, the aide said.

Officials and activists hope Secretary of State Mike Pompeo and others close to Trump can get the issue on the president’s radar soon, whether by using upcoming State Department reports ― including one on whether the U.S. believes Myanmar’s actions constitute crimes against humanity ― or just appealing to his political instincts.

Taking action on Myanmar could allow Trump to depict himself as fixing one of former President Barack Obama’s mistakes. There’s increasing public skepticism of Obama’s 2012 decision to ease sanctions on Myanmar and stay relatively quiet about the persecution of the Rohingya in hopes of facilitating a transition to democracy.

The situation offers Trump a rare chance to win international acclaim by charting a different course on foreign policy from Obama.Former President Jimmy Carter has defended President Donald Trump in the past. Drew Angerer via Getty Images

In a CBS interview scheduled to air Tuesday, Jimmy Carter did not mince words when denouncing President Donald Trump’s decision to hire John Bolton as his national security adviser.

“I have been concerned at some of the things he’s decided,” the 93-year-old former president told “CBS This Morning” host Norah O’Donnell, according to a press release from the network. “I think his last choice for national security adviser was very ill-advised. I think John Bolton has been the worst mistake he’s made.”

The excerpt CBS released on Monday did not include commentary from Carter on why he thought Trump had erred in hiring Bolton.

Bolton, a former United Nations ambassador whom Trump named to the role last Thursday, is known for his hostile foreign policy stances. He fiercely advocated for the Iraq War and promoted the false justification for it, has called for bombing Iran and North Korea, damaged the United States’ foreign policy reputation, and has aligned himself with anti-Muslim hate groups.

When Bolton steps into the national security role on April 9, he’ll become the third person to serve in the position under Trump. He is replacing Army Lt. Gen. H.R. McMaster, who repeatedly clashed with president.

In the past, Carter has expressed some approval of Trump. In discussing special counsel Robert Mueller’s investigation into the Trump campaign’s ties to Russia with “CBS Sunday Morning” this past weekend, Carter said he hoped Trump would be able to finish out his term.

“[M]y own preference would be that he not be impeached, but that he be able to serve out his term, because I think he wants to do a good job,” Carter said. “And I’m willing to help him, if I can help him, and give him the benefit of the doubt.”

He’s also criticized the media for being too harsh on Trump.WASHINGTON (Reuters) - Adult film star Stormy Daniels is suing President Donald Trump’s lawyer Michael Cohen for defamation after he called into question her claim that she had a sexual encounter with Trump, according to court documents filed on Monday.

In the filing in federal court in Los Angeles, Daniels’ attorney said “Cohen meant to convey that Ms. Clifford is a liar, someone who should not be trusted, and that her claims about her relationship with Mr. Trump is ‘something (that) isn’t true.’”

(Reporting by Eric Beech; Editing by Mohammad Zargham)Tiffany Haddish may be hilarious, but she’s apparently not joking about a bizarre new health regimen: drinking turpentine.

In an interview with GQ magazine, the “Girls Trip” star extols the very dubious health benefits of drinking of turpentine, a pungent oil made from pine resin commonly used for mixing paint and varnish.

“A teaspoon of turpentine will not kill you,” Haddish tells her skeptical interviewer. “The government doesn’t want you to know that if you have a cold, just take some turpentine with some sugar or castor oil or honey and it’ll go away the next day.”

Haddish discovered the toxic solvent was a supposed health aide a few months ago while watching YouTube. She started taking it a few months ago.

She decided to try it because “there are worms inside your body,” and claimed “everything just felt so much better, clarity-wise” after her first dose.

When the journalist suggested Haddish was actually light-headed from drinking poison, the comedienne refused to budge.

“But I was killing the game onstage!” she said. “My thought patterns was coming quick, quick, quick. Girl, you just look it up. Just do the research.”

Basic internet research reveals that turpentine is actually toxic if ingested or consumed. Symptoms of poisoning include blood in urine, kidney failure, loss of vision, severe burning in the throat and vomiting blood.

The journalist sent Haddish the information about the dangers of turpentine ingestion, but the actress wasn’t interested.

Her response: “The government wrote it. Honey.”

Haddish also promised the reporter, should she decide to take turpentine, to get ready for “the best doo-doo of your fucking life.”

Poison experts like Dr. Alfred Aleguas of the Florida Poison Center in Tampa warn people not to follow Haddish’s lead.

“It’s ridiculous for many reasons, but potentially hazardous if aspirated,” Aleguas told HuffPost by email. “And the castor oil/sugar/honey relationship? Never mind that if there was such a simple cure for the common cold someone, would have been all over it.”

“Turpentine won’t kill you if swallowed, but you can white-out a lung [a term for a blocked chest seen on an X-ray] if aspirated either going down, or coming back up (if vomited, which is a real possibility),” Aleguas wrote.NBA coach Gregg Popovich had more than basketball on his mind before his San Antonio Spurs played the Milwaukee Bucks in Milwaukee on Sunday.

The outspoken Popovich, referring to the weekend’s March For Our Lives in Washington to push for gun control, ripped President Donald Trump’s “cowardice” for leaving town instead of meeting with protesters.

The march attracted hundreds of thousands to rally for tougher gun laws after last month’s Parkland, Florida, mass shooting and other school killings. Trump proposed tightening some laws earlier this month, but apparently backed down after meeting with National Rifle Association representatives. He spent the weekend at his resort in Florida and failed to acknowledge the protest.

Spurs Coach Gregg Popovich and President Donald Trump are definitely not on the same team when it comes to Trump's leadership. Jason Miller via Getty Images

“If you just sit for a moment and imagine those bullets going through those bodies, and what those bodies might have looked like afterwards, how can the president of the country talk about all the things he’s going to do, and then go have lunch with the NRA and change it?” Popovich said, according to CBS Sports.

“It’s just cowardice,” the coach continued. “A real leader would have been in Washington D.C., this weekend, not at his penthouse at Mar-a-Lago. He would have had the decency to meet with a group, to see what’s going on, and how important it is, and how important our children should be to us. So for all those politicians involved, it’s just a dereliction of duty.”Steven Spielberg is staying old school.

The legendary director said in a recent interview that Netflix movies shouldn’t qualify for Oscar nominations, even if they are screened in a traditional theater first.

“Once you commit to a television format, you’re a TV movie,” he told ITV News in a chat to promote his new film, “Ready Player One.” “You certainly, if it’s a good show, deserve an Emmy, but not an Oscar.” (Spielberg’s remarks on Netflix begin around the 5 minute mark in the video below.)

Pressed further, he added: “I don’t believe films that are just given token qualifications in a couple of theaters for less than a week should qualify for the Academy Award nomination.”

The 71-year-old icon said the emergence of film distribution by streaming services will discourage more filmmakers from struggling to raise money for movies in the hopes of traditional studio backing. They’ll opt for the likes of Netflix or Amazon for release, perhaps after a brief theatrical stint.

“Television is really thriving with quality and art but it poses a clear and present danger to filmgoers,” he said.

“Mudbound,” a prominent Netflix film, recently exemplified the kind of movie Spielberg was referring to, Variety noted. The movie, which received four Oscar nominations, was distributed by the company after a one-week theatrical stint in New York and Los Angeles.Sen. Claire McCaskill (D-Mo.) has doubled down on her criticism of Hillary Clinton for the tone-deaf comments the former Democratic presidential nominee recently made about the people who voted for President Donald Trump.

In an interview with MSNBC on Sunday, McCaskill said Clinton should be “more careful” about the way she talks about Trump voters.

“For those of us that are in states that Trump won, we would really appreciate if she would be more careful and show respect to every American voter and not just the ones who voted for her,” said McCaskill.

WOAH.



"For those of us that are in states that Trump won we would really appreciate if she would be more careful and show respect to every American voter and not just the ones who voted for her" - Claire McCaskill on Hillary Clinton pic.twitter.com/J1rBBar8gR — Kasie DC (@KasieDC) March 25, 2018

Republicans and Democrats have excoriated Clinton for her remarks, which were made during a conference in Mumbai, India earlier this month. Comparing her voters to Trump’s, Clinton said she “won the places that represent two-thirds of America’s gross domestic product. I won the places that are optimistic, diverse, dynamic, moving forward.”

In contrast, Trump’s “Make America Great Again” campaign “was looking backwards,” Clinton said, and suggested her opponent’s platform targeted racists and misogynists.

After facing intense backlash for her remarks, Clinton apologized, saying she “meant no disrespect.”

McCaskill, who’s seeking re-election this November, said she believes the former secretary of state’s words crossed a line.

“I understand the point she was trying to make, but it felt like she was criticizing Missouri voters,” McCaskill told MSNBC. “I would draw a line there. I have great respect for Missouri voters, and there were a lot of reasons why they voted for Donald Trump, some of them I understand.”

McCaskill was pilloried for her close connection to Clinton in a campaign ad released last week by one of her potential Republican challengers, Missouri Attorney General Josh Hawley. The ad showed snippets of Clinton’s comments in India followed by the words: “This is what Claire McCaskill and her ‘president’ think of you.”

McCaskill has tried to distance herself from Clinton’s remarks, telling the Washington Post that they were “fighting words.”

Advertisement