You know the thing that Trump hates most about this 60 Minutes interview is not that he’s been exposed as an adulterer but that Stormy Daniels said she wasn’t attracted to him and didn’t enjoy the sex#StormyDanielsDayThe actress left Indra for Chris Pratt after the two co-starred in the movie “Take Me Home Tonight.” Pratt and Faris, who have one son together, split in 2017 after eight years of marriage.

“We tried hard for a long time, and we’re really disappointed. Our son has two parents who love him very much and for his sake we want to keep this situation as private as possible moving forward,” a statement on Pratt’s Facebook said of the split. “We still have love for each other, will always cherish our time together and continue to have the deepest respect for one another.”

Prior to their breakup, Pratt and Faris dealt with rumors that he was hooking up with his “Passengers” co-star Jennifer Lawrence.

Faris said that the rumors were “totally hurtful” and that while she knew they weren’t true, she “couldn’t block them out, either.” She also hinted before the split that Pratt’s demanding work schedule made it difficult for the two to spend time together.German public broadcaster ZDF has been lashed for what critics called “racist” coverage of Britain’s royal wedding Saturday.

Announcers were mesmerized by how African-Americans straighten their hair, repeatedly referred to Meghan Markle and black wedding guests as “exotic,” and said the gospel choir at the wedding sang “beautifully black,” German international broadcaster Deutsche Welle reported.

HuffPost Germany complained: “The station never tires of emphasizing that Meghan Markle … is black. Black, black, black. Can we please talk about hats again?”

At one point, a ZDF announcer wondered: “Are those dreadlocks on Meghan’s mother?” Another responded, according to DW: “It’s curly hair that’s been somewhat de-curled, same as Meghan probably does all the time.”

The broadcaster was hit with criticism in emails, on Twitter and by phone. ZDF has not apologized for its coverage, but told DW that “we take the criticism of our viewers seriously.” The ZDF spokeswoman also said the network received praise for its coverage.

One tweet about the coverage complained: “Dear @zdf, it is extremely annoying that Meghan’s lineage is THE subject for the reporters. If Meghan were white, what would they snigger about? Please treat them equally.”

Liebes @zdf, es NERVT gewaltig, dass Meghan's Abstammung für die Berichterstatter DAS Thema ist. Wenn Meghan Weiß wäre, worüber würden die sich aushecheln? Behandelt sie bitte doch gleichwertig. #RoyalWedding — Julia Probst (@EinAugenschmaus) May 19, 2018Porn star Stormy Daniels claims President Donald Trump gave her an odd compliment in the hours before they allegedly had sex in 2006.

When Daniels met Trump at a celebrity golf tournament in Lake Tahoe in July 2006, he invited her to dinner. She met him in his hotel suite and the two began talking and flirting, she said.

“He was like, ‘Wow, you ― you are special. You remind me of my daughter,’” Daniels said in an interview with “60 Minutes” that aired on Sunday night. “You know, he was like, ‘You’re smart and beautiful, and a woman to be reckoned with, and I like you. I like you.’”

Stormy Daniels says Trump told her: “Wow, you are special. You remind me of my daughter.” pic.twitter.com/WFH4Lcv4v0 — Philip Lewis (@Phil_Lewis_) March 26, 2018

Daniels, who claims she then had an affair with Trump, is currently embroiled in a legal battle with the president. She’s suing Trump over the validity of a nondisclosure agreement (NDA) she signed just before the 2016 presidential election that barred her from speaking publicly about the alleged affair in exchange for $130,000.

The White House has denied the affair ever occurred.

Trump’s lawyers responded to her lawsuit by threatening to charge her $1 million for every time she violates the NDA. She claims the NDA is invalid because Trump never signed it.

During her ”60 Minutes” interview, some of the details Daniels’ provided about the alleged affair mirrored statements made by Karen McDougal. The ex-Playboy playmate recently came forward to say she also had an affair with Trump in 2006, and told Anderson Cooper on his CNN show last week that the president compared her to his eldest daughter, Ivanka.Hot off her appearance on the season premiere of “RuPaul’s Drag Race” last week, Christina Aguilera debuted a jaw-dropping new look Monday.

The Grammy-winning diva wears minimal makeup ― yet appears effortlessly glam ― on the cover of Paper magazine’s new issue.

Fans can rest assured, however, that the pop provocateur who appeared nude on the cover of Rolling Stone, wore assless chaps and smooched Madonna at the 2003 MTV Video Music Awards hasn’t completely gone demure.

“I’ve always been someone that obviously loves to experiment, loves theatrics, loves to create a storyline and play a character in a video or through stage,” Aguilera told the magazine. “I’m a performer, that’s who I am by nature. But I’m at the place, even musically, where it’s a liberating feeling to be able to strip it all back and appreciate who you are and your raw beauty.”

Aguilera’s new, toned-down look seems timed to coincide with a forthcoming album. In January, she posted a cheeky message to fans in an Instagram story hinting at new music.

Though she’s kept details of any upcoming projects under wraps, there have been suggestions of possible collaborations with Demi Lovato and Pink.

Aguilera didn’t divulge any additional information in the Paper interview, but discussed her decision to leave “The Voice” after six seasons.

“I can’t stay in a stagnant place for too long, which is why I think the position I was in with television just became very stifling,” she said. “I need movement, I need to go explore, be an artist, create and transform.”(Reuters) - Remington Outdoor Co Inc., one of the largest U.S. makers of firearms, filed for bankruptcy protection on Sunday to carry out a debt-cutting deal with creditors amid mounting public pressure for greater gun control.

The company listed assets in the range of $500 million to $1 billion and liabilities in the range of $500 million to $1 billion.

Remington, America’s oldest gun maker, announced the deal in February to reduce its $950 million debtload in a deal that will transfer control of the company to creditors.

The filing comes after a Feb. 14 shooting at a Parkland, Florida high school that killed 17 and spurred an intense campaign for gun control by activists.

The massacre inspired hundreds of thousands of young Americans to lead huge U.S. anti-gun rallies on Saturday.

In some of the biggest U.S. youth demonstrations for decades, protesters called on lawmakers and President Donald Trump to confront the issue. Voter registration activists fanned out in the crowds, signing up thousands of the nation’s newest voters.

Major U.S. companies and retailers have taken some steps to restrict firearm sales.

Citigroup Inc said last week it will require new retail-sector clients to sell firearms only to customers who passed background checks and to bar sales of high-capacity magazines.

Citi also said it was restricting sales for buyers under 21, a move adopted by other large retailers, while Kroger Co’s superstore chain Fred Meyer said it will stop selling firearms entirely.

In this file photo from 2015, bolt action rifles sit on display in the Remington Arms Co. booth on the exhibition floor of the National Rifle Association Annual Meetings and Exhibits. Bloomberg via Getty Images

CERBERUS TO LOSE OWNERSHIP

Cerberus Capital Management LP, the private equity firm that controls Remington, will lose ownership in the bankruptcy.

Remington’s creditors, which sources told Reuters include Franklin Templeton Investments and JPMorgan Asset Management, will exchange their debt holdings for Remington equity.

The creditors inked the debt-cutting deal prior to the Parkland shooting, and it is unclear if any have exited. The restructuring support agreement allows creditors to sell their holdings, but the buyer is bound by the deal.

One investor told IFR, a Thomson Reuters news provider, that his firm had contemplated buying the Remington loans that will be exchanged into equity, which were offered at as low as 25 cents on the dollar.

“We bowed out because we were uncomfortable,” he said.

After a Remington Bushmaster rifle was used in the Sandy Hook elementary school shooting in Connecticut in 2012 that killed 20 children and six adults, Cerberus tried unsuccessfully to sell Remington, then known as Freedom Group.

Katie-Mesner Hage, an attorney representing Sandy Hook families in a lawsuit against Remington, said in a prepared statement that she did not expect the gun maker’s bankruptcy would affect their case.

Remington and other gunmakers have suffered from slumping sales in the past year as fears of stricter gun laws have faded.

The chief executive of American Outdoor Brands Corp, maker of the Smith & Wesson gun used in the Parkland shooting, said on March 1 that some gun retailers reported increased sales after the Florida school shooting.WASHINGTON ― The Donald Trump TV Show and Presidency, accustomed to hogging the nation’s attention, may be facing its greatest threat yet from a brand new series: The Porn Star and Her Lawyer.

In mere weeks, Stormy Daniels (whose real name is Stephanie Clifford) and her California-based trial attorney have taken her tale of 2016 hush money to hide an affair with the soon-to-be president from a gossip magazine to the heights of serious journalism ― and forced Trump to shift from simply denying it all to getting personally involved in litigation.

And at every stop along the way, Michael Avenatti has been amazed at how Trump’s lawyers have reacted by escalating the situation rather than tamping it down.

“From moment one, we’ve been playing three-dimensional chess, and they’ve been playing tic-tac-toe,” Avenatti told HuffPost on Monday. “And they haven’t even been playing that well.”

The latest example came shortly after CBS’s “60 Minutes” aired in interview with Daniels on Sunday that recounted a previously published story asserting an affair with Trump in 2006 but added a previously unreported detail: a threat against her and her baby daughter in a Las Vegas parking lot in 2011.

“A guy walked up on me and said to me, ‘Leave Trump alone. Forget the story,’” Daniels said. “And then he leaned around and looked at my daughter and said, ‘That’s a beautiful little girl. It’d be a shame if something happened to her mom.’ And then he was gone.”

Daniels did not mention Trump’s longtime lawyer, Michael Cohen, in relation to that story. Nevertheless, an attorney for Cohen shortly after the interview was broadcast sent Avenatti a letter demanding that she stop telling it.

The letter also insisted that Daniels and Avenatti “immediately retract and apologize to Mr. Cohen through the national media for your defamatory statements,” the letter said.

Cohen did not immediately respond to HuffPost queries.

“There can be no question where this threat came from. It could only have come from one place.” - Michael Avenatti

Trump’s White House, though, did choose to comment. At the daily press briefing, deputy press secretary Raj Shah said there was no threat against Daniels. “The president doesn’t believe that any of the claims that Miss Daniels made last night in the interview are accurate,” he said Monday, and added: “There’s nothing to corroborate her claim.”

By weighing in, Trump and Shah made Daniels’ antagonist the White House itself, rather than just Cohen, the lawyer who in January claimed that he alone, and not Trump, had just 10 days before the 2016 election paid the porn star $130,000 of his own money to buy her silence.

That repeated an already established pattern. Three weeks ago, Daniels and Avenatti filed a state lawsuit in Los Angeles seeking to void the October 2016 “hush agreement” that delivered the $130,000 to Daniels because Trump had failed to sign it. Rather than merely insisting on arbitration – as the original agreement stipulated – Cohen and Trump through their lawyers moved the case into federal court and asserted the right to sue Daniels for at least $20 million for violating the original deal.

Avenatti, when informed of the likely federal filing on March 15, could not believe his good fortune, offering at the time that it would be cause to pop open some champagne should it actually happen.

“Over the course of my 18-year career, I have been honored to litigate against some of the best, most strategic lawyers in the nation,” he said Monday. “This thus far does not fall into that category.”

That career has seen him win a number of giant payments for his clients from juries, including more than $450 million last year from Kimberly-Clark Corp.

Avenatti, though, in his battle with Trump has not been shy about employing some theatrical devices in addition to the technical lawyering. During a CNN appearance last week, he brought along a cardboard cutout of Cohen’s face during his debate with one of Cohen’s lawyers, David Schwartz.

During the buildup to the “60 Minutes broadcast,” he published a tweet with a poorly lit image of a CD in its paper envelope. “If ‘a picture is worth a thousand words,’ how many words is this worth?????” he wrote on Twitter, Trump’s medium of choice.

Sunday night, the 47-year-old Avenatti was back on Twitter with this tease about Daniels’ threat story: “There can be no question where this threat came from. It could only have come from one place.”

And then, following CBS News’ announcement on Monday that its broadcast had drawn 22 million viewers, Avenatti noted that the figure was more than Trump’s appearance on that show in 2016, as well as the biggest audiences for the reality show that made Trump a household name.

“Since this is what really matters (LOL), the ratings for my client’s @stormydaniels appearance on @60minutes last night CRUSHED (BY MILLIONS) any Apprentice show in the last ten years as well as Mr. Trump’s Nov 2016 appearance,” he wrote.

Avenatti, who got his undergraduate diploma from the University of Pennsylvania ― by chance, Trump’s alma mater ― and his law degree from George Washington University, downplays any attempt at showmanship.

“We haven’t created a reality TV script,” he said. “I am doing what I do, and that is proceeding in a methodical, strategic and surgical manner.”

By Monday afternoon, that strategic and surgical method included a modified lawsuit with claims that Cohen has defamed Daniels by calling her a liar, as well as the assertion that Cohen’s $130,000 payment violated campaign finance laws. The amending lawsuit was filed right in time for evening newscasts.“I was in a parking lot, going to a fitness class with my infant daughter,” Daniels said. “And a guy walked up on me and said to me, ‘Leave Trump alone. Forget the story.’ And then he leaned around and looked at my daughter and said, ‘That’s a beautiful little girl. It’d be a shame if something happened to her mom.’ And then he was gone.”

The president has not commented on the “60 Minutes” interview, but he did send out a tweet Monday morning vaguely denouncing “so much Fake News” and saying it’s “never been more voluminous or more inaccurate.”President Donald Trump has nominated another man with a dubious record on protecting the environment to work under EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt. Kevin Lamarque / Reuters

The former Ford Motor Company executive nominated Friday to a top Environmental Protection Agency position is accused of overseeing an industrial spill that contaminated the groundwater of a Michigan suburb with a cancer-causing chemical.

William Charles “Chad” McIntosh, President Donald Trump’s pick to lead the EPA’s Office of International and Tribal Affairs, ran Ford’s environmental compliance and policy divisions from 1998 until he retired last year.

During that time, degreasing chemicals that had long spilled from a Ford manufacturing plant in Livonia, Michigan, were breaking down into vinyl chloride and tainting the local groundwater. Exposure to vinyl chloride is linked to a rare form of liver cancer, brain and lung cancers, lymphoma and leukemia, according to the National Cancer Institute.

Ford said it didn’t discover the contamination until 2014, when the company began renovating the plant. Last August, more than 100 homeowners in Alden Village, the town east of the Livonia plant, sued the company over the spill. Shawn Collins, the attorney representing the homeowners, faults McIntosh for the company’s failure to discover the contamination sooner and said he plans to “demand” McIntosh’s deposition in the case.

“You can’t ignore these kinds of toxic chemicals in such an enormous quantity on your property, so whoever was in charge of the environmental state of affairs at this plant did not do his job,” Collins told HuffPost on Monday. “That’s McIntosh.”

The EPA declined to comment. Ford said the spill posed no risk to the municipal drinking water. The company added that cleanup efforts began soon after it discovered the contamination and it has “worked quickly and cooperatively with the state and community to keep everyone fully informed of our progress.”

“We remain fully committed to protecting the environment,” John Cangany, a Ford spokesman, told HuffPost.

Collins said his team is combing through more than 500,000 documents that Ford turned over. He said he expects to go to trial within a year.

Then-Michigan Gov. John Engler, speaking here in February 2002, spearheaded a historic effort to slash environmental regulations. Mike Theiler / Reuters

McIntosh, a chemical engineer and lawyer, spent the first 13 years of his career as an environmental permit compliance inspector in Michigan, according to his public LinkedIn page. In 1991, he joined Republican Gov. John Engler’s administration, serving as an environmental adviser and deputy director of Michigan’s Department of Environmental Quality.

During McIntosh’s seven-year tenure at the agency, the Engler administration spearheaded a historic effort to slash environmental regulations. Engler abolished 19 citizen commissions and oversight boards and split the state agency in two, separating the Department of Natural Resources from the Department of Environmental Quality and reducing the budgets for both.

“It’s not good news for anybody who gives a damn about the environment in this country that McIntosh is going there,” Collins said. “He’s a polluter’s friend, or Trump would never have picked him.”

A 1998 survey by the advocacy group Public Employees for Environmental Responsibility found staffers at the Department of Environmental Quality deeply dissatisfied and demoralized. Fifty-nine percent strongly disagreed when asked if they trusted top management at the agency to protect Michigan’s natural resources and public health. Thirty-eight percent strongly agreed that companies regulated by the agency “excessively” influenced permitting decisions, and 63 percent strongly agreed that agency management viewed individuals and businesses seeking permits as the “primary customer,” as opposed to “the natural resources and the general public.”

“[McIntosh] gleefully participated in undoing many of Michigan’s environmental protections as part of the Engler administration,” Dave Dempsey, a Michigan environmental policy expert at the Great Lakes advocacy group Flow, told HuffPost.

“He’s a polluter’s friend, or Trump would never have picked him.” - Shawn Collins, environmental attorney in Michigan

In 1997, Macomb County inspectors found that a developer had violated the state’s 1979 Wetland Protection Act by building new homes on a protected eight-acre wetland. McIntosh gave the developer “an out by touring the site and then overruling his district inspectors” and issuing his own finding that said “what the developer did was perfectly appropriate because it was exempt from the state wetland protection law,” according to a February 2000 report published in the Detroit Free Press. The incident left county officials “wondering why the second in command at the state environmental agency inserted himself into a wetland permit dispute to approve activities they argue were plainly illegal,” the report said.

The Engler administration’s deregulatory onslaught even alienated former supporters. Tom Washington, the late director of the Michigan United Conservation Clubs, voted for Engler in 1990 and 1994. But in a December 2002 cover story, the Lansing City Paper, an alt-weekly, quoted Washington angrily declaring that “the spirit of stewardship ... is gone, replaced by the vision of a man who seems to value only numbers on a ledger.”

“We’ve entered an era when protection of the environment is measured by how many permits you can issue and how fast,” Washington said.

That may help explain McIntosh’s EPA nomination. In January, EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt told The Wall Street Journal that his second year would focus on accelerating efforts to remake the federal agency and speeding up the permitting process. Pruitt, who has deep ties to industry and rejects the science behind climate change, has aggressively rolled back environmental regulations during his first year in office, attracting fierce criticism from former EPA chiefs, including Republicans, and potentially setting the agency back decades.

On Friday, Pruitt cited McIntosh’s “unique background” in making him “a valuable asset and well-suited” to lead the EPA office charged with coordinating the permitting process among federal agencies, Native American tribes and regulators in other countries.

“Chad will bring a wealth of experience and expertise to EPA,” Pruitt said in a statement.

Coincidentally, Bloomberg reported Friday that Pruitt plans to agree to Ford’s request to reverse an Obama-era decision to raise fuel efficiency standards for 2022 to 2025 vehicles.

AdvertisementSerena Williams will soon show an intimate side of her life to fans.

On May 2, HBO will premiere “Being Serena,” a five-part documentary series about the tennis superstar that will not only delve into Williams’ career, but will also chronicle her 2017 marriage to Reddit co-founder Alexis Ohanian and the birth of her first child, Alexis Olympia Ohanian Jr.

Williams has spoken about complications she faced throughout her pregnancy, revealing that she almost died after giving birth to her daughter. The new series takes a deeper dive into what really went on, as well as into Williams’ journey back to the tennis court.

"Being Serena," a new five-part HBO series about tennis superstar Serena Williams, premieres on May 2. Tim Clayton - Corbis via Getty Images

“When I realized that I was pregnant I was like, ‘Oh my God. How am I going to play?’” Williams says in the “Being Serena” teaser, exclusively premiering on HuffPost. “I put so much pressure on myself. I want to make sure that I’m the best.”

A post shared by Serena Williams (@serenawilliams) on Mar 26, 2018 at 7:55am PDT

“Being Serena” also touches on Williams’ life as a businesswoman and investor in technology, fashion, fitness and philanthropy.

“HBO is honored to work with Serena Williams on such a personal project,” Peter Nelson, executive vice president, HBO Sports, said in a statement. “Even though she has been in the spotlight since her teenage years, Serena continues to capture the imagination.”

At 36, Williams has had quite the career, with 39 Grand Slam titles and four Olympic Gold Medals. She’s won the most women’s singles match victories in Grand Slam history.

Williams returned to the court last week to compete for one of the first times since her 13-month break. After losing to Naomi Osaka in the first round of the Miami Open on Wednesday, she released a statement saying, “Every tournament is an opportunity for me to better understand the areas I need to improve to be my best. Naomi played a great match and I learn something each time I play. I look forward to continuing my return by progressing every day. I’m so grateful for my fans who continue to support me every step of this incredible journey.”

She also posted this photo on Instagram with an inspirational caption, alluding to the complications she suffered during ― and after ― the birth of her daughter.

A post shared by Serena Williams (@serenawilliams) on Mar 22, 2018 at 5:45am PDT

Williams is clearly committed to staying in the game.

“I don’t know if there’s anything left for me in tennis,” she says in the documentary. “But I’m not done yet.”

The first episode of “Being Serena,” produced as a partnership with IMG’s Original Content Group, debuts on HBO May 2 at 10 p.m. The remaining installments will air subsequent Wednesdays at the same time.Charles Treadwell

ORLANDO ― Lawyers for Noor Salman called for the case against her to be dismissed, after prosecutors revealed that the father of Pulse nightclub shooter Omar Mateen was an FBI informant who is under a criminal investigation.

Salman, the widow of Omar Mateen, is currently on trial, charged with aiding and abetting her husband in his attempt to provide material support to a terrorist organization, and obstruction of justice. She has pleaded not guilty.

In a motion filed late Sunday night, Salman’s lawyers say the government failed to disclose that Seddique Mateen, the father of shooter Omar Mateen, was an FBI informant from 2005 until June 2016, when the Pulse nightclub attack occurred.

When Seddique Mateen’s house was searched on the day of the massacre, law enforcement officials found receipts showing he recently transferred money to Turkey and Afghanistan. As a result, a criminal investigation was opened.

The government also disclosed that in 2012 they got an anonymous tip that Seddique Mateen was seeking to raise up to $100,000 via a donation drive to contribute toward an attack against the government of Pakistan.

On Monday, FBI Special Agent Juvenal Martin testified that he oversaw Seddique Mateen when he was an informant. In 2013, he was asked to interview Seddique Mateen’s son, Omar, after the latter allegedly made suspicious statements to co-workers about terrorist organizations.

He visited Omar Mateen’s home three times to interview him, Martin said. On the first occasion, Seddique Mateen arrived unannounced in the middle of their conversation.

On the third visit, Noor Salman served him homemade cake. “It was very good, by the way,” he said.

The FBI closed the counterterrorism investigation into Omar Mateen in March 2014 after concluding that he was not a threat. Martin added that at the time, he considered developing Omar Mateen as an informant, like his father.

Two years later, Omar Mateen stalked into Pulse nightclub in Orlando with an AR-15 style rifle and killed 49 people.

U.S. District Judge Paul Byron denied the request to dismiss the case at the end of the day.

“This trial is not about Seddique Mateen, it’s about Noor Salman,” he said.

The government’s decision to withhold pertinent information “placed Ms. Salman, the jury, and this Court in a dark wood where the search for truth has been thwarted,” her attorneys wrote, referencing Dante’s “Inferno.” “It is apparent from the Government’s belated disclosure that Ms. Salman has been defending a case without a complete set of facts and evidence that the Government was required to disclose.”

Her attorneys said if they knew about this information, they would have investigated whether Seddique Mateen was involved in or knew about his son’s plans to commit a terror attack.

As part of their case against Salman, prosecutors allege that she texted her husband a “cover story” to tell his parents that night to conceal his plans. It was Ramadan, and the couple had been invited to a dinner at the mosque.

“If ur mom calls say nimo invited you out and noor wants to stay home,” Salman wrote at 5:55 p.m on the evening of the shooting.

Her lawyers, who have characterized this text as Salman simply asking her husband to communicate their plans with his mother, said this new disclosure raises questions about whether a cover story was even necessary.

“If the evidence shows that Seddique had some level of foreknowledge — based on his financial transaction or an affinity for ISIS — such a story would have been completely unnecessary, and Salman’s texting would indicate that she was the dupe and not the provocateur claimed by the Government,” her lawyers wrote.

Salman believed her husband was out with his friend “Nemo” on the night of the shooting, as that’s what he told her, Salman’s lawyers said.

Jurors finally heard from “Nemo” on Monday. He testified that Omar Mateen would often use him as an excuse when he wanted to cheat on his wife.

David Weinstein, a former assistant U.S. Attorney in Florida, said that the defense’s motion to dismiss stands a realistic likelihood of being granted.

“By affirmatively withholding information that Mateen’s father was an active informant for the FBI up until the date of the Pulse Club shooting, the government has compromised the defense’s ability to present their case and cross examine witnesses,” he said. “This has risen to the level of a material violation of Salman’s constitutional right to a fair trial, which could result in not only a mistrial, but an outright dismissal.”

Salman is the only one charged in the crime. Her husband died in a shootout with police at the nightclub after pledging allegiance to ISIS . Salman’s lawyers have said she was in the dark about his plans, and was a victim of abuse at his hands. “She was not his partner, she was not his peer, and she certainly was not his confidant,” Salman’s attorney, Linda Moreno, said during opening statements.PeopleImages via Getty Images

An evangelical Christian pastor has put forth a troubling suggestion for how to deal with the issues highlighted by sexual abuse survivors as part of the Me Too movement.

John Piper, an influential Baptist author and speaker and chancellor of a Christian college in Minnesota, claims that a return to traditional gender roles would help keep women safe from sexual abuse. Piper’s definition of traditional gender roles involves women submitting to male leadership, and men accepting their God-given responsibility to protect these “weaker vessels.” This conservative Christian approach to gender relations is known as complementarianism.

In a recent podcast, Piper argued that society’s departure from these traditional roles over the past 50 years has laid the groundwork for sexual abuse.

“Egalitarian assumptions in our culture, and to a huge degree in the church, have muted — silenced, nullified — one of the means that God has designed for the protection and the flourishing of women,” Piper said, according a podcast transcript published on his website March 16.

Fifty years of hope in generic human virtue, with no attention paid to the peculiarities of manhood and womanhood, was a myth. It failed. Now the fallout. https://t.co/fu20duAjL1 — John Piper (@JohnPiper) March 16, 2018

Complementarianism is not uncommon in conservative Christian circles. And Piper is not an outlier in American evangelicalism. In fact, he’s scheduled to speak alongside some of the country’s top evangelical leaders at a conference for pastors in Louisville, Kentucky, next month.

At the same time, Piper’s claims have elicited strong criticism from some fellow Christians. Advocates for survivors of sexual abuse and their allies don’t believe Piper’s suggestion will bring about positive change. Indeed, they’re worried this traditional way of thinking about women’s roles is part of the problem.

These advocates say Piper needs to do more to acknowledge the ways complementarian theology has been abused, especially in evangelical settings.

John Piper is a Baptist pastor and author, and the chancellor of Bethlehem College & Seminary in Minneapolis. John Piper/ Facebook

Christa Brown, a clergy sex abuse survivor who blogs about abuse cover-ups in church settings, told HuffPost that Piper is endorsing a gender dynamic that can easily lead to exploitation and mistreatment. Many of the survivors she’s worked with have told her they were “groomed” for abuse by a patriarchal theology that taught them to be submissive and obedient toward men.

“Because complementarian theology promotes a power differential between men and women, it fosters the sort of abuse of power that devolves into sexual abuse,” Brown said.

Piper’s remarks were from an episode of his “Ask Pastor John” podcast, in which he fielded a question about the sexual abuse allegations that have emerged against several high-profile men as a result of the Me Too movement.

Asked to share his thoughts on these abuse allegations, Piper responded by bringing up an age-old debate in Christian theology between two perspectives on gender relations ― complementarianism and egalitarianism.

In the complementarian view, men and women are equally treasured by God, but have distinct, divinely ordained roles. As spiritual heads of the household, men have final authority over women in both spiritual and practical matters. They are expected to exercise this authority in a self-sacrificial way ― the way Christians believe Jesus gave his life for the church. Women, meanwhile, are expected to submit to their husbands at home, at church and, sometimes, in society.

According to egalitarianism, however, neither men nor women are automatically granted headship. They are seen as spiritual equals in the eyes of God, and divide responsibilities based on their capabilities, rather than by gender.

In his podcast, Piper claimed that egalitarianism is responsible for a breakdown of the structures that previously kept women safe. As more people embrace the idea that men and women are equal, he said, men have stopped feeling the need to “protect and honor” women.

Piper argued that modern ideas of gender equality are actually partly to blame for the alleged abusive behavior of people like film producer Harvey Weinstein, comedian Louis C.K. and former Senate candidate Roy Moore.

“It’s a firm conviction of most of our egalitarian culture that men as men do not owe women a special kind of care and protection and honor that women do not owe men. I believe they do,” Piper said in the podcast. “I believe 50 years of denying it is one of the seeds bearing very bad fruit, including all those sexual abuses... talked about in [the listener’s] question. There are other seeds in our culture, but this is one of the seeds.”

Design Pics via Getty Images

Advocates for victims of abuse point out that theology emphasizing the authority of men has existed for centuries ― but it’s only since the advent of feminism and the emergence of Christian egalitarianism that Western society has progressed to a point where the abuse of women is understood to be unacceptable.

“Piper references the last 50 years as the age of egalitarianism, and posits that it is the reason we are seeing sexual abuse happen,” Hannah Paasch, an ex-Christian blogger, told HuffPost in an email. “I would counter-point that sexual abuse has been happening for thousands of years, and the past 50 years of imagining alternate frameworks for gender and gender roles is in fact what has brought a centuries-old problem to light.”

Paasch is one of the founders of #ChurchToo, a hashtag inspired by the Me Too movement that focuses on abuse in church settings. Paasch said she grew up immersed in evangelical culture, listening to Piper’s sermons. She said that besides erasing the existence of trans and nonbinary people, complementariansim fails to take women’s agency into account. It encourages men to decide what’s best for women in a paternalistic manner.

Ultimately, she believes, this theology “feeds the rape culture that we see permeating American Christianity today.”

“Perhaps in a perfect world men could protect women in a gentle and selfless manner, but that’s just simply not what we see,” Paasch wrote. “When you hand one person a position of power over someone else ― a position that they did not earn based on competency or merit but simply because of some attribute or descriptor they were assigned at birth ― that power will inevitably be used for the person in power’s benefit.”

Piper has been criticized in the past for appearing to encourage evangelical women to “endure” abusive relationships for a season. He later clarified that he believes abusive husbands are “breaking God’s law” and should be reported to civil authorities.

Piper did not respond to multiple requests for comment for this story.

Ashley Easter is an advocate for victims of sexual abuse in church settings and the founder of the Courage Conference, an annual conference that brings survivors and advocates together. Easter told HuffPost that abuse is “always rooted in a lust for power, domination, and control.”

She said she’s never worked with a victim of abuse who did not experience some type of power asymmetry in the relationship.Nearly five years ago, fans were crushed after “The Office” aired its final episode — mainly because they’d have to say goodbye to witnessing the undying, special, swoonworthy love between Jim Halpert (John Krasinski) and Pam Beesly (Jenna Fischer).

Although things ended on a happy note for the couple following nine seasons of ups and downs, people can’t seem to let the on-screen relationship go. Now, fans are aiming their targets at Fischer’s new TV husband, Oliver Hudson.

Hudson stars with Fischer on ABC’s new sitcom “Splitting Up Together,” which follows characters Martin and Lena as they navigate their new life as a separated couple trying to live together for the sake of their three children. Martin and Lena adopt the bird-nesting technique: keeping their kids settled in their family home as they trade off living in the house and the garage apartment. A week at a time, one deals with all the joys of parenthood and home-owning while the other is free to come and go as they please.

But despite this non-lovey-dovey storyline, Jim and Pam shippers feel it’s their duty to give Hudson a lot of flak.

A real score would have been casting @johnkrasinski in this new @jennafischer sitcom on @ABCNetwork. #SplittingUpTogether — Reg Griffin (@reggriffin) March 25, 2018

“I have gotten so much crap on social media just about getting a job,” Hudson joked to HuffPost on Build Series Friday. “I guess this job working with her comes with just getting hammered over the head. Like, ‘I hate you! You son of a bitch! How dare you!’ I’m like, ‘Dude, I’m just supporting my family right now. That’s all I’m trying to do.’ So I’ve rolled with it, I think it’s funny.”

Fischer fully supports Hudson on his quest to roll with it. She went so far as to say, “He’s going to be the new Jim.”

But she’s also very aware that the Jim-Pam connection is hard to come by.

“For my whole life, I will never be accepted [without John Krasinski],” she joked.

“To me, it’s just really flattering, the impact that ‘The Office’ and that relationship has had on people,” Fischer added sincerely. “It doesn’t bother me at all. It was a special thing.”

“It was amazing,” Hudson chimed in. “I cried ... I never told you that, actually,” he told Fischer. “I don’t know what season, but there was the time you were outside in the parking lot ... ”

“Season 2, ‘Casino Night,’” Fischer quickly responded.

“Right, and [Jim] got teary and I thought that was amazing. I actually teared up myself,” Hudson confessed.

(We’re not crying, you’re crying.)

There’s no doubt the “Splitting Up Together” marketing team has leaned into “The Office” fandom, considering their show’s star is one-half of that beloved TV couple. But the comedy series is nothing like that Dunder Mifflin documentary ― so just put it on your easy-watching list.

As Fischer said, “Just hate-watch it and then we will win you over.”Kathryn Newton has become especially good at playing the Teen Girl.

Even in Masterpiece Theatre’s new “Little Women” miniseries, she portrays Amy, the youngest March sister in the century-old Louisa May Alcott story who burns her sister’s book in a stereotypically claws-out tantrum only teenagers on silver screens can actually get away with.

“I said I’d make you pay for being so hateful, and I have,” Amy tells her distraught sister Jo, played by the 19-year-old daughter of actors Ethan Hawke and Uma Thurman, Maya Hawke.

When Jo subsequently slaps Amy across the face, Newton delivers a high-pitched, pubescent screech like only a veteran actor could. It’s the kind of scene that makes you run to IMDB with several questions: Who is she? How old is she? The answers unfurl: She’s a 21-year-old currently on a Hollywood streak ― “Big Little Lies,” “Halt and Catch Fire,” “Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri,” “Lady Bird,” “Mad Men.”

“Last year was kind of like the magic year where I was a part of a ride ... it’s like I’ve been living this dream.” - Kathryn Newton

Newton, born and raised in California, is pretty established at this point. She entered the business at the age of 4, appearing on the soap opera “All My Children” until 2003. Five years later, she landed the part of Jay Mohr’s daughter on the CBS sitcom “Gary Unmarried.”

“The show was directed by Jim Burrows, so I was working, already, with the greats,” Newton explained over the phone last week. “I learned that I liked that — I liked being surrounded by really smart, interesting [artists].”

“I don’t know how I did it,” she added, thinking about how she went from “Gary Unmarried” to acting alongside Reese Witherspoon in 2017. “I just kept doing it. And now, I haven’t really given up.”

Over the past two years alone, Newton’s appeared in TV and film as Amy-esque characters who are stuck in the age between carefree and habitually burdened. Joanie in “Halt and Catch Fire,” Claire in “Supernatural,” Abigail in “Big Little Lies,” and Julie in the outrageous Kay Cannon comedy “Blockers.” Playing Leslie Mann’s empowered teenage daughter, she managed to make novel a movie about a pact between girlfriends hellbent on losing their virginities on prom night.

“That was one of the best jobs ever because it was three girls, each full-blown characters, who did what they needed to do to stay true to themselves,” she said.

Kathryn Newton, Laura Dern, Nicole Kidman, Shailene Woodley, Zoe Kravitz, Reese Witherspoon, writer/Executive producer David E. Kelley and director/executive producer Jean-Marc Vallee at the premiere of HBO's "Big Little Lies" in February 2017. Jeff Kravitz via Getty Images

There’s no denying Newton has been typecast as the angsty, intelligent girl who can hold her own alongside adults with careers as long as hers. With a resume as formidable as her much older colleagues, it’s no wonder she emits a self-assurance on- and off-screen.

“You don’t have to depend on a director,” Newton told me when we began discussing her acting strategy. “You have so much freedom as an actor in your character’s choices and I really learned to take advantage of that. Jean-Marc [Vallée] was kind of the first director I worked with to introduce that to me. He doesn’t tell you where a camera is going to be; he just shoots, rolls and finds stuff, and you do it over and over again. It was a different kind of filmmaking where I had to learn to be in character for a really long time. Now, I never want to do anything else.”

This was the case playing Amy too, a literary character Newton is well aware some fans find less than likable. But she was excited to jump from one female-led cast ― one that annihilated the ratings race and spawned discussions about inclusion and domestic violence ― to a similarly women-dominated set with the Vanessa Caswill-helmed “Little Women.”

“I was really excited to share my version of Amy and tell it my way,” she said. “Just as someone who’s read the book, I always saw her as a character who dreams really big, doesn’t like the word no and is going to get what she wanted. And, she does. But as an actor, I learned that she kind of is the unlikable character. So, I had to let my love for her go and let her be misunderstood to then hopefully see that she grows and learns in the end.”

“I always play the daughter ... I love those roles because they’re universal stories that everyone can relate to, but it’s a different approach now.” - Kathryn Newton

The fact that Amy ages from 12 to 21 in the miniseries ― allowing Newton to leave teenagehood behind toward the end of the show ― was icing on the cake.

“In previous ‘Little Womens,’ they’d hire another actor to play Amy at another age, so [Caswill] took a chance and asked the audience to go with us to that place. That way I got to live in it,” Newton said. “I got to feel how Amy felt; I got to understand why she made that choice to burn Jo’s book; I got to really give it depth, and I think my performance is better.”

Kathryn Newton during 'Chicken Little' Los Angeles Premiere at El Capitan Theater in Hollywood, California, in 2005. Jon Kopaloff via Getty Images

Newton’s next big-screen role will be Lucy in 2019′s live-action Pokémon movie, “Detective Pikachu,” co-starring Ryan Reynolds, Ken Watanabe and Bill Nighy. Even though it’s family programming, she is eager to be moving on from portraying so-and-so’s teenage daughter.

“It’s probably the most fun I’ve ever had on a job,” she said of “Detective Pikachu.” “I read my character and it just took me over the edge ― like a leading role for someone my age that’s the best one ever. She’s just a character that’s very unforgivably herself and passionate. And I got to grow because we don’t even know who Lucy’s parents are. I’m not just a daughter anymore. She’s her own character, which is really exciting to me, because I’ve never really done that before.”

“I always play the daughter,” she continued. “I love those roles because they’re universal stories that everyone can relate to, but it’s a different approach now.”

Of course, she’s currently back in California to film “Big Little Lies” Season 2, resuming her most lauded daughter role yet: the progeny of Witherspoon.

“Reese Witherspoon made me better. Just working with her, being with her, I learned so much. I want to be like her,” Newton said. “I also feel kind of cool that I was on something that was bigger than just a show. It really sparked a movement for women in all industries, not just film.”

In terms of Abigail’s upcoming storyline, Newton held plot details close to the chest, teasing, “I can’t really say anything except Abigail is staying true to herself and I think that’s really hard to do when you’re in high school and getting older and growing up — it’s really hard to believe in yourself.”

From left, Kathryn Newton, Darby Camp, Adam Scott and Reese Witherspoon on "Big Little Lies." HBO

Newton, like Witherspoon, would love to be a producer, eager to write and direct and otherwise wedge herself behind the camera instead of in front of it.

“My generation is so motivated to tell their own stories because we have so many that need to be heard,” she said. “I think Hollywood is a really good place to be for women right now ― it’s a big influence and a big reflection of our time. If you have something to say, a movie is a really great medium to say it. It doesn’t matter what the message is.”

She enthusiastically added, “I cannot wait for the day when I can call up my friends like Maya [Hawke] or Willa [Fitzgerald] from ‘Little Women’ or Gideon [Adlon] from ‘Blockers’ and be like, ‘Hey, I have this really cool script. Let’s do this.’ Then I get to work with my friends again. That’s my dream.”“Mission: Impossible ― Fallout” is due out this summer, but there’s at least one last shot to complete, according to the director. And it’s a doozy.

Director Christopher McQuarrie posted a photo on his Instagram Sunday, showing 55-year-old Tom Cruise poised at the backdoor of a cargo plane, ready to make a 25,000-foot jump.

A post shared by Christopher McQuarrie (@christophermcquarrie) on Mar 25, 2018 at 7:06am PDT

McQuarrie said they crew had just three minutes of available light at dusk for a two-minute action shot, meaning they get one opportunity a day to get it right.

It’s unclear if this particular take was successful, or how many takes in total have been attempted. Cruise posted a similar photo on his Instagram two weeks ago, so it’s safe to assume Cruise has made a few jumps.

A post shared by Tom Cruise (@tomcruise) on Mar 7, 2018 at 12:52pm PST

Cruise, known for doing his own stunts, broke his ankle seven months ago while filming a rooftop stunt for the same film.

Meanwhile, Cruise’s stunt double has finished his 37th crossword puzzle while on set. We kid, but, seriously, that job has to be boring.

AdvertisementLinda Brown, the young girl at the center of the 1954 Brown v. Board of Education Supreme Court case, died on Monday at the age of 76.

Brown’s sister, Cheryl Brown Henderson, confirmed the death to the Topeka-Capital Journal. Peaceful Rest Funeral Chapel of Topeka independently confirmed Brown’s death with HuffPost.

“Sixty-four years ago a young girl from Topeka brought a case that ended segregation in public schools in America,” Kansas Gov. Jeff Colyer tweeted Monday. “Linda Brown’s life reminds us that sometimes the most unlikely people can have an incredible impact and that by serving our community we can truly change the world.”

The children involved in the landmark civil rights suit Brown v. Board of Education: Vicki Henderson, Donald Henderson, Linda Brown, James Emanuel, Nancy Todd and Katherine Carper. Carl Iwasaki via Getty Images

It was Brown’s father, Rev. Oliver Brown, who sued the Topeka school board to allow his daughter the right to attend an all-white school in the Kansas capital city. Four other school segregation cases were combined with Brown’s to be heard by the Supreme Court, but the justices’ unanimous ruling was named for Brown.

Brown, who was also known as Linda Carol Thompson after her marriage in the mid 1990s, was forced to attend an all-black school far away from her home even though an all-white school was only blocks away.

Linda Brown (left) with her parents, Leola and Oliver, and little sister Terry Lynn in front of their house in Topeka, Kansas, in 1954. Carl Iwasaki via Getty Images

Brown told MSNBC in 2014 that she remembered the embarrassment of being separated from her neighborhood friends and the long walk to the bus stop.

“I remember a couple of times turning around and going back home because I — you know, it was a small town,” she said. “I got really, really cold and would get home and be crying. And mother would, you know, she would try to warm me up and tell me it would be all right and everything.”

The Supreme Court ruled unanimously in favor of Brown. In its decision, the court overturned the 1896 “separate but equal” ruling in Plessy v. Ferguson, marking the case as one of the biggest legal victories of the civil rights era. It was due to Brown v. Board of Education that the federal government could force states to integrate schools, allowing children of color the opportunity for an equal education to white children.

Brown credited her father and the other families who took their cases to court for removing the “stigma of not having a choice” during a 1985 interview for the PBS documentary series “Eyes on the Prize.”

“I feel that after 30 years, looking back on Brown v. The Board of Education, it has made an impact in all facets of life for minorities throughout the land,” Brown said during the interview. “I really think of it in terms of what it has done for our young people, in taking away that feeling of second class citizenship. I think it has made the dreams, hopes and aspirations of our young people greater, today.”

Even with the decision, it took years of protest and legal battles before segregation would end. Only three years after the Brown case, nine black students had to be escorted by federal guards in order to safely attend the previously all-white Central High School in Little Rock, Arkansas.

Sherrilyn Ifill, president of the NAACP Legal Defense and Educational Fund, called Brown heroic for her role in helping to end “ultimate symbol of white supremacy.”

“The life of every American has been touched by Linda Brown,” Ifill said in a statement released to HuffPost. “This country is indebted to her, the Brown family, and the many other families involved in the cases that successfully challenged school segregation.”Writer/director Wes Anderson has come under scrutiny for his latest film, "Isle of Dogs," with one critic saying the movie treats Japan like "an endearingly quirky playground for yet another white American narrative." Lars Niki via Getty Images

Wes Anderson’s film “Isle Of Dogs,” which hit theaters on Friday, has drawn applause from critics, who were captivated by the imagery and heartwarming doggo-centric plot.

But many Asian-Americans argue there’s an ugly side to the film that needs to be discussed.

Anderson’s movie, a work of stop-motion animation set in the fictional Japanese city of Megasaki, has spurred a debate about cultural appropriation, as discussed in a review by Justin Chang for the Los Angeles Times. Chang questioned whether Anderson, who’s white, successfully paid homage to East Asian culture, or whether the movie is “just a clueless failure of sensitivity.”

In “Isle of Dogs,” Megasaki is hit with a canine flu outbreak, and authorities order the area’s pooches sent to an island. With the help of a pack of scrappy canine exiles, a young boy named Atari, voiced by Koyu Rankin, sets out to rescue his own beloved hound. The movie is largely focused on the dogs ― but Chang took issue with the way the humans are portrayed.

The residents of Megasaki speak Japanese, often without subtitles, while the dogs in the movie speak English. Most of the Japanese dialogue is “pared down to simple statements,” Chang writes. And it’s Tracy Walker, an American character voiced by Greta Gerwig, who spearheads the film’s pro-dog movement. Ultimately, the movie reduces “the hapless, unsuspecting people of Megasaki to foreigners in their own city,” Chang argues.

Other Asian-American critics have voiced similar concerns. Though the movie is full of nods to Japanese film masters, including Akira Kurosawa, its handling of Japanese people locates “Isle” within a larger problematic trend, Mashable’s Angie Han said.

“Anderson wants us to see this situation from the perspective of the dogs, and not the humans, and language is a powerful way to steer us toward a side,” Han writes. “The problem is that Isle of Dogs falls into a long history of American art othering or dehumanizing Asians, borrowing their ‘exotic’ cultures and settings while disregarding the people who created those cultures and live in those settings.”

It’s not clear why the story needed to be set in fictional Japan at all, Han notes. And while Tracy is rebellious, persistent and heroic, her strength only highlights the weakness and compliance of the Japanese characters.

“In treating Japanese culture like superficial embellishments, Japanese people like unknowable others, and Japan itself like an endearingly quirky playground for yet another white American narrative, Isle of Dogs’ messaging about protecting the vulnerable falls flat,” Han writes.

Chang and Han’s reviews gained traction among Asian-American social media users, and many added their voices to the group of frustrated viewers, including film critic Inkoo Kang and the L.A. Times’ Jen Yamato.

For me, the most obvious sign that ISLE OF DOGS is a film based on American stereotypes of Japan, rather than something rooted in Japanese culture, is the main Japanese character's name. "Atari" is not a Japanese name. It is a word that two white men gave their game company. — Inkoo Kang (@inkookang) March 23, 2018

#IsleOfDogs: Thank you @JustinCChang for devoting far more attention than most critics will to many of the willfully tone-deaf ways Wes Anderson appropriates and marginalizes Japanese culture and people in his so-called homage. It is ugly, indeed. https://t.co/GtbWVg40YF — jen yamato (@jenyamato) March 22, 2018

Wes Anderson: I'm going to make a film about how a cruel Japanese government sends dogs to an internment camp!!

Japanese Americans: Uh... — E. Alex Jung (@e_alexjung) March 23, 2018

Walked out of Isle of Dogs, made me so uncomfortable. Cultural stereotypes, appropriation... Wes Anderson what did you do? I lived in Japan in the 80s and felt angry for all my friends there whose beautiful culture deserved better. — Rebel Scum (@nancyjosales) March 25, 2018

Anderson, who both wrote and directed “Isle of Dogs,” did not immediately respond to HuffPost’s request for comment.

CBC Radio points out that Kunichi Nomura, a Japanese actor and writer, served as Anderson’s consultant for the film, helping with issues of authenticity. In a recent interview with the outlet, Nomura ― who also voices Megasaki’s villainous mayor ― addressed the cultural appropriation issue. While the actor had a say in the movie’s elements, he didn’t want to stifle Anderson’s creativity, he said.

“It has a real side but it’s a setting 20 years in the future, and it kind of reminded me of Thunderbirds or how in the ’60s, when they would make a sci-fi movie or a comic, it’s kind of retro-future. So when Wes would ask me, is this really authentic, then I would answer yes or no,” Nomura told CBC Radio. “But at the same time I didn’t want to interfere with his imagination. You know, like you don’t really have to make everything accurate.”Hole-y hell.

In Sunday’s episode of “The Walking Dead,” “Do Not Send Us Astray,” the Saviors finally carry out their plan to attack the Hilltop with zombie-blood tainted weapons.

Things don’t go exactly as planned; actually, Maggie (Lauren Cohan) and the Hilltop pretty much stomp them, but some characters do get injured with the infected weapons and eventually turn into zombies.

Among the victims, I’m sorry to say, is Tobin (Jason Douglas).

Jason Douglas AMC

Some peeps might be like, “Tobin? How’s that guy still alive?”

Yeah, I agree. How did Tobin outlast Carl (Chandler Riggs), a kid who survived two gunshot wounds and the potential threat of diabetes after eating an entire supersized can of chocolate pudding?

If you think about it, Tobin is like the best contestant on “Survivor.” He is just kind of around, doesn’t make too big of a splash, but has vital contributions when needed and probably has an immunity idol.

Tobin is a survivor, so it’s a bummer when he gets stabbed by a Savior with an infected knife, eventually turning into one of the undead and attacking people in the Hilltop compound.

But this all raises one question: How?

“The Walking Dead” is in the latter half of its eighth season now and over the years we’ve seen characters repeatedly cover themselves with zombie guts and get cut by weapons that have been contaminated with zombie blood. (Spoiler alert!) Nothing happens to them.

Notably in Season 6, Rick (Andrew Lincoln) cuts his hand on a weapon sticking out of a zombie and just keeps on trekking. The moment started some speculation that his hand was infected and he’d have to cut it off, but nah, dude was OK.

In “The Walking Dead” comics, infected weapons do eventually cause characters to turn into zombies, but with the show having established scenes where people don’t turn, is Tobin’s situation just a blatant plot hole?

Douglas (aka Tobin) himself argues against that.

“I think what we have to accept about the convention of this show ... we’re all infected anyway, but that infection can accelerate if we are really bitten or whatever in a way that really gets that into our system, and so a deep cut versus a scratch is gonna make a difference about how infected we get,” he told HuffPost.

“I’m sort of with you, if you’re going to be completely covered in blood, is there a chance that that infection gets into your system? What about if you already have a cut and then you cover yourself in the blood? … I think there’s so much we don’t know. I mean, we’ve already accepted the convention that the dead can come back to life and eat people, so I think we have to remember that that’s where we are, and I don’t think we can expect everything to be just so.”

Fair enough. But even in a universe where we accept that dead people come back to life and choose to eat humans over something much more accessible and tasty like unlimited soup, salad and breadsticks at Olive Garden, you have to have certain rules, right? Up until now, those rules seemed to include the fact that zombie blood alone wouldn’t turn you and that when you’re at Olive Garden, you’re family.

Douglas says that the way the Saviors used the weapons should also be considered.

“I think we have to accept that this is where we are and, frankly, just the aggressive way that the Saviors are using the walkers’ blood to really get in and infect people.”

I floated the idea that perhaps the walker blood the Saviors used was more potent than regular walker blood thanks to all the toxic waste we’ve seen around the Savior facilities. The actor agrees that could be the case, but adds the show would ultimately have to back it up.

“I think at a certain point you have to justify that by kind of making that connection on screen, so it actually plays out that way. I mean, until then it’s just conjecture. So much of what we do as fans of this genre [is], you know, ‘How could this happen? How could these things lead to those things?’ I just think it’s enough that they’ve dipped bullets, certainly knives, in fresh walkers’ blood, and they’re sort of immediately coming and using them on whoever they can find,” he said. “It’s more than just getting walker blood on them.”

AMC

Tobin isn’t the only character who got injured on the show, noted Douglas. Tara (Alanna Masterson) gets clipped by a Savior arrow.

“I guess we’ll have to find in the coming weeks if that becomes an infection or not. I’ll just leave that there,” he said.

Though the actor makes a good point, that Tara only received a small injury and may not turn because of it, it seems more likely that the arrow she was hit with wasn’t even infected.

On the show, Dwight (Austin Amelio) is the one who shoots Tara, and it seemed he only did so to stop another Savior (Steven Ogg’s Simon) from killing her. In the “Walking Dead” comics, Dwight similarly uses a clean arrow to injure Rick but not kill him. It appears this may be the same deal.

For what it’s worth, Douglas is cool with how Tobin went out.

“I’m grateful that he could die with his boots on,” he said, recalling how the character has gone from a somewhat selfish, cowardly guy to dying in a big battle as “someone who became far more selfless.”