The re-election campaign of Texas Gov. Greg Abbott (R) on Monday canceled a shotgun giveaway it had continued to promote days after a shooter opened fire at a high school in the state.

Abbott said Friday that lawmakers needed to “do more than just pray for victims and their families” after authorities reported that a 17-year-old student had killed 10 people and wounded 13 others at Santa Fe High School.

“It’s time in Texas that we take action to step up and make sure this tragedy is never repeated ever again,” Abbott said at a press conference, where he noted that the suspected shooter used a shotgun and .38-caliber revolver he had obtained from his father.

But Abbott’s promised “action” didn’t appear to include dropping his campaign’s shotgun giveaway contest, outraged Twitter users noted over the weekend.

If politicians like Greg Abbott spent as much time talking about safe storage and risks of easily accessible guns in the home as they did pandering to the NRA, we might actually save some lives. Elect leaders who put kids first. #USAoverNRA @Bradybuzz https://t.co/5ym7hySPZq — Kris Brown (@KrisB_Brown) May 20, 2018

Saw this as sort of a meme and thought 'there is no way he's actually doing this'.

I thought wrong. @GregAbbott_TX should be ashamed of himself. #txlege https://t.co/XFjFBO26vh — James Hamric (@HokieinSA) May 20, 2018

This is VILE. A gut-punch to everyone affected by losing 10 members of their community - by a kid with daddy’s SHOTGUN - in Santa Fe, TX.



I’m voting for @LupeValdez on Tuesday. But no matter who wins the run-off, I’m voting for ANYONE BUT @GregAbbott_TX.https://t.co/9ofgK61e8H — Fab Miss Em, Be Best™️-erer (@fabmissem) May 20, 2018

“Win a Texas-made shotgun!” Abbott’s official campaign website had boasted. To enter the contest those interested were instructed to submit their contact information online.

gregabbottcom

Participants were required to be Texas residents at least 18 years of age, according to the fine print, and had to be legally able to purchase a pump-action shotgun. The winner was to receive a $250 gift certificate redeemable at a Central Texas licensed gun dealer, the website stated.

As of Monday, contest participants can simply enter to win a $250 gift card, John Wittman, Abbott’s press secretary, told HuffPost in an email.

Abbott’s campaign had also printed promotional material featuring the shotgun giveaway to hang on doorknobs. It’s unclear when and where the printed ads for the contest where circulated.

Wittman did not immediately respond to HuffPost’s request for comment about the door hangers.

HuffPostATLANTA—Sister Jean’s Happy Ramblers are headed to the Final Four.

Loyola Chicago defeated Kansas State 78-62 Saturday night in a South regional final that wasn’t ever particularly close, but still a lot of fun for everyone not wearing purple. The Ramblers used a combination of surgical interior slices and backbreaking three-pointers to disrupt K-State from every angle, and the Wildcats had no reliable answer on either end of the court. Now, the unlikeliest story of the 2018 NCAA Tournament gets another chapter.

Loyola began its second half against Nevada on Thursday night shooting an ungodly – wait, let’s not use that word for Sister Jean’s team; let’s say “impressive” – 13-for-13. The Ramblers followed that up by draining their first nine shots from the field on Saturday, kicked off by Cameron Krutwig. Sidelined much of Thursday night with foul trouble, Krutwig threw his beef into the fray Saturday night, thundering for seven crucial points and five rebounds at the half.

RAMBLERS ARE HEADING TO SAN ANTONIO!



(11) Loyola Chicago rambles past (9) Kansas State 78-62, advancing to its first #FinalFour since 1963!#MarchMadness #OnwardLU pic.twitter.com/vO39j00tlK — NCAA March Madness (@marchmadness) March 25, 2018

On the other end of the spectrum, Kansas State couldn’t get anything started on offense, and couldn’t slow Loyola on defense. Barry Brown Jr. was a slashing marvel, and Xavier Sneed filled the hoop from outside, but they were the lone highlights from the KSU side. The Wildcats couldn’t catch up to Loyola’s slash-and-pass game, and even on the rare instances when K-State could force Loyola into turnovers, the deficit didn’t shrink to any less than five. The score at the half: Loyola 36, K-State 24.

The teams traded baskets early in the second half, a time when trading baskets simply would not do for K-State. The minutes shrank and the deficit didn’t. The key moment, emotionally speaking, came with just under 17 minutes remaining in the game. Krutwig kicked the ball out to Richardson beyond the arc; K-State’s Kamau Stokes charged out toward him, but couldn’t get there before Richardson released the ball, and couldn’t stop after. Three-point bucket, and-1 shot Richardson lay on the floor and spread out his arms and legs, starfish style, a broad grin on his face.

And the hits kept on coming. A Donte Ingram two-pointer got changed to a three during an official timeout; Loyola was so good at scoring it was putting points on the board even during commercials. Krutwig rolled in an ugly-but-still-good layup, Custer hit a long three-pointer, and Ingram sliced right through the bewildered K-State defense for an up-and-under bucket, and suddenly Loyola was up by 19 with 14 minutes remaining, and even the most pessimistic of souls started to dare to hope.

The chants of “L-U-C!” from the Gryffindor-scarved Rambler faithful grew louder and louder as K-State’s hopes of a miracle comeback grew dimmer and dimmer. Kansas State’s offensive sets fell into a depressing pattern of one-shot-and-gone; at the other end of the court, Loyola seemed able to finger-roll in featherlight shots from anywhere on the court.

The deficit was a wall too high to climb. Even when Kansas State put together a 10-0 run with about five minutes left in the game, the Wildcats were still down 13. Richardson halted that run with another three-pointer, his sixth of the night on seven shots, and K-State’s shoulders visibly sagged. And when Stokes’ own attempt at a clutch three ringed the hoop and inexplicably popped out:

…well, that was about it for the Wildcats. Loyola began stretching the floor and devouring clock, and Kansas State could only foul and hope.

Kansas State can look back on this tournament with pride, having knocked off one of the nation’s marquee programs in Kentucky on Thursday night. But Loyola’s got a lot more to look forward to. We’re not through with you yet, Sister Jean.

AdvertisementWASHINGTON — On Feb. 14, Joey Wong was in class at Pace University in New York City when news of a school shooting started to pour in on social media.

“My first, initial reaction was denial,” Wong told HuffPost this week. “‘This can’t be real. This is probably, you know, there’s possibly another school, similar to mine.’”

Wong, who graduated from Stoneman Douglas High School last year, stopped paying attention to class and stayed glued to his phone. He began contacting his friends and former high school classmates, and, soon, “the denial faded away.” The fact that a shooting had occurred at his alma mater “became reality,” he said.

Joey Wong attends the March For Our Lives. Astrid Riecken for HuffPost

He heard from mutual friends that a teammate on the school’s swim team, Nick Dworet, was missing. Later, he would hear that Dworet, who would have turned 18 on Saturday, was among the 17 confirmed victims of the shooting.

Monet McFarlane, a 2016 Douglas graduate who also now attends Pace, was on her way to shop for a Valentine’s Day outfit, when she checked a group chat from her family in Florida.

“They were all in there saying, ‘Douglas got shot up,’ and I thought it was a mistake because it’s Parkland, Florida. We don’t get ‘shot up,’” she said. Once reality set in, she felt a sense of “helplessness, just being so far away.”

A few days later, they flew back to Parkland, wanting to be near their friends, some of whom were already involved in planning vigils and protests. Unlike Wong and McFarlane, most of their friends stayed in Florida for college. Watching the students mobilize local protests, Wong said that he felt inspired to become active in New York.

“Being that outlier, I was thinking to myself, not many people know what Douglas is or where it was, or what’s it like?” Wong said. “I came back with a mission, basically — a mission to get things organized, to get New York City involved.”

He joined Facebook groups formed for planning events related to the shooting, connecting with organizers and other Douglas alums in the city to plan New York’s version of the March For Our Lives.

“People I know were killed, and people I know suffer now from PTSD. I can’t have a normal life. It makes me want to be politically active. I can’t not be politically active. In my opinion, I’d be disrespecting all of those people."” - Joey Wong

But as it became clear that a group of students from New York City were planning to go to D.C., Wong knew he had to go “where, I think, the most impact will be.” He wanted to rejoin his friends and former classmates, like water polo teammate Charles Lambeth, who attends nearby Palm Beach State College.

The day of the shooting, Lambeth immediately got in his car, “speeding back to school,” to find his close friends and a cousin who still attends Douglas — and, according to Lambeth, was spared from the shooting after assistant football coach Aaron Feis heroically shielded her and other students. Feis died in the attack.

Since the shooting, Lambeth has frequently returned to the school.

“All we can do is cry and be there together,” he said. “Eventually, there [aren’t] enough tears to continue going.”

Lambeth (left) and Wong (right) at Saturday's March For Our Lives in Washington, D.C. Astrid Riecken for HuffPost

On Saturday, the three traveled together to the March For Our Lives to join the large contingent of Douglas students, teachers and alumni in Washington, D.C.

Moving forward, McFarlane, who said that she still has a hard time processing the shooting, hopes “[to help] the community heal, even though I can’t be there, which is tough.”

Despite her physical distance, she has tried to be a sounding board for her friends in Parkland because “I understand when you’re a little bit removed from the situation, it’s easier to talk,” she said.

Wong, who says that he wasn’t politically active before the shooting, hopes to stay involved in activism, but “not necessarily be as hands-on with organizing marches and events.”

He said that the aftermath of the shooting and his newfound activism made it somewhat difficult to juggle his classes and college life, describing how he had to email his teachers to explain why he had to miss class.

“No student should have to tell their teacher, ‘My school was just shot up. Please understand my absence,’” he said.

But ever since the shooting, he hopes to stay involved in other ways, or at least be “more aware” of political and social issues.

“People I know were killed, and people I know suffer now from PTSD. I can’t have a normal life. It makes me want to be politically active. I can’t not be politically active. In my opinion, I’d be disrespecting all of those people,” he said. “It’s something you can’t really turn off anymore.”Aaron Bernstein / Reuters

Sen. Mark Warner (D-Va.), the senior Democrat on the Senate Intelligence Committee, says that social media giant Facebook hasn’t been fully transparent about its previously unreported data leak.

“I don’t think Facebook has been fully forthcoming,” Warner said Sunday on NBC’s “Meet The Press.” “I called out Facebook back in December of ’16. In the Spring of ’17, I questioned micro-targeting and the use of this really sketchy firm Cambridge Analytica. Early on for most of 2017, they blew that off.”

The social media giant recently confirmed that Cambridge Analytica, a British voter-profiling firm with ties to Donald Trump’s presidential campaign, harvested private data from millions of Facebook users in 2016. Last week, Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg finally apologized for his company’s role in the breach and said it was taking steps to protect user data going forward.

Warner, who is helping probe Russia’s alleged involvement in the 2016 presidential election, said that it may be necessary to regulate large social media companies like Facebook going forward.

“All of these social media companies have said they have no responsibility for any of the content,” Warner said. “I think we have to relook at that. I think in many ways they’re media companies.”

While Democrats have been critical of Facebook and its role in the 2016 election, calling on executives like Zuckerberg to testify before Congress, they do not have the power to compel him to do so.

Senate Judiciary Chairman Chuck Grassley (R-Iowa) on Monday invited Zuckerberg to testify at a hearing on April 10 to discuss “Facebook’s past and future policies regarding the protection and monitoring of consumer data.” Grassley also announced he had invited Google CEO Sundar Pichai and Twitter CEO Jack Dorsey to discuss the future of data privacy in the social media industry.

Senate Intelligence Committee Chairman Richard Burr (R-N.C.) hasn’t called on Zuckerberg to testify.

Zuckerberg took out full-page ads in several American and British newspapers on Sunday to apologize for the “breach of trust” in the scandal.

“This was a breach of trust, and I’m sorry we didn’t do more at the time. We’re now taking steps to ensure this doesn’t happen again,” read the ads.

Warner dismissed Zuckerberg’s gesture on Sunday and reiterated his call for the Facebook founder to testify before Congress.

“I think Mr. Zuckerberg needs to come and testify before Congress, not just put an advertisement in the newspaper,” Warner said. “He said he would if he was the guy, he is the right guy. He can’t send a staff. When I’m called upon on an issue, it’s my name on the door. I mean you wouldn’t take a staff member here on your show representing me.”

“He needs to come testify before Congress and explain how they’re going to work with us to both protect privacy; there are 50 million Facebook accounts that were used by this sketchy firm, Cambridge Analytica, and how we’re going to make sure it doesn’t happen again in terms of weaponization of these social media platforms,” he added.WASHINGTON ― Congress should somehow reinstate the line-item veto even though it was ruled unconstitutional two decades ago, Treasury Secretary Steve Mnuchin said on Sunday without offering any ideas of how the legal objections could be overcome.

Appearing on “Fox News Sunday,” Mnuchin defended President Donald Trump’s decision to sign the $1.3 trillion omnibus government spending bill despite opposing much of it. After approving that bill on Friday, Trump called for line-item veto that would allow him to reject specific provisions of a bill without vetoing the entire thing.

After Mnuchin reiterated that position, host Chris Wallace noted that after Congress passed such a measure in the mid-1990s, the Supreme Court ruled it unconstitutional.

“Congress could pass a rule, OK, that allows” for the line-item veto, Mnuchin said.

Wallace informed him it would actually require a constitutional amendment ― a far heavier lift.

“We don’t need to get into a debate ... there’s different ways of doing this,” Mnuchin said, declining to name any of them.

He then returned to bashing Democrats for many of the spending increases for domestic programs in the bill Trump signed ― the provisions that sparked a torrent of criticism from conservative lawmakers and commentators. They expressed deep disappointment that Trump didn’t veto the entire bill, which would have caused a government shutdown.

It’s unlikely that Congress will attempt to resurrect the line-item veto, which was adopted under former President Bill Clinton and used to strike provisions of certain legislation. A federal judge ruled in 1998 that it violated procedural requirements in the Constitution and upset the balance of powers. The Supreme Court upheld that ruling the same year.

Since then, former presidents George W. Bush and Barack Obama called for Congress to approve versions of a line-item veto that they believed would pass constitutional tests. Neither was successful.

Trump said on Friday that he would never again sign a bill like the omnibus, which was approved by a Congress led by his own party in both chambers. Along with line-item veto power, Trump said that the Senate should do away with the filibuster, which prevents most bills from moving forward without 60 votes.

Trump isn’t likely to have success on that front, either: His own party opposes changing the filibuster rule.“Queer Eye” star Karamo Brown had a deeply personal reason for taking part in Saturday’s March for Our Lives demonstration in Washington, D.C.

The culture guru joined the Human Rights Campaign (HRC) and a number of LGBTQ rights advocates ― including some survivors of the 2016 Pulse nightclub shooting ― in speaking out against gun violence in the nation’s capital. Speaking at HRC’s Spring Equality Convention that day, Brown revealed that he’d graduated from Parkland, Florida’s Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School, the site of the Feb. 14 massacre that left 17 dead.

A post shared by Karamo (@karamobrown) on Mar 24, 2018 at 7:39pm PDT

“When I saw on the news a few weeks back that my alma mater was being called the site of the world’s deadliest school massacre, you all cannot imagine how much my heart broke,” Brown, a 1999 graduate of Stoneman Douglas, told convention attendees in an impassioned speech, which can be viewed above.

One of Brown’s classmates was Aaron Feis, an assistant football coach and security guard at Stoneman Douglas who was killed after reportedly using his body to create a human shield between students and accused gunman Nikolas Cruz.

“I rooted for [Feis] when he played football, and cheered him on as we graduated on the same day, same year,” Brown recalled. Feis, he said, chose to return to Stoneman Douglas as a coach because he “wanted to give back to the students what he and I had received from our teachers, which was unconditional love, a relentless encouragement to be fearless in your passions and a clear guidance on how to achieve your dreams.”

Today, Pulse Nightclub shooting survivors and family members and @KaramoBrown, a graduate of Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Florida, led hundreds of @HRC members and supporters in the #MarchForOurLives in Washington, D.C. https://t.co/9MAp4Jrr7G pic.twitter.com/G5OrRg9vnZ — Human Rights Campaign (@HRC) March 24, 2018

He went on to praise the Stoneman Douglas students who participated in Saturday’s march for “proudly carrying on [Feis’s] legacy by channeling their pain into deliberate action.”

“I do see Aaron in them,” he said. “I also see my teachers, and I see my teachers’ teachers, and I see a long legacy of people that have passed down lessons rooted in strength and resiliency.”

“Our kids are teaching us how to finally declare, ‘Enough is enough,’ and demand a legislative change,” he added.

Speaking to Entertainment Tonight Saturday, Brown said, “Anytime someone gets shot, whether it’s an unarmed African American male, or whether it’s a school shooting, my sons [Jason, 21, and Chris, 17] come to my mind.”As the March For Our Lives protests took over cities across America, allies also made noise overseas to show in solidarity with the survivors of the Parkland, Florida, school shooting.

Demonstrators from France, Germany, Spain and all the way from Tokyo took to the streets to protest gun violence in the United States. Hundreds of international protesters urged U.S. lawmakers to change the country’s gun laws, while reminding them that the rest of the world is watching.

In France, a country still reeling from a deadly shooting on Friday, a crowd of people, both French and American, gathered near the Eiffel Tower in Paris to protest.

“It’s important for Americans even overseas to make sure that Washington knows that we’re not pleased with the gun control reform and we want more,” Caitlin Waters, co-organizer of the Paris march, told CBS News.

In their own demonstration against gun violence, protesters in Tokyo stood silently while holding up the names and ages of victims killed in school shootings in the U.S.

Nathan Kawanishi, a U.S. citizen visiting Japan, photographed the event.

“Standing with all those marching today,” Kawanishi wrote on Instagram.

A post shared by Nathan Kawanishi (@ao_nathan) on Mar 24, 2018 at 7:00am PDT

See how the rest of the world joined America in a massive protest against gun violence below.

London

Stefan Rousseau - PA Images via Getty Images

NurPhoto via Getty Images

Berlin

Sean Gallup via Getty Images

Adam Berry via Getty Images

Copenhagen

Munich

NurPhoto via Getty Images

NurPhoto via Getty Images

Paris

Owen Franken - Corbis via Getty Images

Owen Franken - Corbis via Getty Images

Amsterdam

KOEN VAN WEEL via Getty Images

KOEN VAN WEEL via Getty Images

Brussels

NurPhoto via Getty Images

NurPhoto via Getty ImagesDemonstrators in France, Germany, Spain and Tokyo were among those who took to the streets as part of the push for stricter gun control in the U.S.

Hundreds of international protesters urged U.S. lawmakers to make changes to the country’s gun laws, reminding them that the rest of the world is watching.

In France, a country still reeling from a terrorist shooting on Friday, a crowd of people that included some Americans gathered near the Eiffel Tower in Paris.

“It’s important for Americans even overseas to make sure that Washington knows that we’re not pleased with the gun control reform and we want more,” Caitlin Waters, co-organizer of the Paris march, told CBS News.Lehtikuva Lehtikuva / Reuters

Catalan leader Carles Puigdemont was detained on Sunday in Germany four months after he went into self-imposed exile from Spain, where he faces up to 25 years in prison for organizing an illegal referendum on secession last year.

Puigdemont had entered Germany from Denmark after leaving Finland on Friday when it appeared police would arrest him there and begin an extradition process requested by Spain.

The detention threatens to worsen the Catalan crisis which flared last year when the region made a symbolic declaration of independence, prompting Madrid to take direct rule.

German police said they had arrested Puigdemont in the northern state of Schleswig-Holstein on a European arrest warrant issued by Spain.

In a statement, police said Puigdemont was detained near a section of the A7 highway which cuts through the state from the city of Flensburg near the Danish border.

Police did not say exactly where Puigdemont was being held but the Spanish press said he was at a police station in the nearby town of Schuby.

German magazine Focus said Spanish intelligence informed the BKA federal police that Puigdemont was on his way from Finland to Germany. It gave no source for its report.

It is not clear if Puigdemont will be immediately extradited from Germany. Puigdemont had made clear his preference to fight the extradition process from Belgium.

The former Catalan regional president was at the time of his detention heading to Belgium, according to Puigdemont’s spokesman Joan Maria Pique.

“The president was going to Belgium to put himself, as always, at the disposal of Belgian justice,” Pique told Reuters.

Spain’s Supreme Court ruled on Friday that 25 Catalan leaders would be tried for rebellion, embezzlement or disobeying the state.

Supreme Court judge Pablo Llarena also sent five separatist leaders to pre-trial jail. Their detention sparked protests across Catalonia.

On Saturday the speaker of the Catalan parliament in Barcelona called for an alliance against Madrid, describing the spate of legal actions as an “attack on the heart of democracy.”Saudi forces destroyed three missiles over northeastern Riyadh shortly before midnight, as well as others fired at the southern cities of Najran, Jizan and Khamis Mushait, the coalition said in a statement carried by state news agency SPA.

Debris from the missiles fell on a home in Riyadh, killing an Egyptian resident and wounding two other Egyptians, said coalition spokesman Colonel Turki al-Malki, according to SPA.

Reuters reporters in Riyadh heard several booms and saw smoke in the air. Another witness said he saw a long stream of light followed by additional explosions.

In al-Malqa neighbourhood, emergency personnel gathered near a crater in the ground and inspected shattered glass in nearby homes.

The attack marked the third time in five months that missiles have flown over Riyadh, as the Houthis step up efforts to demonstrate they can reach the Saudi capital, and threatened to escalate a regional rivalry between Iran and Saudi Arabia.

The Houthi-run SABA news agency reported the group’s missile force had targeted King Khalid International Airport in Riyadh with a Burkan H2 missile.

The group also fired other types of missiles at airports in Jizan, Najran and Abha, another southern Saudi city, according to the SABA report.

The Saudi-led coalition of Gulf Arab states launched military operations against the Houthis in Yemen in March 2015, after the Iran-aligned Shi’ite militia seized the Yemeni capital Sanaa and forced President Abd Rabbu Mansour al-Hadi to flee.

Riyadh saw the ouster as a regional power grab by arch-foe Iran, although the Houthis deny any help from Tehran, and has described Iran’s alleged supply of rockets to the Houthis as “direct military aggression.”

The United States, which provides support to the coalition, has also displayed what it said were Iranian-made weapons supplied to the Houthis, calling them conclusive evidence that Tehran was violating U.N. resolutions.

The conflict in Yemen has killed more than 10,000 people and displaced more than 2 million, unleashing a humanitarian crisis in the Arabian Peninsula’s poorest country. Nearly 1 million people have been infected with cholera.

Coalition forces have made modest territorial gains over the course of the war but appear far from seizing back the capital.

(Reporting by Sarah Dadouch, Marwa Rashad, Mostafa Hashem and Stephen Kalin; Writing by Katie Paul; Editing by Grant McCool and Paul Simao)By Andrew Osborn and Christian Lowe

MOSCOW (Reuters) - Investigators looking into a fire that killed at least 64 people at a busy shopping mall in Siberia said on Monday a security guard had turned off the public address system and exits had been illegally blocked.

The fire, one of the deadliest in Russia since the break-up of the Soviet Union, swept through the upper floors of the “Winter Cherry” shopping center in the city of Kemerovo, where a cinema complex and children’s play area were located, on Sunday afternoon.

Dozens of children were feared to be among the dead.

Vladimir Putin, re-elected last weekend, expressed “deep condolences”, the Kremlin said.

But the president has yet to speak publicly about the tragedy, which has stirred anger in Kemerovo, a coal-producing region about 3,600 km (2,200 miles) east of Moscow.

Russia’s Investigative Committee, which handles major crimes, said it was trying to bring in themall’s owner for questioning and wanted to detain a security guard who turned off the public address system after learning of the blaze.

“Serious violations (of the law) took place when the mall was being built and when it was functioning. The fire exits were blocked,” Svetlana Petrenko, a spokeswoman for the committee, said in a statement.

Four people have already been detained, including two employees of the firm that services themall’s fire alarm.

Emergency services said they had extinguished the fire, but later said it had reignited in places, and that rescuers were struggling to recover bodies because the building’s top floor had collapsed.

It was unclear if any people were still unaccounted for.

Health Minister Veronika Skortsova said from the scene that 13 people were in hospital, including an 11-year-old boy in a serious condition. Russian media said the boy had leapt from a window and that both his parents had been killed.

Many of the victims will only be able to be identified via DNA testing, officials said.

An unofficial list of those missing circulating on Russian media included more than 20 children, some as young as five.

Mobile phone messages sent from one of those on the list, 13-year-old Maria Moroz, and published by Russian media, said: “We are burning. I love you all. This is perhaps farewell.”

The Zimnyaya Vishnya shopping centre in the Siberian city of Kemerovo caught fire on Sunday. Cause of the deadly blaze is unknown. Danil Aikin via Getty Images

ANGER

Alexander Lillevyali told online newspaper Meduza that he and his wife Olga had lost all three of their daughters, two aged 11 and one five, in the blaze.

He was cited as saying he had dropped the girls off at the cinema and that one of them had phoned later to say the auditorium was filling with smoke and that they couldn’t get out because the doors were locked.

He described how he had led rescuers up the stairs, but that they had been ordered to go elsewhere and that rescuers, citing regulations, had refused to give him a respiratory mask. “My daughters were left to burn because of their bloody rules,” Lillevyali told Meduza.

Anna Kuznetsova, Russia’s children’s rights commissioner, said the fire had been caused by incompetence and that similar shopping centers across Russia should be urgently checked.

Pro-Kremlin politicians called for anyone found guilty of negligence or worse to be harshly punished.

Witnesses told Russian media the fire alarm and sprinklers had failed to function.

Video footage showed a group of people in a smoke-filled staircase trying to smash a fire exit door, which was jammed.

The cause of the blaze remains unclear.

The Interfax news agency cited an unnamed local official source as saying the main theory being looked at was that the fire had been caused by an electrical short circuit.

However, it quoted Vladimir Chernov, the region’s deputy governor, as saying on Sunday that the blaze may have started when a teenager set fire to the rubber foam on a trampoline in a play area using a lighter.

Other officials were quoted as saying the blaze may have been started by candles used in a children’s celebration.

State TV said the mall opened in 2013. Official documents showed it last underwent a fire safety check in 2016.

The Kremlin rejected criticism from some journalists that state TV had been slow to publicize the fire.

Mourners left flowers near the scene of the blaze - thought to be the deadliest since 2009 when 156 people were killed in the city of Perm when an indoor pyrotechnics display at a nightclub went wrong.

AdvertisementIt’s been a long time coming, but “Sarah Palin” was back on “Saturday Night Live,” thanks to her alter ego, Tina Fey. And she had a message for everyone in Donald Trump’s White House: “Enjoy your moment. Who knows how long it’ll last?”

Take “Palin,” for example. “I was the first female on a Republican presidential ticket and now I get paid to tweet for Bass Pro Shops,” said Fey. “Politics is a wild ride. One minute you’re on top and then you’re gone in the blink of a Scaramucci.”

That was her cue to launch into song to the tune of “What I Did For Love,” from “A Chorus Line.” Fey sang: “Kiss today goodbye, the sweetness and the sorrow ...”

Aidy Bryant’s Sarah Huckabee Sanders popped up to pick up the line: “Kiss White House goodbye and point me towards Fox News. I did what he said to do. And I might regret what I did for Trump, what I fibbed for Trump.”

John Goodman’s Rex Tillerson said that being fired by Trump was the best thing that ever happened to him. “Don’t forget I regret what I did for Trump,” he sang. Cecily Strong’s Stormy Daniels piped in: “What I did with Trump.”Hundreds of thousands of protesters nationwide took to the streets Saturday to demand stricter gun laws ― but you wouldn’t know it looking at President Donald Trump’s Twitter feed.

It’s been over 24 hours since students, parents and supporters of the #NeverAgain movement to end school shootings showed up in Washington, D.C., and dozens of other cities across the country for March For Our Lives.

Dozens of politicians responded to the massive demonstration Saturday, but Trump ― a man who often shows little restraint on Twitter when responding to events such as terror attacks and the Golden Globes ― refrained from publicly weighing in on the march.

As March For Our Lives demonstrators rallied in the nation’s capital, begging for lawmakers to take action against gun violence, Trump hung out at his posh golf resort in West Palm Beach, Florida. He tweeted several times during the Saturday march, and again on Sunday, but focused only on other topics, including a U.S.-Mexico border wall and his legal team assigned to deal with the Russia probe.

Because of the $700 & $716 Billion Dollars gotten to rebuild our Military, many jobs are created and our Military is again rich. Building a great Border Wall, with drugs (poison) and enemy combatants pouring into our Country, is all about National Defense. Build WALL through M! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) March 25, 2018

Many lawyers and top law firms want to represent me in the Russia case...don’t believe the Fake News narrative that it is hard to find a lawyer who wants to take this on. Fame & fortune will NEVER be turned down by a lawyer, though some are conflicted. Problem is that a new...... — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) March 25, 2018

....lawyer or law firm will take months to get up to speed (if for no other reason than they can bill more), which is unfair to our great country - and I am very happy with my existing team. Besides, there was NO COLLUSION with Russia, except by Crooked Hillary and the Dems! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) March 25, 2018

A White House statement issued on Saturday addressed the March For Our Lives, though it wasn’t specifically attributed to Trump.

With President Trump in Florida on his golf course and thousands marching across the country to protest gun laws, the White House released this statement addressing the "March for our Lives": pic.twitter.com/GSZ7THTRe4 — Abby D. Phillip (@abbydphillip) March 24, 2018

“We applaud the many courageous young Americans exercising their First Amendment rights today,” according to the statement. It also noted the Trump administration’s move to ban bump stocks, a device used by Las Vegas shooter Stephen Paddock that allowed his semi-automatic rifle to fire hundreds of rounds into a crowd of concertgoers.

Many gun control advocates consider a potential bump stock ban to be only a tiny step in the right direction regarding necessary gun reform legislation in the wake of the Feb. 14 massacre of Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Florida.Oscar-nominated director Darren Aronofsky produced the new National Geographic series "One Strange Rock." Kris Connor via Getty Images

The Hollywood approach to climate change is hardly subtle.

The documentaries are didactic. Former Vice President Al Gore’s 2006 blockbuster, “An Inconvenient Truth,” was basically a movie version of the PowerPoint lecture series he used to describe the dangers of runaway greenhouse gas pollution. Leonardo DiCaprio’s 2016 “Before the Flood” chronicled the actor’s meetings with policymakers and visits to collapsing glaciers in retreat. The fiction is apocalyptic. Movies like 2004’s “The Day After Tomorrow” and 2017’s “Geostorm” depict the changing climate as the “new supervillain.”

Then there is Darren Aronofsky.

The 49-year-old filmmaker, best known for directing psychological dramas “Requiem For a Dream” and “Black Swan,” released “Noah” in 2014, which depicted the great biblical flood in a way meant to serve as a warning about sea level rise. His 2017 thriller “Mother!” was a thinly veiled reflection on humanity’s unabated greenhouse gas emissions as told through an impassioned, praise-hungry poet who caters to the desires of a mob of worshipful guests who destroy their home as his wife watches in horror.

But now Aronofsky is trying something different. On Monday, National Geographic will air the first episode of the 10-part series “One Strange Rock,” narrated by actor Will Smith. The documentary series holds up the same stunning lens to earth science that the BBC’s “Planet Earth” and “Blue Planet” focused on wildlife and marine animals. Episodes document life in acid lakes, chronicle the organisms that cruise the jetstreams on dust blowing from Africa to South America, and show the Earth from the perspective of American and Canadian astronauts in the International Space Station.

“It is a celebration of our home,” Aronofsky told HuffPost in an interview at a New York press screening this month. “This is the great Architectural Digest spread of planet Earth.”

“Mars is a barren wasteland, yet we have tropical islands and polar ice caps and such a variation of wealth and environments that are inspiring and beautiful,” he added. “We’re very, very lucky to have it, so hopefully we can all appreciate it more.”

In this shot from "One Strange Rock," scientists walk through deadly acid pools near the Dallol volcano in Ethiopia. National Geographic

Aronofsky, who produced the show, said the lush shots, ranging from slowed-down video of the creation of oxygen underwater to panoramic views of the planet from space, are intended to make the complex and fragile processes that make the Earth inhabitable more intimate. At the screening this month, co-producer Jane Root quoted David Attenborough, the legendary naturalist and “Planet Earth” narrator, as saying that, to save the planet, you have to first fall in love with it. This, Aronofsky said, is his love letter to the planet.

But to understand climate change, you’ll have to read between the lines. The show makes no mention of the human-caused emissions warming the planet.

“It’s like what they teach you in art class about negative space,” Aronofsky said. “Negative space is assumed when you start looking at the beauty of the clockwork, the mechanics that are occurring in front of you.”

Confronting viewers with some of the Earth’s most astonishing ecosystems “reveals unconsciously for people, oh my gosh, this is an incredible system that we’re blessed to have, and we need to take care of it,” he said.

“But it’s not a call to arms,” he said.

“Film has a huge role to play in climate communication. Science can communicate facts, but unfortunately, that only gets us so far.” - John Cook, George Mason University’s Center for Climate Change Communication

Aronofsky, who grew up in South Brooklyn, New York, first became enamored of nature in high school. He was accepted into the School for Field Studies, a nonprofit study abroad program focused on environmental sciences, and spent six weeks in the Kenyan bush studying ungulates, counting wildebeest and gazelle populations. The next summer, he went on another trip to Alaska’s Prince William Sound, where he studied harbor seals and monitored icebergs and glaciers. That was in 1987, two years before the Exxon-Valdez tanker spilled 10.8 million gallons of oil into the waterway. After the spill, government scientists used the data Aronofsky helped collect to measure the impact on wildlife.

“Being in those environments and reading Darwin and learning the awe that you experience every day when you wake up in the natural world just blessed me with this lifelong appreciation for it,” Aronofsky said.

Hollywood’s forays into climate change have, at times, backfired. Putting celebrities out front allowed conservative media ― given to parroting the climate change denialism that Republicans have cemented as a platform issue over the past decade ― to discredit warnings about global warming by noting, for example, DiCaprio’s past penchant for fuel-guzzling private jet flights. But the awareness that movie and TV stars raise about climate science still outweighs any narratives of perceived hypocrisy.

“Film has a huge role to play in climate communication,” John Cook, a researcher at George Mason University’s Center for Climate Change Communication, told HuffPost. “Science can communicate facts, but unfortunately, that only gets us so far. We need art to shape the facts of climate change in narratives and frames that resonate with the general public.”

The International Space Station, as seen against the Earth. National Geographic

A November 2004 study into how “The Day After Tomorrow” affected viewers’ understanding of the threats posed by climate change found that people who saw the movie had a significantly higher risk perception than those who didn’t. But Hollywood depictions of climate change that focus too much on scientists’ most dire warnings risk alienating viewers, according to Alex de Sherbinin, an associate director at Columbia University’s Center for International Earth Science Information Network.

“In general, I think movies need to be careful about the shock value, which can breed a kind of helplessness or ‘Why bother?’” de Sherbinin told HuffPost. “I have seen art exhibits that create a sort of sadness. That may be a more effective emotion to trigger, as long as it is not completely hopeless.”

Yet Aronofsky’s work, famous for theatrical plots and artful cinematography, is uniquely well-suited to tackling the subject, said Gretchen Goldman, research director at the Center for Science and Democracy at the Washington, D.C.-based Union of Concerned Scientists.

“Aronofsky specifically has the ability to do this through vivid imagery and dramatic scenarios,” she told HuffPost. “This is powerful for people.”

Aronofsky is quick to point out that Republicans alone aren’t the problem. He started working on “Mother!” and “One Strange Rock” during the final year of the Obama administration, after the United States helped broker the Paris climate accord, the first global deal to cut planet-warming carbon dioxide emissions. After the election of President Donald Trump, who has long dismissed climate science, Aronofsky went to the Standing Rock Sioux Reservation, where indigenous activists and environmentalists were protesting the construction of the Dakota Access oil pipeline through a sacred water source.

“I found the response from a lot of indigenous friends very neutral on the election, when I was sort of throwing up every night,” he said. “I asked why, and they said, ‘This is a 500-year race war. The pipeline started under Obama.’”

Aronofsky said Democrats should push for 100 percent renewable energy and to divest from fossil fuels. He also said Democratic candidates should refuse donations from fossil fuel companies.Doctors are firing back on Twitter over Rick Santorum’s suggestion that students take “CPR classes” instead of advocating for gun control following last month’s massacre in Parkland, Florida.

Hundreds of thousands of people, including students from throughout the nation, marched on Washington on Saturday, demanding lawmakers pass stricter gun laws after 17 people were shot to death Feb. 14 at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School. Similar demonstrations occurred in other U.S. cities and across the world.

On Sunday, Santorum accused students of trying to pass the buck when it came to keeping their schools safe.

“How about kids, instead of looking to someone else to solve their problem, do something about maybe taking CPR classes or trying to deal with situations where there is a violent shooter,” Santorum, a former Republican senator from Pennsylvania and CNN political commentator, said on the cable news network.

His comments drew backlash on social media from doctors, including Eugene Gu, a third-year general surgery resident at Vanderbilt hospital in Nashville, Tennessee.

As a surgeon, I’ve operated on gunshot victims who’ve had bullets tear through their intestines, cut through their spinal cord, and pulverize their kidneys and liver. Rick Santorum telling kids to shut up and take CPR classes is simply unconscionable. — Eugene Gu, MD (@eugenegu) March 25, 2018

“The last thing we need is for kids to administer CPR during a shooter situation and then get shot themselves,” Gu told HuffPost in an email Sunday. “So Rick Santorum’s comments are not only an assault on our children’s First Amendment rights but are putting our kids in danger with misinformation.”

Several other health care professionals echoed Gu’s sentiments and reminded Santorum what bullets do to bodies.

Here are some stats made simple for Rick Santorum:

Survival rate of pulseless trauma victims who get CPR at the scene: VERY, VERY LOW

Survival rate of people who don’t get shot in the first place: MUCH, MUCH BETTER — Rebecca Bell, MD (@RebeccaBellMD) March 25, 2018

Rick Santorum next: Rather than trying to disarm North Korea, let us just all learn CPR — Armand Krikorian, MD (@ENDOUNO) March 25, 2018

Dear Rick Santorum,



As a healthcare professional who is certified in CPR, I can confirm that performing CPR can’t remove AR-15 bullets from a body. Get a clue.



Sincerely,

Common Sense — Jonny Loquasto (@JQuasto) March 25, 2018

Doctors weren’t the only ones to rip Santorum for his tone-deaf remarks. Rep. Ted Lieu (D-Calif.) tweeted that CPR would do little to save the victim of “AR-15 bullets [that] obliterate organs.”

Survivors of the Parkland massacre and others also hit back.

Dear Rick Santorum: CPR is good for heart stoppage. Not good for victims of multiple AR-15 bullets, which typically impart 3 times the lethal energy upon impact than a 9mm handgun bullet. AR-15 bullets obliterate organs and cause so much bleeding that victims die very quickly. https://t.co/5E0HBUFT9b — Ted Lieu (@tedlieu) March 25, 2018

CPR won’t stop the 96 daily deaths due to gun violence.



Love,

Matt Deitsch

CPR certified lifeguard &#MarchForOurLives organizer https://t.co/91xl5wkPIZ — Matt Deitsch (@MattxRed) March 25, 2018

I think @RickSantorum might need to learn CPR for the NRA following midterms — David Hogg (@davidhogg111) March 25, 2018

I never thought anyone would beat Donald Trump for the stupidest statement of the week award but lo and behold, along comes Rick Santorum with his CPR statement. — Steve Redmond (@sjredmond) March 25, 2018

Rick Santorum - who thinks we should reactively revive the dead instead of proactively passing data-proven, lifesaving gun laws - had an A+ rating from the @NRA and took hundreds of thousands of dollars in campaign contributions from their lobbyists as a quid pro quo. https://t.co/8PQo1hDsVG — Shannon Watts (@shannonrwatts) March 25, 2018

Serious question: Has @RickSantorum seen images from the slaughter at Stoneman Douglas High? What kind of CPR could have been used to save them?



Stop putting this man on television. https://t.co/UDR71Alae0 — Ja'han Jones (@_Jahan) March 25, 2018

"CPR wouldn't help victims of a gun massacre" is beside the point. He is literally saying they should expect their classmates to be shot — Sarah Cooper (@sarahcpr) March 25, 2018Josh Kushner was among hundreds of thousands participating in Saturday's March For Our Lives demonstration in Washington. Noam Galai via Getty Images

The Kushner brother had promised to attend the anti-gun violence rally in an earlier Instagram post. His girlfriend, model Karlie Kloss, also participated in the gathering.

Kloss shared a photo on Instagram of her and Delaney Tarr, a 17-year-old survivor of last month’s Parkland, Florida, mass shooting ― the tragedy that claimed 17 lives at a high school and sparked the demonstration in Washington and similar marches across the U.S.and the world.

“Today, and every day, we will continue to fight for those things that are right. We will continue to fight for common sense. We will continue to fight for our lives,” Kloss wrote in a caption, quoting Tarr.

A post shared by Joshua Kushner (@joshuakushner) on Mar 23, 2018 at 3:42pm PDT

Josh Kushner made headlines earlier this month for donating $50,000 to March For Our Lives.

Axios reported that the 32-year-old founder of venture capital firm Thrive Capital and health insurance company Oscar had “quietly” made the donation.

Kushner has described himself as a “lifelong Democrat.” In 2016, he said through a spokesman that he would not be voting for Trump.

At the Women’s March in Washington the day after Trump was inaugurated last year, Kushner was photographed in a crowd of demonstrators. According to the Washingtonian, Kushner told other marchers he was there “observing.”

Trump and his Twitter account were unusually silent on Saturday as hundreds of thousands of protesters marched in cities across the U.S. and around the world demanding meaningful gun reform.

A White House spokeswoman commented on the rallies, saying, “We applaud the many courageous young Americans exercising their first amendment rights today.”

Trump was criticized earlier this month for apparently caving in to pressure from the National Rifle Association and backpedaling on gun control measures he’d supported in the wake of the Parkland massacre. Teenage survivors of the shooting came up with the idea for Saturday’s marches.On Saturday, a Twitter user going by the name “Sukie,” with the handle @FroggyBottomPnd, posted a photo of a young woman standing alongside Texas Sen. Ted Cruz (R).

Hey @tedcruz - She opened her jacket right before the photo was taken! 🤣🤣🤣 pic.twitter.com/pvTOjSDdg9 — Sukie (@FroggyBottomPnd) March 24, 2018

As Cruz likely didn’t know, the young woman had opened her jacket just before the photo was taken, revealing a small sign on a lanyard reading, “Texas deserves better than Cruz!”

Twitter user @LazyyMillennial and Austin resident Rebecca identifies herself as the young woman in the photo. The picture, she says in her feed, was taken at the airport after a flight from Washington to Texas.

Here is her original tweet: “Got to meet someone who supposedly represents me today. Not for much longer, though! # BetoForTexas.”

Cruz, a failed 2016 GOP presidential candidate, is up for re-election in November, facing Democratic Rep. Beto O’Rourke. O’Rourke has a tough road ahead of him, but he did raise more money than Cruz in the first six weeks of the year.President Donald Trump on Sunday lashed out at suggestions that he was having difficulty hiring lawyers to help him handle the Russia probe ― even as news emerged that he would not be hiring two attorneys who’d recently been tapped to join his embattled legal team.

The New York Times reported on Sunday that lawyers Joe diGenova, who is known for his aggressive style and was supposed to replace Trump’s top attorney, and diGenova’s wife, Victoria Toensing, would not be joining the legal team because of unspecified “conflicts.”

Jay Sekulow, one of Trump’s lawyers, said in a statement that the president was “disappointed” by the development, but that the conflicts “do not prevent” the two from assisting “in other legal matters.” Sekulow did not detail what those other matters might be.

DiGenova has questioned the legitimacy of special counsel Robert Mueller’s investigation into Russian meddling in the 2016 election, and Trump allies had applauded the prospect of him coming to the president’s defense.

Before the news broke about diGenova and Toensing ―- and after a conspicuous Twitter silence on Saturday as hundreds of thousands of protesters nationwide called for tougher gun laws ― Trump returned to his usual prolific posting on Sunday to lambast the coverage of his alleged attorney troubles. He called such reports “Fake News.”

Many lawyers and top law firms want to represent me in the Russia case...don’t believe the Fake News narrative that it is hard to find a lawyer who wants to take this on. Fame & fortune will NEVER be turned down by a lawyer, though some are conflicted. Problem is that a new...... — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) March 25, 2018

....lawyer or law firm will take months to get up to speed (if for no other reason than they can bill more), which is unfair to our great country - and I am very happy with my existing team. Besides, there was NO COLLUSION with Russia, except by Crooked Hillary and the Dems! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) March 25, 2018

Several news outlets, including the Times, The Washington Post and Reuters, reported late last week that the president was struggling to find good defense lawyers as Mueller intensifies his probe.

The Post reported that several top attorneys, including former Solicitor General Theodore Olson, had refused to represent the president ― whose legal team appears to be in disarray following the resignation last week of its lead lawyer, John Dowd.

In his Sunday tweets, Trump said “many lawyers and top law firms want to represent me in the Russia case.”

He added that “fame & fortune will NEVER be turned down by a lawyer,” though he did acknowledge that “some are conflicted.”Stephanie Clifford, who goes by the name Stormy Daniels, detailed her alleged affair with President Donald Trump and how she was threatened to stay silent in a highly anticipated “60 Minutes” interview with Anderson Cooper that aired Sunday night.

Daniels, who says she had a consensual affair with Trump in 2006 and 2007, is currently suing the president over the validity of a nondisclosure agreement she signed just before the 2016 election barring her from discussing the affair.

“It started off all about him just talking about himself,” Daniels said of the first time she met Trump at a celebrity golf tournament in Lake Tahoe in July 2006. She says she poked fun of the way Trump was hitting on her, trying to impress her with his own photo on a magazine cover.

“And I was like, ‘Someone should take that magazine and spank you with it,’” Daniels said. “And I’ll never forget the look on his face.”

Trump allegedly compared Daniels to his daughter. When they had sex later that evening, he did not use a condom, and she did not ask him to, she says. Ex-Playboy playmate Karen McDougal made similar comments about her alleged affair with Trump.

Trump and Daniels reportedly kept in touch and saw each other for nearly a year after the first night they had sex but were not intimate again after their encounter in Lake Tahoe.

Daniels said that details of the affair began to leak to the press in 2011, and she gave an interview for $15,000 to a sister publication of the tabloid, In Touch. But the interview never ran and she was never paid. Daniels says an unidentified man approached and threatened her in a parking lot.

“I was in a parking lot, going to a fitness class with my infant daughter,” she said. “And a guy walked up on me and said to me, ‘Leave Trump alone. Forget the story.’ And then he leaned around and looked at my daughter and said, ‘That’s a beautiful little girl. It’d be a shame if something happened to her mom.’ And then he was gone.”

Daniels says she did not go to the police because she was scared, and the threat influenced her decision to sign a nondisclosure agreement before the 2016 presidential election and accept $130,000 of what she calls “hush money” from Trump’s lawyer, Michael Cohen.

“I was concerned for my family and their safety,” she said.

Stormy Daniels' "60 Minutes" interview CBS Photo Archive via Getty Images

Though the adult film star previously denied the affair, she’s now arguing that she should be released from the agreement and be free to speak publicly of her former relationship with Trump as the president did not sign the document.

Cohen has admitted to paying Daniels $130,000. Trump’s lawyers are threatening to make her pay $1 million every time she violates the nondisclosure agreement. The White House has denied any affair occurred.

“He knows I’m telling the truth,” Daniels said of the president.

The adult film star and her lawyer Michael Avenatti have claimed before she has evidence of her affair with Trump.

However, during the “60 Minutes” interview, both Daniels and Avenatti would not definitively say if they had text messages, video or photographic evidence of the affair.Protesters in cities across the U.S. -- from Washington D.C. to Portland, Oregon --- participated in March For Our Lives demonstrations on Saturday. Getty Images

As hundreds of thousands of protesters prepared to gather in Washington and other cities across the U.S. on Saturday to demand meaningful gun reform, the National Rifle Association took to social media to mock the “March For Our Lives” event and the young gun violence survivors who spearheaded it.

The group posted a membership-drive video to Facebook with a scathing caption about the looming protest marches on Saturday morning.

“Today’s protests aren’t spontaneous,” the post declared. “Gun-hating billionaires and Hollywood elites are manipulating and exploiting children as part of their plan to DESTROY the Second Amendment and strip us of our right to defend ourselves and our loved ones.”

Join the NRA, the group added, to “stand and fight for our kids’ safety.”

Thousands of protesters packed Pennsylvania Avenue in Washington during the March for Our Lives gathering on Saturday. The more popular protest chants included “Not one more,” “Vote them out” and “The NRA has got to go!” The Washington Post via Getty Images

The “March For Our Lives” protest was led by students from Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Florida, where 17 people were killed last month in a shooting rampage.

The young activists gave eloquent, impassioned speeches at the D.C. event, excoriating lawmakers who have failed to act to reduce gun violence and the NRA for lobbying against sensible gun control legislation.

“If we move on, the NRA and those against us will win,” said 17-year-old survivor Delaney Tarr. “They want us to forget. They want our voices to be silenced. And they want to retreat into the shadows where they can remain unnoticed. They want to be back on top, unquestioned in their corruption, but we cannot and we will not let that happen.”

"If they continue to ignore us ... we will take action every day in every way until they simply cannot ignore us anymore," Parkland student Delaney Tarr says at #MarchForOurLives. pic.twitter.com/HPZr9FHFVg — NBC News (@NBCNews) March 24, 2018

As the rally was getting underway, the NRA ― which was otherwise conspicuously silent on social media on Saturday ― shared another video on Facebook; this time of a clip mocking the march as a “carnival.”

The clip, which featured NRA TV host “Colion Noir” (a pseudonym for Collins Iyare Idehen Jr.), had first been shared on YouTube on Thursday with the title “A March For Their Lies.”

“From where I’m standing, it looks like a march to burn the Constitution and rewrite the parts that they don’t like in crayon,” Noir said, referring to the young activists leading the rally.

In another NRA TV clip posted Thursday, Noir had harangued the Parkland survivors, saying “no one would know your names” if someone with a gun had stopped the shooting at their school.Los Angeles-based ABC correspondent Karl Schmid said he struggled for nearly a decade before deciding to publicly announce that he is HIV positive in a Facebook post Friday.

Best known for his on-camera ABC7 coverage of Hollywood events like the Academy Awards and the Vanity Fair Oscars party, Schmid said media industry professionals had for years warned him to keep quiet about his HIV status.

“I know who I am, I know what I stand for and while in the past I may not have always had clarity, I do now,” the Australian-born reporter wrote in the post, which featured a photo of him wearing an AIDS Memorial T-shirt. “Love me or hate me, that’s up to you.”

“For anyone who has ever doubted themselves because of those scary three letters and one symbol, let me tell you this, you are somebody who matters,” he continued. “Your feelings, your thoughts, your emotions count. And don’t let anybody tell you otherwise.”

As of Sunday afternoon, Schmid’s Facebook post had been shared over 250 times and received more than 3,500 likes.

“God bless you. Don’t think that you are alone. Hold your head high and keep smiling and doing a great job,” one person wrote. Another commenter added, “As long as you are all about the truth, that’s all that matters. I wish you a long and very happy life.”

In addition to his ABC7 stint, the openly gay Schmid was the co-host of Logo TV’s “Operation: Vacation” from 2013 to 2014.

The 37-year-old thanked viewers for their support on Twitter Saturday.

Today has been insanely overwhelming. I had NO idea that me sharing something would have such an impact. For those of you who dm’d with your stories THANK YOU. Tonight, I’m hanging out with my best friend and enjoying the talent that is @taylormacnyc in DTLA pic.twitter.com/6X07KVsOaN — Karl Schmid (@KarlJSchmid) March 25, 2018