On a day when hundreds of thousands of people marched in support of the Parkland, Florida, school shooting survivors, one senator took time to tell those students he does not support their cause.

Sen. Marco Rubio (R-Fla.) said in a Saturday statement that there are “many other Americans who do not support a gun ban” because they view it as a threat to the Second Amendment.

While Rubio included in his statement a line about respecting the demonstrators’ right to peaceful protests, he quickly expressed his opposition.

“While I do not agree with all of the solutions they propose, I respect their views and recognize that many Americans support certain gun bans,” the senator said.

Those against gun bans “want to prevent mass shootings” too, Rubio continued, but they “view banning guns as an infringement on the Second Amendment rights of law abiding citizens that ultimately will not prevent these tragedies.”

My full statement on today's marches: pic.twitter.com/ZpRNotSbyP — Marco Rubio (@marcorubio) March 24, 2018

Students at the March For Our Lives rallies repeatedly attacked Rubio and his ties to the National Rifle Association on Saturday, even before he released his statement.

At the D.C. rally, Parkland students wore orange price tags listed at $1.05, which is what they said they were worth to the senator. The $1.05 price tag represents the amount of money the NRA has donated to Rubio campaigns divided by the number of students in Florida, the demonstrators explained.

Rubio has an A+ rating from the gun rights group for supporting NRA-friendly legislation. According to the New York Times, he has received $3.3 million from the group.

The Republican senator faced off with the students of Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School during a CNN Town Hall in February. There, he defended his support of the NRA, telling the students he is influenced by the millions of people within the NRA ― and not the millions of dollars they give him.

“The influence of these groups comes not from money,” Rubio said at the time, speaking to students of Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School. “The influence comes from the millions of people that agree with the agenda, the millions of Americans that support the NRA.”

CORRECTION: A previous version of this story reported that the $1.05 price tags worn at the rally represented the number of students in Florida divided by the amount of money the NRA has donated to Rubio. It is the money divided by the number of students.At long last the “Saturday Night Live” colonialists finally ribbed the Brits after all the hoopla over the royal wedding.

The downright cheek was delivered in the form of an ersatz “Official Wedding Video 2018.” Prince Harry (Mikey Day) —“aka Ron Sleasley” — holds court at the reception. His bride, sadly, can’t be there. She’s in the hall trying to intercept “some of her white relatives from getting in because they’re mental,” Harry explains.

Kate Middleton (Cecily Strong) blows in tipsy, taking advantage of not being pregnant for once. And Meghan’s great uncle (Kenan Thompson) has his arm slung around a prim Queen Elizabeth (Kate McKinnon). “I was just telling her majesty here,” he says to Harry, “that she should start watching ‘The Crown,’ because they make her look like a bitch on that show.”

Prince William, played by Alex Moffat, is carrying his latest baby in a front pack and drinking a “virgin hot toddy,” i.e. tea. Harry zings his bro: “So sorry to hear that your hair could not make it.”“Love, Simon” almost had a very different Simon.

In an “Elvis Duran and the Morning Show” interview this week, pop singer-songwriter Shawn Mendes revealed he’d considered pursuing the lead role in the romantic comedy, which is the first major studio film to feature a gay teen protagonist.

“I would’ve loved to [play Simon],” Mendes told Duran, as seen in the video above. “Unfortunately, timing didn’t work out. That would’ve been amazing.”

In the end, the role went to “Jurassic World” veteran Nick Robinson, who has earned near-universal praise for his portrayal of a closeted 17-year-old who seeks love and acceptance in a suburban high school.

Calling Robinson’s performance “incredible,” Mendes has no regrets, as he’s currently gearing up to release a new album. The first single, “In My Blood,” hit the airwaves on March 22 at midnight, which happened to be when he saw “Love, Simon” in theaters, making for a stressful viewing experience.

“It was really amazing, except for the fact that I was freaking out every two minutes checking my phone because the song was coming,” he said. “I thought going to a movie would be a relaxing thing to do. Opposite!”

It’s unclear just how far along Mendes got in the “Love, Simon” casting process. The movie’s director, Greg Berlanti, told HuffPost earlier this month that Robinson was his top choice for the part.The attacker, whose rampage began when he fired on a group of police joggers and also shot the occupants of a car he stole, killed three people and injured 16 others on Friday, according to a government readout.

Beltrame’s death takes the number killed to four.

He was part of a team of gendarmes who were among the first to arrive at the supermarket scene; most of the people in the supermarket escaped after hiding in a cold storage room and then fleeing through an emergency exit.

He offered to trade places with a hostage the attacker was still holding, whereafter he took her place and left his mobile phone on a table, line open. When shots rang out, elite police stormed the building to kill the assailant. Police sources said Beltrame was shot three times.

Police arrested two people after the attack, one of them a woman connected to Lakdim, on Friday and a 17-year-old man said to be one of his friends overnight, judicial sources said.

The Islamic State militant group claimed responsibility for the attack. Macron said security services were checking that claim.

More than 240 people have been killed in France in attacks since 2015 by assailants who either pledged allegiance to Islamic State or were inspired by the ultra-hardline group.

France is part of a group of countries whose warplanes have been bombing Islamic State strongholds in Iraq and Syria, where in recent months IS has lost much of a self-proclaimed “caliphate” of territory it seized in 2014.

One multiple attack by Islamist gunmen and suicide bombers killed 130 people in Paris in November 2015 while another killed close to 90 when a man ran a truck into partying crowds in the Riviera seaside city of Nice in July 2016.

Beltrame, who is survived by his wife, was a qualified parachutist who served in Iraq in 2005. He also worked as part of the elite Republican Guard that protects the presidential Elysee Place offices and residence in Paris, Macron said.

Friday’s assault was the first deadly Islamist attack in France since October 2017, when a man stabbed two young women to death in the port city of Marseille before soldiers killed him.

Several attacks over the past year or more have targeted police and soldiers deployed in big numbers to protect civilians and patrol sensitive spots such as airports and train stations.

Macron said of Beltrame: “In offering himself as a hostage to the terrorist holed up in the Trebes supermarket, lieutenant colonel Beltrame saved the life of a civilian hostage, showing exceptional self-sacrifice and courage.”

The news of Beltrame’s death was first announced France’s interior minister, who said in a Twitter post: “Dead for his country. France will never forget his heroism, bravery and sacrifice.”

(Additional reporting by Sybille de La Hamaide Editing by Mark Heinrich)WASHINGTON — Among the thousands of people who turned out for the March For Our Lives in Washington, D.C., were teachers rallying for safer schools and better protections for their students.

When asked about the subject of safety in the wake of countless school shootings, many of them vehemently opposed arming teachers. That proposal had gained traction in response to the Parkland, Florida, school shooting, including support from President Donald Trump.

The Florida legislature recently passed gun legislation, which included a provision that would allow certain teachers to receive weapons training and carry guns in school. Several other state legislatures have considered similar measures.

Sign from Jessica Blythe, elementary school teacher from Waynesboro, Va., among many teachers I’ve met today who don’t support arming teachers. #MarchForOurLives pic.twitter.com/Hqc54xWRdu — Marina Fang (@marinafang) March 24, 2018

“I don’t want teachers to be armed. I don’t know a single teacher who wants that,” Heather Hagleberg, who teaches elementary school in Fort Myers, Florida, told HuffPost. “That’s a big, big reason why I’m here.”

“I’d probably quit” rather than carry a gun in school, she added.

“I would stand in front of my kids and take a bullet,” said Jessica Blythe from Waynesboro, Va., adding that she “would draw the line” at being armed, but said that she has “coworkers who say, ‘yeah, give me a gun.’”

“I served 9 years in the Marine Corps, and even I wouldn’t trust myself with a gun in a school,” Trymaine Rivero, a college math teacher from Orlando, said.

Yajeh Ndimbie, a kindergarten teacher from Philadelphia, said it would be “horrifying” to have a gun in a classroom of young children.

“I know what my job is. I’ve gone to school to provide children with a great education and to give them love and give them fun and help them learn. I have not gone to school to have a gun,” she said. “I teach kindergarten. It’s baffling to have a gun stay in a kindergarten classroom.”

Yajeh Ndimbie, a kindergarten teacher from Philly, on left: “It’s just not okay that school is a place we’re starting to think is unsafe.” pic.twitter.com/Z0Tl7JHBPi — Dana Liebelson (@dliebelson) March 24, 2018

Schuyler Pietz, a music teacher from Stevens Point, Wisconsin, said that she thinks mental health is a more urgent issue, explaining that her school only has one guidance counselor. Several other teachers raised similar concerns about insufficient numbers of counselors or social workers at their schools, arguing that schools should prioritize that over introducing more guns.

Creative sign from Schuyler Pietz, a music teacher who drove all the way here from Wisconsin. “Adding more weapons to school is not a solution,” she says. #MarchForOurLives pic.twitter.com/xtB610ZPrw — Marina Fang (@marinafang) March 24, 2018

Many teachers also discussed having difficult conversations with their students and colleagues on what to do in the case of a mass shooting. Some recounted having frequent safety drills, such as Caroline Lehman and Sarah Smith, seventh grade teachers from Hershey, Pennsylvania.

Caroline Lehman, 7th grade teacher from Hershey, Pa. Her students signed her sign. “They’re my reasons to march.” #MarchforOurLives pic.twitter.com/z2oiGxUoPl — Marina Fang (@marinafang) March 24, 2018

“It makes you look at your classroom differently,” Lehman said. As an example, she said that she has thought about how she could use air freshener to spray an assailant.

“I have a hammer in my classroom,” Smith added. “We’ve been told we can use our computer as a weapon.”

Both said that they came to the march, in part, to advocate for more solutions that would restrict guns.

“We have to get background checks to work with kids,” Smith said. “It’s harder to buy cold medicine than an AR-15.”The staff of The Wilson Beacon, the student newspaper of Woodrow Wilson High School in Washington, D.C., is covering the March for Our Lives today for HuffPost. They’ll be sending in dispatches from the rally throughout the day. You can follow the paper on Twitter, @thewilsonbeacon.The former late-night TV star, who returned to his old show Wednesday to take over monologue duties from current host Jimmy Fallon, revealed why there was actually no use in the early bird getting the worm and what a journey of a 1,000 miles really begins with.Thousands of people descended on Washington, D.C., Saturday to attend the March For Our Lives protest and bring attention to the issues of gun control and gun violence.

Students from Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Florida, spearheaded the event after 17 people were killed last month in a mass shooting at the school.

Check out the latest photos from March For Our Lives rallies in Washington and around the world:More than a million students, teachers and activists across the country took to the streets on Saturday to demand that something be done about lax gun control laws.

On Feb. 14, a gunman stormed Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Florida, killing 17 and wounding more than a dozen others. It’s an all-too-familiar story in a country that has already seen more than a dozen school shootings in 2018 alone.

But this shooting was different. The students who survived the slaughter stood up, demanding that those in power act to stop making it so easy to obtain assault-style rifles.

During the main protest in Washington, D.C., on Saturday, teens carried signs blasting the National Rifle Association and calling for common-sense gun reform. Half a million protesters were expected to be at the D.C. rally alone.

Eli Bicken, from Cumberland, Md., says he hopes more businesses like Dick’s take a stand on guns. “The wallet is really going to change things. These kids, and corporations.” #MarchForOurLives pic.twitter.com/6cuR0CfKx4 — Marina Fang (@marinafang) March 24, 2018

“Our parents didn’t do lockdown drills in schools,” Fiona Coffin, 17, told HuffPost. “We shouldn’t have to grow up with this.”

In New York City, Stoneman Douglas student Megan Bonner spoke to a crowd of thousands about her friend, Alana Petty, who died in the shooting.

“We called her Little Petty,” Bonner said. “She always had a smile on her face.”

Bonner began to cry.

“The adults have failed us,” she said.

People and students hold signs while rallying in the street during the "March for Our Lives" demanding stricter gun control laws at the Miami Beach Senior High School, in Miami, Florida, U.S., March 24, 2018. REUTERS/Javier Galeano Javier Galeano / Reuters

Stoneman Douglas high school senior Delaney Tarr gave an impassioned speech in the nation’s capital, calling on Americans to fight against the NRA.

“This is a movement reliant on the persistence and passion of its people,” Tarr said. “We cannot move on. If we move on, the NRA and those against us will win. They want us to forget. They want our voices to be silenced. And they want to retreat into the shadows where they can remain unnoticed. They want to be back on top, unquestioned in their corruption, but we cannot and we will not let that happen.”

Edna Lizbeth Chavez, a 17-year-old from South Los Angeles, spoke of her brother, Ricardo, who lost his life from gun violence.

“I also lost my mother, my sister and myself to that trauma and that anxiety,” she said. “If the bullet did not kill me, that anxiety and that trauma will. I carry that trauma everywhere I go.”

One of the leading voices of the movement, Stoneman Douglas student Emma Gonzalez, first made her voice heard at a protest in Fort Lauderdale days following the shooting.

“If the president wants to come up to me and tell me to my face that it was a terrible tragedy, and how it should never have happened, and maintain telling us how nothing is going to be done about it, I’m going to happily ask him how much money he received from the National Rifle Association,” she said at the time.

The protests that started in Florida had a snowball effect across the country. On March 14, one month after the shooting, thousands of students across the country left their classes ― some facing punishment for the act of civil disobedience ― to demand gun reform.

Through all this, the survivors have been told they’re too young to have opinions. They’ve been attacked by politicians. They’ve been called crisis actors. Yet it hasn’t deterred them from making sure more children don’t die.A teen from South Los Angeles who lost her brother to gun violence commanded the March for Our Lives stage in Washington, D.C., on Saturday with a moving speech about the trauma survivors face and the urgent need for change.

“I am a survivor,” Edna Lizbeth Chavez, a 17-year-old student at Manual Arts High School, told the crowd. “I have lived in South L.A. my entire life and have lost many loved ones to gun violence. This is normal. Normal to the point that I have learned to duck from bullets before I learned how to read.”

Chavez revealed that her brother, Ricardo, was killed by a bullet when he was in high school, a violent act that permanently changed her entire family.

“I also lost my mother, my sister and myself to that trauma and that anxiety,” she said. “If the bullet did not kill me, that anxiety and that trauma will. I carry that trauma everywhere I go.”

Edna Chavez spoke at the March For Our Lives rally in D.C. about gun violence and the urgent need for change. Paul Morigi via Getty Images

The teen, who is an activist and youth leader in Los Angeles, spoke passionately about the need not only for gun law reform but also for drastic cultural change in schools. She emphasized that more guns and more police on campuses is not the answer, noting that cops in schools are more likely to “profile and criminalize” black and brown students than to make them feel safe.

“Arming teachers will not work,” Chavez said. “More security in our schools does not work. Zero tolerance policies do not work. They make us feel like criminals. We should feel empowered and supported in our schools.”

AdvertisementThere are more than 800 cities around the world in which thousands of students, teachers and activists are marching in an effort to promote gun control laws.

The March for Our Lives movement came about after a gunman stormed Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Florida, last month and killed 17 students and adults.Emma González’s silence spoke as loud as her words on Saturday, as the survivor of last month’s school shooting in Parkland, Florida, took a prolonged and powerful pause while addressing the crowd at the March For Our Lives rally in Washington, D.C.

“Six minutes and about 20 seconds,” said the teen when she first appeared onstage. “In a little over six minutes, 17 of our friends were taken from us, 15 were injured, and everyone, absolutely everyone in the Douglas community, was forever altered.”

González described the horrific day that a gunman opened fire at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School.

Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School student Emma Gonzalez cries as she addresses the crowd at the March For Our Lives rally in Washington, D.C., on Saturday. NICHOLAS KAMM via Getty Images

“For us, long, tearful, chaotic hours in the scorching afternoon sun were spent not knowing,” González said during her speech.

“No one understood the extent of what had happened,” she added. “No one could believe that there were bodies in that building waiting to be identified for over a day. No one knew that the people who had gone missing had stopped breathing long before any of us had even known that a code red had been called. No one could comprehend the devastating aftermath or how far this would reach or where this would go. For those who still can’t comprehend, because they refuse to, I’ll tell you where it went: right into the ground, six feet deep.”

González then listed all of the victims’ names and talked about things they would never get to do again.

Emma González reads the names of her fellow Parkland students who were killed, then stands in silence. #MarchForOurLives (via CBS) pic.twitter.com/QLxVFmFI8K — Kyle Griffin (@kylegriffin1) March 24, 2018

When she finished the list, the teary-eyed teen stayed silent. When she finally spoke again, she revealed that it had been exactly six minutes and 20 seconds since she had started her speech.

Thousands of people gathered in Washington, D.C., as Emma González addressed the crowd and honored shooting victims with six minutes of silence. Astrid Riecken for HuffPost

“Since the time that I came out here, it has been six minutes and 20 seconds,” González said before leaving the stage. “The shooter has ceased shooting and will soon abandon his rifle, blend in with the students as they escape and walk free for an hour before arrest. Fight for your life, before it’s someone else’s job.”

Many on social media commended the teenager for her bravery:

Silence is such a powerful rhetorical device in speeches. @Emma4Change is right now exhibiting incredible power — Ismail (@imadni) March 24, 2018

The power of silence is so underestimated, @Emma4Change is holding this crowd in the palm of her hand. — Elizabeth West (@Limeylizzie) March 24, 2018

Without saying a word.



Special soul @Emma4Change is. — AJ (@AlisaJass) March 24, 2018

Amen. I can't stay silent for more than 30 seconds usually. That #EmmaGonzalez is an amazing young woman. @Emma4Change — Dave (@D_opus) March 24, 2018

In an interview with HuffPost before the march, González said she had big hopes for the turnout and was inspired to talk because she “kind of realized that the learned helplessness is coming to an end.”

“There are no consequences for us to speak our mind,” she said. “The country was built for us to share our opinions and to vote our conscience and to get our opinions and decisions heard. So, that’s what we’re gonna do.”Starbucks announced a new policy of inclusivity on Saturday that will permit anyone to sit in its cafes or use the stores’ restrooms, regardless of whether they’ve bought anything, The Associated Press reported.

The move comes weeks after one of the coffee chain’s stores in Philadelphia incited outrage for calling the police on two black men who had not made a purchase while they waited for a friend to arrive.

“We are committed to creating a culture of warmth and belonging where everyone is welcome,” the company said in a statement.

@Starbucks The police were called because these men hadn’t ordered anything. They were waiting for a friend to show up, who did as they were taken out in handcuffs for doing nothing. All the other white ppl are wondering why it’s never happened to us when we do the same thing. pic.twitter.com/0U4Pzs55Ci — Melissa DePino (@missydepino) April 12, 2018

Rashon Nelson and Donte Robinson were arrested for “trespassing” on April 12 after a Starbucks store manager in Philadelphia called the police. Nelson said he’d asked the manager if he could use the restroom when he arrived in the cafe but was told the facilities were for paying customers only. The men said they’d been waiting for a friend to arrive when the police arrived and they were arrested ― mere minutes after they’d entered the store.

Their arrest, captured on camera, quickly became a public relations nightmare for Starbucks. Protests erupted at the Philadelphia store and demonstrators accused the cafe’s staff of racism. The manager no longer works for the company.

The company moved quickly to control the damage. Starbucks CEO Kevin Johnson flew to Philadelphia soon after the incident to personally meet with the two men, who later settled with the company for an undisclosed sum and free college tuition for an online program created by Starbucks for its employees. Separately, they got a symbolic $1 each from the city of Philadelphia and a pledge from officials to set up a $200,000 to promote entrepreneurship among high school students.

Johnson also announced plans to close more than 8,000 Starbucks stores in the U.S. on May 29 so workers can receive training about racial bias.

Starbucks said Saturday that going forward, its employees had been told to “consider anyone who walks into its stores a customer” ― whether or not they buy anything, reported AP.

The company noted, however, that law enforcement will be notified if a customer appears to pose a threat to safety.

Starbucks founder and chairman Howard Schultz said last week that while the company doesn’t “want to become a public bathroom... we’re going to make the right decision 100 percent of the time and give people the key.”Wakanda Forever! Marvel Studios

In the U.S., “Black Panther” is officially the king of superhero films.

This weekend the Marvel film became the highest domestic-grossing superhero film of all time, not accounting for inflation, according to The Hollywood Reporter. Deadline lists the movie as taking in a whopping $630.9 million. That figure passes “The Avengers,” which brought in $623.4 million in 2012.

The Ryan Coogler-directed “Black Panther” should also become third highest-grossing superhero film globally, passing 2013′s “Iron Man 3” at $1.214 billion.

The first two Avengers films still hold a hefty lead in worldwide gross, with “The Avengers” netting $1.5 billion, and the followup, “Avengers: Age Of Ultron,” making $1.4 billion in 2015.

Unfortunately, “Black Panther” may not hold the domestic record as Marvel’s highest-grossing film for long because Marvel’s highly anticipated crossover “Avengers: Infinity Wars” comes out April 27. Presale tickets for that film are already selling at a higher rate than any superhero film ever.President Donald Trump endures a cartoon nightmare in a new short from “The Simpsons.”

Trump takes a hard look in the mirror in the amusing “A Tale Of Two Trumps” clip that Fox shared online Friday.

“You’ve been acting like a narcissistic sociopath and 64 percent to 67 percent of the people hate you,” Trump tells himself, as he finally appears to find the benefits of being brutally honest.

But there’s a twist in the tale, and it’s not long before a familiar figure is facing Trump’s fury once more.It’s always a gamble to make a silly bet ― something several fans of “The Tonight Show” found out the hard way.

On Thursday, host Jimmy Fallon read out some of the dumbest bets his viewers have made, including one that apparently ended with a Tina Turner-themed “Shrimply the Best” tattoo.

AdvertisementBill Maher on Friday took aim at Fox News for the power it appears to have over President Donald Trump.

“It’s scary how much Trump takes his cues from Fox News,” Maher said on “Real Time.”

“[Russian President Vladimir] Putin has state TV but Putin’s not an idiot, so state TV does what Putin wants,” the comedian added. “I think it’s the other way in this country. I think we’re being ... America’s being run by Steve Doocy.”“The man — Trump, the president of the United States — is a mess. He has no balls. He hasn’t got one ball. He literally has nothing,” Young said. “All the bravado, all the ‘you’re fired, you’re fired,’ all that shit, he doesn’t have the balls to look anybody in the face and tell them anything.”Stars like Kim Kardashian, Miley Cyrus, Lin-Manuel Miranda and many more are showing their support for the March For Our Lives.

Thousands of students, teachers and activists hit the pavement in Washington, D.C., and in hundreds of cities across the country on Saturday all for one cause: gun reform.

A lone gunman stormed the halls of Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School and took the lives of 17 people in Parkland, Florida, on Feb. 14. Student survivors of that massacre are no longer telling their stories to local media and grieving quietly. They are taking a stand to tell the world that enough is enough with America’s gun problem.

March For Our Lives is not only about changing our gun laws, it’s an effort to keep children alive so they can become adults who are catalysts for change.

Luckily, many celebrities have been using their platforms to support and spread the word about the march.

Taylor Swift posted on Instagram Friday that she would be making a donation to the march “to show my support for the students, for the March for Our Lives campaign, for everyone affected by these tragedies, and to support gun reform.” Pop musician Lady Gaga said she was sponsoring a bus “heading from Harlem to DC” for the event.

Comedian Amy Schumer showed her support by saying she was marching for Mayci Breaux and Jillian Johnson, two women who were killed when a gunman entered a Lafayette, Louisiana, movie theater during a showing of Schumer’s movie “Trainwreck.”WASHINGTON ― As hundreds of thousands of students, teachers and activists rallied around the country to demand greater gun safety regulations on Saturday, a small number of counterdemonstrators took to the streets to argue against additional gun control policies.

Outside the Trump International Hotel in downtown Washington, D.C., a handful of gun rights supporters held homemade signs with slogans like “Keep your hands off my guns.”

Lots of marchers are trolling Trump by taking photos outside his hotel with their signs. These guys are counter-protesting in favor of gun rights pic.twitter.com/3iQz4eWJJU — Igor Bobic (@igorbobic) March 24, 2018

Brandon Howard, an Army veteran, said that instead of implementing new gun restrictions, people should encourage teachers to arm themselves to keep children safe and prevent school shootings.

“They need teachers, who on a voluntary basis, have been trained in the use of a firearm, if they do so choose, carry it concealed in the classroom every day,” he said.

Several other anti-gun control advocates waved Maryland flags outside of the International Spy Museum near the Chinatown neighborhood in Washington, D.C.

At least 7 or 8 dudes showed up to counterprotest pic.twitter.com/EGQhHcUbUD — Judd Legum (@JuddLegum) March 24, 2018

Corey Stewart, a Republican Senate candidate in Virginia, spoke at a gun rights rally Saturday in Roanoke, Virginia.

A significant number of gun rights activists held a rally in Salt Lake City, Utah, that they called the “March Before Our Lives.”

Speaking about the March For Our Lives protesters in the nation’s capital and hundreds of other cities, Utah demonstrator Brandon McKee told The New York Times, “I believe it’s their goal to unarm America.”

“That’s why we’re here today,” McKee said. “We’re not going to stand idly by and let them tell us what we can and cannot do.”Enough.

That was the message that hundreds of thousands of protesters around the world had Saturday for lawmakers who have ignored the toll of gun violence and refused to pass meaningful gun reform legislation.

At the March For Our Lives event in Washington, D.C., students from Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Florida ― where 17 people were killed last month ― gave passionate, articulate speeches encouraging young adults to vote.

Survivor David Hogg made it clear that politicians in the pocket of the National Rifle Association wouldn’t be around much longer.

“To those politicians supported by the NRA and who allow the continued slaughter of our children and our future, I say: Get your resumes ready,” Hogg said.

Fellow survivor and activist Delaney Tarr echoed the sentiment.

“If we move on, the NRA and those against us will win. They want us to forget. They want our voices to be silenced. And they want to retreat into the shadows where they can remain unnoticed,” Tarr said. “They want to be back on top, unquestioned in their corruption, but we cannot and we will not let that happen.”

Everytown for Gun Safety, a nonprofit established after the Sandy Hook Elementary school massacre, provided support to the young organizers. Organizers said more than 800 marches were planned around the U.S. and abroad, with some protesters traveling from neighboring states to attend the largest gatherings.

Many of their signs skewered politicians and the National Rifle Association. The more popular chants that broke out among the crowds included “Not one more,” “Vote them out” and “The NRA has got to go!”

Thousands of people gather on Pennsylvania Avenue at the March For Our Lives rally in Washington. ANDREW CABALLERO-REYNOLDS via Getty Images

Stephen, 17, from Syracuse, New York, told HuffPost that people his age aren’t looking for “band-aid solutions.” Brianna, 17, also from Syracuse, said she’s “sick of crying.”

“Let’s fucking do something,” she said. “Go out and do something. Vote.”

Even the youngest speakers pushed for people to take action at the polls. Naomi Wadler, an 11-year-old activist, acknowledged “the African-American girls whose stories don’t make the front page of every national newspaper, whose stories don’t lead on the evening news.”

“We know we have seven short years until we too have the right to vote,” she said of her peers. “So I am here today to honor the words of Toni Morrison: ‘If there is a book that you want to read but it hasn’t been written yet you must be the one to write it.’”

Eleven-year-old activist Christopher Lane, a sixth grader who helped organize the New York march, shared a similar message, reciting statistics about how gun violence disproportionally affects black people.

"I am here to acknowledge & represent the African-American girls whose stories don't make the front page of every national newspaper, whose stories don't lead on the evening news," says Naomi Wadler, an 11-year-old from Alexandria, Va. https://t.co/jujbxM0M4i #MarchForOurLives pic.twitter.com/3lLhpHhDby — CBS News (@CBSNews) March 24, 2018

Colette Paterson, 14, told HuffPost that she and her mother decided to attend the New York march after Colette and 200 others at her Perkasie, Pennsylvania, high school received detentions for walking out in protest of gun violence.

“She’ll be voting in four years. That’s not a long time,” said Colette’s mother, Stephanie, who has a concealed carry permit.

Speaking to a crowd of thousands in New York City, Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School student Meghan Bonner paid tribute to her friend, Alaina Petty, who was killed on Feb. 14.

Bonner, one of many teens from Parkland who leapt into action after the shooting, sent a message of action to people her age: “The adults failed us, and now 17 people are dead.”While there were many incredible, poised speakers at Saturday’s March For Our Lives across the country, an 11-year-old from Alexandria, Virginia, named Naomi Wadler was arguably the most inspiring.

“I represent the African-American women who are victims of gun violence, who are simply statistics instead of vibrant, beautiful girls full of potential,” the preteen said in her speech to a massive crowd in Washington, D.C.

The fifth grader was chosen to speak at the march after she organized a walkout at her elementary school on March 14 to protest gun violence and honor the lives of those lost in the Marjory Stoneman Douglas shooting in Parkland, Florida. She also honored Courtlin Arrington a 17-year-old high school senior from Alabama who was shot and killed in school, just weeks after the Florida shooting.

Naomi told a local Virginia news station that she thinks “it’s completely unacceptable that we are not exercising our rights to be safe at school.”

This brilliant 11-year-old girl is doing more to address gun violence and systemic racism than most adults pic.twitter.com/oRqCFMBAqz — NowThis (@nowthisnews) March 22, 2018

At Saturday’s march, Naomi’s eloquence and passion radiated throughout her speech. Yet again, she made sure to say that the march was not only for those killed in Parkland, but also for those who are underrepresented and whose names are just as worthy of remembering.

“I am here today to represent Courtlin Arrington. I am here today to represent Hadiya Pendleton. I am here today to represent Taiyana Thompson, who at just 16 was shot dead in her home here in Washington D.C.,” Naomi said.

Chip Somodevilla via Getty Images

“I am here to acknowledge and represent the African-American girls whose stories don’t make the front page of every national newspaper, whose stories don’t lead on the evening news. I represent the African-American women who are victims of gun violence, who are simply statistics instead of vibrant, beautiful girls full of potential.”

"I am here to acknowledge & represent the African-American girls whose stories don't make the front page of every national newspaper, whose stories don't lead on the evening news," says Naomi Wadler, an 11-year-old from Alexandria, Va. https://t.co/jujbxM0M4i #MarchForOurLives pic.twitter.com/3lLhpHhDby — CBS News (@CBSNews) March 24, 2018

Naomi continued, saying she knows many people believe she’s too young to have the thoughts and opinions.

“My friends and I might still be 11, and we might still be in elementary school but we know. We know life isn’t equal for everyone and we know what is right and wrong,” she said.

“We also know that we stand in the shadow of the Capitol, and we know that we have seven short years until we too have the right to vote.”

The speech is making waves on Twitter, with people calling Naomi their president and “our future”:

Naomi Wadler is currently standing in the gap for all of the black girls and black women who are victims of gun violence. All the black girls and Black women who don’t get a hashtag and who don’t become front page news. Thank you Naomi. #MarchForOurLives — Symone D. Sanders (@SymoneDSanders) March 24, 2018

Wow wow Naomi Wadler. She is ELEVEN YEARS OLD. And smarter than us all. #marchforourlives — Jessica Valenti (@JessicaValenti) March 24, 2018

Young Ms. Naomi Wadler just rocked my world and thrilled the nation. Her eloquence and intelligence, her exquisite poise and dignity, and her insistence that little black girls not be left behind, was a searing call to justice for those who are often forgotten! A star is born! — Michael Eric Dyson (@MichaelEDyson) March 24, 2018

Naomi Wadler: Remember her name. Young Black Girls Rock. #MarchForOurLivesDC pic.twitter.com/OTjogrm7WQ — Chris Redwood (@KissyfurRedwood) March 24, 2018

Naomi Wadler is my President. — Tessa Thompson (@TessaThompson_x) March 24, 2018

My gosh. Naomi Wadler is in ELEMENTARY SCHOOL and she is speaking better than I could to the crowd in Washington. AMAZING young person — Matt Perrault (@sportstalkmatt) March 24, 2018

#naomiwadler I can’t wait to see what you do next pic.twitter.com/uy3fzTbatm — souven (@mylenemoreno) March 24, 2018

Naomi Wadler you are something!! I know for the rest of my life I will witness your important work.. thank you in advance ❤️❤️❤️ — Kirstie Alley (@kirstiealley) March 24, 2018Gino DePinto, AOL

Kacey Musgraves has been one of country music’s most outspoken LGBTQ-friendly voices since 2013, when the singer released “Follow Your Arrow,” a song that urged listeners to “make lots of noise, kiss lots of boys, or kiss lots of girls, if that’s what you’re into.”

Since then, she’s played Pride festivals and charity events for LGBTQ organizations. In 2015, Musgraves held a record release party alongside drag queens at a popular Nashville gay club. And last year, she penned a “love letter” to the LGBTQ community to mark the start of Pride Month, in which she described her own evolution on the issue of equality.

But now, five years after releasing the song that became a “queer country anthem,” Musgraves is ready for someone else to assume her mantle: namely, an artist who, unlike her, is gay.

“I keep dreaming of the day when we have a gay country music icon, that is loud and proud and really, like, a hero for country music fans, especially in these small towns where [LGBTQ people] are terrified of being themselves and feel like they have to hide,” Musgraves, 29, told HuffPost in a recent interview ahead of the release of “Golden Hour,” her latest album set for release March 30.

“If we had someone who could be that voice, a first-person account of that voice in our genre,” she said, “I think it could be a really powerful thing.”

There have been notable country music singers who have come out as gay: in particular, Chely Wright, who came out in 2010, and Ty Herndon, who followed four years later. But while Wright and Herndon still perform and release new music, they were both more than a decade removed from their last major chart successes by the time they came out.

Wright and Herndon received support ― mostly of the quiet variety ― from within country music industry, they both told HuffPost. But their decisions to come out also didn’t fully break down the barriers facing LGBTQ people in country music, an industry with a deserved reputation as a somewhat unfriendly place for gay artists and fans.

“I think that the rap that country music gets for being a bit homophobic, or a lot homophobic, we come by that honestly,” Wright said.

Ty Herndon came out as gay in 2014 — these days, he says he's starting to see "two cowboy hats two-stepping together" more often at his country shows. Rick Diamond via Getty Images

These days, Nashville is moving toward broader acceptance of LGBTQ people, Herndon told HuffPost, especially as more and more people within country have come out, and an increasing number of industry insiders have spoken out in favor of equality.

Shane McAnally, who helped write “Follow Your Arrow” and is one of Nashville’s most accomplished songwriters, came out in 2013. In January 2017, Country Music Television host Cody Alan did, too. And Brandy Clark, a songwriter who co-wrote “Follow Your Arrow,” is now perhaps the closest thing country has to that openly gay star Musgraves is dreaming of.

Earlier this month, former Arkansas Gov. Mike Huckabee (R) resigned from the Country Music Association’s board of directors thanks to backlash over his anti-LGBTQ views from country musicians and industry insiders.

But Herndon still isn’t sure the industry is ready to put an openly gay singer center stage, especially because many inside it fear alienating a fan base that skews toward traditional and cultural conservatism.

“Can there be an openly gay guy or girl on the radio singing about their hearts and who they love?” Herndon asked. “I think we’re getting to a place in Nashville where the industry would do it. I just don’t know how the fans would react to it.”

In 2013, when Musgraves released “Follow Your Arrow,” some industry insiders were skittish about a young artist releasing such a politically charged song so early in her career.

“I was told … that it would tank and that it would be terrible for me,” Musgraves said. “But I said, ‘I don’t really care.’ I think it’s a message we need, and I liked the song.”

“Follow Your Arrow” didn’t tank. Instead, it became one of Musgraves’ most successful singles, rising to No. 10 on Billboard’s Hot Country Chart ― which combines radio play with sales and online data ― and earning Song of the Year honors from the Country Music Association.

Still, the song was a relative failure on the radio, peaking only at No. 43 on Billboard’s Country Airplay Chart, which measures radio play exclusively. It was a sign that many country stations were at least a little reticent to play it, and yet another indication of the power country music’s fan base has over radio programmers and producers’ decisions.

“The third rail of country is sexuality,” said Keith Hill, a longtime radio programmer. “Ninety-nine percent of it is guys getting excited about a country girl.”

But with “Follow Your Arrow,” Hill said, country radio “missed an opportunity” to have a true “sea-change moment.”

Chely Wright, whose "Single White Female" topped country charts in 1999, came out in 2010. Paul Morigi via Getty Images

“Most [radio producers and programmers] are not homophobic, but they know their fan base,” Wright said. “They know who calls in on morning drive, who’s calling in on afternoon drive, who’s showing up at appreciation shows. Putting the onus on radio guys and gals is probably unfair, but a significant portion of their fan base ― their political and faith based allegiances lean right, and they know it.”

Still, it’s obvious to artists like Herndon and Wright what sort of impact an openly gay singer can have on their own fans. For Herndon, it’s not uncommon to look out during his performances and see “two cowboy hats two-stepping together,” or for younger fans who’ve recently come out to approach him after shows they attended with their parents.

“We have a large rate of suicide in the South, and around the country, from LGBTQ kids,” Herndon said. “And having a kid come to your show and finding out they’re 14 and the parents brought them because he just came out to them, I get emotional.”

Musgraves’ newest album, “Golden Hour,” doesn’t include anything quite as outspoken “Follow Your Arrow.” But her activism hasn’t stopped: She played an LGBTQ benefit dinner in Manhattan in late January.

“I look out at all of my shows and I see gay couples singing and crying and holding each other, and it makes me feel good that they feel like they have a safe place at my shows to be themselves,” she said.

And while country music may not have its openly gay superstar yet, that won’t stop Musgraves from arguing that it’s a place where LGBTQ artists should be welcome to tell their own stories. McAnally in particular, she noted, has written major hits for nearly every big-time country star, including Sam Hunt, Kenny Chesney and Miranda Lambert, because the stories and topics that form the backbone of country music are universal.

“Country music has always been about real life,” Musgraves said. “If you look back at Hank Williams and Willie Nelson and all them, their songs were all about heartbreak … and divorce and cheating and losing your job, and all these things that are struggles in everyday life.”Things weren’t looking so sunny for Alec Baldwin’s Donald Trump on “Saturday Night Live’s” cold open that channeled the last dark episode of HBO’s “The Sopranos.”

Baldwin kind of enjoys a get-together with sort-of pals and lawyers Michael Cohen, (Ben Stiller), and Rudy Giuliani (Kate McKinnon) in the season finale. They’re meeting in the last place we saw the increasingly beleaguered Tony Soprano — Jersey’s Holsten’s restaurant — and listening to the same song: Journey’s “Don’t Stop Believin’.”

Cohen, sounding like a mobster, tells Trump: “They say I might do 20 years unless I give you up.”

Trump responds: “I’ve heard jail’s fun. It’s like camp — plus, there’s a free gym. Dude, you’re gonna get so jacked!”

Giuliani laughs that Cohen can actually get a “real” law degree in prison.

Then Donald Jr. (Mikey Day) saunters in as brother Eric (Alex Moffatt) tries in vain to parallel park his Big Wheels outside (again, a spoof of the “The Sopranos’” finale).

In walks Robert Mueller, played by Robert De Niro. He sits, ominously, at a nearby table and only Trump can see him. As Mueller heads to the restroom, he points at his eyes, then at Trump, silently warning him: “I’m watching you.”

Cut to black.The RNC linked to a page on President Donald Trump’s official website, from which visitors could buy the pet accessory for $16.

“Your faithful companion will thank you when you take him or her for a walk with our MAGA Pet leash,” the product listing stated. “Whether it’s a walk in the park or just around the block, you’ll make your walk great again with this functional and fashionable leash.”My name is Delaney Tarr, and I’m here today because I’m a Marjory Stoneman Douglas student. However, I’m not here today for the media. I’m not here for the crowds, as great as you all are, for the fame, for the fun. I’m here on this stage today and I’ve been working everyday for my 17 fellow Eagles who were pronounced dead because of gunfire.

I am here for every person that has died at the hands of gun violence and for the many more whose lives were irreparably changed because of it. I think, I hope that that is why we are all here. Because this is more than just a march. This is more than just one day, one event, then moving on. This is not a mere publicity stunt, a single day in the span of history. This is a movement.

This is a movement reliant on the persistence and passion of its people. We cannot move on. If we move on, the NRA and those against us will win. They want us to forget. They want our voices to be silenced. And they want to retreat into the shadows where they can remain unnoticed. They want to be back on top, unquestioned in their corruption, but we cannot and we will not let that happen.

Today, and every day, we will continue to fight for those things that are right. We will continue to fight for common sense. We will continue to fight for our lives. We will continue to fight for our dead friends. There will be no faltering, no pauses in our cause. Every moment will be dedicated to those pieces of legislation ― every march, every meeting, every moment. All for that assault weapons ban to keep these weapons of war out of the hands of civilians who do not need them. All for the prohibition of high-capacity magazines. Because no hunter will ever need access to a magazine that can kill 17 in mere minutes. All for the reinforcement of background checks and closing of loopholes, because there must be more of a requirement for a person to access a gun than just a wad of cash.

There are so very many things, so many steps to take. Like right now, sign our petition. It takes two seconds and it matters. We will take the big and we will take the small, but we will keep fighting. When they give us that inch, that bump stock ban, we will take a mile.

We are not here for bread crumbs. We are here for real change.

We are here to lead.

We are here to call out every single politician, to force them into enacting this legislation, to addressing this legislation, to doing more than a simple Band-Aid on a broken bone. The pressure is on for every person in power, and it will stay that way. Because they know what is coming. They know that if there is no assault weapons ban passed, then we will vote them out. They know that if there is no tightening of the background checks, we will vote them out. They know that if there is no shrinking of magazine capacity, then we will vote them out.

If they continue to ignore us, to only pretend to listen, then we will take action where it counts. We will take action every day, in every way, until they simply cannot ignore us anymore. Today we march, we fight, we roar. We prepare our signs, we raise them high. We know what we want, we know how to get it, and we are not waiting any longer.President Donald Trump will be going forward with his plan to ban transgender people from military service "except under limited circumstances." MANDEL NGAN/AFP via Getty Images

President Donald Trump announced Friday that he’s sticking to his ban on transgender people in the military, even though the Pentagon showed little enthusiasm for the proposal.

In a memo released Friday night, the White House said that transgender individuals are “disqualified from military service except under limited circumstances.” The full ban was set to officially take effect Friday, though a pair of federal courts in December ordered the U.S. military to allow the recruitment of transgender citizens into the armed forces despite Trump’s declaration.

“Transgender persons with a history or diagnosis of gender dysphoria ― individuals who the policies state may require substantial medical treatment, including medications and surgery ― are disqualified from military service except under certain limited circumstances,” the memo says.

Trump’s decision to keep the ban comes one month after a Washington Post report suggested that Defense Secretary Jim Mattis would urge Trump to allow transgender citizens to continue serving in the military.

Mattis delivered his recommendations to Trump in late February, but their conversation remained private.

In a statement following the memo, the White House said Friday’s announcement allows Mattis to “implement a new policy developed through extensive study by senior uniformed and civilian leaders, including combat veterans.”

The White House added that Mattis and Homeland Security Secretary Kirstjen Nielsen have concluded that the “accession or retention of individuals with a history or diagnosis of gender dysphoria ... presents considerable risk to military effectiveness and lethality.”

The Trump administration’s controversial transgender military ban has faced opposition at every corner since Trump announced the policy change in a series of surprising tweets last summer.

In July, Trump said he was banning transgender citizens from the armed forces because of the supposed “burden” of their “tremendous medical costs.” (Transition-related care costs the military only a fraction of its overall budget. The Department of Defense spends tremendously more on Viagra for erectile dysfunction than it does on transgender medical costs.)

His tweets, which reportedly took the Pentagon by surprise, were followed by an official White House memo sent to the departments of defense and homeland security that provided details and a timeline for his proposed ban.

The memo required the armed forces to stop accepting transgender recruits by Jan. 1 and halt the use of federal funds for transition-related care for military personnel by March 22.

Despite the memo, the Pentagon began accepting transgender recruits again on Jan. 1, complying with federal court orders calling for a halt to the ban while it was being legally challenged.

In late February, the U.S. military accepted its first openly transgender recruit to sign up for service since Trump’s pronouncement. The Department of Defense confirmed that the recruit had signed a contract for service in the military and would be attending basic training in the coming months.

Even with this new announcement, the Defense Department said it will continue to allow transgender people in the military as ordered by federal courts in several cases challenging the ban.

Pentagon spokeswoman Dana White told HuffPost that the “DOD will continue to access and retain transgender individuals in compliance with the court orders.”

The American Civil Liberties Union criticized the policy on Friday night, insisting that federal courts handling four challenges to the ban, including an ACLU challenge, have blocked the military from carrying it out.

“What the White House released tonight is transphobia masquerading as policy, for the sole purpose of carrying out President Trump’s reckless and unconstitutional ban,” the civil rights organization tweeted.

“It undermines the ability of trans service members to serve openly and military readiness as a whole.”

BREAKING: The Department of Defense announced its plan tonight to implement President Trump’s directive to ban transgender service members from serving in the military.



That directive has been blocked by federal courts in four separate cases, including our case, Stone v. Trump. — ACLU (@ACLU) March 24, 2018

What the White House released tonight is transphobia masquerading as policy, for the sole purpose of carrying out President Trump’s reckless and unconstitutional ban. It undermines the ability of trans service members to serve openly and military readiness as a whole. — ACLU (@ACLU) March 24, 2018

This policy effectively coerces transgender people who wish to serve into choosing between their humanity and their country, and makes it clear that transgender service members are not welcome.



Transgender people in our military deserve more from their government. — ACLU (@ACLU) March 24, 2018

The Justice Department said in a statement that it supports Trump’s decision to keep some transgender individuals out of the military and called on the federal courts to lift the orders that challenge the new policy.

“Consistent with this new policy, we are asking the courts to lift all related preliminary injunctions in order to ensure the safety and security of the American people and the best fighting force in the world,” the statement reads.

DOJ statement on transgender military policy: pic.twitter.com/jWAOQB3Fjz — Ryan J. Reilly (@ryanjreilly) March 24, 2018As hundreds of thousands of people descended on Washington, D.C., Saturday, satellite imaging company DigitalGlobe had an eye in space to document the historic moment.

The following images were captured by DigitalGlobe’s WorldView-2 satellite at 11:59 a.m. Eastern time, which was the peak time for the crowd to be at the march.I am pleased to announce that, effective 4/9/18, @AmbJohnBolton will be my new National Security Advisor. I am very thankful for the service of General H.R. McMaster who has done an outstanding job & will always remain my friend. There will be an official contact handover on 4/9.Tumblr deleted 84 accounts that it says were linked to the Russian Internet Research Agency and were “used as part of a disinformation campaign leading up to the 2016 U.S. election.”

The company is “taking steps to protect against future interference in our political conversation by state-sponsored propaganda campaigns,” Tumblr announced in a Friday post on its staff blog.

kycstudio via Getty Images

Tumblr, which is owned by HuffPost’s parent company Oath, says it uncovered this information last fall and is only alerting users now after investigations have been completed. It added that it is now working to “protect Tumblr in the future.”

During the investigation, the company notified law enforcement, terminated the IRA-linked accounts and deleted all of their original posts. It also said the company worked with the Department of Justice, providing officials information that ultimately helped indict 13 people who worked for the agency.

The blog post also gives readers a run-down of what the Russian agency did, what Tumblr is doing in response to the investigation and how the company plans to stop future disinformation campaigns.

“First, we’ll be emailing anyone who liked, reblogged, replied to, or followed an IRA-linked account with the list of usernames they engaged with,” the post says.

The email looks like this:

Jenna Amatulli

Tumblr also said it will begin keeping a public record of usernames linked to the IRA and that it will “be monitoring Tumblr for signs of state-sponsored disinformation campaigns.” It also encouraged users to keep an eye out for propagandists, be skeptical of what they’re reading and call out people who are spreading misinformation.

Additionally, the post asks for users to vote.

“Transparency won’t mean a thing if we don’t participate in the process. Whatever your political stance, voting ensures a government that represents your interests,” the post reads.

Tumblr declined a HuffPost request for further comment.

The announcement comes after much speculation that Tumblr, like Facebook and Twitter, was facilitating trolls working for the Russia-backed agency. BuzzFeed News reported last month that Russian online trolls posing as black activists on Tumblr had created “hundreds of thousands of interactions for content that ranged from calling Hillary Clinton a ‘monster’ to supporting Bernie Sanders and decrying racial injustice and police violence in the US.”

Prior to Friday’s blog post, Tumblr had not disclosed anything publicly about Russian interference on its platform.

Many on Twitter praised Tumblr for transparency. Others shared the emails they received from the company:

among the social platforms, i think @tumblr is doing an admirable job taking a clear stance against disinformation and being transparent about what that involves, including this email i got notifying me which russia-linked accounts i had interacted with previously pic.twitter.com/wn927WwaoW — Jenny G. Zhang (@jennygzhang) March 23, 2018

Man, can't even follow a moose blog on Tumblr these days without being trolled by Russia. pic.twitter.com/JuTbqLMe7R — Kevin Roose (@kevinroose) March 23, 2018

I think it should be pointed out that due to the way Tumblr's platform works, it's highly unlikely this Russia-linked blogs were able to accomplish much. Individual users are incredibly unimportant on Tumblr. Virality on the site doesn't really work the way it does on Twitter. — Ryan Broderick (@broderick) March 23, 2018

.@Tumblr says Russia-linked operatives used their platform and posed as community members. Tumblr has released the usernames of the accounts. Here's the email I just got: pic.twitter.com/VmgucMwOFK — Alex Rabinowitz (@alexrab) March 23, 2018

Tumblr wouldn't answer our Qs about specific accounts we identified to them – incl "Hustle In A Trap" (lol) & "Ghetta Blasta" – as creations of the Russian troll farm. Now, lo and behold, Tumblr is identifying them & others as "linked to state-sponsored disinformation campaigns. — Spencer Ackerman (@attackerman) March 23, 2018