Patrick Stein, Curtis Allen and Gavin Wright (left to right) are accused of plotting to kill Somali Muslim refugees living in Kansas. SEDGWICK COUNTY SHERIFF

WICHITA, Kansas ― An overwhelmingly white jury will decide the fate of three white militiamen facing federal charges for allegedly plotting a terrorist attack that targeted a community of Somali Muslim refugees.

Patrick Stein, Gavin Wright and Curtis Allen were arrested and charged in connection with a FBI domestic terrorism sting that wrapped up a few weeks ahead of the 2016 presidential election. They’ll be on trial in a quiet federal courthouse in downtown Wichita over the next six weeks.

The federal government says they intended to slaughter Muslim refugees living in an apartment complex in Garden City, Kansas, whom they considered “cockroaches” and a threat to the United States. The trio allegedly planned their attack for the day after the election because they didn’t want to hurt President Donald Trump’s chances of victory.

There were only a handful of African-Americans in the jury pool called to the federal courthouse. Just one black individual, the daughter of refugees from Eritrea, made the final panel of 40 potential jurors. But she was ultimately struck from the jury ― almost certainly by the defense attorneys, who had questioned the woman about whether she could be fair to a group of defendants who thought refugees needed to be exterminated and referred to President Barack Obama as the “nigger in the White House.”

Gebilet, whom HuffPost agreed to identify by her first name only, said in an interview afterward that she considered it a blessing that she had been summoned in the first place.

“The immigrant community here is so small, to even have been selected is an honor,” she said.

She suggested that the defense attorneys probably decided just from her name and her appearance that they didn’t want her as a juror. And she wasn’t surprised by the ultimate makeup of the jury.

“Generally, minorities are not picked,” Gebilet said. “It’s a real shame that that happened,” she said, but she still has faith in the jury process in this case.

The lack of black representation on the jury is especially stark because it adds to the probable dearth of black voices in the courtroom. The judge has ruled that none of the potential victims of the plot will be allowed to testify during the trial, since they only knew about the planned attack because the government told them about it. The apartment complex the trio allegedly targeted is more than 200 miles away, so it’s unlikely many members of that community will be present in the courtroom either.

The final jury, including four alternates, is made up of eight men and eight women. It includes one woman who described herself as half-native American. That group was narrowed down from an initial 600 people who received jury questionnaires. The attorneys on both sides ultimately qualified just over 100 potential jurors after probing them extensively about their views on a wide range of issues over the course of two days.

African-American jurors faced questions about their ability to give three racists a fair trial, especially given the fact that the defendants had repeatedly used the n-word.

“It’s a part of life, it always has been,” one woman, a customer services manager, said of the slur. “It’s something that you have to move past.”

“I’m almost 60 years old, I’ve been hearing that all my life,” said another woman.

Yet another woman said she wouldn’t be able to get past the language and she was dismissed from the panel.

A number of potential jurors were excused for other reasons, including a former deputy sheriff dismissed because his ex-girlfriend used to date one of the defendants, Patrick Stein. Also, a man who said that the allegations made his “blood boil” and that the defendants were “guilty until proven innocent.” A woman who, upon hearing the term “weapon of mass destruction,” thought of her uncle who was killed in the 1995 bombing of the Murrah Federal Building in Oklahoma City. A woman who used to live in the apartment complex targeted and got to know the families there.

One man described himself on his jury questionnaire as a “Western chauvinist” and complained about refugees moving into neighborhoods. He said he’d seen a lot of the world and was convinced that America was the best and he didn’t want to live anywhere else.

“I am 100 percent for America all the time,” he told the attorneys. “I’m very unapologetic about it.” He later said he wasn’t offended by those who called another human being a cockroach or a whole group of people an infestation. It was just a way of describing a group of people who have “overrun” an area, he said.

He also objected to labeling Trump’s travel ban as a “Muslim ban.”

“It’s not a Muslim ban, that’s just what they put out there,” he said, but he insisted religion wasn’t really the focus of Trump’s effort. He didn’t make the final jury.

Assistant U.S. Attorney Anthony Mattivi, a Kansas-based prosecutor with a high-and-tight haircut and an affinity for American flag socks, is leading the prosecution of the case alongside two attorneys from the Justice Department’s Civil Rights Division based out of the nation’s capital. Mattivi made sure the potential jurors knew he wasn’t an out-of-towner. “My office is in Topeka, and I live in Topeka with my family,” he told one group.

Mattivi also told the jurors that it was his job to make sure the trial was fair. He asked whether there was anyone who believed the government had no role in protecting civil rights. He asked if anyone had been bullied before. He asked them about their views on immigration and whether they thought the government should take religion into account when deciding who was admitted to the U.S. He asked what American values meant to them.

Many of the potential jurors with the most interesting views didn’t make the cut. The final jury does include a woman who had great concerns about immigration policy, a strong Second Amendment supporter with a Muslim friend, a man with a son-in-law who just immigrated to the United States, another Second Amendment supporter who advocated for gun rights on Facebook but said he’s not a fanatic, and a man who wrote his congressman recently hoping to do something about AR-15s.

HuffPost is covering the trial from Wichita this week.Gal Gadot wasn’t about to ignore this celebration.

To mark Wonder Woman’s birthday on Thursday (as noted on the DC Universe Calendar), Gadot expressed her gratitude to the superhero she played in a blockbuster movie.

Addressing her as “my amazing amazon” on Instagram, Gadot wrote, “Thank you for changing my life, and for inspiring people worldwide to find their own superpower.”

A post shared by Gal Gadot (@gal_gadot) on Mar 22, 2018 at 4:50pm PDT

Gadot doesn’t require a Lasso of Truth to admit that she owes a lot to Diana Prince. “Wonder Woman” has grossed more than $821 million worldwide. With director Patty Jenkins at the helm and Gadot in the lead, the film became a symbol of female empowerment at the box office and elsewhere.

“Wonder Woman 2” is already a go with Gadot and Jenkins reuniting, and at least one major casting choice has been made.

Perhaps the sequel will land an Oscar nomination ― unlike the original this past January. Then Gadot would have even more to thank Wonder Woman for.

AdvertisementSince the year 2000, Kansas Secretary of State Kris Kobach (R) has found 129 noncitizens who either successfully or attempted to register to vote in his state. That’s virtually nothing compared to the millions of votes cast in Kansas over the last two decades and the 1.8 million voters currently registered there.

Kobach likes to call those 129 cases just the “tip of the iceberg.” It’s a remarkably powerful metaphor ― a way to pivot around a seemingly insignificant statistic and instead draw concern from the uncertainty of what we don’t know. It’s the kind of thinking he used in 2011 to persuade Kansas lawmakers to pass a law requiring people to bring a document proving their citizenship when they go to register to vote.

Over the course of an eight-day trial this month, Kobach had the floor in a Kansas City federal courtroom to show just how deep that iceberg was. The American Civil Liberties Union is suing him over the Secure And Fair Elections Act, or SAFE Act. The civil rights group says that it is needlessly restrictive and has impacted 35,000 voters. To uphold the Kansas statute, the 10th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals told Kobach he had to show that noncitizen voter registration was a widespread issue and that nothing short of Kansas’ proof of citizenship law could stop the problem.

As the trial progressed, it became clear that the case was about much more than the Kansas law and Kobach. It began to revolve around a deeper question: Is the evidence that supports the idea of widespread voter fraud credible at all? For the ACLU, the trial offered a unique chance to get a judge to assess the reliability of experts whose research is used to justify claims about voter fraud across the country; even though several studies and investigations have shown it is not a widespread problem.

The ACLU repeatedly got Kobach’s experts to concede their work was not always subject to peer review and highlighted flaws in their methodology. In doing so, the ACLU sought to deal a more devastating blow to claims about voter fraud, creating a court record anyone can point to in the future to question claims about illegal voting.

“The ACLU repeatedly got Kobach’s experts to concede their work was not always subject to peer review and highlighted flaws in their methodology.”

The most tense moments of the trial came when ACLU cross-examined the experts whose research Kobach relied on to say noncitizen voter registration was a substantial problem. One of those witnesses was Jesse Richman, a political science professor at Old Dominion University, who did an analysis of Kansas voter registration that showed as many as 18,000 noncitizens could be on the rolls in Kansas. Kobach has also relied on Richman’s work to estimate that more than 3 million noncitizens could have voted in the 2016 election, a figure that would be greater than presidential candidate Hillary Clinton’s margin of victory in the popular vote. President Donald Trump has said he believes he only lost the popular vote because of illegal votes.

But when Richman was on the stand, Dale Ho, the director of the ACLU’s voting rights project, got him to concede that he did not believe noncitizens voting changed the outcome of the popular vote. It was a significant victory for the ACLU because it provided an unequivocal challenge to the basis of Trump and Kobach’s claims about voter fraud.

Ho also questioned Richman’s methodology and led him into a trap. When Richman was looking at Kansas voter roll data and DMV records to identify potential noncitizens, one factor he took into account was how “foreign-sounding” a name was. Even though it was just one factor in Richman’s analysis, the ACLU recognized it was a chance to show his analysis was unscientific. Ho asked Richman if he would consider the name Carlos Murguia to be a foreign sounding one. When Richman said he would, Ho informed him that Murguia was a federal judge who sat in the courthouse where the trial was being conducted.

“When Richman was looking at Kansas voter roll data and DMV records to identify potential noncitizens, one factor he took into account was how “foreign-sounding” a name was.”

Ho launched a similar attack on the credibility of Hans von Spakovsky, a former Justice Department official and member of Trump’s now-defunct Presidential Advisory Commission on Election Integrity. Von Spakovsky, another one of Kobach’s witnesses testified that he believed voter fraud to be a problem both in Kansas and nationally. But pressed by Ho, von Spakovsky admitted that his understanding of voter fraud in Kansas was based entirely on a list of around 30 voters that Kobach’s office had provided to him and that he was not familiar with any of the particular circumstances. He was also forced to admit that some of the research on noncitizen voting he had prepared in the case contained incomplete information that could make it look like there were more noncitizens trying to register to vote than there actually were. Most significantly, von Spakovsky conceded he could not name of a single election in which the outcome was swayed by noncitizens.

Von Spakovsky and Richman’s concessions on the stand have called their expertise into question and could now be cited by critics to qualify any of their future claims about noncitizen voting.

Beyond attacking the credibility of voter fraud experts, the ACLU also sought to show how incidents that look like fraud can often turn out to be mistakes. A key piece of Kobach’s evidence of voter fraud was a spreadsheet his office had filed of 38 incidences of noncitizens from 1999 until 2017 in Sedgwick County, Kansas. The ACLU highlighted that in several of those examples, people had checked they wanted to register to vote but not that they were citizens (though they did sign an affirmation indicating they were a citizen). After some people got a notification in the mail that they needed to prove they were citizens, they contacted their election office to cancel their registrations. The ACLU used the stories to break down how incidents that seem like nefarious voter fraud can just be mistakes.

Now it’s up to U.S. District Judge Julie Robinson, a George W. Bush appointee, to ultimately decide whether Kobach gave her enough evidence that noncitizen voter registration in Kansas is a substantial problem. But regardless of what Robinson ultimately rules, the ACLU was able to dive under Kobach’s iceberg and show there wasn’t much underneath.

During his closing argument in the case, Ho made this clear.In the weeks leading up to the 2017 Women’s March, thousands of people knitted pink yarn hats, dubbed the “pussy hat,” as a symbol of solidarity for protestors across the world united in a quest for equality.

And this weekend, at the March 24 March for our Lives events scheduled to take place in Washington, D.C., and in cities across the country — where protesters will encourage lawmakers to enact more sensible gun-violence prevention legislation — there may also be pussy hats. But the headlining accessory this time around is a pair of knit gloves with “evil eyes” sewn into the palms.

Women knit “pussy hats” at the XXX panel during Politicon at Pasadena Convention Center on July 30, 2017, in Pasadena, Calif. Photo: Getty Images

Krista Suh, who created the Pussyhat Project, spearheaded this initiative for the upcoming gun control march, inspired by the shooting at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Fla. Her goal is to collect 438 pairs of gloves, to represent the 438 people killed or injured in school shootings from 2014 through today.

“Individually, to show the eye on the palm, you can put out your hand in a ‘stop’ gesture — as in we must stop gun violence; enough is enough. In a group, you can raise your hands above your head to show the eyes — this is the universal gesture of ‘hands up don’t shoot’ and a reminder of how vulnerable our children are in a country with weak gun control,” Suh’s website reads.

Krista Suh’s vision for the March for Our Lives events. Photo: Krista Suh

She says it’s in perfect in alignment with women’s issues, a cause she felt passionately about after the 2016 presidential election. “Women’s rights are human rights, and there are a lot of issues specific to women — elder care, health care, and yes, gun control. We are mothers, students, and teachers, so I don’t think that there’s any issue that is off limits for women to advocate for,” she tells Yahoo Lifestyle.

While the meaning behind the “pussy hat” is more easily deconstructed — both a nod to President Trump’s comments about grabbing women and to the cat ears knitted into the headwear — the evil eye gloves are perhaps less obvious in their symbolism.

“The evil eye is the symbol of protection, just like the pussy hat was a symbol of protection for women who went to [Washington] D.C. to march,” Suh explains. “These eyes are meant to show that people are watching — history is watching — what Congress will do next. I think it’s really powerful.”

Of course, not everyone offered glowing endorsements of those pink hats. They were called vulgar, pointless, and gender normative. As of yet, the evil eye gloves haven’t caused as loud a stir, likely because they’ve been a recurring motif in fashion for years. On Fall 2016 runways, for instance, Givenchy and Alexander McQueen both showed collections with evil eyes and the Eye of Horus on garments and accessories. There are entire sections on retailers’ websites devoted to evil eye jewelry.

“If you’re going to talk about the evil eye, you’ve also got to talk about hands,” wrote Racked in 2016. “The hamsa hand may be the most popular — and ancient — protective symbol against the evil eye. An open hand with an eye in the palm, this design has origins in the Babylonian Empire as an emblem of its goddess, Inanna. … Cultures the world over agreed on one thing: This amulet embodied female power.” So maybe those knit gloves do make sense.

As for whether protest fashion encourages “slacktivism” — the idea that throwing on a T-shirt with the slogan of any given cause célèbre replaces measurable political action — Suh, for obvious reasons, isn’t so harsh to those who aren’t ready to run for office but might be ready to knit a pair of gloves.

“Clothing items are symbolic, but they’re also a gateway to larger action,” Suh says. “Also, it’s important to let people know they’re not alone — that they don’t have to work in a vacuum when other people are visible and brave enough to show themselves.”Right-wing televangelist Pat Robertson turns 88 years old on Friday. For the occasion, Jimmy Kimmel’s team created a video using 88 completely out-of-context words to make Robertson look even worse than usual.President Donald Trump attacked the credibility of special counsel Robert Mueller’s Russia investigation once again on Sunday, encouraging Republicans and “real Americans” to start “getting tough” on the federal probe.

In a flurry of tweets, Trump bashed the investigation into Russia’s interference in the 2016 presidential election, claiming it’s a “scam” that has cost nearly $20 million. Five days earlier, Trump tweeted it cost $10 million; the new reference may include the amount his own budget set aside for the probe for the 2019 fiscal year.

As he has before, Trump accused the probe’s investigators of being biased against him, claiming they were “13 Angry and Heavily Conflicted Democrats.” He failed to mention Mueller is a Republican. In another familiar pattern, his tweets fixated on Hillary Clinton and her 2016 presidential campaign associates.

Things are really getting ridiculous. The Failing and Crooked (but not as Crooked as Hillary Clinton) @nytimes has done a long & boring story indicating that the World’s most expensive Witch Hunt has found nothing on Russia & me so now they are looking at the rest of the World! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) May 20, 2018

....At what point does this soon to be $20,000,000 Witch Hunt, composed of 13 Angry and Heavily Conflicted Democrats and two people who have worked for Obama for 8 years, STOP! They have found no Collussion with Russia, No Obstruction, but they aren’t looking at the corruption... — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) May 20, 2018

...in the Hillary Clinton Campaign where she deleted 33,000 Emails, got $145,000,000 while Secretary of State, paid McCabes wife $700,000 (and got off the FBI hook along with Terry M) and so much more. Republicans and real Americans should start getting tough on this Scam. — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) May 20, 2018

Now that the Witch Hunt has given up on Russia and is looking at the rest of the World, they should easily be able to take it into the Mid-Term Elections where they can put some hurt on the Republican Party. Don’t worry about Dems FISA Abuse, missing Emails or Fraudulent Dossier! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) May 20, 2018

What ever happened to the Server, at the center of so much Corruption, that the Democratic National Committee REFUSED to hand over to the hard charging (except in the case of Democrats) FBI? They broke into homes & offices early in the morning, but were afraid to take the Server? — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) May 20, 2018

....and why hasn’t the Podesta brother been charged and arrested, like others, after being forced to close down his very large and successful firm? Is it because he is a VERY well connected Democrat working in the Swamp of Washington, D.C.? — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) May 20, 2018

Trump’s latest Twitter rant against the Mueller investigation follows a damning report published Friday by The New York Times about Donald Trump Jr., the president’s eldest son, and his August 2016 meeting with an envoy representing the crown princes of United Arab Emirates and Saudi Arabia. The envoy offered to help the Trump presidential campaign, according to the Times.

Trump and his legal team have repeatedly called for an end to Mueller’s investigation, which entered its second year this month. Mueller was appointed by Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein to lead the Russia investigation after Trump fired former FBI director James Comey a year ago this month.

Trump’s tweets Sunday mark his latest efforts to undermine the Justice Department and the U.S. intelligence community ― a tactic he has used repeatedly since several federal agencies jointly determined the Russian government interfered in the 2016 presidential election in order to help Trump win.

“As many are now finding out, however, there was tremendous leaking, lying and corruption at the highest levels of the FBI, Justice & State,” Trump tweeted in March. “The Mueller probe should never have been started in that there was no collusion and there was no crime.”Outraged over the latest police shooting of an unarmed black man, hundreds of protesters flooded the streets of Sacramento, California, on Thursday, even forcing an events center into lockdown minutes before an NBA game.

The daylong demonstration was held in response to Sacramento police officers killing 22-year-old Stephon Clark in his grandparents’ backyard on Sunday night while responding to reports of car break-ins. The Sacramento Police Department said officers believed Clark had advanced toward them while holding a gun, though police only found a cellphone on him after an exhaustive search.

Protesters took to the streets of Sacramento, California, days after police killed 22-year-old Stephon Clark after mistaking his cellphone for a gun. Justin Sullivan via Getty Images

Demonstrators on Thursday first stormed the buildings of Sacramento City Hall before moving out to the streets and marching down Interstate 5, the Sacramento Bee reported. They also gathered in front of the Golden 1 Center and, with linked arms, blocked ticket holders from entering the arena for a game between the Sacramento Kings and the Atlanta Hawks.

Protesters carried signs that demanded justice and criticized police officers for shootings of unarmed people, especially black men.

Some in the crowd carried signs that read, “Stop killing us” and “Black lives matter,” along with other messages demanding justice.

During the game, Sacramento Kings owner and chairman Vivek Ranadivé took to the court and called for everyone in the community to work together to prevent this kind of tragedy from happening again:

Kings owner and chairman @Vivek addresses the crowd following tonight’s game. pic.twitter.com/yVODGnPovs — Sacramento Kings (@SacramentoKings) March 23, 2018

At City Hall, protesters chanted, “It’s a phone, not a gun,” according to Ezra David Romero of Sacramento’s Capital Public Radio News.

Protesters also chanted, “Say his name. Stephon Clark!”

“It’s a phone not a gun” chant people protesting at #Sacramento City Hall over Stephon Clark being shot 20 times by police. #BlackLivesMatter pic.twitter.com/Tun0IQTMgI — Ezra David Romero (@ezraromero) March 22, 2018

Protesters march on the freeway in #Sacramento as they demonstrate against the Sacramento police for the killing of unarmed black man Stephon Clark #BlackLivesMatter sacramento #StephonClark pic.twitter.com/rMMFdfkjxY — Justin Sullivan (@sullyfoto) March 23, 2018

#BlackLivesMatter protesters took to the streets of #Sacramento to demonstrate against the @SacPolice for the killing of Stephon Clark, an unarmed black man. Hundreds blocked Interstate 5 and shut down the Golden 1 Ctr. #StephonClark protest pic.twitter.com/iqUl5V39QL — Justin Sullivan (@sullyfoto) March 23, 2018

Police on Wednesday released footage showing the moments before and after officers shot and killed Clark while responding to reports of car break-ins. The videos were filmed from a sheriff’s helicopter and several body cameras.

While following Clark’s movements, deputies in the helicopter said they witnessed Clark shattering a sliding glass door before he encountered police, according to a department press release.

In aerial footage of the incident, thermal images show Clark running through a yard and hopping a fence. He stops at the home he shares with his two young children and grandparents. It is there that he’s confronted by two police officers.

The body camera footage shows officers running into Clark’s grandparents’ backyard. From around a corner, one officer yells at Clark to show them his hands. Then an officer can be heard yelling “gun,” prompting both officers to open fire.

The officers, who fired 10 rounds each at Clark, said they believed he was holding a gun. The police department also said officers thought Clark was carrying a toolbar used to smash windows.

The only thing officers found on Clark was a cellphone.

A birds-eye view of the protest for #StephonClark outside the @Golden1Center. Fans have been told the game is delayed but many think it wil be canceled. pic.twitter.com/KSFOOECZmZ — Frances Wang (@FrancesWangTV) March 23, 2018

After protesters blocked the entrance to Golden 1 Center, the Sacramento Kings were forced to keep the arena’s doors closed to ticket holders.

The game started after a delay, with many seats remaining empty in the arena.

“Due to law enforcement being unable to ensure ticketed fans could safely enter the arena, the arena remains closed and we ask fans outside to travel home,” the Kings said in an official statement. “We will issue further information soon regarding a refund.”

Outside of the Golden 1 Center, some protesters told ABC 10′s Frances Wang that they weren’t sorry for the ticket holders who weren’t able to enter the Kings game, “because as black people, they have been inconvenienced their whole lives,” Wang tweeted.

Stephon’s brother Stevante Clark spoke to the crowds outside of the Kings’ game, saying that the police “killed and murdered” his brother.

“They think we’re animals,” he said. “They’re killing us like animals.”

Stevante Clark encouraged the activists to focus on their community while calling for justice. He also hugged Stephon Clark’s girlfriend and mother of his two children while asking the crowd to chant Stephon’s name.

Stephon Clark’s brother is at the protest at Golden 1 Center... speaking to the protestors. #StephonClark https://t.co/oQe9qKYnzo — Frances Wang (@FrancesWangTV) March 23, 2018

According to The Sacramento Bee, protesters repeated a chant that is becoming all too familiar in the ongoing fight against police brutality: “Hands up! Don’t shoot!”

In the first three months of 2018, police in the U.S. have killed at least seven unarmed people, according to The Washington Post’s database. In 2017, they killed 68 unarmed individuals.

View photos of Sacramento’s protests over Stephon Clark’s killing below.WASHINGTON ― President Donald Trump on Friday said he might veto the congressional spending bill passed earlier in the morning because it did not “fully fund” his proposed border wall, reviving the possibility of another government shutdown.

Hours after making the threat on Twitter, Trump signed the bill at the White House, but made his objections known, calling the legislation “this ridiculous situation.”

“There’s a lot of things I’m unhappy about in this bill,” he said Friday afternoon. “I will never sign another bill like this again.”

Trump on Friday morning took aim at Democrats for the omnibus agreement, which doesn’t include a solution for immigrants brought to the U.S. as children ― the so-called Dreamers protected from deportation under the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program.

I am considering a VETO of the Omnibus Spending Bill based on the fact that the 800,000 plus DACA recipients have been totally abandoned by the Democrats (not even mentioned in Bill) and the BORDER WALL, which is desperately needed for our National Defense, is not fully funded. — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) March 23, 2018

He has regularly claimed that Democrats “abandoned” Dreamers, even though he suspended DACA in September.

Trump’s tweet threatening a veto contradicted statements from White House officials earlier in the week insisting the president would sign the $1.3 trillion spending agreement to keep the government funded and operating after Friday’s deadline.

Trump had second thoughts about the agreement because of border wall funding before the deal was released, a source told HuffPost. But after meeting with House Speaker Paul Ryan (R-Wis.) and Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.), the president seemed to be on board.

Press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders said the president and the two congressional leaders “discussed their support for the bill.”

White House budget director Mick Mulvaney on Thursday was even clearer.

“Let’s cut right to the chase: Is the president going to sign the bill? The answer is yes,” Mulvaney said in briefing reporters.

Mulvaney acknowledged that Trump wants funding for his entire proposed wall, instead of money allocated for 33 miles of fencing and other border security measures. But he nevertheless celebrated the funding agreement.

“Generally speaking, we think this is a really, really good immigration package,” Mulvaney said.

Lawmakers on Friday criticized Trump, saying he’d be to blame for a government shutdown if he follows through on his veto threat.

Some, including GOP Sens. Rand Paul (Ky.) and Bob Corker (Tenn.), who had sought deeper spending cuts in the agreement, encouraged a presidential veto.

Please do, Mr. President. I am just down the street and will bring you a pen. The spending levels without any offsets are grotesque, throwing all of our children under the bus. Totally irresponsible. https://t.co/np7BmP1AkB — Senator Bob Corker (@SenBobCorker) March 23, 2018

Both chambers of Congress overwhelmingly approved the bill, likely assuring it a veto-proof majority.A high school senior is organizing the first LGBTQ Pride festival in downtown Columbus, Indiana, the hometown of Vice President Mike Pence.

“I am organizing Columbus Pride Festival because I feel it is important for members of the LGBTQ community to know that Columbus is a welcoming and diverse community,” Erin Bailey, a senior at Columbus Signature Academy-New Tech, told HuffPost. “Even though Mike Pence is openly anti-gay, that doesn’t mean that all of us in his hometown are.”

The 18-year-old is planning the April 14 event as a part of a school project she began last year.

Samantha Aulick, a Columbus resident who is also helping Bailey organize the event, said her wife has lived in Columbus for more than 40 years and has never participated in a Pride event there. “We live in a conservative community that may actually be the most liberal in Indiana,” said Aulick, who operates the only LGBT Business Enterprise in their community, Artisan Foodworks. “But it is still Indiana and what created Mike Pence.”

The vice president, who has been openly hostile toward gay rights for years, was governor of his home state from 2013 to 2017.

While this is the first Pride celebration to ever take place in the small Midwestern town of a little under 50,000 people, Jill Tasker wants people to know that the LGBTQ community has been well represented in Columbus for years.

“While this is the first event of its kind to be held in Mike Pence’s hometown, there have been several events over the years that have been sponsored by PAC (Pride Alliance Columbus), Inclusive Columbus Coalition and other LGBTQ+ groups in Columbus,” Tasker, who serves as president of PAC, said.

“As an ally, it’s very important to me that Erin’s event, as wonderful as it is, is not seen in a vacuum. PAC has been in existence for almost 20 years, and our mission is inclusion for all,” she stated. “We are proud to support Erin with her project, and we will continue to be an active and visible presence in Columbus.”

With this event, Bailey joins a growing number of teens who are looking to make a difference in the world. She wants people to recognize Columbus as more than the city Pence was born in.The University of Cincinnati on Thursday awarded the officer who shot and killed unarmed black motorist Sam DuBose with a settlement worth nearly $350,000, according to the Cincinnati Enquirer.

The settlement comes after the Ohio police union filed a grievance for University of Cincinnati Officer Raymond Tensing, who was fired following DuBose’s 2015 death. Tensing agreed to officially resign in exchange for $244,230 in back pay and benefits and $100,000 for legal fees.

Tensing fatally shot DuBose during a routine traffic stop in July 2015. He said he stopped DuBose for a missing front license plate and discovered the motorist was driving with a suspended license. Tensing claimed that DuBose tried to drive away during the interaction, saying DuBose dragged him with his car and forced him to open fire. However, body cam footage later revealed that this claim was false and that he actually shot DuBose while the vehicle was still.

Hamilton County Prosecutor Joe Deters said that the former officer will never be convicted of the charges filed against him, including murder and voluntary manslaughter. Earlier this year, Deters decided not to try for a third trial citing two mistrials in which jurors said they could not come to a unanimous decision.

“This agreement will be difficult for our community,” UC president Neville Pinto wrote in an email to the school’s student body and faculty. He also hoped that the community could “focus on supporting each other as members of the same Bearcat family—even, perhaps especially, if we don’t agree.”

DaShonda Reid, who was engaged to DuBose before his death and is mother to four of his children, views the settlement as unjust.

“I’m very upset with UC paying that murderer Tensing,” she told The Cincinnati Enquirer via text. “He’s officially a paid assassin who has not shown one ounce of remorse for killing an innocent man.”

The university also reached a $4.85 million civil settlement with DuBose’s family, but have only paid about $100,000 of that sum out-of-pocket, reports the Enquirer. The settlement also included tuition for DuBose’s children, an on-campus memorial, and an apology from the university. However, some also view awarding Tensing a settlement for his alleged suffering during the trial as a slight and yet another case of courts seemingly condoning police brutality toward black people.

In 2014, a grand jury in Staten Island declined to indict the NYPD officer responsible for Eric Garner’s death. In 2016, all charges were dropped against the officers involved in the killing of Freddie Gray in Baltimore. And since Michael Brown’s fatal 2014 shooting in Ferguson, only 19 cases of police officers charged with murder or manslaughter have gone before a jury. Of those, only six led to convictions.

For many, Reid’s pain is part of a long history in the fight against police brutality.Matt Damon has Ben Affleck’s back — even when it comes to bad back tattoos.

On Wednesday, Trevor Noah began an interview with the Damon on “The Daily Show” by asking if the actor and his longtime BFF, Affleck, were still friends.

When Damon responded that they were, Noah replied, “You say that, but I don’t believe a friend would allow a friend to get a back tattoo of a colorful dragon.”

The notorious ink ― portraying a phoenix rising from the ashes, not a dragon ― first made headlines in 2015, shortly after Affleck’s divorce from actress Jennifer Garner. At the time, Affleck said it was “fake for a movie,” but new photos of the actor shirtless on a beach on Hawaii with that bad boy on full display prove that, unlike the fictional creature it’s inspired by, his tattoo is completely real.

“It’s not one man’s job to tell another man what he can do to his back,” Damon responded to Noah, being much kinder in his criticism than his exes Garner and Jennifer Lopez.

“I support him in all of his … artistic expression,” he added while trying to suppress the urge to laugh.

“That’s a good friend answer, actually,” Noah acknowledged.The ladies of Twitter never fail to brighten our days with their brilliant ― but succinct ― wisdom. Each week, HuffPost Women rounds up hilarious 280-character musings. To see this week’s great tweets from women, scroll through the list below. Then visit our Funniest Tweets From Women page for our past collections.Perhaps one day we’ll find a real crystal ball in the writing room of “The Simpsons.”

Until then, we’ll just have to marvel at the prescience of the long-running cartoon series.

In the latest soothsaying credited to the show, news outlets are pointing out that a 2004 episode foretold the liquidation of Toys “R” Us announced in real life last week.

In a clip from the installment, above, some Springfield citizens set out to obliterate child-friendliness, breaking a ball pit and tearing down a statue of the animated characters Itchy and Scratchy.

But in perhaps the most subversive act of all, they turn around the backward “R” in the toy chain’s logo to make it face correctly ― and kids react in horror.

Granted, the scene doesn’t actually spell out that Toys “R” Us would close hundreds of stores in the year 2018. The chain, unable to compete with the likes of Amazon and Walmart, announced last week it would begin liquidating U.S. outlets. (The toy store’s founder died Thursday at age 94, to make the situation even sadder.)

But the old “Simpson’s” episode does seem to foreshadow the depressing events a bit, no?

“The Simpsons” has built its future-seeing rep in part for conceiving of Donald Trump as president 16 years before he was actually elected, featuring Lady Gaga in a performance eerily similar to her Super Bowl concert five years later, and prophesying that the U.S. would win gold in curling at the Winter Olympics.Matt Bomer attends the 2018 Vanity Fair Oscar Party on March 4, 2018, in Beverly Hills, California. Axelle/Bauer-Griffin via Getty Images

Actor Matt Bomer loved the new film “Love, Simon” so much he bought out an entire movie theater in Spring, Texas, so people from his hometown can see it for free.

Bomer wrote in an Instagram post Thursday night that he and his husband, Simon Halls, bought tickets for a whole AMC theater audience to see the film on Sunday.

“Love, Simon,” starring Nick Robinson and Katherine Langford, is a gay coming-of-age story about a high school boy trying to figure out how to come out to his parents and friends.

“Please come see @lovesimonmovie in my hometown of Spring, TX for free!” Bomer wrote on Instagram. ”...This is an important movie, and a really good one. I know you’ll love it so come watch for free this Sunday!”

A post shared by Matt Bomer (@mattbomer) on Mar 22, 2018 at 7:40pm PDT

Bomer, 40, bought out the theater for a March 25 showing at 4 p.m.

The actor, a father of three, officially came out in 2012 while accepting an honor at the Steve Chase Humanitarian Awards for his work against HIV/AIDS.

“One of the ways I learned how to act, really, is by having secrets, and having to function as a kid in a public school in suburban Bible Belt Texas,” Bomer, who grew up in rural Missouri, told OUT Magazine in May. ”... I did learn how to protect myself — it was literally acting of the highest stakes. I had my brother to protect me, but as terrible as it may sound, it was a way I learned to select behavior and make choices, even if it was a ruse just to survive, you know?”

Bomer said that once he realized as a teenager he was gay, he knew telling his parents and friends would be hard.Sen. Elizabeth Warren (D-Mass.) tore into Housing and Urban Development Secretary Ben Carson on Thursday, ripping the former neurosurgeon for failing to do his job.

Carson testified before the Senate Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs Committee, discussing his tenure as HUD secretary and his priorities for the department.

Warren made mention of the scandal currently plaguing his office ― that it spent $31,000 of taxpayer money on a dining set for his office ― but she was quick to call out the secretary for failing to advance HUD’s mission of ending housing discrimination. Earlier this month, HuffPost reported that Carson removed anti-discrimination language from HUD’s mission statement, then he backpedaled on the decision once news of the language change went viral.

“Mr. Secretary, a lot of people are criticizing you for spending tens of thousands of dollars of taxpayer money on fancy furniture, and, don’t get me wrong, I think scamming the taxpayers is a scandal,” Warren said after a fiery line of questioning. “But the biggest scandal of your tenure is your unwillingness to do your job and enforce the laws that reduce housing discrimination and segregation across this country.”

She described how housing discrimination has exacerbated the wage gap between white families and black families in America.

“We are going backwards,” she said. “It is HUD’s job to help end housing discrimination. That’s what the law said. You said you would enforce these laws. You haven’t, and I think that’s the scandal that should get you fired.”

Carson protested Warren’s account of his tenure, saying she mischaracterized his work but she was welcome to say whatever she wanted.

“I really resent that remark,” she shot back, before laying into Carson once again.

Last year, Warren angered the progressive community by voting to advance Carson’s nomination to be HUD secretary out of committee. She said he’s not the nominee she wanted, but he “made good, detailed promises.” After continued backlash, however, she voted against his final confirmation when it was before the full Senate.M. Ward performs at Paste Magazine's party at the Radio Room as part of SXSW 2009. Tim Mosenfelder via Getty Images

Four months. Half a year. Still waiting.

Getting paid can be a job unto itself for contributors to Paste Magazine, a sort of catch-all culture publication, with music and arts coverage mixed in with lefty politics.

“I kept writing and submitting every two weeks, submitting invoices at the end of each month,” former columnist Katie MacBride said. “After a month or so, I started emailing my editors regularly and he would assure me he was looking into it, it was coming, etc.”

Like a lot of websites of its generation that survived into the next, HuffPost very much included, Paste was successful in large part thanks to the work of under- and occasionally uncompensated writers. It was founded in 1998 as a music-focused website, then expanded with a print edition from 2002 to 2010 before reverting back to being solely a web publication. That latter shift created some ripples; as Gawker’s Hamilton Nolan put it at the time, freelancers said they were “having trouble finding out about what will become of their unpaid debts” when the print edition folded. One anonymous writer claimed he or she was owed $2,700, with invoices going back a year and a half.

By the next year, those financial worries seemed over. The site was bought in 2011 by Minnesota businessman William Sagan’s music streaming company, Wolfgang’s, then named Wolfgang’s Vault. Founder Joshua Jackson stayed on as editor-in-chief.

While the site has widened its remit, contributors are asking the same question freelancers were asking eight years ago: Where’s our money? There’s MacBride, for instance. She wrote a column, beginning in April 2016, called “Ask an Addict.” The recovery advice column was published bi-weekly, MacBride said, and she followed instructions on billing, dutifully sending in invoices every month.

But the checks didn’t come.

Despite the lack of compensation, MacBride said that she continued her work because of the platform Paste offered and the promises of payment. “I thought about not writing any more columns until I got paid but I thought (or at least hoped) that my column was helpful to people and I didn’t want to just shut that down,” she said in an email, “especially since I kept getting assurances that I would be paid.”

“Paste isn’t making millions, but they’re keeping the lights on due to the pieces we’re writing for them.” - Paul Blest, former writer for Paste

By July, the magazine had paid her for only two of five invoices, and unpaid work was piling up. MacBride said that after threatening legal action, she was paid in September. Some of the work was backlogged from May.

That’s not how things are supposed to work, per Paste’s writer contract. The language in Annex A-1 clearly states that contractors should expect payment “upon publication,” yet MacBride waited through the summer for her paychecks. Her story is far from unique: Many freelancers from Paste dealt with long wait times on payment, vague promises and a lack of communication from the company in 2017.

The problems are partly due to an expansion in coverage at the magazine. Paste’s politics vertical became popular in late 2016, at the height of the election. Health, business, media — all those sections opened and closed in the last year and a half. Freelance opportunities dried up for writers, and the payment logjam began in earnest for Paste’s army of freelance writers.

I was one of them. Though my issue was resolved — I was compensated for my work, albeit after almost six months — I can relate to the stress of waiting for a check that is frequently promised but never arrives.

“It’s true that we sometimes experienced longer-than-usual delays in making freelancer payments last summer,” editor-in-chief Joshua Jackson said in an email. “But we’ve always lived within the terms and limits of our freelance agreements.”

Jackson added: “We improved our payment system late last year, and I believe we’re as quick as any other publication at getting freelancers paid now.”

Not everyone recalls the delay as just “longer than usual,” however. Marie Myung-Ok Lee, an adjunct professor in Columbia University’s Undergraduate Creative Writing Program, waited almost a year before being paid in late January for work she had done for Paste in the winter and spring of 2017. And it cost her money — her assistant handles the invoices and the frequent follow-ups.

Ultimately it took threats from her agent to force Paste to pay.

“My agent basically called them and calmly threatened or whatever she does and they squirted out the check for ALL MY MONEY in a day,” Lee said in an email.

For Paul Blest, a journalist from North Carolina who is now a writer for Splinter, Paste’s willingness to publish his work at first outweighed the low pay.

“The money wasn’t much but I liked writing for the site so I was fine with it,” Blest told HuffPost.

After months of nonpayment, though, the outlet’s behavior left a sour taste in his mouth. Blest’s story follows a familiar pattern: He wrote pieces for Paste, was promised payment upon invoice and was subject to a long wait period that ended only when he implied he might take action against the company.

“I’m getting DMs and emails from people I don’t even know (who don’t even write for the politics section) asking if I’ve ever gotten paid by Paste because they haven’t gotten paid yet, either,” Blest had written to his editor in an email. “I can imagine at least a few people are considering legal action.”

Yet even when Blest was paid, it was for only three of the four pieces he had written for Paste. He decided to drop it, he told HuffPost, for his own peace of mind. While Blest still isn’t sure why he wasn’t paid for all four pieces, the reason may lie in the way the company handles invoices. They “must be submitted within 30 days of the story being published,” according to a July email from politics editor Shane Ryan to contributors.

“I emailed my editor the day I got my check and said, ‘Hey, this is only for $375, should I put in for another $125?’ and never got a response,” Blest said. “I never followed up because at that point I was over it, and wasn’t going to send like nine emails harassing different people for $125.”

Jackson said that despite the contract’s language stating a 30-day deadline for invoices, the magazine had extended a grace period to a number of freelancers. “Of the more 900 writer invoices we’ve paid in the last six months, there have only been a handful of extremely late examples (a couple of which included stories published more than one year prior to being invoiced) that we’ve refused payment on,” Jackson told HuffPost.

But that’s not the story told by former editors Emily Ray and Mack Hayden. Ray posted a fiery attack on the company’s ownership and editorial and business practices to LinkedIn in late December. Ray claimed that Paste management had stifled creativity and continually denied payment to staffers — especially women.

In fact, when I mentioned to Ray that HuffPost had been contacted by men whom Paste hadn’t paid, she expressed surprise and said she had never heard of any men who’d experienced such treatment.

Ray pursued litigation to pry her payment out of the company, she said, and “agreed to accept half” of the money she was owed “in exchange for striking the gag/nondisclosure terms within Paste’s proposed settlement agreement.”

“Haven’t been paid or heard a word,” Ray told HuffPost in an email on March 20.

Ray wasn’t the only editor to leave the company last year. Hayden, former assistant editor for politics at Paste, was laid off in August. He’d gotten the job after writing for Paste for a number of years, “first in music, then mostly in books, then eventually in politics.”

Once he was brought onto the editorial team, working on a contracting basis, Hayden said, he spent much of his time “fielding pitches, editing pieces, getting them all set to [go] live, etc.” But working as an editor, Hayden told HuffPost, didn’t mean Paste was any more responsive.

“I experienced a lot of the same frustrations as an editor as I did as a freelancer: checks showing up at unspecified dates, sometimes taking close to four months, unresponsive staff on top of that, promises to rectify the situation that proved fruitless,” Hayden said.

Compounding the bad feelings was the fact that Hayden was subject to emails and communications from freelancers on a regular basis complaining about nonpayment — that the money they weren’t being paid was needed for basic necessities. That was “pretty heartbreaking to me,” Hayden said.

“We did raise the issue multiple times to higher-ups, but it seemed like most of the biggest issues were still not repaired by the time I got let go,” said Hayden. “I don’t know what it’s like now.”

According to Hayden, he and Ryan, his immediate superior, raised the issue of nonpayment to management many times, but the accounting department was generally unresponsive to their concerns. Hayden said that editor-in-chief Jackson and news editor Scott Russell were receptive to the feedback — but nothing changed.

“Aloof seems more the case” than Paste intentionally not paying writers, Hayden said.

Whatever the case, the website’s management wields power over those still waiting for their checks. Three people, two of them women, reached out to HuffPost anonymously to share their stories of delays in payment — and, in one case, months of nonpayment. The latter said she wanted to keep her identity secret out of fear that Paste might not pay her at all if she spoke out under her own name.

There may be options for those still awaiting payment from the magazine if Paste continues to delay or refuse payment on invoices. Larry Goldletter of the National Writers Union said his organization has been aware of Paste’s freelance issues since the summer — but no writers have yet come forward to take advantage of the union’s services.

“We know it’s out there,” said Goldletter. “And we can get people paid; it’s a pretty cut-and-dried breach of contract.”

Blest, the North Carolina writer who was paid for three of the four articles in September, recalled an email from Ryan, the politics editor, indicating that the slow payment wasn’t just a glitch in the system; it was simply the way things were done.

“If you’re in a place where you need to be paid quickly for future articles, and it’s going to be a source of stress for you if it doesn’t happen,” wrote Ryan, “I would recommend that you take a break from Paste for a while until I can guarantee you that we have a streamlined system that won’t leave you in the lurch.”

That, said Blest, sums up the problem.Chrissy Teigen introduced the world to her and husband John Legend’s new baby boy, Miles Theodore Stephens.

In a photo posted to Instagram on Sunday, Teigen wrote that the couple was “drowning in his little peeps and nuzzles.”

A post shared by chrissy teigen (@chrissyteigen) on May 20, 2018 at 10:00am PDT

Teigen announced baby Miles’ arrival last week over Twitter, writing “Somebody’s herrrrrrre!” with a pair of baby bottle emojis. A day after his birth, Teigen tweeted that baby Miles was born a few weeks before his June due date. She also shared that he has the same nose as older sister Luna, who was born in April 2016.

In an interview with Ellen DeGeneres, Teigen spoke of how difficult it was for her and Legend to pick out a boy’s name.A day after a judge said Wisconsin Gov. Scott Walker (R) was violating state law by refusing to call special elections for two vacant seats in the state legislature, the Republican leader of the state Senate said he would explore changing the law so that Walker did not have to call the elections.

A seat in the Wisconsin State Assembly and another in the state Senate have been vacant since December when two GOP lawmakers resigned to take jobs in Walker’s administration. They have remained empty despite a state law requiring that special elections be called as promptly as possible when a seat becomes vacant before the second Tuesday in May in a regularly scheduled election year.

Walker decided instead to let the new legislators be chosen in November ― because he said it would save the state money and the legislature wouldn’t be in session in any case. His lawyers also said that he didn’t have to call special elections sooner because the vacancies occurred in late 2017 and not in 2018, the year of the next regularly scheduled elections. Democrats accuse Walker of not letting the voters weigh in earlier out of concern that Republicans will lose the seats. They sued him in February.

On Thursday, Dane County Circuit Court Judge Josann Reynolds, a Walker appointee, agreed with the Democrats and gave the governor until March 29 to call the special elections.

But on Friday, Senate Majority Leader Scott Fitzgerald (R) said that Reynolds’ order would lead to “chaos.” He said he wanted to change the state law and suggested, without further detail, that special elections should align with regularly scheduled elections, according to The Capital Times. Fitzgerald also said that lawmakers could take up such legislation next month.

The Wisconsin legislative session ended this week, but Fitzgerald and Assembly Speaker Robin Vos (R) said Friday that they would call lawmakers back for an extraordinary session to consider an elections bill.

In a Friday statement, the governor said he agreed the law should be changed.

“A D.C.-based political group wants to force Wisconsin taxpayers to waste money on special elections at a time when our Legislature is ready to adjourn for the year. Nomination papers for any special elections called now would circulate around the same time nomination papers circulate for the November elections,” Walker said. “It would be senseless to waste taxpayer money on special elections just weeks before voters go to the polls when the Legislature has concluded its business.”

Senate Minority Leader Jennifer Shilling (D) criticized the proposal, saying Republicans were just trying to preserve their power.

Despite a court ruling that upholds the constitutional right to representation, Republicans are making another attempt to rig the system in their favor. #WIPolitics https://t.co/qbeMudMr1m — Jennifer Shilling (@SenShilling) March 23, 2018

Rather than depriving thousands of Wisconsin families their constitutional right to representation, Senator Fitzgerald and Speaker Vos need to get it together and focus on the problems they were sent here to fix. #WIPolitics — Jennifer Shilling (@SenShilling) March 23, 2018

Fitzgerald, the Senate majority leader, also criticized Judge Reynolds for her comments suggesting that Walker had hypocritically abandoned his usual support for a strict reading of laws with his interpretation of the special election statute. Fitzgerald said that her comments were “way out of bounds,” according to The Capital Times, and that she should be disciplined by the state Supreme Court.

Vos attacked Reynolds as well on Thursday, describing her as “an activist Dane County judge” who had let her personal beliefs interfere in the case. Those comments prompted an angry letter from Dane County Circuit Court’s Chief Judge William Hanrahan, who told Vos that he should apologize and that he had “sullied your own reputation, diminishing any hopes of being taken seriously as a statesman.”

The “D.C.-based political group” that Walker referred to is the National Democratic Redistricting Committee, which is led by former U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder. Its affiliate brought the lawsuit against Walker on behalf of several state residents.

Holder released a statement about the new plan to call a special legislative session to stop the special elections.If you liked my last cartoon you may also enjoy...



"THE WICKED WITCH OF THE WEST WING AND PUTIN’S FLYING MONKEYS“ pic.twitter.com/slBG7j1s8dModel Amber Rose angrily answered Instagram trolls who trash-talked her 5-year-old son as “gay” for being an enthusiastic fan of Taylor Swift.

“Shout out out to all the hyper masculine men and ignorant dumb ass women that will call a five-year-old gay for liking Taylor Swift,” Rose wrote in her Instagram story on Wednesday, a day after she posted videos of her son Sebastian delightedly opening a gift from Swift.

“This is why young kids kill themselves. And this is also why our society is so fucked up,” Rose continued. “We allow him to be himself. He can listen to whatever music he likes, he can like whatever color he wants and we let him be passionate about whatever his little heart desires.”

Rose’s strong words came after she posted two videos on Tuesday of Sebastian opening a personalized gift from the musician, which included VIP tickets to an upcoming concert.

“This is going to be so exciting,” the little boy says in one of the videos.

A post shared by Amber Rose (@amberrose) on Mar 20, 2018 at 7:55pm PDT

A post shared by Amber Rose (@amberrose) on Mar 20, 2018 at 7:58pm PDT

The videos garnered thousands of responses, including some from people who seemed troubled by the kid’s Taylor Swift fandom. Rose, host of the podcast “Loveline With Amber Rose,” decided enough was enough.

She explained that she and ex-husband Wiz Khalifa, Sebastian’s father, “don’t make our son live by society norms that’s why he’s so special,” and that “liking a certain type of music will not make you ‘pick’ your sexuality.”

She added: “P.S. my son just got accepted into the most prestigious private school in Los Angeles because he’s smart as fuck and creative as fuck like his parents.

“He also has more money in his bank account than any of you trolls could ever imagine Lol.”

Rose implored fans to “do better for the next generation” and “teach ur kids to love and not hate.”

She ended the rant with this: “Regardless if he’s gay or straight when he gets older he will be around the most amazing loving people that will support him no matter what.”

Amber Rose Instagram

A study of 760 teens by Violence Prevention Works found that 78 percent disapproved of anti-gay teasing or bullying. Those most likely to be bullied are “kids who are gay or thought to be gay,” the study found.

The organization notes that bullying and harassment have damaging effects on LGBTQ students, including “extreme anxiety, depression, relationship problems, low self-esteem, substance abuse, and thoughts of suicide.”