Kim Cattrall offered measured support for her “Sex and the City” co-star Cynthia Nixon’s political ambitions on Twitter this week.

Nixon, a lifelong New Yorker, announced Monday that she plans to challenge two-term Gov. Andrew Cuomo in the Democratic primary this September. The news thrilled the award-winning actress’s fans, many of whom continue to associate her with her iconic “Sex and the City” character, Miranda Hobbes.

Cattrall, who played Samantha Jones on the long-running TV series, was asked about her co-star’s campaign on Twitter. She responded dutifully, though it would be a stretch to call her remarks an endorsement.

I support & respect any former colleague’s right to make their own career choices. https://t.co/zae7nJ6VFi — Kim Cattrall (@KimCattrall) March 22, 2018

Cattrall’s response seemed especially blunt when compared to those of two other “SATC” stars.

On Monday, Kristin Davis, who played Charlotte York Goldenblatt in the HBO show, said she was “so proud” of Nixon, pointing to her co-star’s work on behalf of public education.

I am so proud of @CynthiaNixon , no one cares more than she does about EVERY person getting a fair change and a good education. I know that she would be an excellent Governor ! https://t.co/xEAyRxFBb8 — Kristin Davis (@KristinDavis) March 19, 2018

Willie Garson, who played the character Stanford Blatch, followed suit on Instagram.

“Together we can turn things around with candidates such as her,” he wrote.

A post shared by Willie Garson (@willie.garson) on Mar 19, 2018 at 11:30am PDT

All eyes have been on the “Sex and the City” cast in the four days since Nixon announced her gubernatorial campaign.

Cattrall and Sarah Jessica Parker, who played Carrie Bradshaw, have been engaged in a war of words since last fall. After Parker confirmed that plans for a third “Sex and the City” film had officially been scrapped, many believed that Cattrall’s “diva demands” were to blame.

Though Cattrall denied the reports, she was critical of Parker in an October interview with Piers Morgan and eventually clapped back at her co-star in a blistering Instagram post last month.

Nixon, meanwhile, has downplayed the suggestion that the demise of “Sex and the City 3” pushed her to run for governor.Netflix

“Sense8” fans will get their fix very soon.

The Netflix series, which ended abruptly in June (with a cliffhanger, no less) after two seasons, is finishing up work on a finale special it filmed last fall. According to Daryl Hannah, who plays Angelica Turing on the show, viewers will be satisfied with how series creator Lana Wachowski wraps up the story.

“I think Lana did an incredible job writing this and does give some closure to some of the storylines and keeps the message and connectivity in there,” Hannah told HuffPost.

The short-lived sci-fi series, praised for its inclusiveness, follows a group of psychically linked characters from around the world who are being hunted by a mysterious and well-funded multi-government research group.

When Netflix said over the summer that “Sense8” would not be getting another season, fans spoke up all over social media. Shortly afterward, Wachowski announced that “Sense8” would return in the form a finale.

Netflix

“The passionate letters, the petitions, the collective voice that rose up like the fist of Sun to fight for this show was beyond what anyone was expecting,” she wrote on Twitter, adding, “Improbably, unforeseeably, your love has brought ‘Sense8’ back to life.”

Death doesn't let you say goodbye. 2 hour finale episode in the works. Tell your cluster. pic.twitter.com/GHZgGuHwS0 — Sense8 (@sense8) June 29, 2017

Hannah said she’s glad to see “Sense8” returning, even if it’s just for a one-off finale. That said, feelings on the set have definitely been mixed, she said.

“I think it’s disappointing to everybody, even to us, because the cast and the crew were so tight and just loved each other and the whole experience so much. It was a huge, huge undertaking for Lana and for Netflix,” Hannah said. “We had to shoot in 16 different cities ... and countries — Africa, India, everywhere all over the world. I think it was a great experience and it would have been great if would have gone on longer. But it had its moment.”

The two-hour series finale episode is expected to air later this year.“Late Night with Seth Meyers” hailed politically aware teenagers for coming to the country’s rescue in a new spoof ad Thursday night.

“Once considered a menace to society, teenagers are now cleaning up the political catastrophe left by older generations,” states the voiceover in the parody commercial.

With the Parkland, Florida, high school shooting survivors becoming fierce advocates for gun control, 44-year-old Meyers himself admits in the clip that his generation “straight-up sucked” when it came to making a difference.President Donald Trump’s appointment of John Bolton as national security adviser has left North Korea policy experts deeply troubled and confused just weeks after many expressed optimism about an upcoming summit with dictator Kim Jong Un.

Trump announced Thursday that Bolton would replace his outgoing adviser, H.R. McMaster, early next month. Bolton is seen as one of the most controversial and dangerous figures in U.S. diplomacy and is a fierce war hawk who has long advocated for a preemptive military strike against North Korea and the dismantling of the Iran nuclear deal.

“This news is hard to process,” Van Jackson, a senior lecturer at Victoria University of Wellington in New Zealand, said in an email. “What I can say at the moment is that Bolton isn’t just a run-of-the-mill hawk; he’s a kind of warmonger. He’s never seen a foreign policy problem that couldn’t be solved by bombing.”

The news of Bolton’s appointment comes just days after Trump replaced Secretary of State Rex Tillerson with CIA Director Mike Pompeo. Together, Bolton and Pompeo will make up one of the most hawkish U.S. foreign policy teams in recent memory, according to The New York Times.

“Between Pompeo and Bolton, you’re looking at a neocon foreign policy jacked up on steroids.” - Alexandra Bell, senior policy director at The Center for Arms Control and Non-Proliferation

The shake-up also comes just two weeks after South Korean officials said Trump had accepted an invitation to meet with Kim sometime over the next few months in what would be the first meeting ever between the Kim regime and a sitting U.S. president.

It’s unclear how Bolton’s appointment will affect the planned meeting, the details of which have yet to be announced, and he refrained from commenting on the prospects of the summit in an interview with Fox News on Thursday.

Jeffrey Lewis, the director of the East Asia nonproliferation program at the Middlebury Institute, described Bolton’s approach to national security as “border fetishism” that would jeopardize any future deal by the U.S.

Bolton is “someone who has an absurdly narrow conception of American national security, based on an extremist definition of sovereignty,” he told HuffPost. “This is a man who looks at any international agreement not as countries working together but as a loss of American sovereignty and power.”

With regard to the future of the Iran nuclear deal, Lewis said simply: “This is bad.”

“Bolton undertook a dedicated campaign to destroy the U.S. nuclear deal with North Korea, which he’s been very clear about ― he doesn’t even hide it. So my guess is that Bolton will undertake precisely the same campaign [with the Iran deal], and, in this case, he will reinforce all of the president’s worst tendencies,” he said. “It’s a good deal, and Bolton’s probably going to do a lot of damage to it.”

South Korean officials met with Kim Jong Un on March 6 and said that Kim hoped to meet with Trump as soon as possible. KCNA KCNA / Reuters

The U.S. signed an “Agreed Framework” with North Korea in 1994 to freeze Pyongyang’s nuclear power plant program. After Washington received intelligence that North Korea’s nuclear program was advancing more rapidly than expected, Bolton wrote: “This was the hammer I had been looking for to shatter the Agreed Framework” in his memoir, Surrender Is Not an Option.

Alexandra Bell, the senior policy director at The Center for Arms Control and Non-Proliferation, said the timing of the Bolton announcement may give credence to skeptics who felt the acceptance of a meeting with Kim was merely a stunt meant to beef up support for military intervention.

“A week and a half ago, people were concerned that this was simply a box-checking exercise that would enable the Trump administration to say: ‘We tried and it didn’t work,’” Bell said. “I am concerned that those people may have had a point.”

“Between Pompeo and Bolton, you’re looking at a neocon foreign policy jacked up on steroids.”

The news of Bolton’s appointment will likely do little to persuade the North Koreans to abandon their nuclear weapon program, analysts warn.

“He’s never met a country he hasn’t wanted to destroy.” - Vipin Narang, a professor of international relations at MIT.

Just last month, Bolton wrote a highly controversial editorial in The Wall Street Journal in which he laid out the case for a preemptive strike against the North, a position he has long touted.

“His op-ed last month advocating for, and justifying, a preemptive strike against North Korea says it all,” Vipin Narang, a professor of international relations at MIT, told HuffPost. “How do you convince Kim Jong Un to even freeze testing ― let alone countenance any disarmament ― when this is America’s national security adviser?”

“He’s never met a country he hasn’t wanted to destroy,” Narang continued.

Bolton is seen as one of the most controversial and dangerous figures in U.S. diplomacy Chip Somodevilla via Getty Images

Stephen Schwartz, an independent nuclear policy consultant, expressed particular concern over Bolton’s “track record” of consistent support for military action over diplomacy.

“We’ve got an apparent summit in the works, but we don’t really have anybody to plan it because all the experts have basically fled or been forced out of the State Department, and now you’ve got somebody coming in who has no interest in diplomacy,” Schwartz said. “If you pair that attitude with a president who’s willfully ignorant and lacks impulse control, it becomes a very dangerous situation with regard to Iran and North Korea.”

One thing is clear, experts say: When Bolton takes up his post on April 9, the White House will be home to one of the most polarizing diplomatic picks in history, even by Trump administration standards.WASHINGTON ― Before the scandal broke over their improper use of Facebook user data, British consulting firm Cambridge Analytica and its parent, SCL Group, plied their trade of political subterfuge for clients in developing countries.

Call it techno-colonialism — the idea that the leaner parts of the world are where you go to conduct your beta tests. Like so much else about Cambridge Analytica and SCL, they were merely putting a sinister flourish on something the tech industry does as a matter of course. The most obvious example comes from the company that most wants to distance itself from Cambridge Analytica: Facebook.

Back in 2015, the social media giant faced a wave of criticism for deploying a new program in India, called Free Basics, that handed out mobile phones to the poor that operated only Facebook products. One of the company’s defenders, venture capitalist Marc Andreessen, blurted out on Twitter, “Anti-colonialism has been economically catastrophic for the Indian people for decades. Why stop now?” (He would later apologize.)

But the kerfuffle didn’t stop Facebook from continuing to treat smaller and developing countries as its corporate testing ground.

In the fall of 2017, Facebook decided to run a test in six countries ― Bolivia, Cambodia, Guatemala, Serbia, Slovakia and Sri Lanka ― that split users’ feeds into two separate streams of posts. One was devoted to updates from family and friends; the other to official pages of organizations like news sites and political figures. No one from Facebook told anyone in those countries the company would be running this experiment. News publishers were left in dark. So were non-governmental organizations, political parties and activists.

Luke MacGregor / Bloomberg via Getty Images

The result was a nightmare. News publishers, particularly smaller, independent media, immediately noticed a collapse in traffic to their sites. NGOs that relied on Facebook to communicate with the people they were trying to serve saw their online interactions evaporate. Activists similarly found that their messages had disappeared from the main feed.

Facebook’s goal was to see whether filtering news and politics into a separate feed would increase “meaningful conversations,” a vague metric that has nonetheless guided how the company is changing its algorithm to combat the spread of propaganda on its site. Had the experiment gone well, the product change might have been brought to larger, wealthier nations. But it didn’t go well and Facebook ended it on March 1.

People in the original six countries were left to wonder why they were the guinea pigs. Fabiola Chambi, web editor for the Bolivian newspaper Los Tiempos, told The New York Times that she wanted to know, “Why Bolivia?”

“We don’t have any way to hold [Facebook] accountable either, aside from calling it out publicly,” Stefan Dojcinovic, editor-in-chief of the Serbian site KRIK, wrote in an op-ed. “Maybe that’s why it has chosen to experiment with this new feature in small countries far removed from the concerns of most Americans.”

Filip Struharik, an editor at Slovakia’s Denník N, wrote, “Facebook would not dare undertake such crazy experiments in big countries like Germany. There it would not only face exponentially larger resistance, but would also risk politicians responding with a push for tough regulation.”

Cambridge Analytica and SCL went gallivanting about the struggling world, too ― although unlike Facebook, they were explicit about wanting to affect events on the ground.

The company bragged about running a voter suppression campaign for a political party in Nigeria’s 2007 election, which election observers said suffered from extreme levels of fraud, violence and intimidation. The Guardian reported that Cambridge Analytica was even offered the hacked emails of Muhammadu Buhari, the opposition politician running against their client, President Goodluck Jonathan, in Nigeria’s 2015 election.

The firm’s leaders have admitted to running a campaign in Latvia to heighten divisions between ethnic Latvians and ethnic Russians for political purposes.

An undercover sting by reporters at U.K. Channel 4 revealed the power Cambridge Analytica had in Kenya, where it worked on three successive elections that were marred by a barrage of divisive digital propaganda and disinformation favoring President Uhuru Kenyatta’s ruling Jubilee Party.

Kenyan opposition leader Raila Odinga (center) lost three successive elections to Uhuru Kenyatta, who had hired Cambridge Analytica. Stringer / Reuters

“We have rebranded the entire party twice, written their manifesto, done two rounds of 50,000 surveys,” Mark Turnbull, managing director of Cambridge Analytica’s political division, told undercover reporters in speaking about his firm’s work for the Jubilee Party. “Then we’d write all the speeches and we’d stage the whole thing. So just about every element of his campaign.”

The elections on which Cambridge Analytica worked in African nations shared fear-based themes that would now be recognizable to anyone in the U.S. Kenyans were warned in ads that the election of opposition leader Raila Odinga would lead to an invasion of Ethiopian refugees, attacks from Somalian terrorists and an epidemic of disease. In Nigeria, Cambridge Analytica cooked up a video that claimed electing Buhari would mean “Sharia for all.”John Bolton is a raging Islamophobe, and on April 9, he’s set to become President Donald Trump’s national security adviser.

Trump announced Thursday, to the alarm of foreign policy experts around the world, that Bolton would replace H.R. McMaster in the position. Bolton, who served under President George W. Bush in the State Department and as ambassador to the United Nations, is best known for his support of the Iraq War, in which hundreds of thousands of people were killed.

A less well-known but equally troubling aspect of Bolton’s career is his years of involvement with some of the most hateful and conspiratorial elements of the anti-Muslim movement in America.

“We urge Americans across the political spectrum to speak out against the appointment of John Bolton as White House National Security Adviser because of his ties to anti-Muslim bigots and his promotion of extremist views that will inevitably harm our nation and that could lead to unnecessary and counterproductive international conflicts,” Nihad Awad, national executive director of the Council on American-Islamic Relations, said in a statement Thursday.

“Bolton is the last person who should be entrusted with this critically-important position, which requires sound judgment and a fact-based approach to national security matters,” Awad said.

Bolton did not respond to a request for comment for this story.

Since 2013, Bolton has served as chairman of the Gatestone Institute, an anti-Muslim think tank. Under his leadership, Gatestone has published fearmongering articles with headlines like “Islam’s ‘Quiet Conquest’ of Europe” and “Refugees of an Occupation Army?” Other posts have depicted Muslim refugees as rapists and hosts of “highly infectious diseases.”

Gatestone has trafficked in paranoid and debunked conspiracy theories about American Muslims secretly working to undermine the U.S. government and implement Sharia, or Islamic law. The group has also been a proponent of the “no-go zone” myth, the false claim that certain neighborhoods in various European and American cities are off-limits to non-Muslims.

In 2016, Bolton was the keynote speaker at the annual conference of the far-right American Freedom Alliance. The title of that conference was “Islam and Western Civilization: Can They Coexist?” A few minutes into his speech, Bolton made a joke based on the racist conspiracy theory that President Barack Obama is secretly a Muslim.

The crowd, a who’s who of American Islamophobes, laughed and applauded.

Since leaving government work in 2006, Bolton has had a cozy relationship with some of America’s most virulent anti-Muslim activists, including Pamela Geller and Robert Spencer. He wrote the foreword for Geller and Spencer’s 2010 book, The Post-American Presidency: The Obama Administration’s War on America. Bolton gave a full-throated endorsement of the book, which is replete with anti-Muslim tropes.

Since then, Bolton has been interviewed by Geller multiple times, and even offered a blurb for her latest book, Fatwa. “Free speech advocates who don’t make waves are not doing their jobs,” Bolton wrote. “Pamela Geller writes a guidebook here for Paladins of the First Amendment.”

Geller and Spencer are founders of the American Freedom Defense Initiative, which the Southern Poverty Law Center has classified as a hate group, and which the Anti-Defamation League describes as “consistently vilifying the Islamic faith under the guise of fighting radical Islam.”

Anti-Islam activists Pamela Geller and Robert Spencer chat ahead of an anti-Islam demonstration in Stockholm, Aug. 4, 2012. FREDRIK PERSSON/AFP via Getty Images

The SPLC describes Geller as “probably the best known — and the most unhinged — anti-Muslim ideologue in the United States.” She came to prominence for her fearmongering over a proposed Islamic community center in lower Manhattan, which she argued would be a “victory mosque” for Muslims on “conquered land.”

She has called Islam, the world’s second largest religion, “the most radical and extreme ideology on the face of the earth” and said it should be regarded as “an authoritarian and supremacist political system.”

Her online presence is devoted to spreading anti-Muslim and anti-refugee propaganda. A 2015 FBI intelligence bulletin referred to stories published by Geller as “unfounded” and amounting to nothing more than “conspiracy theories” responsible for fomenting fear of Muslims in the U.S.

Geller was very excited Thursday that Trump had tapped Bolton as national security adviser:

Robert Spencer has likewise made a career out of spreading fear and misinformation about Islam. From the SPLC:

Spencer has complained of ‘Shariah enclaves’ and predicted that they will grow across America; referred to Barack Obama as ‘the first Muslim president’; claimed that Islam ‘mandates warfare against unbelievers’ and said that ‘traditional Islam is not moderate or peaceful’; and even suggested that the media may be getting money to depict Muslims in a positive light.

Bolton also contributed a blurb to Spencer’s 2008 book, Stealth Jihad.

New National Security advisor John Bolton on Robert Spencer’s book, Stealth Jihad. He gets it, unlike the ousted HR “ISIS isn’t Islamic” McMaster. pic.twitter.com/h6D94zmd0E — Bosch Fawstin (@BoschFawstin) March 23, 2018

Bolton isn’t the only admirer of Spencer and Geller’s work. In 2011, the far-right Norwegian terrorist Anders Breivik killed 77 people who he believed were abetting what he saw as the “Islamization of Europe.” In a sprawling, racist manifesto, Breivik cited the work of Geller and Spencer 174 times.

Bolton has also been a close associate of another prominent anti-Muslim conspiracy theorist: Frank Gaffney.

Gaffney is the founder of the Center for Security Policy, an anti-Muslim think tank that the SPLC considers a hate group. He’s done much to promote debunked “civilization jihad” and “creeping Sharia” conspiracy theories, which claim that American Muslims are plotting to somehow take over the U.S. government and replace the Constitution with a brutal version of Sharia.

Frank Gaffney testifies at a Senate Judiciary Committee hearing, July 24, 2013. PAUL J. RICHARDS via Getty Images

Gaffney has claimed in the past that the Muslim Brotherhood has infiltrated every level of the federal government. He once called for a “House of Anti-American Activities Committee” to root out these alleged subversives.

In 2015, Bolton spoke at multiple “National Security Action Summits” organized by Gaffney’s Center for Security Policy. In 2006, Bolton accepted the CSP’s Freedom Flame Award.

Bolton has also appeared multiple times as a guest on Gaffney’s “Secure Freedom Radio” podcast ― most recently in July, when he agreed with Gaffney that the Muslim Brotherhood should be designated a terror group. (The idea of labeling the MB a terror group is widely frowned upon in foreign policy circles; national security experts believe such a designation would mainly serve to provide cover for prosecuting and harassing American Muslim civil rights groups.)

On Thursday, Gaffney seemed enthused about Bolton’s new career opportunity.

.@RealDonaldTrump has replaced an insubordinate National Security Advisor with a loyal, competent one: John Bolton. It’s a game-changer for his presidency and for our nation. Congratulations Mr. President! It truly is Morning in America. Let’s roll! — Frank Gaffney (@frankgaffney) March 22, 2018

Trump, who’s declared that “Islam hates us,” has turned his White House into a haven for people with paranoid, hostile views toward the religion.

Former White House chief strategist Steve Bannon, Attorney General Jeff Sessions, former CIA director and current secretary of state nominee Mike Pompeo, former national security adviser Sebastian Gorka, senior policy adviser Stephen Miller, and White House counsel Kellyanne Conway all have well-established ties to anti-Muslim hate groups.Julius Tiangson, a registered nurse, dosing a patient in a methadone van operated by Evergreen Treatment Services in Seattle. As the opioid epidemic spirals, more treatment centers want to add mobile clinics to their operations to serve more people. The Pew Charitable Trusts

By Christine Vestal

From California to Vermont, mobile methadone vans have served people with opioid addiction in rural towns and underserved inner-city neighborhoods for nearly three decades.

But the U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration, which regulates dispensing of the FDA-approved addiction medicine, has refused to license any new methadone vans since 2007 over concerns about potential diversion of the medication.

Now, in an unrelenting opioid epidemic that is killing more than a hundred Americans every day, some state and local addiction agencies are asking the federal government to lift its moratorium as quickly as possible.

In Seattle and surrounding King County, for example, federal grant money has been set aside to deploy four new mobile methadone vans to provide treatment on demand in addiction hotspots around the city and county. But the project is on hold until the DEA lifts the ban.

“Mobile treatment vans are critical to addressing the opioid epidemic,” said King County behavioral health official Brad Finegood. “As this epidemic grows and changes, concentrations of people who are affected by it can be found in shifting locations within the city and county. If we’re going to be effective, we need to be nimble and bring the medication to them instead of asking everybody to trudge across town to get their daily dose at a fixed facility.”

Joining the chorus of state and local behavioral health agencies is another federal agency, the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration, which provides grants to King County and other locations to make it easier for people with dangerous opioid addictions to receive treatment with methadone and other evidence-based medications.

According to a spokesperson at SAMHSA, agency officials are urging the DEA to remove the ban.

At a recent New York City gathering of the methadone industry’s professional organization, the American Association for the Treatment of Opioid Dependence, DEA official James Arnold said a proposal for a new set of regulations that would permit new methadone vans to be licensed was months away from completion.

Mark Parrino, who heads the industry group, said no security breach in any of the mobile vans licensed before the moratorium has ever been reported, leading industry experts to question why the ban persists.

Treatment officials in Connecticut, Maryland, New Jersey, New York and Washington state have expressed interest in deploying new methadone vans to fight the epidemic but have been stymied by the DEA moratorium, Parrino said. The most urgent need for mobile methadone, he said, is in Puerto Rico, where Hurricane Maria destroyed much of the territory’s transportation infrastructure and medical facilities last year.

Terrance Washington, who is receiving medication-assisted treatment for heroin addiction, talks to nurse Stephen Wright and driver Larry Dawkins outside a treatment van parked at Baltimore’s central jail. As the opioid epidemic grows, treatment programs are planning to extend services to more people by using mobile units. The Pew Charitable Trusts

Logistical Constraints

More than 2 million Americans are addicted to opioid painkillers or heroin, but only 1 in 5 is receiving treatment for their disorder, according to SAMHSA. Of those, most are not receiving methadone or one of the two other approved medications considered by addiction specialists to be the standard of care.

That’s partly because many people who use opioids and other drugs are in denial that they have a problem. But among those who decide they need treatment, many report they can’t afford it or are unable to find a program within commuting distance.

Only about a third of all treatment facilities offer all three medications, according to Health and Human Services Secretary Alex Azar, and Medicaid and private insurance coverage of the medications varies widely from state to state.

Of the three available medications for opioid addiction, methadone is the oldest, most researched and most widely used. But it is also the most tightly regulated.

Taken daily under supervision as required by federal regulations, methadone is out of reach for many who do not live within a reasonable distance of the nation’s roughly 1,500 methadone dispensing locations. The two newer approved medications — buprenorphine and a time-release form of naltrexone called Vivitrol — can be prescribed by a physician and taken at home.

Similar to patients with other chronic diseases, people addicted to opioids typically respond better to one medication than to another. For many, methadone is the only addiction medicine that successfully reduces drug cravings and wards off relapse. But many people live far away from brick-and-mortar methadone clinics.

Although relapse is common in all types of drug treatment, research indicates that people who take any of the three approved medications have a greater shot at remaining sober compared to those who receive therapies without medication. But to remain in recovery, people with opioid addictions often must stay on what is known as maintenance therapy for years, or for life.

Expanding Treatment

In Washington state, Seattle-based Evergreen Treatment Services, which operates the only methadone van in the state, just received an $11 million grant from SAMHSA, part of which has been set aside to buy four new customized vans for about $200,000 each.

The vans — designed to provide space for counseling, urine drug screens and methadone dispensing — are slated to make daily visits to one or more hard-hit Seattle neighborhoods, as well as the city of Renton in surrounding King County, and two other underserved cities with high addiction rates outside of the county — Olympia and Hoquiam.

According to Evergreen director Molly Carney, Washington state’s substance abuse agency is working with SAMHSA to get DEA permission to purchase and outfit the vans. “We’re told they’re actively working on it,” she said, “but there’s no timeline and no promise of when it will get released.”

In New York, Democratic Gov. Andrew Cuomo has dedicated millions in state dollars to expanding access to treatment using all three medications — methadone, buprenorphine and naltrexone — and officials at the state’s alcohol and substance abuse agency are talking to the DEA about lifting the ban, a spokesperson said.

According to the agency, mobile addiction treatment and transportation services are a critical part of New York’s strategy to offer treatment to more people with addiction. “Location and access to transportation should never be a barrier for someone to receive the services they need to fight this disease,” said New York’s drug and alcohol commissioner Arlene González-Sánchez.

Terrance Washington reviews his treatment schedule with nurse Stephen Wright in a treatment van parked at Baltimore’s central jail. The Pew Charitable Trusts

Working Vans

In Mays Landing, New Jersey, one of a handful of grandfathered methadone vans licensed prior to the DEA’s moratorium is parked outside the Atlantic County Jail and serves as a dispensing clinic for inmates. The program has proven so successful at keeping inmates in recovery from opioid addiction that another methadone program about 80 miles up the coast in Neptune City wants to do the same thing.

According to JSAS HealthCare’s administrative director Margaret Rizzo, incarcerated pregnant women on methadone maintenance who come into the nearby jail in Monmouth County are given daily “guest doses” of the addiction medication while they’re inside because of federal requirements. “But if you’re a male on medication assisted treatment when you come into the same jail, you’re out of luck,” she said.

If the DEA lifts its moratorium on mobile methadone, Rizzo said, her treatment facility plans to buy a van to provide methadone to up to 50 inmates at the county jail.

In 1990, opioid treatment centers in Baltimore and Boston became the first in the nation to expand their urban drug treatment operations by outfitting vans to serve high-demand neighborhoods.

The drug treatment program in Baltimore, the Institutes for Behavior Resources, operated a DEA-licensed van and a backup van to dispense methadone to hundreds of patients for about 10 years, and then purchased new vans and used them for another 10 years before parking the vehicles and letting their licenses expire.

Two years ago, Behavior Resources leased one of those vans to another nonprofit program, the Behavioral Health Leadership Institute, which is using the vehicle to provide buprenorphine instead of methadone. Although the DEA also has authority over buprenorphine, it has not banned licensed prescribers of the medication from working out of a van.

Equipped with a bathroom and private counseling rooms, the van allows Behavioral Health Leadership to offer low-income residents drug screenings, addiction assessments, counseling and pre-paid prescriptions for buprenorphine.

Parked outside the Baltimore Central Booking and Intake Center, the repurposed van recently offered an opportunity for Terrance Washington, 44, to start turning his life around. A heroin user for almost 20 years, he was released from the Baltimore jail in January.

“When I got out, I kept on going right past the van,” Washington said. “But later my friend told me he’d been going for treatment there, so I went back to check it out.”

Washington got counseling, a prescription for buprenorphine, and a makeshift ID to take to a nearby drugstore. Since then, he said, he’s been taking his addiction medication and stopping by the van every few days to talk to a nurse or doctor about his progress.

On a sunny March morning, Washington stepped into the van and shimmied sideways to sit in a tiny counseling booth and talk to the nurse on duty about his recovery.Texas Lt. Gov. Dan Patrick (R) on Sunday pushed for arming teachers and reducing the number of entrances into school buildings after the latest mass shooting at a U.S. school afflicted his state.

“There was a teacher next door, a (former) Marine, who saw what was going on... Some feel had he been able to carry a gun, he could have stopped that shooter,” he told host Jake Tapper on the CNN program.

"We need armed teachers," says Texas Lt. Gov. Dan Patrick after school shooting in Santa Fe #CNNSOTU https://t.co/kBp4F9G0AC https://t.co/QLfIuIE3rG — CNN (@CNN) May 20, 2018

Patrick said that as he visited a hospital on Friday night where some of those wounded in the shooting had been treated, students and parents alike said that teachers should be armed.

He told “This Week” host Geroge Stephanopoulos that “our teachers are part of that well-run militia,” a mangled reference to the language of the U.S. Constitution’s Second Amendment. That amendment says that a “well regulated militia, being necessary to the security of a free State, the right of the people to keep and bear Arms, shall not be infringed.”

“It’s guns that also stop crimes,” Patrick added.

Under a school marshal program in Texas that has been cited approvingly by President Donald Trump, teachers can carry guns on campus, with local officials ultimately making the call on whether that is allowed.

Patrick also said that the issue underlying the raft of school shootings plaguing the U.S. isn’t access to guns, but that “it’s about us.”

“We have devalued life, whether it’s through abortion, whether it’s the breakup of families, through violent movies, and particularly violent video games which now outsell movies and music,” he said.

He also reiterated the suggestion he first made Friday immediately after the shooting that school campuses be redesigned to have fewer entrances.

“We need to get down to one or two entrances to our schools. We have to funnel our students into our schools so we can put eyes on them,” he said.

Even before Friday’s shooting, several Republican politicians, including Texas Gov. Greg Abbott and Sen. Ted Cruz, have been calling for training teachers to carry firearms.

Trump repeatedly pushed that idea after the school shooting in Parkland, Florida, in which 17 people were killed.Pre-emption opponents argue that action is not justified because Pyongyang does not constitute an “imminent threat.” They are wrong. The threat is imminent, and the case against pre-emption rests on the misinterpretation of a standard that derives from prenuclear, pre-ballistic-missile times. Given the gaps in U.S. intelligence about North Korea, we should not wait until the very last minute. That would risk striking after the North has deliverable nuclear weapons, a much more dangerous situation. [...]

In contemporary times, Israel has already twice struck nuclear-weapons programs in hostile states: destroying the Osirak reactor outside Baghdad in 1981 and a Syrian reactor being built by North Koreans in 2007.

This is how we should think today about the threat of nuclear warheads delivered by ballistic missiles. In 1837 Britain unleashed pre-emptive “fire and fury” against a wooden steamboat. It is perfectly legitimate for the United States to respond to the current “necessity” posed by North Korea’s nuclear weapons by striking first.Workers pause before removing a Ten Commandments monument from the rotunda of the state judicial building in Montgomery on Aug. 27, 2003. Federal courts ordered the monument removed. Gary Tramontina via Getty Images

Alabama’s voters will decide in November whether the Ten Commandments can be displayed on state property.

The state’s House of Representatives voted 66-19 on Thursday to advance a ballot provision that would amend Alabama’s constitution to allow the monuments. The state Senate has already approved the Republican proposal, which does not need the governor’s signature, The Associated Press reports.

The move comes 15 years after Roy Moore, then the chief justice of Alabama’s Supreme Court, lost his job for refusing to enforce a federal court order to remove a Ten Commandments display from a state judicial building.

Under the proposed amendment, the Ten Commandments may be displayed on property belonging to public schools and in other state-owned buildings “in a manner that complies with constitutional requirements.” Those include placing the commandments alongside “historical or educational items” as part of a larger display.

The ballot proposal, submitted by state Sen. Gerald Dial (R), would prohibit the use of public funds to defend the measure’s constitutionality if it is challenged in court. Private money would fund the displays, the AP reports.

Dial has brought up similar measures for years, according to AL.com.

Ten Commandments displays in Alabama have provoked controversy in the past. In 2003, a federal judge ordered a 5,200-pound Ten Commandments monument removed from the lobby of the state judicial building in Montgomery. Moore refused to comply, and state judicial authorities ousted him as a result.

The Alabama Republican lost a special U.S. Senate election in December after several women came forward with sexual abuse allegations against him.

A veterans organization sent the monument that was removed from Alabama's state judicial building on a 15-state tour. It is pictured here in Longview, Texas, in November 2004. Mario Villafuerte via Getty Images

Democratic opponents of the proposal say it would violate the separation of church and state, the AP reports. They also worry public schools may have to pay attorneys’ fees if they face lawsuits over the displays.

Critics also said the legislation was a part of a GOP push to get conservative voters to the polls during a state election year.

The Alabama chapter of the American Civil Liberties Union claimed the bill did nothing to expand or limit religious freedom protections that are already guaranteed under the First Amendment.

“This is absolutely a waste of the state’s time and potentially money,” Executive Director Randall Marshall said in a statement. “Particularly when Alabama is facing so many other problems like failing public schools and overcrowded prisons.”

Republican supporters of the bill said it is an affirmation of the right to religious liberty. The state has had a “religious freedom” amendment on the books since 1998, passed in response to the perceived weakening of religious protections.

“I wish and pray that we get to a point where people would be free to express faith without fear of being sued,” Rep. Danny Garrett, a Republican, told the AP.

Democratic Rep. Berry Forte said it’s not important to display the Ten Commandments, but to live by them.

“The devil can display the Ten Commandments,” Forte told AL.com.It’s tempting to get swept up in the salacious details of President Donald Trump’s (alleged) sexual antics.

The possibility of a sex tape or, God forbid, Trump nudity isn’t actually what matters about his (alleged) extramarital affairs with former adult film actress Stephanie Clifford, who goes by the stage name Stormy Daniels, and former model Karen McDougal. Those affairs (allegedly) took place over a decade ago, when Trump was simply a reality TV star. That he may have cheated on his wife isn’t surprising, given what we know about the president.

What’s important here is the way Trump and his circle of enablers went about trying to cover up these (alleged) affairs, while Trump himself was seeking the top political office in the country.

Trump’s personal lawyer and his allies at the National Enquirer used nondisclosure agreements to silence these women, taking a page from the corporate playbook.

NDAs are already far too common in the business world, used to paper over a host of misdeeds, most crucially sexual harassment and discrimination. Disgraced Hollywood producer Harvey Weinstein is perhaps the most egregious abuser of NDAs, which allowed him to harass and assault women for decades.

To be clear, Clifford and McDougal both say they had consensual relationships with Trump.

“He always told me he loved me,” McDougal told Anderson Cooper in a nearly hourlong interview last week. (Clifford, meanwhile, set ratings records on Sunday with an appearance on CBS’ “60 Minutes.”)

But with Trump, the stakes are even higher. “The entire country pays the cost of not knowing things about the president,” said David Hoffman, a professor at the University of Pennsylvania Law School who specializes in contracts and psychology.

Both payouts happened when Trump was the Republican nominee for president and are already the subject of federal complaints for possibly violating election laws.

“Donald Trump is acting like he personally owns this information, as though he can act like a king and take any measures to control the way people talk about him.” - Heidi Kitrosser, a professor of constitutional law at the University of Minnesota Law School

Trump’s use of these agreements is even more critical now because he is reportedly wielding NDAs in the White House ― an unprecedented act ― in an attempt to silence his staffers, according to The Washington Post.

Most First Amendment lawyers think those agreements would not be enforceable in court. However, the contracts do serve to intimidate and chill speech about public matters ― essentially how the government runs. Stories about the president, from staffers, are critical to understanding history.

“Donald Trump is acting like he personally owns this information, as though he can act like a king and take any measures to control the way people talk about him,” said Heidi Kitrosser, a professor of constitutional law at the University of Minnesota Law School. “You can’t do that when you’re acting with the power of the federal government.”

The public rarely finds out about NDAs. But thanks to lawsuits filed by McDougal and Clifford, their contracts are now publicly available.

The women are both suing to break free of their contracts and talk about Trump; he’s pushing back hard. The White House denies that he ever had an affair with McDougal. Though she’s recently started talking to the media, McDougal said she fears legal repercussions.

“There could be financial ruin,” she said on CNN. “Do I feel threatened? Absolutely.”

Separately, Trump’s personal attorney, Michael Cohen, has filed suit against Clifford seeking $20 million because he claims she violated their agreement. Lawyers say Cohen is mainly trying to intimidate Clifford and stop her from talking. Previously, he admitted to paying her $130,000 out of his own pocket, but denies Trump was involved.

Both women argue in their suits that there is a public policy interest in their stories ― meaning that because they have information about the president of the United States, Americans have a right to know what happened.

“When we have a public figure ― the most public figure, the president of the U.S. ― the details are something that the public needs to know,” said Orly Lobel, a labor law professor at the University of San Diego School of Law who’s written extensively about the societal dangers of NDAs.

But there’s little precedent for that argument in court, contract lawyers told HuffPost. None could think of any other instance in which a president was fighting to silence private citizens in this way.

“Trump is sui generis in a lot of ways,” Hoffman said, echoing many of the lawyers who spoke with HuffPost, who agreed Trump is in a class all to himself.

If these women win in court, it will likely be because of the way their contracts were negotiated ― particularly Clifford’s, which was written with pseudonyms. Clifford is referred to as Peggy Peterson (PP) and Trump as David Dennison (DD). DD never signed the thing, which is the primary argument Clifford is using to try to invalidate the contract.

“It’s a weird document,” said Greg Germain, a professor at Syracuse University College of Law, noting the pseudonyms and a few other factors that are out of the ordinary about the deal. He also said that Cohen’s explanation for the deal ― he paid Clifford $130,000 with his own money and claims that Trump was unaware ― makes no sense.

“The lawyer saying he’s acting on Trump’s behalf but didn’t tell him,” Germain said. “I don’t know where he thinks that’s going.”

Hoffman said the Clifford agreement is the hot topic among contract lawyers at the moment.

“You just never see this stuff,” he said, referring to NDAs. “It never emerges from the swamp. It was never supposed to be tested in the light of a thousand suns.”

McDougal’s case is perhaps the stronger of the two, lawyers told HuffPost, because according to the suit she was misled into silence.

“It’s a very straightforward application of longstanding contract principles,” Hoffman said. “if you’re lied to in making a contract, then the contract is not valid.”

McDougal’s story may be the more troubling one. She appears to have been manipulated in a manner reminiscent of so many sexual harassment cases. For her silence, she was promised career opportunities.

American Media Inc. paid McDougal $150,000 for the rights to her story (her lawyer took nearly half) and assured her she would be able to write fitness columns for two years. AMI also said she would land on the cover of several of the company’s publications, including Star magazine, Radar Online and Men’s Fitness, where she had appeared in 1998. In pushing her to sign the deal, the men at AMI emphasized McDougal’s age, telling her that since she was an “older model,” the deal would be very important, according to the suit.

McDougal was excited about the opportunity, she told Cooper. “Who wouldn’t want this work?” she said.

She signed the agreement in August 2016, shortly after Trump won the Republican nomination. (Clifford signed her deal about a week before the presidential election.)

“They wanted to squash the story,” McDougal told Cooper ― presumably to protect Trump, she added. “They didn’t want to hurt him.”

AMI is now saying McDougal can discuss her alleged affair, but says it still owns the life rights to her story.

“I almost feel violated in that I didn’t know what was happening behind the scenes. I’m angry,” she said. “I want my life rights back. I want to share my truth. Everyone else is talking about it. I’m standing up for myself.”

Of course, these aren’t the quotes that got picked up from McDougal’s CNN interview. Most outlets focused on her claim that Trump tried to pay her for sex and that he compared her with his elder daughter, Ivanka.A top official at the Department of Housing and Urban Development previously worked at the controversial political data firm Cambridge Analytica, but that job is not listed on his official bio on the agency’s website.

Matthew Hunter was the director of political affairs at Cambridge Analytica, which is at the center of a scandal for taking private information from more than 50 million Facebook users largely without their permission.

The firm worked for Donald Trump’s 2016 presidential campaign, as well as those of other Republicans such as Sen. Ted Cruz (R-Texas) and Ben Carson, the current HUD secretary.

On Aug. 1, HUD chief of staff Sheila Greenwood sent a message to the department’s staff announcing a group of hires, including Hunter, according to an email shared with HuffPost by a HUD employee:

Former HUDster Matthew Hunter returns to us as Assistant Deputy Secretary for Field Policy and Management, bringing 25 years of experience in data science and audience engagement to the Department. Matthew most recently served as Director of Political Affairs with Cambridge Analytica.

A slightly different but similar version of this announcement is online here.

Hunter’s official HUD bio, however, has no mention of Cambridge Analytica, even though it was the job he held right before his political appointment to the Trump administration.

Matthew Hunter's bio doesn't list his previous job at Cambridge Analytica. HUD

Hunter didn’t return requests for comment about the dates he was employed at Cambridge Analytica and why his bio omits his previous employer. HUD’s press office also didn’t reply.

Hunter isn’t the only Cambridge Analytica employee working as a Trump political appointee. As HuffPost reported Thursday, Kelly Rzendzian, a special assistant to the secretary at the Department of Commerce, worked at SCL Group ― Cambridge Analytica’s parent company ― from March 2016 through February 2017. The résumé she used to apply for the government job says she worked at Cambridge Analytica at that time.

There is, of course, nothing wrong necessarily with hiring people who worked at Cambridge Analytica. The firm is facing multiple investigations over its data harvesting practices, but these specific individuals don’t face any known allegations.

AdvertisementYvonne Orji attends the 49th NAACP Image Awards on Jan. 15, 2018 in Pasadena, California. Matt Winkelmeyer/Getty Images

Yvonne Orji knows what she wants and knows how to get it.

The 34-year-old known for her role as Molly on Issa Rae’s “Insecure” has been putting in work for years. Upon returning to the U.S. after working on HIV prevention in Liberia, Orji took a leap of faith and abandoned her original game plan of becoming a doctor for a career in comedy.

“I remember my mom [saying], ‘I don’t know… this acting thing, I don’t know,’” the Nigeria-born, Maryland-raised actress told HuffPost of her mom’s reluctance to buy into her career change. “Then Lupita won an Oscar, and then she said, ‘Your friend has won.’ I didn’t even know Lupita at the time … but it became real for my mom.”

For seven years, Orji hustled to perfect her craft. She wrote, took acting classes, waited tables and seized every available opportunity to perform when she moved to New York. She eventually got a job as an artist in residence at the University of Richmond before moving to Los Angeles to write for TV One’s “Love That Girl.” While in LA, she wrote a web series loosely based on her own life, “First Gen.”

It took nearly a decade of consistent grinding, but Orji finally got her break in October 2016, after auditioning for what’s now one of the biggest shows for black millennials. She’s also toured with Chris Rock and has a forthcoming project with Kevin Hart and Tiffany Haddish.

She shared that the recipe to her success has been preparedness and faith.

“‘Stay ready’ has been like my mantra before ‘Insecure’ and all. A lot of people hustle differently, and I was like, you know what, let me hustle and create and let me have something to show, cuz my hustle led to opportunity,” she shared.

Orji spreads this message in her latest campaign with Colgate Total, in which she advises folks to “stay ready and you don’t have to get ready,” because opportunity is likely to knock when you least expect it.

“For me, staying ready has always been like the preparations, do the behind the scenes or do what you think that’s not sexy that nobody will see, but when they do see it, it’s like, ‘Oh, snap … what she’s doing on her own, we’ll add to that and it’ll blow up.’”

The other side of the formula, Orji’s Christian faith, is what keeps her going when the path to the finish line isn’t always as clear.

“I let [my faith] guide me, because if I try to take the wheel, it’s about to be a mess,” she said. “I can only see what’s in front of me, but God can see what’s behind, what’s ahead of me, what’s beside me, and it just makes it so much easier to release control, cuz at the end of the day, if He brought me to it, He’s gonna have to bring me through it.”

It’s only up for Orji, who’s currently filming Season 3 of “Insecure.” She takes the space she occupies seriously, championing the complexity and diversity of black people that should be celebrated on screen.

“I learned so much about black friendships, black experiences, through the show. I’m like yo, I’m learning a different type of blackness by being in the show,” she said, calling the opportunity a “blessing.”

“There are different types of experiences, and all of them are valid and all of them deserve to be portrayed in a real way.”

Orji even dished a tad on her take on Molly’s messy-ass relationship with Dro ― who claims to be in an open marriage ― in the forthcoming season.

“I told Issa, I said listen, can you just give me like 2 episodes of happiness? She was like, ‘Nah. If we do that, then the show’s over,’” Orji said. “Y’all know my character is hecka messy and I hope she gets it together for my sake and for hers.”It takes all day, but, finally, Van comes to a harrowing realization about her relationship with Earn.

“Helen,” the latest episode of “Atlanta,” begins with the pair taking a road trip to an Oktoberfest in the predominantly white city in White County where Van grew up. The opening scene, in which the two drive down a country road and almost hit a wild pig, is a clear reference to the beginning of “Get Out.” In fact, the entire episode gives off horror film vibes, but with enough jokes about white people that the satire is evident. Festivalgoers are wearing creepy masks and costumes that you think only white folks would wear, and Van takes a trip into a dark alley alone ― something a lot of black people frequently make known we just don’t do.

In the middle of it all is the matter of Van’s mental and emotional well-being. She has run-ins with her close childhood friend and her man, and then, due to a traditional German “demon thief” at the fasnacht festival in Helen, her iPhone is snatched. As she’s strolling alongside an unnamed bartender during the phone hunt, Van discusses her broken relationship with Earn. “We can be good together, but only when we really have to be,” she says in fluent German. “And I’m slowly figuring out that maybe we don’t have to.” She reveals the true meaning of an episode laced with references to the hostility directed at black people in white spaces: Women everywhere who have put up far too long with an undeserving hostile man should get out of the situation.

In the episode’s climax, Van tells Earn that she wants to be in a committed relationship with someone who treats her with respect. Earn likes things as they are. And, in a move similar to Monica’s in “Love and Basketball,” Van invites Earn to a game of Ping-Pong in which the back-and-forth of their tattered relationship becomes literal. But in a departure from one of the culture’s favorite movies, they’re done if she wins.

On this week’s “Run That Back,” Taryn Finley and Julia Craven discuss how men are trash, white people are trash and black people who uphold anti-blackness are, yup, trash.

Guy DAlema/FX

The episode begins with Earn performing oral sex on Van before they embark on their trip to an Oktoberfest in Helen, Georgia. On the way there, the two are happily discussing their weekend plans. Van is preparing him for the events ahead. She knows that Earn doesn’t do well in white spaces and she wants to coach him on how to survive. As she’s letting him know what’s up, the pair almost hits a wild pig standing in the middle of the road eating some sort of melon. They joke that it made them hungry because anything can make you hungry when that loud hits.

Taryn: OK, let’s talk about “Atlanta: ‘Get Out’ Edition.”



Julia: Good morning to no one else but Vanessa Keefer.



Taryn: So I was already a Van stan but this episode really cemented my adoration for her. Van is really the GOAT, not only of this episode but of this entire series. But that first scene tho ... LORDT.



Julia: Why on God’s sweet green earth is Earn’s broke ass trying to have another baby?

Taryn: WHO KNEW EARN COULD THROW THAT NECK LIKE THAT? That took me aback but I was here for it.

Julia: I was here for it last night but after watching the entire episode it just made me angry. Like, this is something else Van has to give up. She has to give up good, consistent dick because Earn is a jerk.

Taryn: Yea, that really makes me feel for Van but she deserves sooo much more. Also, did you peep what she said in the car on the way to Helen? Apparently it wasn’t as good as it looked cause she lowkey played him and said he has more “tongue confidence” when he’s high. I died.



Julia: fghhnjadnfgfuujghvgh. Aight — the road trip to Helen. Let’s rewind a bit. It reminded me of “Get Out” only instead of a buck it was a wild pig. It’s obviously because they’re about to go into a hostile white space. And weren’t Chris and Rose in bed in the opening of “Get Out,” too?



Taryn: Shit, I don’t remember. I just know Rose can kiss my ass and go to hell.



Julia:

Taryn: But yea, very much “Get Out” vibes. I’m also pissed that they almost hit the hog before we could get into Van’s high-ass question: Are black girls considered brunettes? I can’t say I haven’t wondered the same thing.



Julia: That’s a serious question though! Are we considered brunettes? I guess so but I don’t know. I wanted to hear them figure it out. The streets need answers. I’m still thinking about this lmao. And it the opener really made me think about their safety. I was like, clearly it’s gonna be hostile but how hostile? Are they gonna die? It put me on edge in a good way. It was suspenseful but also, knowing Donald Glover, I was wondering what lesson Van (and we) would learn. And the moral is that Van deserves MUCH BETTER THAN EARN. Such a fucking lame.



Taryn: Same thing so many black people have to think about when going into predominantly white spaces. So Van is prepping him on what to expect when they finally make it to Helen, where she grew up. You know it’s about to be some shit because she’s telling him that it’s a tradition for some white man to run around in blackface (which, gtfo) and gives him a taste of how she’s treated in town. She likens herself to the Serena Williams of Helen, which I think is brilliant: a black woman being undeniably great in a white space while still getting criticized because of her race/appearance. She’s saying this while two old white ladies are staring at Earn and Van through a window like they’ve seen a fucking ghost.



Julia: YES ― SO MUCH YES! I loved that. With Van, we really do stan a legend. And, even still, she doesn’t seem to be as concerned about how Earn will be treated as she is about how Earn will treat them. She was obviously right because Earn is seriously trash and he refuses to not be.

BUT ― and I’m not caping for Earn. Let me preface this with that statement. I understand how out of place he felt and how Van kinda did leave him to fend for himself a few times. HOWEVER, that doesn’t excuse him shitting on her culture and making a mess of something that makes her happy.

When you love someone, you compromise. My nigga don’t like doing everything I ask of him ― and vice versa ― but if it means a lot to me and it’s within reason, he does it. Making your partner happy is part of being with someone. Period. But Earn cares about only himself and that’s one of his many failings. (Side note: I loved how Van, like Zazie Beetz, the actress who plays her, is also half-German.)

Taryn: The way this episode is formatted is purposeful. We get a more tangible taste of Earn’s perspective and uncomfortableness in the first half because we ALWAYS see the black man’s view before the black woman’s — that’s how it’s always prioritized. We really feel Earn’s discomfort with the woman who comes up and rubs his cheek, thinking he’s in blackface. Then again during hootzkootz when he makes a basket on his first go ’round and everyone’s stunned (he becomes the new Serena Williams at this point). And also when the presumably flirty white guy was speaking in German with Van in his face. We feel his discomfort without realizing that Van has had to grow up and come of age in this discomfort ― which we get into later in the episode.

Guy DAlema/FX

Earn pulls Van to the side during a dance competition. He wants to play Ping-Pong because he’s uncomfortable and having a tough time meshing into the festivities. Van, however, really wants to dance. She beats him at Ping-Pong and asks to return to the dance floor. This bruises Earn’s ego and sends him into a tirade where he ignores her genuine concerns about their relationship and she always compromising for him before throwing the fact that he pays her bills in her face.

Julia: Now let’s only talk about Van. Because OK, Earn is uncomfortable. Great, I get it. And I don’t care. Fuck him. Van’s interaction with her “friend” Christina BLEW ME.



Taryn: I wanted to yoke up Earn’s ol’ fragile-ass masculinity talmbout Paper Boi’s shows are “paying your fucking bills.” Ugh. I wanna fight him. I digress though ― cause Christina can get these hands, too.



Julia: Oh we can go into Earn’s masculinity. Let’s address it before we get to #her because I have a lot of thoughts about Earn saying that shit to Van.



Taryn: LMAO #her. Get it off your chest, sis. Cause the fact that a game of Love and Ping-Pong got his sensitive ass worked up like that made me hot in the face.

Julia: Earn is homeless and he was living with Van. I get that he pulled her off to the side in hopes to find something familiar — Ping-Pong since “it’s the only white game” he knew. However, after she beats him, he gets real froggy. He starts being really cruel to her. He calls the festival — and her culture — stupid. She lets him know that she deals with his plans and his shit ALL THE TIME! And how she really only wants to spend time with him and be considered his equal — like going to the strip club and Paper Boi’s concerts. But then, this piece of shit is gonna have the AUDACITY to say: “I wouldn’t shit on that. That’s paying your fucking bills.”



You’re homeless, Earn. And let us not forgot that he was homeless and using the mother of his child, playing upon her love for him, to get a place to live for next to nothing. He is so so so so so trash. It is insane how horrible of a person Earn is. Then he gets mad at the bartender, a man who showed Van more affection than he ever has and this dude don’t even know her. Earn is pathetic and has such shitty relationships with women. He has no emotional IQ and an odd desire to be perceived as hypermasculine, but he isn’t, so he overcompensates by being cruel to the one person who actually cares about him. But I guess that’s what makes him a black man.

Earn is every shitty man I’ve ever dated so I’m triggered but I also get how Van feels. You put all this emotional labor into a man and this is what you get back. You can’t even get respected and treated like a human. You’re treated like an incubator or, as she so beautifully put it, “an accessory.” And I think that this season we’re gonna see Earn lose Van and his position as Paper Boi’s manager and other things he holds dear to him. And, at the end of it all, ain’t nobody rob Earn. He robbed himself.

Fin. I’m done. Fuck Earn always. Now onto Christina, or #her.

Taryn: Earn robbed himself. Earn robbed Van. I feel like Earn robbed me. Fuck his broke ass forreal.



Julia: I’m so mad.

Guy DAlema/FX

After Van walks away from Earn, she tries to confide in her friend Christina, another half-German, half-black woman. A white couple walks up and Christina immediately brushes Van off to talk to them before introducing her as “Lotte’s mom.” When Van addresses it privately with Christina, she condescendingly explains that it’s OK for her to treat Van that way since Van “chose black” and she “chose white.”



Taryn: Christina ain’t a real friend. She caters to anti-blackness and anti-womanhood. You can get a glimpse of that when that when Van is trying to confide in her about her argument with Earn. She pushed her to the side to cater to whatever her white friend and her boyfriend needed. THEN had the audacity to introduce Van as Lotte’s mommy. Then the white guy whose name I don’t care to look up identified her as Earn’s girlfriend. I’m sick at this point because everyone is trying Van by tying her to her relationships as if she hasn’t been a full person with her own identity her entire Black-German ass life. That shit happens to black women so much, yo. I was even more pissed that it came from Christina, your “friend” who you knew most of your damn life. Before motherhood, before Earn.



Julia: When Christina said Van “chose black” and that she “chose white,” my initial reaction was “what the fuck is this nigga talking about?” You’re still black, Christina. And you’re right, this happens all the time. Black women are relegated to some sort of secondary role. Our personhood only matters if it’s connected to whiteness, a man or a child that is “well-behaved.” (Yeah, I peeped that from ol’ girl’s white friend.)



Taryn: Christina really needs to get her head out her ass. She’s had this delusional view of race her entire life. She’s presumably treated Van like shit her entire life based off their argument. Christina think’s she’s better than Van because she’s aligned herself with white people. What she can’t seem to get through her thick-ass skull is that she’ll never be white. Just because Christina’s boyfriend is white and Earn is black doesn’t mean Van “chose” black and she “chose” white. Girl, get over yourself. Under that heat damage is a similar grade of curly, coily hair that you’ve judged Van for for so long. Your man probably trash too, Christina. Don’t be so fucking judgy. Just loud and wrong. Ugh!



Julia: Very strong and wrong. And whyyy did I think about heat damage when Van said Christina straighten her hair? Because that blow out was #laid. So eye know that heat damage is ..... yikeeeeessssssssssss. Or it could be creamy cracked down. Who knows? All I know is Van needs better friends. She doesn’t need a man but my God if she’s gonna have one I want her to have a better one than Earn.

Taryn: “Creamy cracked down!” I’M HOLLERING!



Julia: Listen, I have scalp burn PTSD. And we still pretending we not black in 2018? Wow. GET OUT, SIS!

Taryn: And if everything else wasn’t falling apart, Van’s phone goes missing because of the witching-hour ritual that I didn’t totally understand. She’s walking outside among a big group speaking German with the flirty white guy as Earn’s scary ass is in the back smoking with some random guy. I’m not sure if Van knew he was there or not, but Earn, walking around with this stupid ass mask still on his face, knew Van was right in front of him. Idk why he didn’t speak up then. Or even better, follow Van into the dark-ass alley when she went to pee by herself since you wanna be so damn manly all of a sudden.

Julia: His masculinity is contingent upon her needing him and taking care of her. He doesn’t care to actually fix things or be of any true service. He only cares about him, which is pathetic. He showed us that when he said, “This works for me.” Which, how many of us have heard that?!

Woman: I want something real.

Man: That’s valid, but I like just fucking you and using you at my discretion.

Taryn: Whatever, I’m glad she finally found her phone. Of course, he texts her and they meet up back at the Ping-Pong table. For the umpteenth time this episode, I was ready to fight Earn when he initially didn’t have an answer when Van asked him, “What do you want?”

Julia: When he said the question felt like a trap??? I lost it. It’s not a trap! She wants to know where y’all stand and she deserves to!!!

Taryn: Kudos to Van for telling him straight up that she wanted a committed relationship “where I’m valued as a human being and not an accessory you can fuck.” She took so much power back when she said that. Then his sorry ass response was their “arrangement” works for him ... GTFO witcho sorry ass, Earn.

Van was like oh word? BET!

Julia: “We can be good together, but only when we really have to be. And I’m slowly figuring out that maybe we don’t have to” was a BOPPPPP.

Taryn: It really was. She reclaimed her time via a Ping-Pong rematch and whooped his ass (a second time). Van is tired of not being appreciated for the emotional labor she’s been putting into their relationship. Van is every woman who’s ever been with a fuck nigga for way too long, treating him better than his trash ass deserves.

Julia: Her beating him in Ping-Pong was so symbolic of how she is in fact better than him. Earn doesn’t deserve that woman and I’m glad she sees that.

Taryn: Ugh. Van and women like her deserve so much better. They don’t deserve to be constantly tired. I think this time she’s truly over his shit. You could tell because she didn’t take the blunt from him on the car ride back lol. I know it hurts because she has a big heart and cares for Earn, but she sees her value and it’s gonna get her further than ever she would’ve gotten with him. So, this take on “Get Out” was really for underappreciated women with trash ass partners. Leave now, sis, before this ain’t shit nigga costs you your sanity.

#TeamVan.