Despite backlash from Asian-American civil rights groups, FBI chief Christopher Wray defended his previous portrayal of Chinese people in the U.S. as threats.

In an interview with NBC News published on Wednesday, Wray addressed the controversial statements he made during a hearing with the Senate intelligence committee.

At the February hearing, Sen. Marco Rubio (R-Fla.) had asked the FBI director about the “counterintelligence risk posed to U.S. national security from Chinese students, particularly those in advanced programs in science and mathematics.”

Wray responded by accusing Chinese individuals in academia, from professors to scientists to students, of “taking advantage” of and “exploiting the very open research and development environment” in the U.S.

“One of the things we’re trying to do is view the China threat as not just a whole-of-government threat, but a whole-of-society threat on their end,” Wray said during the hearing. “And I think it’s going to take a whole-of-society response by us.”

Wray’s initial statement had garnered immense criticism from Asian-American civil rights groups, who wrote a letter demanding a meeting with the FBI chief. The coalition of 14 organizations who signed the note described the Chinese community’s anger at being labeled a threat and warned that “well-intentioned public policies might nonetheless lead to troubling issues of potential bias, racial profiling, and wrongful prosecution.”

But in speaking with NBC News, Wray only doubled down on his remarks.

“To be clear, we do not open investigations based on race, or ethnicity, or national origin,” he told the outlet. “But when we open investigations into economic espionage, time and time again, they keep leading back to China.”

He added that both the Chinese government and Chinese companies have been searching for trade secrets and have targeted U.S. companies across industries to acquire them.

While Wray touched on his comments during the interview with NBC, he has yet to respond to the civil rights coalition’s request for a meeting, John C. Yang, president and executive director of Asian Americans Advancing Justice – AAJC told HuffPost. HuffPost reached out to the FBI, but the agency has yet to comment on the status of the meeting.

Yang mentioned that Wray’s rejection of race-based open investigations was a “useful clarification, but it is inadequate.”

“Since the 1800s, Asians and Asian-Americans have been characterized as inherently disloyal by the U.S. government; that trend continues to this day.” - Christina Sinha, Asian-Americans Advancing Justice - Asian Law Caucus

Wray’s initial statement suggests that Americans should be concerned about Chinese academics and students, Yang said ― a sentiment he labeled as “inflammatory and offensive.” Given the FBI chief’s concerns, Yang believes Wray should consult Asian-American civil rights groups on how best to conduct investigations of national security threats to ensure the efforts aren’t biased or based on stereotypes.

Stereotypes have reportedly already affected Asians and Asian-Americans in espionage cases. A white paper published by the nonpartisan Chinese-American organization Committee of 100 in June revealed that Asians were more likely to be charged with economic espionage than any other group. They were also found innocent at a rate two times higher than individuals of any other race. But when they were convicted, those with Asian-sounding names were given sentences twice as long than those with Western-sounding names.

Xiaoxing Xi, a Chinese-American professor, sued FBI agents who stormed his house in 2015, rounded up his family at gunpoint and arrested him. Xi was threatened with up to 80 years in prison and a fine of up to $1 million. Though the charges were abruptly dropped with little explanation, the professor had already lost his position as the interim chairman of the physics department at Temple University and was put on administrative leave for a period of time.

Hydrologist Sherry Chen, who’s also Chinese-American, was also prosecuted on espionage-related charges. However, just a week before her March 2015 trial, the case collapsed. A slew of other scientists of Asian descent have been wrongfully accused of espionage-related crimes.

Considering racist policies like the Chinese Exclusion Act of 1882, which put an absolute moratorium on Chinese labor immigration, and the forced incarceration of Japanese-Americans during World War II, the wrongful accusations against Asian-American academics reflect a disturbing tradition, Christina Sinha, who leads the National Security & Civil Rights Program at civil rights organization Asian-Americans Advancing Justice-Asian Law Caucus, previously told HuffPost.

“Since the 1800s, Asians and Asian-Americans have been characterized as inherently disloyal by the U.S. government; that trend continues to this day,” Sinha said. “Our government has been stuck in a pattern of repeatedly scapegoating immigrant communities and treating them as threats to our nation’s security.”The "fearless girl" statue faces the bronze bull statue near Wall Street in New York, New York. Xinhua News Agency via Getty Images

Ever wanted your very own “Fearless Girl” statue? Well, now you can buy one.

Artist Kristen Visbal is selling two-foot reproductions of the famous statue of a young girl facing off against Wall Street’s “Charging Bull.” The miniature reproductions each cost a whopping $6,500 and will be sold as a limited edition, with only 1,000 made in total.

“My hope is that your limited edition bronze will serve as a symbol of empowerment and encouragement and as a reminder that collaboration between genders and culture is the enlightened path forward for smarter, stronger decisions,” Visbal wrote on the Fearless Girl website.

According to the website, 20 percent of the proceeds from sales of the statues will go to nonprofits that support women’s education and gender equality.

A photo of the "fearless girl" statue for sale. Jafe Parsons

The original statue was erected last March in New York City by asset management group State Street Global Advisors to “increase gender diversity” and celebrate women leaders in business. In October 2017, it was revealed by the Department of Labor that State Street Global had paid women and black executives less than their white male counterparts. State Street Global Advisors agreed to pay $5 million back to over 300 women and 15 black employees.

While the statue ended up being another empty feminist symbol created by capitalism, the statue was a hit with many people and created conversations about female empowerment in different workspaces.

New York City Mayor Bill de Blasio commended Visbal and the statue last March: “In her short time here, the Fearless Girl has fueled powerful conversations about women in leadership and inspired so many.”

Although the statue is pricy, Visbal told CNN Money that she’s considering selling smaller reproductions at a more affordable price. The current model will be sold in a “butterscotch brown” color with a base made of black granite. The production time to create a reproduction will take three to four months.In the latest chilling confluence of Russia and the U.S. government, a startling 2013 Russian video has emerged featuring Donald Trump’s pick to become national security adviser, John Bolton, promoting Russian gun rights for a Kremlin-connected banker who is reportedly being investigated by the FBI.

The Bolton video was distributed by a gun rights group co-founded by Russian citizen Alexander Torshin, according to National Public Radio, which unearthed the video. Torshin is a lifetime member of the National Rifle Association, a close ally of Russian President Vladimir Putin and the deputy governor of the Bank of Russia.

Torshin, who also served in the Russian government, is the focus of an investigation by the FBI to determine if he illegally funneled Russian funds to Trump’s campaign through the NRA, McClatchy has reported. It’s illegal to use foreign funds to influence federal elections.

The U.S. Federal Election Commission launched a similar probe to determine if the NRA was acting as a conduit for illegal Trump campaign funds, Politico reported.

Torshin, who served as the deputy speaker of Russia’s Parliament for more than a decade and was on Russia’s National Anti-Terrorism Committee, reached out to members of the Trump campaign through the NRA, according to McClatchy. He also hosted dinners for NRA executives during their trip to Moscow in 2015.

The NRA spent a record amount on 2016 elections, including $21 million to back Trump and $14 million to attack his Democratic rival, Hillary Clinton.

Torshin helped create the NRA’s Russian equivalent, The Right to Bear Arms, which sponsored the Bolton video. The former U.S. ambassador to the United Nations urged the Russian government to change its constitution to allow gun rights similar to those in America.

A source close to Bolton told NPR that he was originally asked to record the video by then-NRA President David Keene. At the time, Bolton was a member of the NRA’s international affairs subcommittee, according to NPR.

On the video, Bolton praises a “new era of freedom” in Russia on the 20th anniversary of the adoption of its constitution.

“Were the Russian national government to grant a broader right to bear arms to its people, it would be creating a partnership with its citizens that would better allow for the protection of mothers, children and families without in any way compromising the integrity of the Russian state,” Bolton says on the video. “That is my wish and my advice to your great people.”

Bolton appeared in the video shortly after a Right to Bear Arms conference was held in Moscow. Alan Gottlieb, the founder of the U.S.-based Second Amendment Foundation, who attended the conference, told NPR that he assumed the event was supported by the Russian government — otherwise it would not have taken place.

Keene spoke at the conference of his close ties with Torshin, who regularly tweeted about his visits with Keene over the years, according to NPR.

The NRA recently revealed that it has been responding to questions from the FEC about campaign contributions as part of the FEC investigation but has denied any wrongdoing.

In response to a letter from Sen. Ron Wyden (D-Ore.) concerning his fears of illegal campaign contributions being funneled through the NRA, the gun lobbying organization responded that, as a “longstanding policy to conform with federal election law, the NRA [does] not accept funds from foreign persons or entities in connection with United States elections.”Bill Hader and Jay Pharoah’s time together on “Saturday Night Live” was not all good old days ― at least not when Justin Bieber appeared on the show.

The two dished on the singer after a caller on Thursday’s “Watch What Happens Live With Andy Cohen” asked them to name “SNL’s” “worst-behaved musical guest or host.”

The two didn’t really hesitate. “We both know, dawg,” Pharoah said. To which Hader replied, “Yeah, it was Bieber.”

“He was in a bad place,” Hader said. “Maybe he’s in a better place. But back then ... it was rough.”

Hader said “SNL” guests are usually on their best behavior, but Bieber seemed “exhausted or at the end of a rope.”

At least we’ll always have the Biebs’ funny sketch from that episode in which he played a Miley Cyrus superfan.David Hogg, pictured at the March for Our Lives rally in Washington, D.C., on March 24. Jonathan Ernst / Reuters

Gun control advocate David Hogg called on the press to stop using the name and image of the 17-year-old student who police say carried out the mass shooting at a Texas high school on Friday.

“We make these sick people known worldwide for their horrifying acts, let’s stop that,” Hogg tweeted Sunday. The teen survived February’s school shooting at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Florida.

I don’t know the shooters name and don’t want to. If you agree, anytime you see a post with their name or face from news organizations post #NoNotoriety with one of the victim's names. We make these sick people known worldwide for their horrifying acts, let’s stop that. — David Hogg (@davidhogg111) May 20, 2018

A gunman killed 10 people and injured at least 13 in Friday’s shooting at Santa Fe High School in Santa Fe, Texas. Local law enforcement said the shooter used two weapons during the attack: a shotgun and a .38 revolver, both of which police believe he obtained from his father. The suspect was arrested on charges of capital murder and aggravated assault on a public servant.

Hogg’s call echoes that of Anderson Cooper, who said on his CNN show Friday night that he would not be naming the shooter during the program.

“The name of the alleged killer will not be said nor will his face be shown. The only thing he deserves is justice. His victims deserve far better,” Cooper said.

On our program it is the stories of the survivors and victims we tell, explains Anderson Cooper



"The name of the alleged killer will not be said nor will his face be shown. The only thing he deserves is justice. His victims deserve far better" https://t.co/4EjkUcA2gD — Anderson Cooper 360° (@AC360) May 19, 2018

The call is consistent with warnings from advocates and mental health experts who caution that excessive media coverage of a shooter can motivate copycats who seek fame or notoriety. School shooting survivors and gun control advocates have launched campaigns such as “No Notoriety” and “Don’t Name Them” that have gotten support from law enforcement, including the FBI.

Student survivors of the Parkland shooting have shared their support for the Santa Fe High School community. In an op-ed published in USA Today, Stoneman Douglas student Eden Hebron shared advice with the survivors of Sante Fe.The Daily Stormer publisher Andrew Anglin attempted to establish himself as a "stateless" person to avoid a federal lawsuit filed by Tanya Gersh, a Jewish real estate agent in Montana. Andrew Anglin

Andrew Anglin, America’s most notorious neo-Nazi troll, can no longer hide from a lawsuit in Montana after the judge in the case determined on Tuesday that a federal court has jurisdiction in the matter.

U.S. Magistrate Judge Jeremiah Lynch found that sufficient evidence exists that Anglin, the publisher of the neo-Nazi website The Daily Stormer, had a legal presence in Ohio last April when the lawsuit was filed, and that his court therefore has the authority to hear the case. Lynch’s recommendation can still be reviewed by a district court judge.

For almost a year, Anglin has been on the lam in an attempt to avoid responsibility for urging his readers to direct a “troll storm” of abuse at Tanya Gersh, a Jewish real estate agent in Whitefish, Montana, who had become embroiled in a feud with the mother of Richard Spencer, a prominent white nationalist. Gersh and her family ultimately received more than 700 threatening and harassing communications. With the help of the Southern Poverty Law Center, she sued Anglin last April for invasion of privacy, intentional infliction of “emotional distress” and violating a Montana anti-intimidation law.

Anglin went into hiding and evaded process servers trying to give him notice of the litigation. On his website and through his lawyer, Marc Randazza, he threw out feints about his location. First, it was Nigeria. Then Russia, the Philippines, Greece and Cambodia. Randazza, who also represents far-right propagandist and smear artist Mike Cernovich, used the misdirection to argue that Anglin had permanently established himself overseas in an undisclosed location and, therefore, existed beyond the reach of the federal courts as a “stateless” person, an unusual legal category that applies to American citizens who live abroad with the intent to remain there indefinitely. For that reason, the lawsuit should be dismissed, Randazza contended.

But he and Anglin offered no real evidence to support this argument. In January, Anglin submitted a sworn declaration that included photos of his passport adorned with tourist visa stamps. He claimed to have worked as a tour guide in Athens without offering any proof. He said he lived in a hotel in Cambodia and bought a motorcycle there. Again, he offered no proof. He stated that he’d left Ohio and the United States in July 2013 “for the last time,” never to return, despite having admitted on his website to being in his hometown of Columbus as recently as February 2017 for a court hearing in another matter.

Lynch on Wednesday found Anglin’s domicile argument unpersuasive and recommended it be denied. The judge described Anglin’s declaration as mostly a “series of subjective statements” that were insufficient to demonstrate, for legal purposes, that Anglin had set himself up abroad permanently.

“Can’t win em all,” Anglin’s lawyer Randazza tweeted late Tuesday night.

The judge also determined that Gersh had presented ample evidence to establish a legal presence for Anglin in Ohio, where the neo-Nazi is registered to vote and maintains a mailing address. Both of Anglin’s active businesses ― Moonbase Holdings, LLC and Daily Stormer — are registered with the Ohio Secretary of State. He collects money in Ohio.

“Mr. Anglin’s travels around the globe do not absolve him of responsibility for the harm he caused in the United States,” said David Dinielli, one of Gersh’s attorneys from the SPLC.

Dinielli added that Gersh’s legal team is seeking to do discovery in the case to ”see if there were additional parties who may have played a role in the planning and implementation of the troll storm against our client” and whether the complaint needs to be amended with the names of other defendants. Gersh’s lawyers want to know, for example, if Richard Spencer had a hand in the harassment.

Anglin’s legal predicament should come into better focus on April 3 during a hearing in Missoula on a second argument Anglin put forward in his motion to dismiss Gersh’s suit. That argument asserts that the case should be tossed on First Amendment grounds. Essentially, Anglin is arguing that anything he writes on a website that stops short of “fighting words,” a true threat or incitement ― even when his intent might be to incite an online mob to cyberbully a target ― is protected speech.

A serial harasser and slanderer, Anglin has advocated violence against minorities, women, journalists and other groups. Last week, he bragged on The Daily Stormer about his influence on Dylann Roof, who killed nine people in a Charleston, South Carolina, church in 2015.

Andrew Anglin

Lynch’s determination this week is just one of several developments that puts Anglin in an increasingly precarious position, both legally and personally.

In the past months, Anglin has lost support in the “alt-right” white supremacist movement, for which he has served as an important ringleader and its chief propagandist. His writings about beating and caging women revolt even deeply misogynistic members of the white power scene.

A keyboard warrior, Anglin has also alienated alt-right extremists who endorse real-world activism. This rift widened after anti-fascists delivered a humiliating beatdown to the Traditionalist Worker Party, a prominent neo-Nazi group, in Lansing, Michigan, in early March, prompting Anglin to slam the organizers for being ineffective. They fiercely attacked him back, accusing him of being a “race-mixer” who targets young girls for sex and is too cowardly to show his face at far-right rallies.

On Gab, a far-right social media platform popular with racists and fascists, alt-right members tore into Anglin.

Gab Screenshot

Anglin even caught flak on his own website’s forum and had to ban several mouthy dissenters. It was an embarrassing twist of fate for a troll whose sense of self-worth has long depended on how many racist simpletons he can delude.

Meanwhile, Anglin’s old foes have only drawn closer. Jeff Cremeans, a process server hired by the SPLC to find Anglin in Columbus, is still on the hunt and told HuffPost that his colleagues around the country have called to offer assistance.

“We all stick together, we’re all in this together,” Cremeans said. “When they heard about my situation, they said if you ever need help, send us the papers and we’ll get him for you. I’ve got complete backing not just locally but nationally.”

What might that mean for Anglin?

“I think he becomes even more paranoid, if that’s even possible,” Cremeans said.The conversation quickly turned political when actress Roseanne Barr appeared on Thursday’s broadcast of “Jimmy Kimmel Live!”

Barr was ostensibly on the late-night show with co-star John Goodman to talk about the upcoming reboot of their hit ’90s sitcom “Roseanne.”

But Kimmel was keen to quiz Barr on why she voted for President Donald Trump in the 2016 election. “I’m shocked because I know you are a very socially liberal person in general,” said Kimmel.

“I’m still the same, you all moved. You all went so fucking far out, you lost everything,” Barr responded.

Barr then claimed no one, “no matter who we voted for,” wants to see Trump fail.

“You want Pence? You want Pence for the frickin’ president,” Barr asked, referring to Vice President Mike Pence. When Kimmel replied that he didn’t, Barr responded: “Well, then zip that fucking lip” before collapsing on the couch in laughter.

AdvertisementReddit has an entire “Shower Thoughts” subreddit dedicated to “the miniature epiphanies you have that highlight the oddities within the familiar.” In honor of those weird, wonderful and sometimes profound musings, here are 25 of the best posts from the last week:The mystery of a tiny skeletal mummy that has captured the public’s imagination and baffled scientists for years may have finally been solved.

The body is just 6 inches long and likely a fetus; however, it has a skeletal structure that appears to be that of a 6-year-old child. Since the mummy had 10 pairs of ribs instead of 12 and an elongated head, some believed it could be an alien.

But DNA tests confirmed that the skeleton, nicknamed “Ata” as it was discovered in Chile’s Atacama Desert in 2003, was human.

“I had heard about this specimen through a friend of mine, and I managed to get a picture of it,” Garry Nolan, a professor of microbiology and immunology at Stanford University, said in a news release. “You can’t look at this specimen and not think it’s interesting; it’s quite dramatic.”

Emery Smith

The analysis by Nolan and a team of other researchers confirmed that the skeleton was not an alien, nor a non-human primate as some had speculated. It was the fetus of a girl who had suffered from a host of severe genetic mutations. Some of those mutations had never been linked to bone or developmental problems.

Nolan told the Guardian that Ata was either stillborn or died right after birth.

“She was so badly malformed as to be unable to feed,” he said. “In her condition, she would have ended up in the neonatal ICU, but given where the specimen was found, such things were simply not available.”

The tests also showed that the remains weren’t ancient, as some had theorized, but only about 40 years old.

Nolan said:

“While this started as a story about aliens, and went international, it’s really a story of a human tragedy. A woman had a malformed baby, it was preserved in a manner and then ‘hocked’ or sold as a strange artefact. It turns out to be human, with a fascinating genetic story from which we might learn something important to help others. May she rest in peace.”

“DNA differences like this are useful to help us diagnose children and adults with ‘undiagnosed’ disorders,” Atul Butte, director of the Institute for Computational Health Sciences at the University of California-San Francisco, told CBS news.

“More and more children’s hospitals are able to study patients and better understand what differences in their DNA might be leading to their conditions or disorders,” Butte added. “And the ones we learned here can get added to the catalogs for future reference.”WASHINGTON – President Donald Trump on Friday signed a government spending bill that fails to fund his long-promised border wall, notwithstanding a threat just hours earlier to veto the legislation.

“As a matter of national security I’ve signed this omnibus budget bill. There are a lot of things I’m unhappy about in this bill,” the president said in a rambling, 20-minute explanation of why he approved the spending plan despite his misgivings. “I say to Congress: I will never sign another bill like this again.”

Trump’s explanation, though, may not be enough to mollify his base of supporters, many of whom expected Trump to follow through on his often-repeated promise of a border wall.

“This will crush the spirit of ‘the deplorables,’ as this is exactly what they voted against,” said one Republican adviser close to Trump who spoke on the condition of anonymity.

Earlier Friday, Trump said he was considering a veto because of the lack of wall money, as well as the failure to fix the DACA immigration program ― even though his own White House last month sabotaged legislation accomplishing precisely those two items.

The veto threat of the $1.3 trillion spending bill came after fierce lobbying from a group of conservative House members, which included a pointed accusation that House Speaker Paul Ryan (R-Wis.) had lied to Trump about how much money was included for his wall along the Mexican border, according to the Republican adviser.

Key members of the House Freedom Caucus, including Rep. Mark Meadows (R-N.C.), began urging Trump to veto the bill almost immediately after Ryan returned from a White House visit on Wednesday to win Trump’s support for the spending plan, the Republican adviser said.

That plan wound up clearing both chambers Thursday. Had Trump failed to sign the measure, the government would have run out of spending authority and partially shut down at midnight Friday.

Meadows declined to comment.

Freedom Caucus members explained to Trump that the spending plan does not actually allocate money to start construction of a modern wall along any stretch of the border that does not already have some form of barrier, the adviser said. Rather, it includes $641 million to build levees and fencing for 33 miles that currently lack a barrier.

What doubts that Freedom Caucus members planted in Trump’s mind, the adviser said, Fox News nurtured to fuition, with highly critical Thursday night programming about the spending deal.

“There’s a 50-50 shot he vetoes this,” the adviser predicted earlier Friday.

President Donald Trump inspects border wall prototypes in San Diego, California, on March 13, 2018. MANDEL NGAN via Getty Images

Trump’s veto threat came in a Twitter statement issued at 8:55 a.m. “I am considering a VETO of the Omnibus Spending Bill based on the fact that the 800,000 plus DACA recipients have been totally abandoned by the Democrats (not even mentioned in Bill) and the BORDER WALL, which is desperately needed for our National Defense, is not fully funded,” he wrote.

Yet those demands would have been met in a bipartisan proposal that received 54 votes on the Senate floor last month – six short of the threshold needed to proceed. That came after a furious lobbying effort against the proposal by Trump’s White House, including an extraordinary conference call in which a senior administration official attacked South Carolina Republican Sen. Lindsey Graham by name.

“He has been an obstacle to immigration reform. He has been an obstacle in the way of getting relief for Dreamers,” said the official, who spoke on the condition he not be identified.

Trump’s Department of Homeland Security put out a similarly strident statement opposing the plan: “The changes proposed by Senators Schumer-Rounds-Collins would effectively make the United States a Sanctuary Nation where ignoring the rule of law is encouraged.”

“Dreamers” is the colloquial term for undocumented immigrants who were brought into this country as children. About 700,000 received work permits and formal reprieves from deportation under the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program during former President Barack Obama’s administration. Trump rescinded the program in September.

Under the proposal sponsored by senators, including Republicans Mike Rounds of South Dakota and Susan Collins of Maine, as well as Democratic Leader Chuck Schumer of New York, the DACA-eligible population would have been allowed to stay permanently and be given a lengthy path toward eventual citizenship. In exchange, Trump would have been given the authorization to build his wall in full.

The White House instead pushed its own plan, which included the DACA fix and wall funding, but also limits on legal immigration and asylum seekers. That proposal received only 39 votes in the Senate – the fewest of any of the competing plans voted on that day.

Ali Noorani, executive director of the pro-reform group National Immigration Forum, said he believes the Rounds-King bill would have succeeded with 60 votes had the White House not come out against it.

“There is a deal that includes the protection of Dreamers and the protection of our border if the president is serious,” Noorani said. “Up to this point, he’s missed every opportunity to take that deal.”

Democratic lawmakers offered Trump that same swap in recent days: $25 billion for his border wall in exchange for a path to citizenship for 1.8 million DACA-eligible undocumented immigrants.

“The White House proposal gave them everything they asked for while leaving Dreamers in limbo,” a senior Democratic aide said. “Our counteroffer lined up perfectly with what the president had proposed, but of course, he said no to his own deal. Again.”

Trump’s Friday morning veto threat came less than 24 hours after top White House officials said definitively that Trump would sign the spending plan when it reached his desk. “Let’s cut right to the chase: Is the president to sign the bill? The answer is yes,” budget director Mick Mulvaney said Thursday.

And those assurances of Trump approval came the day after Ryan trekked through a snowstorm to explain to Trump why he should sign the spending bill. The meeting took place in the White House residence and included Vice President Mike Pence. Ryan told Trump this was the best deal he was likely to get, and emphasized the large increase in military spending that Trump had sought and could claim as a victory, according to an official familiar with the meeting.

Ryan apparently succeeded in his sales pitch. Trump signaled support for the plan in a Twitter statement at 11 p.m. that night: “Got $1.6 Billion to start Wall on Southern Border, rest will be forthcoming. Most importantly, got $700 Billion to rebuild our Military, $716 Billion next year...most ever. Had to waste money on Dem giveaways in order to take care of military pay increase and new equipment.”

In the end it was the increase in military spending that Trump cited Friday, too. “My highest duty is to keep America safe. Nothing more important,” he said, adding that he had “very seriously” considered vetoing the measure.

Trump has spoken about his “great wall” on the Mexican border since his campaign announcement speech at Trump Tower in June 2015. For the 17 months of his campaign, Trump promised many hundreds of times that he would build a 30-foot-tall wall to keep out illegal immigrants.

Trump also promised that the wall would be built at no cost to U.S. taxpayers, and that he would force Mexico to foot the bill. “Mark my words,” he said during his announcement speech.

That promise, however, has proven elusive. A planned meeting between Trump and Mexican President Enrique Peña Nieto was recently canceled because Peña Nieto would not back away from his refusal to pay.

Matt Fuller contributed reporting.Would they have to buy their own guns, or would there be armories in schools? Would students be able to break into armories?

While teaching, would a teacher keep their weapon on their person or in a lock box?

If it was in a lock box on the other side of the room when a threatening person walked in, would the teacher be able to get to their gun in time?

If the threat and the teacher were in close proximity, would the threat not be able to disarm the teacher and turn the pistol on them and in turn the students?

... And since there was a resource or police officer on campus to help protect students and teachers, why didn’t that stop 17 people from getting killed and 15 from getting injured on February 14?Life was only just beginning for Daekwon Tobar. At 17, the South Bend, Indiana, teen was starting to figure out some of the keys to success in the adult world: good eye contact, a firm handshake and a confident tone of voice.

Daekwon was still in school, but he wanted to be a welder when he completed his education, his family said. With a mentor teaching him how to write a cover letter and fill out a résumé to help him stand out from the pack, people who knew Daekwon had high hopes for a young man coming into his own.

But on Feb. 17, Daekwon was gunned down in broad daylight as he walked home from the store with his grandmother. He suffered gunshot wounds to the leg, hip and head.

Daekwon was one of three 17-year-olds who have been fatally shot in South Bend this year. A fourth teenager, just 13 years old, was also killed in the city in late December.

“A lot of people are just a hair-trigger away from snapping, I really think, and if you happen to have a gun in your hand, you can’t put that bullet back in once it leaves,” said Michael Elliott, organizer of South Bend’s On Site Prayer Ministry, in an interview with WNDU at a recent vigil for Daekwon.

Daekwon’s story is painfully familiar not just in South Bend but in many places across a nation that is publicly grappling with the effects of gun violence following the Feb. 14 school shooting in Parkland, Florida.

At least 73 teens have been shot to death in the 37 days since that massacre, according to HuffPost’s review of a database compiled by Gun Violence Archive, a not-for-profit organization that tracks shootings across the country. (Because Gun Violence Archive culls its data from media reports, there may be cases that haven’t been included.)

That’s a rate of nearly two teens each day. Among them were Kaiden Vague, a California student who died on his 16th birthday after accidentally killing himself at a shooting range, and 15-year-old Jay Diaz in El Paso, Texas, who survived a childhood fight with cancer only to be killed when a family member fired his shotgun while cleaning it.

There are too many incidents to document each of them here, but the dozens of cases are disproportionately centered in urban areas. They include teens gunned down by other teens or slain by parents or relatives, young people killed in public and at home, in murders, accidents and suicides. The tally doesn’t include victims younger than 13, nor does it count any of the many teens who suffered only gunshot injuries over that period.

The slaughter of 17 people at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School has sparked a national awakening on gun violence. But as throngs of young people prepare to gather in Washington, D.C., and cities across the world on Saturday for the March for Our Lives, the nascent youth-led movement still seems to be figuring out how best to communicate the breadth of the issue. Each of these lives cut short is a reminder of the relentlessness of gun violence in America.

Much of the conversation around guns has focused on school safety and attacks carried out with military-style semiautomatic rifles, such as the AR-15 used at Stoneman Douglas. Those may be the most pressing concerns in well-to-do suburban communities like Parkland, but in communities of color, and specifically in black communities, gun violence is more of an everyday reality.

The Parkland students have themselves sought to use their platform to remind the nation that this bloodshed extends far beyond the sort of tragic mass shooting that they experienced, and which reliably attracts the national spotlight.

The Stoneman Douglas survivors who have become the face of the “Never Again” movement met with students from Chicago schools this month to discuss ways to address the shootings that tear through neighborhoods on a routine basis. And earlier this week, they criticized the media for the “racial disparity” in its coverage of gun violence, which serves to silence victims from less affluent communities and from communities of color.

“We have to use our white privilege now to make sure that all of the people that have died as a result of [gun violence] and haven’t been covered the same can now be heard,” said David Hogg, a Stoneman Douglas senior.The Most Popular Destinations In The World, According To TripAdvisor

And where to stay in these spots when you visit.WASHINGTON (Reuters) - The Republican candidate in a close U.S. House of Representatives special election on March 13 in Pennsylvania conceded to his Democratic opponent on Wednesday, cementing a Democratic upset in a long-time Republican area that President Donald Trump handily won in 2016.

In an ominous sign for Trump’s Republicans eight months before national midterm elections, moderate Democrat Conor Lamb led conservative Rick Saccone by a fraction of a percentage point in the race for the southwestern Pennsylvania seat.

Trump won the district by almost 20 points in the presidential election. He campaigned for Saccone, who started the race well ahead of Lamb.

“Just got off the phone with my opponent, @RickSaccone4PA, who congratulated me & graciously conceded last Tuesday’s election,” Lamb said on Twitter.

An official at Saccone’s campaign confirmed the candidate had conceded.

The earliest the final election result could be certified is March 26, but the final tally could be unknown for weeks.

Lamb led Saccone by 627 votes unofficially, state returns showed last week; Lamb had 49.8 percent of the vote and Saccone 49.6 percent.

House Republicans had called the race unique, noting that Lamb, 33, a Marine Corps veteran, had distanced himself from his party’s leaders and staked out positions to the right of many Democrats.

The patchwork of small towns, farms and Pittsburgh suburbs that make up Pennsylvania’s 18th congressional district has been so staunchly Republican that Democrats did not field candidates in the previous two House elections.

Come November, the district will cease to exist because boundaries have been redrawn. Both Lamb and Saccone are expected to run again, though in different districts.

The election, held to replace a Republican who resigned amid a scandal last year, was the latest forceful electoral showing for Democrats, who also won a governor’s race in Virginia and scored a U.S. Senate upset in conservative Alabama.

Lamb’s strong showing could buoy Democrats nationally as they seek to win control of the House from Republicans in the November elections. Democrats see 118 Republican-held districts in play. If they flip 24 seats, they could reclaim a House majority.

The Lamb win vindicates a strategy Democrats are using in some races to enlist candidates whose positions and ideologies are well suited to the district even while conflicting in significant ways with the positions of the Democratic leadership in Washington.Authorities have found frustratingly few leads to uncover why Mark Anthony Conditt, 23, was compelled to plant seven homemade bombs around the Austin area that killed two people in recent weeks.

The FBI and police wasted no time going through Conditt’s home and interviewing his roommates and relatives, following a confrontation with police early Wednesday that left Conditt dead in his car. But what evidence they have come up with hasn’t yet seemed to point to a motive.

Austin Police Chief Brian Manley said Wednesday that authorities had discovered a 25-minute cellphone recording containing a confession. But his description of its contents didn’t provide any clues.

“He does not at all mention anything about terrorism, nor does he mention anything about hate,” Manley said. “This is an outcry by a very challenged young man.”

Authorities tend to shy away from linking acts of mass violence perpetrated by white non-Muslim men to terrorism because the U.S. has no federal law criminalizing acts of domestic terrorism.

“Call it what it is. If you have an incident that takes place, and the person uses a firearm, a car, a knife ― if that crime of force or violence is done to forward a social or political agenda, then that person fits the elements of domestic terrorism,” urged Thomas O’Connor, head of the FBI Agents Association, in an interview with HuffPost.

Conditt’s family was reportedly blindsided by his actions as well.

“We had no idea of the darkness that Mark must have been in. Our family is a normal family in every way,” an aunt, Shanee, told CNN in a statement. She last saw her nephew over Christmas, she said, which she described as “wonderful.”

“We played cards. We laughed, we went to shows together,” she said.

His grandmother, Mary Conditt, echoed the shock, characterizing him in an interview with Fox 31 as “a great kid” who was “smart, loving, kind.”

“I have no idea who this person is,” she said. “He’s from a family that is so tight, that works so hard to raise their children correctly. It’s just horrible.”

Mark Anthony Conditt attended Austin Community College from 2010-2012 but never graduated. This is a handout photo from the school. Handout . / Reuters

Neighbors said they saw no red flags either, besides remembering him as quiet and slightly standoffish.

“It just makes no sense whatsoever, he was a nice kid,” neighbor Jeff Reeb, 75, told HuffPost Wednesday. “He was quiet, sure, and young. But he was nice, normal as I could tell.”

Compounding the challenge of understanding Conditt was his apparently limited social circle, partly explained by fact that he was unemployed, not enrolled in school and had been previously homeschooled.

His two roommates were detained for questioning on Wednesday, and one was later released. Jennifer Withers’ 26-year-old son had been roommates with Conditt for the past three months, she told KXAN. While she had never met Conditt during her visits to the property, she didn’t suspect him of anything.

“Nothing seemed out of the ordinary,” she said. “We didn’t suspect anything. He didn’t suspect anything.”

Jeremiah Jensen was a friend of Conditt’s, he told KERA, but hadn’t seen him or spoken to him in several years. He described Conditt as shy and “pugnacious in nature” but capable of softening over time. Jensen, who was also homeschooled, explained that the experience can contribute to loneliness and a difficulty in associating with others ― though he didn’t attribute those qualities to Conditt directly.President Donald Trump said on Sunday he intends to direct the Department of Justice to investigate whether his 2016 presidential campaign was “infiltrated” or surveilled” by the government under the orders of officials in the administration of his predecessor, Barack Obama.

Hours later, Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein asked the Justice Department to step in, according to reports. Rosenstein asked the department’s inspector general to expand its review of the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act to include whether there were any political motivations in the FBI’s surveillance during the 2016 campaign.

“If anyone did infiltrate or surveil participants in a presidential campaign for inappropriate purposes, we need to know about it and take appropriate action,” Rosenstein said in a statement.

Trump’s demand potentially sets up a high-stakes showdown with Attorney General Jeff Sessions and FBI Director Christopher Wray, who have resisted requests from Republican lawmakers to hand over some documents related to special counsel Robert Mueller’s investigation into Russia’s meddling in the 2016 election.

I hereby demand, and will do so officially tomorrow, that the Department of Justice look into whether or not the FBI/DOJ infiltrated or surveilled the Trump Campaign for Political Purposes - and if any such demands or requests were made by people within the Obama Administration! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) May 20, 2018

Last week, three GOP congressmen wrote to Trump asking him to intervene and order DOJ to produce documents “related to potential abuses of the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act; documents related to the FBI and broader Department of Justice’s initial investigation into the Trump campaign prior to the appointment of the Special Counsel.”

The extraordinary presidential request wading into a federal investigation being conducted by his own government comes in the wake of a bombshell New York Times story about Donald Trump Jr., the president’s eldest son, and his August 2016 meeting with an envoy representing the crown princes of United Arab Emirates and Saudi Arabia. The envoy offered to help the Trump presidential campaign, according to the Times ― similar to the Russian lawyer who met with Trump Jr. two months earlier under the guise of providing what the Trump campaign believed was damaging information about Democratic presidential candidate Hillary Clinton.

FBI agents at the time sent an unnamed informant to talk to two Trump campaign advisers “only after they received evidence that the pair had suspicious contacts linked to Russia during the campaign,” according to the Times. The government also obtained a secret warrant in October 2016 to monitor former Trump campaign aide Carter Page’s communications after convincing a judge it was appropriate to that investigation.

But Trump, egged on by conservative media outlets and Fox News commentators, lashed out at the FBI, accusing the agency of spying on his campaign for “political purposes.”

“Reports are there was indeed at least one FBI representative implanted, for political purposes, into my campaign for president. It took place very early on, and long before the phony Russia Hoax became a ‘hot’ Fake News story. If true ― all time biggest political scandal!” he tweeted Friday.

That last line parrots assertions that Fox News’ Sean Hannity has been making for months.

As GOP lawmakers have pressed their demand to see DOJ documents about the identity of the FBI informant, reportedly an American academic who teaches in Britain, critics of the move have warned against the release of such information to Congress ― where details of federal investigations often leak. Havng the name become public could put lives at risk, these critics caution.

Sen. Mark Warner (D-Va.), the top Democrat on the Senate Intelligence Committee, said that it was against the law to “try to reveal classified information about the identity of an FBI or CIA source.”

“Classified information, [the] identity of agents, is sacrosanct,” Warner said Sunday on CBS’s “Face the Nation.”

He added that the FBI and Justice Department “have tried to avoid [giving lawmakers details on informants] because that’s just not the way they operate.” Providing such information is “not traditional in any sense of the word,” he added.

Other Democrats have scoffed at the claims of a “spy” within the Trump campaign. Rep. Adam Schiff of California, the ranking Democrat on the House Intelligence Committee, termed the assertion “nonsense” in a tweet on Sunday.

Trump’s claim of an embedded “spy” is nonsense. His “demand” DOJ investigate something they know to be untrue is an abuse of power, and an effort to distract from his growing legal problems. Never mind that DOJ has warned that lives and alliances are at risk. He doesn’t care. https://t.co/c1itPmiHnv — Adam Schiff (@RepAdamSchiff) May 20, 2018

Benjamin Wittes, whom former FBI Director James Comey showed memos of his meetings with Trump, wrote in a series of tweets that the president’s push to investigate the FBI is “nakedly corrupt.” Wittes accused Trump of attempting to derail an investigation into his conduct.

Wittes asserted that although Trump has the legal authority to demand an investigation into the FBI, he doubted either Wray or Rosenstein could follow through with such an order.

“So if the President really gives Rod Rosenstein or Chris Wray an order (as opposed to Twitter bluster) demanding a particular investigation not properly predicated under FBI/DOJ guidelines for this overtly political purpose, I believe both men will resign rather than comply,” Wittes wrote.

So if the President really gives Rod Rosenstein or Chris Wray an order (as opposed to Twitter bluster) demanding a particular investigation not properly predicated under FBI/DOJ guidelines for this overtly political purpose, I believe both men will resign rather than comply. /6/ — Benjamin Wittes (@benjaminwittes) May 20, 2018State Rep. Joe Souki, a Democrat who served as House speaker, is resigning amid sexual harassment accusations from several women. www.joesouki.com

A long-serving Hawaii lawmaker will resign from his post at the end of the month in response to sexual harassment complaints made against him by several women.

Hawaii’s State Ethics Commission said that state Rep. Joe Souki, an 84-year-old Democrat who previously served as the state’s House speaker, has admitted to touching and kissing “more than one woman in ways that were inappropriate and unwelcome.”

The commission added that Souki has acknowledged that his actions “exceeded the boundaries of the customary ‘aloha kiss,’” a customary greeting in the islands that involves a platonic kiss on the cheek.

Souki also admitted to making sexual comments, including comments on physical appearance, to more than one woman, according to the commission’s report on its investigation, released Wednesday.

Rachel Wong, a former state Department of Human Services director, filed a sexual harassment complaint against Souki in February, accusing him of an incident that occurred in 2015 in the presence of another male colleague, the Honolulu Star-Advertiser reported at the time.

Four other women have since come forward with accusations, according to the Star-Advertiser’s latest report, which did not name the women. At least two other women have filed complaints against Souki, according to Honolulu Civil Beat, but they declined to comment to the news site because they said they feared retaliation.

Wong has told the Star-Advertiser that Souki’s actions made her “unable to do my job,” but she has refused to reveal further details to the media.

“There were constraints after that experience where I could no longer do my job,” she added, “which means paying visits to, speaking with, the key people involved in government.”

While Souki has agreed to resign as part of the State Ethics Commission agreement, he continues to deny that he intentionally misbehaved and maintains that his actions were simply “misunderstood.”

In his official resignation statement, Souki said, “I have absolutely no memory of ever acting inappropriately with any women at any time, as a member of the House or in a private setting.”

“I am greatly saddened that something I did was misunderstood and believed to be inappropriate conduct,” he added.

In a February interview with the Star-Advertiser, Souki’s attorney Michael Green said Wong was accusing Souki of acting inappropriately during a meeting with the speaker and another representative three years ago. “She just decided now three years later that that must have been sexual harassment? It’s nuts,” Green told the paper.

During that interview, Green also said that Wong is claiming that Souki stood up and “adjusted his pants.”

“I don’t see anything she said that would rise to the level of sexual harassment in normal conversation,” Green told the Star-Advertiser. “I mean, today it’s kind of crazy. You can’t say anything to anyone.”

Speaking to reporters during a Wednesday news conference, Souki appeared to recall the meeting Green was referring to during the February interview. Souki then insisted that he merely stood up and gave Wong a customary aloha kiss after she told him she was retiring and leaving the state.

During that same conference, Green said all the accusations made against him were made three to eight years ago.

The State Ethics Commission said in its report that Souki’s power “over legislation and budgeting questions” as House speaker made his accusers hesitant to come forward. At the time of the incident, the commission said, Wong led a state department that had a budget of $3.3 billion.

“Challenging then-Speaker Souki’s conduct could have jeopardized her agency’s budget and legislation,” the commission’s report read. “She, like others, felt she had no choice but to remain silent in the face of Respondent Souki’s behavior.”President Donald Trump has come out swinging at former Vice President Joe Biden.

On Tuesday, Biden told a University of Miami anti-sexual violence rally that he’d have “beat the hell out of” Trump in high school over his treatment of women.

Trump responded on Twitter early Thursday morning:

Crazy Joe Biden is trying to act like a tough guy. Actually, he is weak, both mentally and physically, and yet he threatens me, for the second time, with physical assault. He doesn’t know me, but he would go down fast and hard, crying all the way. Don’t threaten people Joe! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) March 22, 2018

Trump called Biden, whose first wife and child died in a 1972 car crash, “weak, both mentally and physically.” “He doesn’t know me, but he would go down fast and hard, crying all the way,” Trump added. “Don’t threaten people Joe!”

Biden faced criticism for the aggressive nature of his comments. They echo those he made at a Hillary Clinton rally during the 2016 presidential election.

“The press always ask me, ‘Don’t I wish I were debating him?’ No, I wish we were in high school — I could take him behind the gym. That’s what I wish,” Biden said at the time.

Some Twitter users also chided Trump for his response:

Mate, you couldn’t have a fight with belly fluff. — Emma Kennedy (@EmmaKennedy) March 22, 2018

The Apprentice was cancelled. You’re a public official now. Please stop. — ᴅᴀɴɪᴇʟ ᴍɪᴇssʟᴇʀ (@DanielMiessler) March 22, 2018

Two days ago, Melania Trump launched her cyber bullying campaign, and this morning, her husband cyber bullied Joe Biden. — Roland Scahill (@rolandscahill) March 22, 2018Sen. Patty Murphy (D-Wash.) worked with Trump's labor secretary on a compromise tucked into the federal spending bill that makes tip theft illegal. ERIC THAYER / Reuters

WASHINGTON ― Tucked into the $1.3 trillion spending bill unveiled by congressional leaders Wednesday night is a provision designed to prevent restaurants from pocketing their servers’ tips.

The measure inserted by Democrats would put some limits on the regulatory changes being pursued by the Labor Department under President Donald Trump. The department has tried to reform wage regulations so that employers can require tipped workers to “pool” gratuities and share them with other non-tipped workers, like cooks and dishwashers, under certain circumstances.

But the way Trump’s Labor Department rewrote the rules, there would be nothing to legally prevent the employer from keeping some or all of the tips, so long as the tipped worker earned the full minimum wage before gratuities. That prospect made the proposal extremely contentious in Washington, and highly unpopular among those who submitted public comments on it.

The provision included in the tentative spending deal would make such “tip theft” illegal. Democrats hailed it as a victory for the local bartender. Congress, however, still needs to pass the bill by Friday night in order to avoid a government shutdown.

Sen. Patty Murray (D-Wash.), ranking member of the Senate’s labor committee, said she worked on the change with Trump’s labor secretary, Alexander Acosta, who oversaw the controversial rewrite of the tipping rules. Murray hammered Acosta for months over the proposal, but praised him Wednesday for working out a compromise.

“I’m pleased that Secretary Acosta listened, reversed course, and worked with me on legislation to make sure that big businesses can’t steal their workers’ tips,” Murray said in a statement. “For the millions of workers who rely on their tips to pay their bills and support their families, most of whom are women, this change comes as a sigh of relief.”

The language inserted in the spending bill would amend the Fair Labor Standards Act to forbid employers from steering tip money toward owners, managers or supervisors, requiring that it stay among non-management employees. It would also allow workers to sue to recover stolen tips and win added damages.

Still, not all Democrats are pleased with the arrangement.

While the deal arranged by Murray would nix the most controversial piece of the tip rule proposal, it would leave the rest of it more or less intact. If implemented, the rule would allow employers to force front-of-the-house employees to share their gratuities with workers in the back, so long as the employer paid the full minimum wage, rather than the reduced, “tipped minimum wage.” President Barack Obama’s administration had banned the practice under any circumstances.

Critics of the Trump administration’s proposal ― including many workers interviewed by HuffPost ― say that servers and bartenders shouldn’t be subsidizing the pay of non-tipped workers, even when everyone is earning the full minimum wage before tips. Rep. Bobby Scott (Va.), ranking Democrat on the House labor committee, agrees with that sentiment. He signaled Wednesday that he would oppose a deal like the one hashed out by Murray.

“I am opposed to language that would allow employers to confiscate half or more of the workers’ tips” to redistribute them, Scott said in a statement to HuffPost. Scott’s opposition to the deal was first reported by Politico.

Democratic Rep. Mark Takano (Calif.) is “not thrilled” with the arrangement either, said spokesman Josh Weisz. “It does prevent outright wage theft, but it still undermines the basic principle that tips are the property of the worker who earns them,” Weisz said.

Critics of the tip rule had been expected to file legal challenges if the Trump administration moved forward with it. But by clarifying that employers can’t keep tips for themselves, the provision in the spending bill would take a lot of political heat off the rule, making it more likely it would be finalized and implemented. Murray may view the deal as much better than nothing, since the Labor Department could have moved forward with what it originally proposed.

Heidi Shierholz, an economist at the Economic Policy Institute, a think tank that was highly critical of the original proposal, said the deal reached Wednesday is “not perfect,” as it could still lead to some servers’ earnings being shifted to other workers. But with the added protections, “It is clearly better for workers than if the Department of Labor’s proposed rule had been finalized. There’s no question,” she said.

Some of the tip rule’s fiercest critics were backing off Wednesday once the arrangement became clear. Restaurant Opportunities Center United, an influential worker center, said it would be satisfied with the rule, so long as management couldn’t take a cut of the tips.WASHINGTON ― Six months late and about 17 hours after they first introduced the bill, House lawmakers on Thursday approved a 2,232-page spending bill that will fund the federal government until October and prevent an imminent shutdown.

The massive omnibus spending deal was the culmination of months of negotiations between Republicans and Democrats. Congress has passed five continuing resolutions since September to extend government operations and allow lawmakers more time to negotiate this deal.

The House passed the bill 256-167, with 145 Republicans and 111 Democrats voting yes, and 90 Republicans and 77 Democrats voting no.

Under a previous agreement to lift spending caps, the $1.3 trillion deal increases defense spending by $80 billion and non-defense spending by $63 billion for this fiscal year. The military gets a 2.4 percent pay raise, while civilian personnel get a 1.9 percent bump.

President Donald Trump gets some $1.6 billion for border security measures, although not necessarily for the “wall” he has long promised. Instead, the bill provides $251 million for secondary fencing, $445 million for levee fencing, $196 million for “primary pedestrian fencing” and $445 million for the replacement of existing fencing, according to The Washington Post. The legislation specifically prohibits Trump from making any of the wall prototypes designed last year.

The bill provides funding for a number of infrastructure projects ― including the New York-New Jersey Gateway program, a rail project for the New York City area. Trump fought hard not to simply fund that project, believing he could negotiate money for his wall with Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer (D-N.Y.) in exchange for Gateway spending. But ultimately the New York-area lawmakers who wanted the project won.

The legislation also includes the so-called Fix NICS measure, which tightens up the system for reporting criminal records to the National Instant Criminal Background Check System. And the bill corrects a “grain glitch” in the GOP tax law that gave farmer-owned cooperatives a significant tax benefit over other agricultural corporations. In exchange for that adjustment, Democrats got an expansion of a low-income housing credit.

The process that produced the spending bill was the exact sort of backroom dealing that Trump railed against in his election. Key lawmakers kept details of the legislation private for months, and then they sprung the text of the measure on other members a little after 8 p.m. on Wednesday. Shortly before 1 p.m. Thursday, the House was voting on the legislation, meaning it was impossible for any of those other lawmakers to have read the bill in its entirety before the vote.

Rep. Mark Meadows (R-N.C.), chairman of the House Freedom Caucus, said he tried to stay up all night to read the bill. “As fast as I was reading it, there’s no way they read it,” Meadows said, noting that he reached the 700s pages of the 2,232-page bill.

House Minority Whip Steny Hoyer (D-Md.) also made a theatrical show of the bill, holding up the massive stack of pages and saying he was waiting for “the tea party who harangued me and my party” about reading the bill.

“Is there no shame?” Hoyer asked. “Is there no realization of the hypocrisy that is being displayed?”

House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi (D-Calif.) accused her GOP colleagues of attempting to speed through the process and get out of town before the big march for gun control in Washington on Saturday.

Rep. Raul Labrador (R-Idaho), another Freedom Caucus member, also criticized the process, claiming that congressional leaders had planned a two-week recess just before this vote so they could pressure other lawmakers into supporting the bill.

“It’s why I’m leaving Congress,” Labrador said, who is instead running for governor of Idaho. “These people have no shame. And they’ll say whatever to get elected. But I think the American people deserve better than this.”