An employee of Prosegur works in the "3117" emergency call center against sexual harassment on transport at the Saint-Lazare train station, in Paris, France March 20, 2018. Benoit Tessier / Reuters

PARIS (Reuters) - France announced a series of measures against sexual violence on Wednesday, including on-the-spot fines for sexual harassment on the street and extended deadlines for filing rape complaints.

President Emmanuel Macron has said the bill is meant to ensure “women are not afraid to be outside”, after a wave of sexual assault allegations leveled against men in the public eye around the world triggered a protest movement online.

Under the legislation, which still needs to be approved by parliament, under-age victims of rape will have until they are aged 48 to file a complaint, taking the deadline to 30 years after they turn 18, from 20 now.

The law will also set an age - 15 - under which one will be presumed not to have agreed to having sex with someone aged 18 or more. This age of consent will facilitate rape prosecutions, Gender Equality Minister Marlene Schiappa said.

Together with the age of consent, one of the most eye-catching aspects of the bill, whose main points have been publicly debated over the past few months, has been the plan to punish sexual harassment on the street with fines.

Schiappa said the fines, to be paid on the spot by offenders, would range from 90 euros to 750 euros ($110 to $920). They could reach 1,500 euros in the case of aggravating circumstances and 3,000 euros for repeat offenders.

“It is crucial that the laws of the republic make it clear that it is not allowed to harass or intimidate women ... whether in the public space, on public transport or online,” Schiappa told a news conference. “There can be no lawless zones.”

The law has wide popular backing, an Ifop opinion poll showed.

Ninety-two percent of those surveyed agreed with extending the statute of limitations, 90 percent backed punishing harassment on the streets and 69 percent supported setting at 15 the age for sexual consent, the poll carried out on March 1 and 2 for viehealthy.com website showed.

However, critics, including actress Catherine Deneuve, have either questioned how the law could be applied or mocked it as an end to French romance.

Responding to such criticism, Schiappa told Reuters last year: “There is some reluctance, some say we will kill the culture of the ‘French lover’ if we punish street harassment.”

“But it’s the opposite. We want to preserve seduction, chivalry and ‘l’amour à la francaise’ by saying what is key is consent. Between consenting adults everything is allowed, we can seduce, talk, but if someone says ‘no’, it’s ‘no’ and it’s final,” she said.

Schiappa has said street harassment would cover situations such as asking a woman for her phone number a dozen times when she has made clear she is not interested.

The bill will also introduce tougher sanctions for group harassment online by making clear that every single person that is taking part will have to answer for it, even if they just sent a few tweets, Schiappa said.A man who got his head stuck in a reclining movie seat has died as a result of his injuries.

Ateeq Rafiq, a 24-year-old father in Birmingham, England, was seeing a movie on March 9 when he bent down to retrieve a phone that had dropped between the reclining seats.

When Rafiq bent down, the footrest on the electrically-powered seat apparently clamped down on his head, according to the Birmingham Mail newspaper.

A source told the paper how the freak accident happened:

“The Gold Class seats are electric reclining seats. He bent down to look for his phone. At this point the leg-rest was in an upright position. But as he stuck his head underneath to have a look, the footrest clamped down onto his head. He was stuck. His partner and staff tried to free him but couldn’t. The chair leg-rest was eventually broken free and he managed to get out.”

Rafiq was unconscious and reportedly suffered a cardiac attack during the incident, according to the Mirror. He was revived with CPR and taken to a nearby hospital where he died a week later on March 16.

After Rafiq’s death was announced, Vue International, which owns the theater where the tragic accident occurred, released a statement:

“A full investigation into the nature of the incident is ongoing. Our thoughts and condolences are with the family who have our full support and assistance.”

His family is devastated by the loss, according to sister-in-law Fatima Arzo.U.S. President Donald Trump tweeted on Wednesday about his decision to congratulate Russian President Vladimir Putin on his re-election. Sputnik Photo Agency/Reuters

President Donald Trump on Wednesday tweeted a bizarre and ominous defense of his widely criticized decision to congratulate Russian leader Vladimir Putin, who was re-elected on Sunday.

Despite an explicit, all-caps warning from his advisers to “NOT CONGRATULATE” Putin ― likely because Trump’s campaign aides are under investigation for alleged collusion with Moscow ― Trump called him up and the pair had what he described as “a very good call.”

“Getting along with Russia (and others) is a good thing, not a bad thing,” Trump tweeted. “They can help solve problems with North Korea, Syria, Ukraine, ISIS, Iran and even the coming Arms Race ... PEACE THROUGH STRENGTH!”

It’s not clear what “coming arms race” he’s referring to ― rising tensions between Washington and Pyongyang have started to simmer since Trump and North Korean leader Kim Jong Un arranged a meeting to be held in May to negotiate the isolated nation’s denuclearization.

Meanwhile, Putin unveiled his country’s new, “invincible” nuclear weapons earlier this month and claimed they could reach “anywhere in the world.” He used visual presentations to show off their purported strength, including one that appeared to show missiles raining down over Florida. The U.S. State Department responded by saying the veiled threat did not represent “the behavior of a responsible international player.”

“The Russians are laughing at us that we are moving back from the world stage, and they are moving forward ― taking whatever they want without any resistance.” - Clint Watts, MSNBC national security analyst

It’s also unclear how, exactly, Trump expects Russia to “help solve problems” in Ukraine. Under Putin’s rule, Russia annexed Crimea from Ukraine in 2014, which sparked a violent political crisis. Putin visited Crimea this month to rally additional support ahead of his election, which Ukrainian President Petro Poroshenko decried as “a dangerous provocation.”

And Trump’s suggestion that Russia can “help” with Syria is equally puzzling. Moscow continues to back the Syrian regime’s slaughter and besiegement of its own citizens. Russian airstrikes, including indiscriminate attacks on hospitals and school buildings, have demolished Syrian neighborhoods and killed thousands of civilians in the war-torn country with impunity. Experts say Russia avoided targeting areas controlled by the Islamic State group for much of its intervention in Syria, instead focusing on rebel-held areas in an effort to prop up Syrian President Bashar Assad.

MSNBC national security analyst Clint Watts described Trump’s assertion that Russia can “help” the U.S. as simply “ridiculous.”WASHINGTON ― As Donald Trump’s political team and GOP strategists struggle with where exactly to send a deeply unpopular president who nevertheless yearns to hit the campaign trail this fall ― the Midwest? only rural districts? ― one Republican consultant has this suggestion:

“The south of France?” offered Rick Tyler.

The joke exposes the quandary congressional Republicans find themselves in following two straight special elections where Democrats have won seats they haven’t held in years. Trump enjoys campaigning and the adulation he receives at rallies, but so far there is little evidence that his trips that are ostensibly on behalf of other candidates actually help those politicians.

In December, Republicans lost an Alabama Senate seat despite Trump’s full support for an admittedly damaged Roy Moore.

And last week, despite a Trump visit to the Pittsburgh suburbs just three days prior to voting, Republican Rick Saccone still lost Pennsylvania’s 18 Congressional District – which Trump had carried by 20 percentage points in 2016.

“Pennsylvania-18 was the type of district that allowed him to win a state like Pennsylvania,” said Tyler, who worked for Texas Sen. Ted Cruz during the 2016 GOP presidential primaries. “Trump’s endorsement didn’t work there. He hasn’t proven that his showing up and campaigning lifts candidates.”

Other Republicans argue that, Trump’s unpopularity in much of the country notwithstanding, the party is stuck with him and needs his help or face doing even worse in the November midterms.

“He’s going to be critical to getting out the Republican base in every district,” said Michael Steel, once a top aide to former House Speaker John Boehner. Steel added, though, that much of the effort could be accomplished through campaign emails on a candidate’s behalf, or robo-calls, or other means short of publicly tying the candidate to Trump.

GOP consultant Mike DeVanney said pretty much any candidate would welcome Trump’s help raising money.

“People like to be around the commander-in-chief,” said DeVanney, who worked on the campaigns of the GOP congressman who previously held the Pennsylvania seat won by Democrat Conor Lamb.

Trump's backing wasn't enough to keep Republican Roy Moore from losing a Senate special election in solidly GOP Alabama. Bloomberg via Getty Images

As to where Trump could go to appear at public events ― that could be trickier, Republicans agreed.

“This is going to sound counterintuitive, given the results of Pennsylvania-18 ― but districts like Pennsylvania-18,” Steel said, describing places where Trump could be helpful.

He said Democrats only won the Pennsylvania election because they wound up with a former Marine who supported gun rights as their candidate. The chances of Democrats finding that type of candidate in other districts demographically similar to the suburbs and exurbs of Pittsburgh are pretty slim, Steel said, adding that Lamb got the nomination at a convention and likely would not have won a contested primary.

“Will Democratic primaries in the year of ‘the resistance’ produce candidates who can win those sorts of districts?” Steel wondered. “They may be able to get to a [House] majority just by winning strongly Democratic districts, but they’ve never been able to get there before.”

Nonpartisan analysts over the past year have been shifting more and more House races in the direction of Democrats. The Cook Political Report, for example, after the Pennsylvania special election changed its ratings for 10 districts nationally. Nine were in the direction of the Democrats; the 10 moved toward Republicans, but was an artifact of a new, court-drawn map for all Pennsylvania districts, which overall is likely to let Democrats gain a few extra seats.

Geoffrey Skelley, of the University of Virginia’s Center for Politics, said he can make a case that Trump would be able to help Republican Senate candidates in conservative states where a Democrat currently holds the seat, like North Dakota, Montana, Missouri and West Virginia.

“The president remains more popular than not in those states,” he said.

Just a handful of Senate races, though, may not be enough to fill Trump’s autumn with enough campaigning activity, Skelley said. “This is the aspect of being president that Trump likes most. He clearly enjoys it.”

Trump campaign officials did not respond to HuffPost queries about their autumn plans. At Tuesday’s White House briefing, press secretary Sarah Sanders said Trump was not worried about the record number of House Republicans not seeking re-election.

“We’re not concerned,” she said. “Right now we think we’ve got a great story to tell, after the first year of being in office, and we look forward to communicating that to the American people.”

“He so energizes the Democratic Party.” - Republican consultant Rick Tyler, referring to Trump.

The prospect of Trump wanting to stage rallies in places where he’s not really welcome risks a repeat of 2006, when then-President George W. Bush’s White House insisted on traveling to places when some of the candidates wanted little to do with him.

In the Florida governor’s race that year, it meant Bush appeared at a rally in Pensacola while Charlie Crist, then the GOP’s gubernatorial candidate, pointedly stayed 500 miles away ― visiting a bagel shop in Palm Beach County.

“For us in that campaign, the right decision that last day was for us to be in South Florida. Not in Pensacola,” one Republican involved in the campaign said, speaking on the condition of anonymity.

(Crist won the governorship, then four years later lost a Senate bid as an independent. He is now a Democratic House member from St. Petersburg.)

Republicans like DeVanney say there are plenty of districts where Trump’s presence would be a great benefit. Rather than heading into suburban areas with large numbers of college-educated women ― who as a group loathe Trump, polling shows ― he can be sent to economically distressed parts of the Midwest or largely rural regions where he’s still popular.

“Those kinds of opportunities certainly will present themselves,” DeVanney said.

Democrats call that thinking delusional. If Trump is required to spend the political capital of the presidency on what should be safe districts, then Republicans truly are in trouble, they said.

Those rural and Midwestern districts aren’t even on the Democratic “target list,” said Mike Mikus, a party strategist. “If the districts where Donald Trump will be a great help end up on the target list, this is going to be a bloodbath in November,” he added.

GOP consultant Tyler said many Republicans are refusing to acknowledge the basic problem: that their party’s unpopularity is being caused by their leader in the White House ― which means that sending him out to campaign will motivate Democrats and independents as much as it will the GOP base.

“He so energizes the Democratic Party,” Tyler said. “Oh look, Trump’s in town,” he said of this reaction. “That reminds me: I should go vote for the Democrat.”

AdvertisementFormer President Barack Obama and his wife, Michelle, are reportedly in talks with Netflix about producing a series of shows.

So on Tuesday, late-night host Conan O’Brien imagined how a stand-up comedy special starring Barack Obama might go down.

Advertisement“The Assassination of Gianni Versace: American Crime Story” has earned Darren Criss some of the best reviews of his career, not to mention early awards buzz.

It isn’t just Criss’s portrayal of serial killer Andrew Cunanan, who murdered fashion designer Gianni Versace (played by Edgar Ramirez) in 1997, that’s set tongues wagging. The “Glee” actor dropped trou in several “American Crime Story” episodes, prompting a number of lengthy tributes to his derrière in various media outlets.

One of those most entertaining odes to that chiseled backside appeared March 9 in TV Guide. In it, writer Malcolm Venable suggested Criss’s behind was solid enough to score its own Emmy nomination.

“Only the Gerber baby’s cheeks have contributed more to the rich tapestry of American culture,” Venable wrote.

Criss responded to the attention his butt had received in a Tuesday interview with ET Online. Though he’s willing to help campaign for a Best Butt category to be added to the Emmy Awards this fall, he’s not sure his tush is truly worthy of a trophy.

“I’ve watched ‘Game of Thrones.’ I feel like I’ve got some stiff competition,” he said, as seen in the clip above. “Lots of rock hard competition.”

Cheeky jokes aside, Criss said scoring an Emmy nomination for his performance in “American Crime Story” would be “very heartening.”"Let's say you kill all the drug dealers...do you also kill doctors who over-prescribe painkillers? And do you kill family members who buy opioids for their addicted loved ones?" -Trevor on Trump’s death penalty idea for drug traffickers Full episode: https://t.co/PdK1YFmNpR pic.twitter.com/tkiPMBnGd3

Trevor Noah believes that President Donald Trump may be “the right man for the job” to help kids stay off drugs .

“According to polls, two-thirds of American teenagers think Donald Trump is totes lame,” said Noah. “So to keep them off drugs, all the president needs to do is to pretend that he takes drugs, which shouldn’t be that hard.”“The next thing that I, quite frankly, heard about it was that this $31,000 table had been bought,” Carson testified on Tuesday during a House Appropriations subcommittee hearing. “I said, ‘What the heck is that all about?’ I investigated, I immediately had it canceled. Not that we don’t need the furniture, but I thought that that was excessive.”

Emails that the liberal watchdog group American Oversight obtained through a Freedom of Information Act request revealed that both Carson and his wife were involved in selecting the furniture.A former Dallas judge who’s now running in a GOP runoff for local commissioner has admitted to setting up a living trust that rewards his children for marrying white, Christian spouses of the opposite sex.

Vickers Cunningham confirmed the arrangement in an interview with The Dallas Morning News after his estranged brother, Bill Cunningham, told the paper that the former judge was racist and revealed details about the trust.

The candidate, however, calmly defended the trust arrangement to The Dallas Morning News, explaining that he distributes money to his children for certain “milestones,” such as earning an advanced degree — and marrying what he considers the right kind of spouse.

“I strongly support traditional family values,” Cunningham told the outlet in the video above, which he defined as marrying within one’s own race. “If you marry a person of the opposite sex that’s Caucasian, that’s Christian, they” — meaning his children — “will get a distribution,” he added, referring to a payout.

“It’s my religious belief that marriage is between one man and one woman,” he added.

The candidate’s estranged brother, who is married to a black man, called his brother’s views and actions “disqualifying for anyone to hold public office in 2018.”

Bill Cunningham says his brother has threatened him — which Vickers Cunningham denies ― and also provided a recorded conversation to The Dallas Morning News in which their mother, Mina Cunningham, reportedly said, “All I can do is apologize for Vic and this way that he thinks. He’s so bigoted and so forth as we all know.”

A number of people also told the outlet that Vickers Cunningham often uses the racial slur n****r, which he denied.

The GOP political hopeful is running to be commissioner in Dallas County, where black and Latino people make up the majority of the population. That was also the case when he worked as criminal district judge in the county for nearly a decade.

Cunningham insisted to the newspaper that his opposition to interracial, same-sex marriages for his own children “never translated to unfairness on the bench or discrimination in any way.”

The newspaper, which had endorsed Cunningham in the runoff election on May 22, withdrew its endorsement following the interview.LONDON (Thomson Reuters Foundation) - On a chilly March night, Shrouk El-Attar is preparing for a belly dancing show at a London club by pulling on a shimmering blue skirt, fixing a sparkly bra - and sticking on a beard.

The act, called “Dancing Queer,” is a protest against the persecution of gay, lesbian and transgender people in El-Attar’s native Egypt where they risk violence, arrest and jail.

But the vivacious electrical engineering student wears many hats. Hours before the show - which she has performed around the country - El-Attar donned a suit and tie to speak at Britain’s parliament about issues faced by refugees.

The 25-year-old, who is completing her masters at Cardiff University in Wales, has helped many asylum seekers access higher education in Britain – something she is passionate about after spending several “heartbreaking” years unable to study.

Her efforts were recognized at the weekend when the United Nations refugee agency UNHCR named her its Young Woman of the Year for her “inspirational leadership” with the award presented by “Game of Thrones” star Gwendoline Christie.

Growing up in the coastal city of Alexandria, El-Attar always knew she preferred girls.

“I just thought that everyone likes girls; boys like girls, girls like girls, everyone likes girls - why wouldn’t you? They smell nice, they look great!” she told the Thomson Reuters Foundation in an interview.

But she vividly recalls the day when a teacher told her class of nine-year-olds that homosexuality was a terrible sin.

“I didn’t want to be that horrible person who was going to burn in hell,” she said.

NEW LAW

El-Attar arrived in Britain in 2007 with her mother and siblings but they were deported after their asylum claim was rejected. El-Attar was eventually granted asylum because of her LGBT status.

“I really 110 percent believe I wouldn’t be alive if I was living (in Egypt) the same way I’m living here now,” said El-Attar, who added that her atheism would also put her at risk.

“Life for LGBT people in Egypt can be really difficult. We are forced into marriages, forced into having children, forced into having sex with people we don’t want to have sex with.”

Homosexuality is not explicitly criminalized in Egypt, but LGBT people have long been targeted under a law on “debauchery.”

In a recent high profile crackdown, dozens of people were detained after fans attending a rock concert raised a rainbow flag in a rare show of public support for LGBT rights in the conservative Muslim country.

Egypt has been considering a new law to ban homosexuality.

Through her belly dancing performances, El-Attar raises money to pay legal fees for LGBT people in Egypt and relocate those who fear family violence because of their sexuality.

She has performed in France, the Netherlands and Japan, and hopes to take her show to Germany this summer.

Although Arabic is her mother tongue, El-Attar feels more comfortable speaking English because she says Arabic vocabulary around homosexuality is so negative.

“When I started accepting my identity, the words I knew about myself were very derogatory - were words that hated me,” she said.

But El-Attar, who identifies as queer, says LGBT people in the Arab world have begun coining their own positive terms. The one she likes is “mithli” - meaning “same as me.”

EQUAL ACCESS

As a young teenager in Egypt, El-Attar was two years ahead of her classmates and was set to start university at 16.

But her arrival in Britain scuppered her plans. Although she was accepted by every university she applied to, she quickly discovered she was effectively barred.

Asylum seekers in Britain are treated as international students, who pay about 10,000 to 38,000 pounds ($13,800-$52,600) a year - far more than home students.

“It’s just not fair,” said El-Attar. “We are denying an education to some of the world’s most vulnerable people - people who have fled wars, torture, rape.”

She has played a key role in a campaign by Student Action for Refugees to give asylum seekers the same access to university as British students, with fee waivers, scholarships and bursaries.

In her spare time, El-Attar assists at a center in Cardiff where university students help asylum seekers improve their English and integrate into the city.

“When I was applying for universities there were no universities accepting asylum seekers,” she said.

“Now there’s around 60 across the country, and it’s beautiful to see real change happening because of our work.”

AdvertisementDAPCHI, Nigeria (Reuters) ― Islamist militants drove scores of kidnapped Nigerian schoolgirls back into the town where they had been captured a month ago and abruptly set them free on Wednesday.

The captors gave no reason for their release, but Nigeria denied that a ransom had been paid. Several of the girls said some of their friends had died in captivity and one was still being held.

The fighters from the Boko Haram group, some shouting “God is greatest,” drove the girls back into the northeast town of Dapchi in a line of trucks in the morning, dropped them off then left, witnesses told Reuters.

“I don’t know why they brought us back but they said because we are children of Muslims,” one of the freed girls, Khadija Grema, told Reuters.

Aliyu Maina, reunited with his 13-year-old daughter, said the fighters “stopped and blocked the road, they didn’t talk to anybody, they didn’t greet anybody.”

“They said people should make space for people to recognise their children and I got my child.”

Boko Haram has waged a nine-year insurgency in northeast Nigeria and neighbouring states that has seen tens of thousands of people killed, more than 2 million displaced and thousands abducted. A 2015 military campaign drove the group from most territory it controlled, but much of the area remains beyond government rule, and insurgents still stage attacks from strongholds near Lake Chad.

The kidnapping of 110 girls aged 11-19 on Feb. 19 from Dapchi was the biggest mass abduction since Boko Haram took more than 270 schoolgirls from the town of Chibok in 2014 ― a case that triggered international outrage.

Dapchi residents said more than 100 girls had returned on Wednesday.

Some of the newly-released Dapchi schoolgirls are pictured in Jumbam village, Yobe State, Nigeria March 21, 2018. Stringer . / Reuters

“One is still with them because she is a Christian,” said Grema, the freed girl. “About five are dead but it was not as if they killed them ― it was because of the stress and trauma that made them tired and weak.”

“They didn’t harm us,” Grema added. “They were giving us food, very good food. We didn’t have any problem.”

Muhammad Bursari said his niece Hadiza Muhammed, another of the freed girls, told him the remaining student was still in captivity because she had refused to convert to Islam.

No Ransom

Nigeria’s information minister, Lai Mohammed, told Reuters 76 released girls had been registered so far, while “others went straight home to their parents, but they will come for documentation later.”

“No ransom was paid to them to effect this release. The only condition they gave us is not to release [the girls] to the military but release them in the town of Dapchi without the military presence.”

Nigeria had secured the release “through back-channel efforts and with the help of some friends of the country,” Mohammed said in a separate statement.

“For the release to work, the government had a clear understanding that violence and confrontation would not be the way out as it could endanger the lives of the girls, hence a non-violent approach was the preferred option,” it said.

Boko Haram never explained why the girls were taken, but many Nigerians speculated that the goal was ransom. Boko Haram received millions of euros for the release of some of the Chibok girls last year.

The abduction piled pressure on President Muhammadu Buhari, who came to power in 2015 promising to crack down on the insurgency. He is expected to seek re-election next year.

Mohammed Dala said he had found his 12-year-old daughter in a crowd of the girls in the center of town.

“Some motors painted in military color came with our girls,” he told Reuters. “They [the militants] ... said we should not flee. They dropped the girls at the centre of town, near Ali’s tea shop. I found my daughter and left.”

Most of the other girls were taken to a hospital guarded by the military, witnesses said.> Mr. President, when I stamp down on your foot and say "Hello, Mr. Trump, this is President Putin" make sure you DO NOT CONGRATULATE me, ok?

> OK

>Hello, Mr. Trump, this is President Putin *STOMP STOMP*

>Ah, yes, President Putin. Congratulations on your victory! pic.twitter.com/6d1CofKOR3WASHINGTON ― Democrats find themselves in a conspicuous position on the nomination of Gina Haspel to lead the Central Intelligence Agency. For once, they may have the power and the moral high ground to derail one of President Donald Trump’s high-level appointments.

The question is whether they can stick together long enough to do so.

Trump last week nominated Haspel to replace Mike Pompeo, who the president in turn tapped to be his next secretary of state. Haspel, a 30-year CIA veteran widely respected by her colleagues as deputy director, would be the first woman to lead the agency if the Senate confirms her.

The nominations of both Pompeo and Haspel are expected to encounter trouble in the Senate. But Haspel is likely to face more scrutiny due to bipartisan concern over her ties to the CIA’s use of brutal interrogation measures on terrorism suspects. It’s a fight where progressive groups and human rights activists estimate they have the best chance of success.

President Donald Trump's nomination of Gina Haspel to head the CIA is far from a done deal. Handout/Reuters

As the head of a clandestine base in Thailand in 2002, Haspel oversaw the interrogation of one terror suspect that reportedly included techniques like waterboarding. Another suspect, Abu Zubaydah, was waterboarded 83 times in one month at the same facility, although Haspel had not been put in charge of the base yet when he was questioned.

The torture sessions were videotaped, and Haspel also reportedly played a part in the tapes’ destruction in 2005. The CIA has disputed this, saying her superior was responsible for the decision to do so.

Sen. Rand Paul of Kentucky, a libertarian-leaning critic of military intervention, is the only Republican to have publicly stated his opposition to her nomination so far. “There’s no evidence that she was protesting against torture. There’s every evidence that she was covering it up,” he said Sunday on CBS’ “Face the Nation.”

Paul’s opposition could imperil Haspel’s nomination if all Democrats join him. Sen. John McCain (R-Ariz.), a victim of torture during the Vietnam War who has called on Haspel to explain her involvement in the CIA’s interrogation program, remains in his home state after being diagnosed with cancer, leaving her nomination with as few as 49 GOP votes in the Senate ― one short of the overall number she needs for confirmation.

If McCain can’t make it to Washington to vote on Haspel ― or if he decides to oppose her ― that scenario would give a united Democratic caucus substantial leverage over her nomination.

So far, however, Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer (D-N.Y.) is not publicly urging his caucus to oppose either Haspel or Pompeo.

Republicans succeeded in peeling off Democrats on several votes in recent weeks, giving activists some reason to be nervous about party unity on the Haspel nomination.

Seventeen members of the Democratic caucus joined Republicans in passing a bill last week that would exempt 25 of America’s biggest banks from regulations created in response to the financial crisis that spurred the Great Recession a decade ago. The bill’s supporters say it would simply provide relief to regional and community banks, but the Congressional Budget Office warned that the risk of another financial crisis “would be slightly greater under the legislation.”

Ten Democrats on Tuesday also joined Republicans in defeating a motion to end U.S. military support for a Saudi-led coalition that has killed thousands of civilians in Yemen.

“Maybe it’s too much to ask certain Democrats to be loud and proud against torture,” Faiz Shakir, the national political director for the American Civil Liberties Union, said of Haspel’s nomination. “But at the very least, why not let John McCain do the speaking and leading for you on this?”

Haspel’s critics also want the CIA to declassify documents detailing the role she played in overseeing the practice and alleged attempts to destroy evidence of it.

Sen. Dianne Feinstein of California, the ranking Democrat on the Senate Intelligence Committee, blocked Haspel’s promotion to acting head of the agency’s clandestine service in 2013 for her involvement in the torture program. Feinstein wrote in a letter last week that the American public deserves to know “the actual role the person nominated to be the director of the CIA played in what I consider to be one of the darkest chapters in American history.”

But she has also praised Haspel as a “good deputy director of the CIA.”

Sen. Ron Wyden (D-Ore.), another member of the Senate Intelligence Committee, said that he had seen the relevant documents and that he, too, was urging the agency to release them.

“I’m going to the mat to make sure that members have a chance to carry out our constitutional obligations, which is to review nominees on the basis of information that they have a right to have and I believe it ought to be declassified so the public could have it,” Wyden told HuffPost.

It’s unclear, however, when or whether the documents will be released. Wyden made a nearly identical request to the CIA about Haspel’s record regarding torture over a year ago.

Last week, a coalition of 27 groups, including the ACLU, the Brennan Center for Justice, Human Rights Watch, and the Project On Government Oversight, urged all senators in a letter to call on the CIA to declassify Haspel’s record.

“Based on already available records and public reporting, it is clear by her wrongdoing that she demonstrated disregard for the rule of law and fundamental human rights,” the groups wrote in the letter.

The ACLU singled out a number of Republicans it sees as possible “no” votes on Haspel’s nomination, including Sens. Susan Collins of Maine, Jeff Flake of Arizona, and Jerry Moran of Kansas. Collins and Flake have shown a willingness to buck Trump and are both close to McCain, while Moran has often sided with libertarians in the chamber.

“I need to do a lot of work on her nomination,” Collins told HuffPost. “I believe that there will be a lot of tough questions that we will ask her at her hearing, and I look forward to seeing what she has to say.”

The CIA signaled its intention to fiercely defend Haspel during the process. In an unprecedented move, the agency on Monday released a bipartisan list of former employees and appointees who showered their former colleague with praise as an “extraordinary” leader.

The list notably included several who served under President Barack Obama ― former CIA Directors Leon Panetta and John Brennan, former National Security Director Michael Hayden and former National Director of National Intelligence James Clapper.

While the Senate has not yet scheduled a hearing for Haspel, her nomination has already set off a round of sharp infighting among her critics and supporters.

Rep. Liz Cheney (R-Wyo.), the daughter of former Vice President Dick Cheney, a main architect of the Iraq War, last week accused Paul of “defending and sympathizing with terrorists” for opposing Haspel to lead the agency.

The congresswoman, a fierce defender of Bush administration policies, then tweeted at McCain that the CIA interrogation program “saved lives, prevented attacks, & produced intel that led to Osama bin Laden.”

“No one should slander the brave men & women who carried out this crucial program,” Cheney added.

The comment drew a quick rebuke from McCain’s daughter in what amounted to a second-generation debate over interrogation tactics during the Iraq War, which began 15 years ago this week:President Donald Trump is having second thoughts about supporting the omnibus spending deal that was reached Wednesday morning, according to a source familiar with the president’s thinking.

The source also said House Speaker Paul Ryan (R-Wis.) plans to go to the White House on Wednesday afternoon to try to sell the president on the GOP wins in the $1.3 trillion government funding bill and assure him that it’s a good deal for Republicans.

Trump is apparently most upset about the spending deal’s lack of funding for a wall along the U.S.-Mexico border. The deal, which would fund the government until October, would provide $1.6 billion for border funding but only $641 million for a wall.

Congressional leaders announced the omnibus deal Wednesday after months of negotiating over spending levels and specific line-items. The omnibus was expected to pass both chambers in the next couple of days, barring any unforeseen hiccups, but the president pulling back his support could put Republicans in a tough spot. For one, they might not be able to put up enough votes to pass the bill in either chamber. And if Trump truly opposed the bill, he could veto the legislation and send the government into a shutdown.

The government is currently funded through Friday.

A senior GOP aide told HuffPost that the strongest argument Republicans have in convincing Trump is that he would draw 100 percent of the blame for a shutdown if he backed out of the omnibus deal now.

“It is no wonder why Tillerson called Trump what he called him,” the GOP source said, referring to reports that former Secretary of State Rex Tillerson called the president a “moron.”

Some of Trump’s political advisers, though, see wall construction as critical to Trump’s survival. He promised a wall along the Mexican border so many times over the course of his presidential campaign that failing to deliver would be disastrous, they said ― first in the November midterms, and then in the president’s re-election campaign.

They say starting construction on a border wall could mean the difference between losing 20 House seats this year and losing 50.

Base voters have been patient so far ― but, the thinking goes, that could evaporate instantly if Trump and the Republican-run Congress pass a spending bill of well over $1 trillion that does not make good on one of the president’s top promises.

This issue has been deemed so important that Trump has been advised to veto the spending bill if it doesn’t pay for wall construction.

Neither Ryan’s office nor the White House immediately responded to a request for comment.

However, White House press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders released a statement acknowledging that Trump had been speaking with both Ryan and Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky).

“The president and the leaders discussed their support for the bill, which includes more funds to rebuild the military, such as the largest pay raise for our troops in a decade, more than 100 miles of new construction for the border wall and other key domestic priorities, like combating the opioid crisis and rebuilding our nation’s infrastructure,” Sanders wrote.Former Vice President Joe Biden did not hold back his contempt for President Donald Trump during a Tuesday night rally at the University of Miami.

“A guy who ended up becoming our national leader said, ‘I can grab a woman anywhere and she likes it.’ ... They asked me if I’d like to debate this gentleman, and I said no,” Biden told the crowd of college students. “I said, ‘If we were in high school, I’d take him behind the gym and beat the hell out of him.’”

It’s an odd sentiment to respond to violence against women with more violence, but Biden’s comments were met with applause and laughter. The rally was held in partnership with his anti-sexual violence organization, It’s On Us. Biden, who launched It’s On Us with President Barack Obama in 2014, has long advocated for women’s rights, including drafting the Violence Against Women Act of 1994.

Later in his speech, Biden bizarrely suggested that men who treat women poorly or boast about committing sexual assault are likely to be physically unattractive.

“I’ve been in a lot of locker rooms my whole life,” he continued. “I’m a pretty damn good athlete. Any guy that talked that way was usually the fattest, ugliest SOB in the room.”

In reality, of course, men who treat women poorly come in all shapes and sizes.

Biden has been widely criticized for how he handled professor Anita Hill’s accusations of sexual harassment against Clarence Thomas during the latter’s 1991 Supreme Court confirmation hearings. Many people believe that Biden, then chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee, didn’t do enough to ensure those allegations were given full consideration. More recently, he has been criticized for his borderline creepy behavior toward some women.

Today’s @itsonus rally reminded us that we are responsible for creating an environment where sexual assault and gender-based violence is unacceptable. Thank you @joebiden for bringing us your legacy of ending violence against women and empowering our students to take action. pic.twitter.com/h43M4gqqpt — University of Miami (@univmiami) March 20, 2018

Trump, who once bragged about grabbing women “by the pussy,” has been accused of sexual misconduct, ranging from harassment to assault and rape, by 21 women. The president has denied all those allegations as “fake news.”

In February, Trump continued to defend former White House staff secretary Rob Porter even after Porter resigned following reports that he had physically abused both of his ex-wives. The president later suggested that both women were lying about their accusations of domestic violence.

For his part, Biden has visited several college campuses over the last few years to speak about It’s On Us and ending sexual violence. On Tuesday, reiterating a message he’s delivered before, he urged students to intervene when they witness inappropriate behavior.

“So many of you guys have to understand the depth of your obligation,” he said.

Then he continued, “It’s not just on the men. It’s on you women, as well, on campus. All the studies show that 95 percent of young women who are abused ― the first person they tell is their roommate, their friend, someone on campus. You’ve got to inform yourself as to what facilities are available, what help is available, not just empathize, hug and say, ‘I’m so sorry.’ You have an obligation to be informed.”

Biden also reminded his audience that sexual violence “is about power and the abuse of power more than it is about sex.”

Watch Biden’s full speech below.Paul Bruinooge via Getty Images

Just because “Black Panther” was a global success doesn’t mean Michael B. Jordan, aka Erik Killmonger, is losing any steam.

As per a Variety exclusive, the actor is reportedly on board to produce the World War II action-drama “The Liberators” through his Outlier Society Productions with Safehouse Pictures.

The project’s script was written by Madison Turner and follows the 761st Tank Battalion in World War II ― an entirely African-American combat unit who, by federal law at the time, were not permitted to serve alongside white troops. Their efforts in the war ultimately led to President Harry S. Truman desegregating the armed forces.

Baseball Legend Jackie Robinson was one of the men who served in the 761st Battalion, though he never saw combat overseas. What’s more is that the battalion’s insignia featured a black panther, and “Black Panthers” was the group’s nickname. Their motto: “Come out fighting.”

Former NBA star Kareem Abdul-Jabbar wrote a book about the battalion in 2005.GOP Rep. Louie Gohmert of Texas is known for touting conspiracy theories. Joshua Roberts / Reuters

Rep. Louie Gohmert (R-Texas) has been excoriated on social media for suggesting that March 31, Cesar Chavez’s birthday, be declared “National Border Control Day.”

Gohmert announced on Twitter on Tuesday that he’d filed a resolution on the issue. He was promptly skewered by netizens for “twisting” the legacy of the civil rights icon for his own purposes.

In a sharp-worded rebuke, Rep. Mark Takano (D-Calif.) urged his colleague to apologize.

Today I filed a resolution that would declare Cesar Chavez's Birthday: "National Border Control Day." Read more about the resolution, here: https://t.co/JCXg0vbRRR — Louie Gohmert (@replouiegohmert) March 20, 2018

Texas schools need better textbooks & history lessons, apparently.



Cesar Chavez is a hero to millions. He repeatedly risked his own life to protect the lives of farmworkers. This resolution twists his legacy and it's a disgrace. @replouiegohmert needs to apologize. https://t.co/ATBKwNFTe8 — Mark Takano (@RepMarkTakano) March 20, 2018

Gohmert, first elected to the House in 2004, has a reputation for inflammatory rhetoric and conspiracy theories. In 2010, he warned on the House floor about “terror babies” ― children he said were being born in the U.S. but then raised elsewhere by terrorist cells. These babies would then return one day to the U.S. as citizens, making it easier for then to commit terrorist acts, he said.

In a statement on his proposed Chavez resolution, Gohmert described the co-founder of the United Farm Workers union as a staunch advocate of keeping “illegal aliens out of the country.”

“Therefore, it only seems appropriate to deem his birthday as ‘National Border Control Day’ ― seeing that Chavez spent his life addressing the harmful effects that illegal migration might have on this country and advocating for a legal immigration process,” the congressman said.

Chavez, who was born in Arizona to Mexican-American parents, did have a complicated track record when it came to illegal immigration, but his stance was not as clear-cut as Gohmert — and other anti-immigrant advocates — have suggested.

In the 1960s and ’70s, Chavez took a hard line against unauthorized immigration and even pushed a campaign urging UFW members to report undocumented immigrants to the government. He reportedly also used terms like “wetback” and “illegals” to describe undocumented workers.

Chavez, who died in 1993, was worried that undocumented workers would push down the wages of American workers, according to historians. He was also concerned about companies hiring undocumented immigrants as scabs in efforts to break union strikes.

His supporters say, however, that Chavez sought to promote and protect the rights of undocumented immigrants working on farms in those earlier years. And by the 1980s, Chavez’s stance on the issue had shifted considerably.

He became a supporter of immigration reform and backed a bill in 1986 signed by President Ronald Reagan that legalized the status of nearly 3 million people.

“There are those out there who say he was against undocumented immigrants or immigrants in general and that’s just absurd, and the union’s history belies that misinterpretation,” Mark Grossman, a spokesman for the Cesar Chavez Foundation, told the San Antonio Current in 2015.

Grossman, who served as Chavez’s speechwriter for two decades, added that the labor leader went through a “linguistic transformation” too, nixing the slurs he once used from his vocabulary.

On Tuesday, Twitter offered a scorching criticism of Gohmert’s Chavez suggestion, with some netizens accusing the congressman’s choice of a Latino man’s birthday to mark a day celebrating border control as “racist.”

Scroll down for a sampling of the censure:

The ghost of Cesar Chavez is more substantial than you. — mikesmindonline (@MikesMindOnline) March 20, 2018

I'm pretty sure that March 20th is forever known as Louie Gohmert Licks His Own Balls Day.



FWIW, no one gets this day off. — Jeremy Newberger (@jeremynewberger) March 20, 2018

I plan to ask Portland, Oregon Mayor @tedwheeler to declare your birthday “Reject Bigotry Day” in the City of Roses. — Rev. Dr. Chuck Currie (@RevChuckCurrie) March 21, 2018

That’s what you spent tax payer money doing??? Nothing else going on??? — donaldtrumpnewstoday (@irishrygirl) March 20, 2018

Vato’s head looks like viejito huevos that have spent too much time marinating in some soiled tarantarans. — Jeronimo Saldaña (@JeronimoSaldana) March 21, 2018

Ever flush a toilet and just the husks of corn, still covered in remnants of feces, somehow escape the centrifugal force of the toilet and reappear?



That's you, Louie. You are undigested, unflushable shitcorn. — Dane (@SeeDaneRun) March 20, 2018

Every city has a school named after César Chávez. In a year I’ll have forgotten Louie Gohmert forever. — ghost in boots (@ghostinboots) March 21, 2018

Geez. Louie Gohmert is just clueless. And the GOP wonders why they have a minority voter problem. https://t.co/jhf4KkrpQa — rolandsmartin (@rolandsmartin) March 21, 2018

This is very disrespectful of the work Cesar did to protect migrant farm workers. My grandma and grandpa were citizens & white and both were migrant farm workers for a time. I find your behavior level 10 assholemanship. — Kimberly Bozman (@KimberlyBozman) March 21, 2018

Whoa you're an actual congressman?! I thought this was a joke. — Spacewalker (@trancelot) March 21, 2018

I declare @replouiegohmert's birthday to be "Racist Cueball Douchebag Day". Read more about the resolution here: 🖕🏽 — Mexican Judge (@laloalcaraz) March 21, 2018A Republican congressman sparked outrage after his office had a student suspended from high school.

The reason?

During a brief phone call, the teen had the temerity to use a four-letter word while advocating for gun control.

As students around the nation left class for 17 minutes to protest gun violence last week, Noah Christiansen called the office of Rep. Mark Amodei (R-Nev.), the Washington Post reported. The junior at Robert McQueen High School in Reno, Nevada, told the staffer who answered the phone that lawmakers need to “get off their fucking asses” to pass gun control laws.

More specifically, the student asked Amodei to back raising the minimum age for buying guns and banning “bump stocks,” which allow semiautomatic weapons to fire more like automatic weapons, the Nevada Independent reported.

The aide who took the call apparently didn’t appreciate the sentiment.

Someone from Amodei’s office then called Christiansen’s school, and officials there gave him a two-day suspension. According to the Independent, he was also barred from taking on his elected role as class secretary-treasurer.

Christiansen said he could’ve expressed himself differently.

“I’m smart enough to use better words than, of course, the f-word,” Christiansen told the Independent. “But at the same time, even if I do want to use words, and use them over and over again, it’s my right to do so.”

Christiansen also said he shouldn’t be punished for it.

“Being yelled at for calling my representative and trying to create change in the world is one of the worst feelings I’ve ever experienced,” Christiansen told the American Civil Liberties Union. “I’ve never even had a detention before, let alone a suspension.”

The organization blasted Amodei’s office for “unconstitutional retaliation” against the student.

“The retaliation by Congressman Amodei’s office is a betrayal of the First Amendment and of the representative process,” ACLU of Nevada Executive Director Tod Story said in a news release. “Nothing this constituent did was illegal, and we hope Congressman Amodei would be as interested in the opinions of students as anyone who seeks to ‘petition the government.’”

Amodei, a gun rights advocate, told the Los Angeles Times he had no apologies for the teen.

“Welcome to the world where words have impact,” he said.As the 50th anniversary of Martin Luther King Jr.’s assassination approaches and people across the country seek to celebrate his memory, it is a key time to reflect on what King’s legacy was ― and wasn’t ― and what it might look like to really honor him today.

Each year on Martin Luther King Jr. Day, politicians post on social media honoring MLK, all the while pushing policies like voter restrictions that disenfranchise people of color.

In January, President Donald Trump recorded an address praising King’s “dream of a world where people are judged by who they are, not how they look or where they come from” ― just days after making racist remarks lamenting the influx of immigrants from “shithole countries,” including Haiti and African nations.

Meanwhile, those who stand up to injustice today, from kneeling NFL players to Black Lives Matter protesters, are often vilified for being too extreme, much like King was in his day.

As the country honors King’s life, cut too short on April 4, 1968, HuffPost spoke to activists and educators ― from Women’s March leader Tamika D. Mallory to professor Wornie Reed, who marched with King in the 1963 March on Washington ― on how people can really do justice to King’s legacy now.

People didn't approve of the way my father protested injustice either; said he was causing trouble, called him an "outside agitator." #MLK pic.twitter.com/l5cAkiGR6K — Be A King (@BerniceKing) September 24, 2017

Many who quote #MLK today, and use his words out of context to deter nonviolent protest, would have hated him openly then. — Be A King (@BerniceKing) September 24, 2017

1. Don’t whitewash King’s words

“I think we have done a very poor job of honoring King’s legacy. In fact, it has been seriously mischaracterized…. One of the things they teach to the children is King is a man of peace. I’ve heard him speak or preach 35 or 40 times. He only mentioned peace once. He did not advocate for peace but for justice. He used to advocate [that] until there was justice there would be no peace.”

― Wornie Reed, professor on race at Virginia Tech and civil rights activist, who marched with King in the 1963 March on Washington

“Our history books lionize Dr. King as a visionary leader, but in the 1960s he was publicly labeled a terrorist by those in power. Things are not different today with the current generation of civil rights visionaries.... Dr. King knew that he would sacrifice everything, including his life, for the liberation of black people from the system of white supremacy. Yet today many remember him only [as] a vision of black children and white children playing side by side, and nothing more.”

― Tamika D. Mallory, Women’s March co-leader and activist

“One of the things they teach to the children is King is a man of peace... He did not advocate for peace but for justice.” - Wornie Reed, professor on race at Virginia Tech and civil rights activist

“Usually individuals fall into what I like to call the ‘three word’ rhetoric we apply to black leaders ― we remember Malcolm X as ‘by any means necessary’ and King as ‘I have a dream’ ... I would just say let’s not render King as the same sound bite we always hear of ‘I have a dream.’”

― Charles Woods, educator with the Birmingham Civil Rights Institute

“The radical Dr. King is less comfortable and less conforming to popular ideas about leadership in the ongoing black liberation movement.”

― Charlene A. Carruthers, activist and national director for Black Youth Project 100

“Just like Birmingham’s firehoses wouldn’t stop King and those who marched alongside him, attempts to water down King’s radical roots won’t turn us around.”

― Ash-Lee Woodard Henderson, activist with the Movement for Black Lives and co-executive director of the Highlander Research and Education Center

Chicago demonstrators protest for higher wages and better working conditions on the 49th anniversary of the murder of Martin Luther King Jr. on April 4, 2017. King was killed in Memphis, Tennessee, while in town supporting striking black city sanitation workers. Scott Olson via Getty Images

2. Fight poverty and economic injustice

“When King was killed in Memphis, he was there to help sanitation workers protest the fact they weren’t getting equal pay. Nowadays you’d have to stand up against women and black people not getting equal pay in a lot of professions. He would be a big proponent of why the unemployment rate for black people is higher than for any other race in this country.”

― Charles Woods

“What would he be doing here now? He would be pointing out that the poverty rate is higher now than when he gave his life for it. What he was working on was the Poor People’s Campaign. His main thing was to go to Washington and to close it down if they did not respond to the demands to reduce poverty in this rich country.”

― Professor Wornie Reed

“Nowadays you’d have to stand up against women and black people not getting equal pay in a lot of professions.” - Charles Woods, educator, Birmingham Civil Rights Institute

“A lot of the reasons he was assassinated were his critique of capitalism, militarism and racism. Those intersections are at the core of the American empire today ― the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, how much money is going to militarizing police, how black folks still crying out about violence are not getting resources. I think a lot of his legacy is very relevant in terms of the types of conversations we have to be having about racism, capitalism, militarism and how we move forward.”

― Dante Barry, co-founder Million Hoodies

“Dr. King supported efforts for reproductive and economic justice, he was anti-war and believed in the power of organizing everyday people.”

― Charlene A. Carruthers

“It’s easy for many to say they would have marched against segregation in the 1960s, but many have not seen today’s marches against the unjust killing of black people as for them.” - Tamika D. Mallory, Women’s March co-leader

3. Stand up against mass incarceration

“What’s the one thing he would be pushing for? I think more than anything else by far it would be attention to the criminal justice system. The criminal justice system has always been used to manage and control blacks ― and it’s doing the same thing right now.”

― Professor Wornie Reed

“His lasting legacy should include the injustice of mass incarceration, and how black people are more highly incarcerated than other races. Someone who’d want to honor his legacy would stand against the school-to-prison pipeline and mass incarceration ― those would be dear to heart.”

― Charles Woods

Supporters of the Black Lives Matter movement stage a 'die-in' outside the National Civil Rights Museum on Jan. 16, 2017 in Memphis, Tennessee. Mike Brown via Getty Images

4. Step off the sidelines and take action ― especially if you’re white

“[King] started speaking a lot about how it’s liberal whites who are the problem. We know how racist folks stand ― but it’s individuals on the fence, who think the issues don’t affect them and pick and choose what they want to tackle. And he was getting really frustrated with those individuals, who would keep the status quo going by not fully standing up against something.”

― Charles Woods

“The work is not glamorous, it requires great sacrifice. It’s easy for many to say they would have marched against segregation in the 1960s, but many have not seen today’s marches against the unjust killing of black people as for them.”

― Tamika D. Mallory

“There’s a performative activism that has emerged in the last years ― it became a fad to be considered an activist, like ‘I’m taking pictures in front of a march.’ I don’t think that would live up to King’s legacy, as someone who was uncompromising, radical and strategic.”

― Dante Barry

“King was dangerous in part because of his ability to call to our attention the evils of society and to shine a light on those who were standing on the sidelines. We are hard at work calling people off the sidelines. King told us why we couldn’t wait, and our job is to wake people up to the fact that we still can’t. Today, we invite you into a radical vision as imagined by black women, as implemented by thousands of black youth; a vision that shifts power away from white supremacists and away from the stall tactics of white moderates.”

― Ash-Lee Woodard Henderson

“There’s nothing the Black Lives Matter people do that [King] wouldn’t, and that he didn’t.” - Wornie Reed, professor on race at Virginia Tech and civil rights activist

5. Support Black Lives Matter

“There’s nothing the Black Lives Matter people do that [King] wouldn’t, and that he didn’t. They protest and demonstrate, that’s what he did. He didn’t ask for permission to do it. So if some of them break the law in their protest ― that’s what he did. It doesn’t hold water for five seconds that he wouldn’t support Black Lives Matter.”

― Wornie ReedHe had a message to those who would choose their guns over the safety of kids.

“I know some have strong feelings about gun rights, but I want you to know I’ve hit rock bottom and I am not interested in your views as it pertains to this issue,” he said.

Friday’s massacre was the 22nd school shooting of 2018. It is only May.

The police chief previously marched with demonstrators during the March 24 March for Our Lives event, held in response to the Feb. 14 mass shooting at a Parkland, Florida, high school that left 17 dead.

“This isn’t a time for prayers, and study and inaction, it’s a time for prayers, action and the asking of God’s forgiveness for our inaction (especially the elected officials that ran to the cameras today, acted in a solemn manner, called for prayers, and will once again do absolutely nothing),” Acevedo added.