Laura Benanti, the “Detour” actress who moonlights as a comic “Melania Trump,” offered a funny take on America’s relationship to Donald Trump overnight Tuesday.

Appearing on “Late Night with Seth Meyers,” Benanti explained how she uses her portrayal of the first lady on “The Late Show with Stephen Colbert” to make fun of the president.

“I kind of see her as America,” the actress said. “We’re all reluctantly married to Donald Trump now and, um, just making the best of it.”

Benanti discusses her FLOTUS gig around the 4-minute mark above.If you ever find yourself in some sort of shootout, car chase and/or torture situation, you do not want Mila Kunis or Kate McKinnon around.

The hilarious duo play best friends in the upcoming action-comedy film “The Spy Who Dumped Me,” which is scheduled to hit theaters in August. The trailer, released Wednesday afternoon, follows Audrey (Kunis) and Morgan (McKinnon) as they realize that Audrey’s ex-boyfriend (Justin Theroux) is a CIA agent.

Essentially, the bad guys who were once after Theroux are now after Kunis and McKinnon. Unfortunately, the two are not the most savvy action heroes. While trying to flee, they steal a car only to find out it’s a stick shift, which proves to be an impossible hurdle. As they’re about to be tortured in another scene, the two immediately spill all the personal information they have on one another.

In other words, they act like most of us would if we were thrust into a Tom Cruise “Mission Impossible”-type situation.These findings among U.S. teens are similar to previous studies in adults, which also found links between sexual identity discordance, depression, drug and alcohol use and suicidal ideation. Rawpixel via Getty Images

(Reuters Health) - Teens who hide their true sexual orientation are at higher risk for suicidal behaviors, a new study suggests.

The study focused on teens who either identified as gay or lesbian but had sexual contact with only the opposite sex or with both sexes, or who identified as heterosexual but had sexual contact with only the same sex or with both sexes.

These teens – who are experiencing what researchers call sexual orientation discordance - have a significantly elevated risk for suicide, investigators warn in the American Journal of Preventive Medicine.

Researchers surveyed nearly 7,000 high school students from across the U.S., asking 99 questions about health and risk behaviors. Two of the questions focused on sexual orientation.

About 4 percent of the teens had experienced sexual orientation discordance, responses showed. This was true for 32 percent of gay and lesbian students, compared to 3 percent of heterosexual students.

The survey also asked if respondents had seriously considered attempting suicide, made a plan about how they would attempt suicide or previously attempted suicide in the past year.

Nearly half of the kids who had experienced sexual orientation discordance – 46 percent – reported suicidal thoughts or behaviors, compared to 22 percent of students who didn’t feel a mismatch between their sexual identities and actions.

Nonfatal suicidal behaviors were also more common in females, those who were bullied on school property, those who drank alcohol or used marijuana, and those who had been physically forced to have sexual intercourse.

These findings among U.S. teens are similar to previous studies in adults, which also found links between sexual identity discordance, depression, drug and alcohol use, and suicidal ideation, the study authors wrote.

“Discrimination, stigma, prejudice, rejection, and societal norms may put pressure on sexual minorities to present a sexual identity inconsistent with their true sexual identity or to act in a manner inconsistent with their sexual identity,” they said.

“Understanding . . . the challenges that adolescents experiencing discordance may encounter will help strengthen overall suicide prevention approaches in youth,” coauthor Dr. Francis Annor of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention in Atlanta, Georgia told Reuters Health.

“It’s important to know that suicide is preventable,” Annor told Reuters Health by email. A CDC guide to help communities decide on best policies, programs and practices to help youth is available at bit.ly/2IBUNtZ.

The new findings are important “because suicide has been the tenth leading cause of death in the general U.S. population for at least a decade and the third leading cause of death among teenagers - and suicide deaths have been increasing in the U.S.,” said Dr. John Blosnich of the West Virginia University in Morgantown. Blosnich, who wasn’t involved with this study, studies interpersonal and self-directed violence among LGBT groups and U.S. military veterans.

“You can imagine that a huge concern for teenagers who experience conflict with their sexual identity is whether they will be rejected by their family and friends,” Blosnich said in an email. He noted that a recently released major motion picture focuses on this very issue. The movie, from 20th Century Fox, is called “Love, Simon.”A longtime Fox News analyst is quitting, saying the network has become a Trump administration “propaganda machine” that falsely disparages the FBI and intelligence community.

Retired Army Lt. Col. Ralph Peters, in a sharply worded email to colleagues obtained by BuzzFeed and The New York Times, said he decided not to renew his contract with Fox News. Peters, who once referred to former President Barack Obama as a “total pussy” who was being “date raped” by Russian President Vladimir Putin, contributed to the network for about a decade.

“Today, I feel that Fox News is assaulting our constitutional order and the rule of law, while fostering corrosive and unjustified paranoia among viewers,” Peters wrote. The network has devolved, Peters continued, into “a mere propaganda machine for a destructive and ethically ruinous administration.”

Peters castigated prime-time anchors who denigrate the work of federal agencies and the intelligence community ― including Special Counsel Robert Mueller, who Peters called “a model public servant and genuine war hero” ― for the sake of defending President Donald Trump.

He also accused Fox of aligning itself with Putin, and said Russian involvement in the 2016 presidential election and sordid revelations in the Christopher Steele Trump dossier are true.

“Ralph Peters is entitled to his opinion despite the fact that he’s choosing to use it as a weapon in order to gain attention,” Fox News said in a statement. “We are extremely proud of our top-rated primetime hosts and all of our opinion programming.”President Donald Trump has a true supporter in former Milwaukee County Sheriff David Clarke.

How else to explain a bizarre and homophobic joke Clarke made on Wednesday in an attempt to defend the president from former Vice President Joe Biden.

During a Tuesday night rally at the University of Miami, Biden called out Trump for the way he treats women.

“A guy who ended up becoming our national leader said, ‘I can grab a woman anywhere and she likes it.’ ... They asked me if I’d like to debate this gentleman, and I said no,” Biden told the crowd. “I said, ‘If we were in high school, I’d take him behind the gym and beat the hell out of him.’”



“I’ve been in a lot of locker rooms my whole life,” he continued. “I’m a pretty damn good athlete. Any guy that talked that way was usually the fattest, ugliest SOB in the room.”



Yes, Biden’s comments were strange, but Clarke met them in kind when he tweeted this on Wednesday:

JOE BIDEN: “I’VE BEEN IN A LOT OF LOCKER ROOMS IN MY LIFE.”

Really Joe? Please tell us why and what you were doing hanging around all those locker rooms, Joe? Taking in the sights? Did the soap keep falling out of your hands Joe? Huh? Tell us Joe. #MAGA. https://t.co/NbMVGH4qqB — David A. Clarke, Jr. (@SheriffClarke) March 21, 2018

Twitter users were quick to call out Clarke for the tacky, unfunny joke:

I saw him give a motivational talk in an NCAA locker room during March Madness. You don’t seem like an athlete or a team player. The soap thing happens in prison I think, or jails where guys like you and Joe Arpaio cause people’s deaths. — Deena (@Dlstoke) March 21, 2018

I've been in a lot of locker rooms, too, Dave. Interesting that you think going into one immediately involves lots of gay sex.



I guess that ridiculous beard you sport is also metaphorical, huh? — Dane (@SeeDaneRun) March 21, 2018

Exactly. Assholes like this think about gay sex fantasies WAY MORE than actual gay people. — BBDeepStateBOO! (@AngryMidAgeMan) March 21, 2018

Changing clothes and taking a shower like the rest of us? Apparently you don’t have a flair badge for common sense. — Richlow (@halo0801) March 21, 2018

You have odd ideas of what goes on in locker rooms, man. — poljunk (@poljunk) March 21, 2018

Clarke, who resigned his post in August, has been known for making incendiary tweets.bizoo_n via Getty Images

Most Americans think that criminals should be allowed to vote again after the justice system is done with them, a new HuffPost/YouGov poll finds.

Some 63 percent of the public say that individuals who’ve committed a felony should have their right to vote restored after they have entirely completed their sentences. Only 20 percent disagree.

Majorities across political lines are in favor of the idea, although levels of support vary. More than 80 percent of voters who backed Hillary Clinton in the 2016 election support restoring voting rights, as do 58 percent of those who chose Donald Trump and 54 percent of nonvoters.

In 2016, over six million people couldn’t vote because of a felony conviction.

Even among proponents, there’s less consensus about what a program to restore voting rights should look like. States vary in how they go about it. Some automatically restore voting rights once someone is released from prison, while others require people to complete probation and parole as well. Four states ― Iowa, Kentucky, Florida and Virginia ― require the governor to act to restore voting rights.

The poll found that 53 percent of those who support restoring voting rights at the end of a sentence think that should happen automatically, while 40 percent say the felons should have to go through some sort of process. And Americans who favor restoring voting rights are split almost evenly on whether the option should be open to anyone who’s committed a felony (41 percent) or whether those who commit certain crimes, such as murder or sexual offenses, should be ineligible (43 percent).

There’s also less support for allowing felons still serving their sentences to vote, something that just two states ― Maine and Vermont ― currently permit. (There is pending legislation in New Jersey that would make it the third such state.) Just 24 percent of Americans think those in prison for a felony should be able to vote, and only 38 percent favor restoring voting rights for those on probation or parole.

The idea of disenfranchising criminals dates back to ancient Greece and Rome and has been practiced in the United States since its founding. Supporters say it preserves the sanctity of the ballot box and prevents those who have violated society’s laws from having a role in making them.

But critics say such laws were twisted to target African-Americans around the Civil War. In 2016, the Sentencing Project found that 1 in 13 black Americans was disenfranchised, a rate more than four times that of white Americans.

Voting rights activists have started to look at striking down felon disenfranchisement laws as a way to expand access to the ballot box. Then-Virginia Gov. Terry McAuliffe (D) restored voting rights on a case-by-case basis to over 172,000 felons who had done their time. Activists in Florida got a measure on the upcoming November ballot that would automatically restore voting rights to felons after they completed their sentences, a change that could affect over 1.5 million people in that state.

In February, a federal judge also found that Florida’s current system of restoring voting rights to felons was unconstitutional. The process requires that people wait a number of years after completing their sentence and then petition a board of top state officials to let them vote again.

Use the widget below to further explore the results of the HuffPost/YouGov survey, employing the menu at the top to select survey questions and the buttons at the bottom to filter the data by subgroups:

The HuffPost/YouGov poll consisted of 1,000 completed interviews conducted March 16-18 among U.S. adults, using a sample selected from YouGov’s opt-in online panel to match the demographics and other characteristics of the adult U.S. population.

HuffPost has teamed up with YouGov to conduct daily opinion polls. You can learn more about this project and take part in YouGov’s nationally representative opinion polling. More details on the polls’ methodology are available here.Monsignor Dario Edoardo Vigano, who headed the Secretariat for Communications, resigned following the disclosure that the Vatican digitally altered a photo of a letter written last month by retired Pope; Benedict XVI about a book series. Horacio Villalobos - Corbis via Getty Images

The Vatican’s media chief has resigned amid a scandal over a digitally manipulated photograph that misrepresented a letter from retired Pope Benedict XVI.

Pope Francis accepted Monsignor Dario Vigano’s resignation over what’s been dubbed the “lettergate” scandal on Wednesday, The Associated Press reports. The pope nominated the Italian priest’s deputy, Monsignor Lucio Adrian Ruiz, to take over the Vatican communications department.

The resignation followed the Vatican’s admission last week that it digitally altered a photograph of a Feb. 7 letter written Benedict commenting on a new 11-volume book series about Pope Francis’ theology. Vigano had asked Benedict to write a review of the series. The photo was released by the Vatican communications department on March 12, one day before the five-year anniversary of Pope Francis’ election.

Vigano reportedly read parts of the letter at a news conference about the book series, and used it to repudiate conservative critics of Pope Francis, who say the pope’s style is a stark departure from that of his predecessor, according to the AP.

Vigano cited a portion of the letter in which Benedict writes that the books show the “interior continuity between the two pontificates, with all the differences in style and temperament.” But he failed to read the letter’s harsh criticism of one of the volume’s authors for “anti-papist” views about Benedict and his predecessor, St. John Paul II.

A Vatican media handout shows a letter from retired Pope Benedict XVI. Vatican Media

Benedict’s letter also admits he didn’t have time to read the entire book series, and can’t offer a sound theological review of the project.

The Vatican photograph of the letter, however, blurs the portion where the retired pope begins to explain this.

Most major news media have strict policies that prohibit editors from digitally adding or subtracting from photographs, especially when it alters the meaning of the image.

“Benedict’s full caveat about his refusal to comment on the volume was never made public in Vigano’s presentation, press release or accompanying photo,” the AP writes. “That omission left the impression that the 91-year-old retired pope had read the volume and fully endorsed it, when in fact he hadn’t.”

On Saturday, the Vatican bowed to pressure from the media and from Catholic conservatives to release Benedict’s complete letter. The Secretariat for Communications said it initially withheld part of the letter because of a desire for reserve ― “not because of any desire to censor.”

Vigano referred to the controversy in his resignation letter dated March 19, according to the Vatican News. He said he was stepping aside out of respect for co-workers, and didn’t want to “delay, damage or block” Francis’ reform of Vatican communications operations.

The scandal comes just weeks after Francis condemned the spread of fake news. Francis released a message in January that compared fake news with the “evil” that destroyed the Biblical figures Adam and Eve in the Garden of Eden. He identified fake news as “false information based on non-existent or distorted data meant to deceive and manipulate the reader.”

The pope wrote that “spreading fake news can serve to advance specific goals, influence political decisions, and serve economic interests.” He added that it was the personal responsibility of journalists to communicate the truth.Lisa Howard plays a beleaguered bride-to-be in "Escape to Margaritaville," which opened March 15 in New York. Matthew Murphy

The winter-weary can get their fill of sun and surf at Broadway’s Marquis Theatre, where the Jimmy Buffett jukebox musical, “Escape to Margaritaville,” opened to an enthusiastic (and woozy) crowd last week.

It’s easy to dismiss the Caribbean-themed show – which features the Buffett classics “It’s Five O’Clock Somewhere,” “Cheeseburger in Paradise” and, of course, “Margaritaville” – as escapist fantasy. But one of the stars, Lisa Howard, believes audiences who dig a little deeper in the sand will discover a heartfelt message of empowerment and body positivity.

The singer-actress plays Tammy, a beleaguered bride-to-be who accompanies her best friend, Rachel (Alison Luff), to an island resort for a bachelorette week filled with stiff cocktails and sinewy men. With each tropical sunset, however, Tammy questions whether she’ll be content marrying her uncouth fiancé (Ian Michael Stuart) as she falls for a sweet-natured bartender, Brick (Eric Petersen). True to Broadway musical tradition, Tammy’s inevitable self-discovery features a great dress, a high-flying solo number and, of course, a happy ending.

"I think it’s important to be telling stories that empower women, especially nowadays," Howard (third from left) said. "When women see that reflected in art, the more empowered they'll feel." Walter McBride via Getty Images

“She really ends up finding her self-worth,” Howard told HuffPost. “You see her go on that journey. I think it’s important to be telling stories that empower women, especially nowadays, because it hasn’t always been the case. The more examples we, as artists, can show in the world, and the women see that reflected in art, the more empowered they’ll feel to speak out, say something, make a statement and stand up for themselves.”

Buffett, Howard said, was a “great presence” throughout the development of the show. “It’s been a pleasure to get to know him,” she explained. “He’s kind of like you’d think he’d be. He’s very chill, but he’s a very smart, passionate businessman. He’s taken this idea ― this culture of island life ― and run with it.”

The secret to her success, she said, has been picking roles written for plus-sized women like herself that don’t hinge on a weight-loss narrative and aren’t intended as comic relief. She said opportunities for plus-sized stars have expanded in both film and theater in the 18 years since she made her Broadway debut in “The 25 Annual Putnam County Spelling Bee.” (Witness, for example, Keala Settle’s breakout turn in the movie musical “The Greatest Showman,” which turned out to be a surprise hit this winter.)

Jimmy Buffett joined the cast of Broadway's "Escape to Margaritaville" onstage during the show's opening night March 15. Walter McBride via Getty Images

“I’ve just been blessed to have been a part of projects where my looks or my size don’t matter,” Howard, who also is a plus-size fashion model, said. “These are lead roles I’m playing. I’m not just the funny sidekick or the character actor. … The diversity of the actual population, I feel, is being more represented. I’m glad that I’m a part of that.”

Howard is best known for the 2015 Broadway musical, “It Shoulda Been You,” in which she played a wallflower bridesmaid who takes her romantic fate into her own hands as her sister’s wedding plans unravel.

Many critics saw the comedy, directed by “Frasier” veteran David Hyde Pierce, as a breakout moment for Howard. Her sultry song, “Jenny’s Blues,” was one of the show’s highlights, and has become popular on the cabaret circuit.

Watch Howard perform “Jenny’s Blues” on the 2015 Tony Awards below.

“It Shoulda Been You” gave Howard a signature tune, but the musical struggled to find an audience and closed after just 135 performances. That experience, however, forced her to explore new, less-heralded realms. She was invited to read for a workshop version of “Escape to Margaritaville” soon afterward.

“I don’t fit into anyone else’s mold,” said Howard, who names Mama Rose in “Gypsy” as a dream role. “Sometimes it’s just a matter of persistence. You say yes to every opportunity, and keep putting yourself out there, so that people recognize what you have to offer, and where you fit in.”

Regardless of how “Escape to Margaritaville” fares with critics, Howard hopes Buffett fans, or “Parrot Heads,” will take the time to check out the musical.

“In spite of the craziness in the world right now, I hope they come [to the show] to escape, relax and enjoy a good love story,” she said. “You can take with you no matter what you do.”

Lisa Howard stars in “Escape to Margaritaville,” now playing in New York.

From left, "Escape to Margaritaville" stars Eric Peteren, Lisa Howard, Alison Luff and Paul Alexander Nolan. Noam Galai via Getty ImagesAUSTIN, Texas ― Austin police on Tuesday evening responded in full force to an incident on the city’s south side, initially fearing another in a series of bombings that have rocked the Texas capital in the past couple of weeks.

But the Austin Police Department said later in the evening that the detonation at a Goodwill in South Austin was not caused by a package bomb but rather an “incendiary device,” and the event likely wasn’t connected to this month’s series of bombings.

“This was not an explosive device,” Ely Reyes, the assistant chief of police, said at a media briefing late Tuesday. “There’s no reason to believe that it is related to any of the other incidents that occurred ... and no reason to believe this was an attempt at a copycat [attack].”

Reyes said an unnamed worker was told to dispose of a box of donated items. The worker later opened the package and discovered two “small devices” that appeared to be some type of “artillery simulators that looked like some type of military ordinance or memento.”

When the worker picked up one of the devices, it detonated in his hand, causing an injury. Reyes said the person was taken to a hospital and was “doing well and recovering.”

There was major police presence near the reported blast, and law enforcement asked residents to avoid the area.

Incendiary device or not, Goodwill CEO tells me it burned the employee’s hands when he got it out of a donation box. Victim was transported to an area hospital. Now we scramble to see what police mean by “incendiary” rather than “bomb.” https://t.co/1Y0NVSVGAm — Andy Campbell (@AndyBCampbell) March 21, 2018

Jerry Davis, the CEO of Goodwill Central Texas, went to the scene Tuesday night and said a device of some sort detonated at the store after being found inside a donation box.

“Someone donated a bomb to us today,” he told HuffPost, before authorities confirmed the box didn’t contain a package bomb.

Davis said the unnamed victim had been taken to a hospital, and local news outlets said he had been released from care later on Tuesday evening. A manager at the store, who asked to remain anonymous, said the worker’s hands were burned.

“He picked up the device and walked out with it because it didn’t make him comfortable,” the manager said. “It blew up in his hands.”

The comments come amid heightened tensions across the region after a string of explosions in Austin and nearby Texas cities in recent weeks.

The bombing series that has terrorized Austin started on March 2. The first three attacks involved packages left at the front of residences that exploded after the unsuspecting victims handled them. An attack Sunday injured two men who set off a tripwire on a sidewalk in a suburban neighborhood.

Earlier on Tuesday, a package exploded at a FedEx sorting facility in Schertz, Texas, near San Antonio, as it was moving along a conveyor belt, the city’s police chief confirmed. Later in the day, police responded to another suspicious package containing an explosive in a FedEx facility outside the Austin airport.

Police said they believed that both of the packages discovered Tuesday during the day were linked to four earlier bombings.

Law enforcement officials said initially that they were investigating the bombings as possible hate crimes after the first attacks struck people of color. But the fourth bombing Sunday night injured two white, non-Latino men in a predominantly white neighborhood, casting doubt on that theory.Sen. Elizabeth Warren (D-Mass.) wants to subject health insurance companies to the kind of stringent regulation she has already successfully championed in the financial industry. Bill Clark/Getty Images

Sen. Elizabeth Warren (D-Mass.) introduced a bill Wednesday aimed at dramatically increasing the affordability and reliability of health insurance plans available on the Affordable Care Act marketplaces.

The legislation, called the Consumer Health Insurance Protection Act, would offer people buying health insurance on their own more financial assistance ― and allow more people to qualify for that assistance. Nobody would have to pay more than 8.5 percent of income on premiums.

Warren does not envision this new plan as an alternative to more ambitious proposals. She remains a co-sponsor of the single-payer legislation introduced by Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.).

But as Warren made clear in a January speech before the consumer group Families USA, she understands that enacting a single-payer plan would be difficult ― and that, as a result, private insurance probably won’t disappear overnight. And so she also wants to focus on what can be done right away to subject the industry to the type of stringent consumer protections she has already successfully championed in the financial sector.

“So long as private health insurance exists, we should require these companies to provide coverage that is at least as good and priced as reasonably as the coverage offered by our public health care programs,” Warren said in January.

Sanders is actually a co-sponsor of the Warren bill, as are Democratic Sens. Kamala Harris (Calif.), Maggie Hassan (N.H.), Kirsten Gillibrand (N.Y.) and Tammy Baldwin (Wis.).

Baldwin’s presence is particularly noteworthy as she faces a tough re-election battle this November in a state that Donald Trump won.

The consumer advocacy organizations Families USA, Public Citizen, Consumers Union and Community Catalyst have also endorsed Warren’s bill.

““So long as private health insurance exists, we should require these companies to provide coverage that is at least as good and priced as reasonably as the coverage offered by our public health care programs."” - Sen. Elizabeth Warren (D-Mass.), in January.

The legislation consists of policies that try to achieve four major goals: increase insurance affordability; provide consumers with new protections; safeguard the ACA from Trump administration attempts to unravel it; and ensure private insurers’ participation in the ACA marketplaces. Some of the provisions apply to all private insurance plans, including employer-sponsored coverage, while others fall on ACA plans alone.

In the affordability category, which features the biggest changes to the health care system, Warren would increase the subsidies available to Americans buying health insurance plans on the ACA’s marketplaces. Currently, low- and middle-income individuals buying ACA plans for themselves and their families are entitled to subsidies offsetting their premiums that are based on the cost of the “silver,” or second-least expensive plans.

The subsidies get steadily smaller as a person’s household income approaches 400 percent of the federal poverty level. Above that income threshold, which is $48,560 for an individual and $100,400 for a family of four, ACA marketplace consumers are not entitled to any federal help.

As a result, some middle-class consumers buying their coverage on the ACA marketplaces have taken a major financial hit from rising monthly premiums in the ACA plans.

By switching to a system where premiums are capped as a percentage of income, Warren would insure that no household is without protection from premium increases. Basing the subsidies on the cost of the more expensive “gold” plans would also allow families to buy more generous coverage at the same cost or stick with a less generous plan and pocket the savings.

Another feature of Warren’s bill aimed at enhancing affordability is a provision capping out-of-pocket costs on prescription drugs at $250 per month that would apply to all private plans. Since the clause targets a small subset of consumers with exceptionally high drug costs, and ACA consumers are already protected with an annual cap on out-of-pocket spending, the number of people who would save money from the provision is likely minor but still significant.

The legislation would also introduce new rules designed to protect consumers from insurance plans that prove unreliable and inadequate. All private insurance plans would be required to spend 85 percent of their premium dollars on paying out insurance claims ― subjecting them to a tighter standard than the one that already applies to ACA plans. They would also be barred from changing the kinds of drugs that they cover in the middle of the year, as well as how much of those drugs’ costs are born by consumers.

Consumers would also be shielded from the effects of an insurer dropping a plan during their course of treatment. And insurers would have to notify consumers if a plan no longer covered a particular doctor.

The bill’s provisions protecting the ACA from Trump administration sabotage include increased funding for outreach and education about enrollment in ACA plans, and tightening rules requiring coverage of “essential” health benefits, which the administration is trying to water down. Like other legislation under serious consideration in Congress, Warren’s bill would also reinstate the federal government’s cost-sharing reduction payments to insurers, which subsidize limitations on out-of-pocket costs for low- and middle-income consumers. (Trump discontinued them in October.)

Finally, Warren would “call [the insurers’] bluff” by requiring insurance companies that bid on Medicare Advantage and Medicaid contracts to offer plans on the ACA marketplaces in parts of the country with limited insurance industry competition. New York already has a similar regulation in place.

Since Warren’s bill has not yet been scored by the Congressional Budget Office, it is not clear how much it would cost. The most expensive part of the legislation is the component increasing subsidies for ACA marketplace plans.Whitney Houston sings the national anthem during the pregame show at Super Bowl XXV in 1991. Michael Zagaris via Getty Images

“Ladies and gentlemen, please rise for our national anthem.”

You’ll hear some version of this announcement at the start of most sporting events, whether they be professional, college or youth-level. The performance of the national anthem is a well-established part of American athletic competitions.

Yet “The Star-Spangled Banner” typically doesn’t make an appearance at many other public gatherings. We don’t sing or listen to it before concerts, Broadway shows, operas or lectures. So why do we do this for sports?

The answer goes back to America’s pastime: baseball.

First, of course, the national anthem began as a poem written by Francis Scott Key in September 1814, after he witnessed the British bombardment of Fort McHenry in Maryland during the War of 1812 (which lasted until early 1815).

Francis Scott Key wrote the poem that makes up the lyrics of "The Star-Spangled Banner." Bettmann via Getty Images

During the 19th century, the poem gained popularity as a song set to the tune of another popular song, “To Anacreon in Heaven.” It was performed at events like parades, military ceremonies, Independence Day festivities and, yes, occasionally, sporting events.

The earliest documented performance of “The Star-Spangled Banner” at a baseball game took place at the Union Baseball and Cricket Grounds in Brooklyn, New York, on May 15, 1862. It was the park’s opening game, and over time, playing the song on the opening day of the baseball season became a more widespread practice.

But singing “The Star-Spangled Banner” before every game did not become commonplace until later.

People stand in Los Angeles' Dodger Stadium during the national anthem before Game 1 of the 2017 World Series. LG Patterson/MLB Photos via Getty Images

In 1889, Secretary of the Navy Benjamin F. Tracy signed an order directing that “The Star-Spangled Banner” be the official song to accompany any raising of the American flag by the Navy. In 1916, President Woodrow Wilson signed an executive order designating it as the country’s national anthem for patriotic occasions. But that status didn’t become truly official until 1931, when Congress passed a measure that President Herbert Hoover signed into law.

Historians typically point to one notable event when tracing the connection between the national anthem and sporting events: Game 1 of the 1918 World Series between the Boston Red Sox and Chicago Cubs.

It was the final year of World War I, a time when many professional baseball games featured marching drills, live bands and other patriotic elements. Given the strains of wartime, however, Game 1 was not well-attended, and the mood was reportedly somber.

The Boston Red Sox and the Chicago Cubs met in the 1918 World Series. Transcendental Graphics via Getty Images

During the seventh-inning stretch, however, the band lifted spectators’ spirits with a powerful performance of “The Star-Spangled Banner.” The New York Times recounted the moment:

As the crowd of 10,274 spectators — the smallest that has witnessed the diamond classic in many years — stood up to take their afternoon yawn, that has been the privilege and custom of baseball fans for many generations, the band broke forth to the strains of “The Star-Spangled Banner.” The yawn was checked and heads were bared as the ball players turned quickly about and faced the music. Jackie Fred Thomas of the U.S. Navy was at attention, as he stood erect, with his eyes set on the flag fluttering at the top of the lofty pole in right field. First the song was taken up by a few, then others joined, and when the final notes came, a great volume of melody rolled across the field. It was at the very end that the onlookers exploded into thunderous applause and rent the air with a cheer that marked the highest point of the day’s enthusiasm.

The performance was so well-received that bands played the song during the subsequent games in the World Series that year. And from then on, “The Star-Spangled Banner” was a regular feature of special baseball occasions like opening day, national holidays and the World Series.

The New York Yankees hold their caps over their hearts during the national anthem in 1921. FPG via Getty Images

During World War II, playing the national anthem before regular baseball games became the norm, thanks to an upswing in patriotic sentiment and technological developments in sound systems that allowed for the playing of the song without the added expense of hiring a band.

The practice spread to other sports as well. After the war ended in 1945, NFL Commissioner Elmer Layden stated his intention to make “The Star-Spangled Banner” a permanent part of every football game.

“We must not drop it simply because the war is over. We should never forget what it stands for,” Layden declared.

Not everyone in the sports world agreed, however. In 1954, Baltimore Orioles general manager and World War I veteran Arthur Ehlers decided not to play “The Star-Spangled Banner” before each game and opted to save it for special occasions. He said that frequent repetition “tends to cheapen the song and lessen the thrill of response” and complained about fans not behaving respectfully during the anthem.

Under pressure from the public and the Baltimore City Council, Ehlers eventually changed his mind.

The owner of the Chicago Cubs felt similarly and did not include “The Star-Spangled Banner” as a standard element at home games until the 1960s during the Vietnam War. The Chicago White Sox replaced the anthem with “God Bless America” for a time in the ’60s but then returned to “The Star-Spangled Banner” after fans expressed their preference for it in an official poll.

With its evocations of warfare and patriotism, “The Star-Spangled Banner” has become a seemingly inextricable part of American sports culture ― and even pop culture, thanks to iconic moments like Whitney Houston’s powerful 1991 Super Bowl performance during the Gulf War.

“Sports are a kind of bloodless warfare,” Marc Ferris, author of Star-Spangled Banner: The Unlikely Story of America’s National Anthem, told USA Today last year. “A sort of war without death.”

Eli Harold, Colin Kaepernick and Eric Reid kneel in protest at a San Francisco 49ers game on Oct. 16, 2016. Michael Zagaris via Getty Images

Over the years, the anthem has certainly played a part in cultural wars. Most recently, quarterback Colin Kaepernick’s decision to protest racial injustice by kneeling during “The Star-Spangled Banner” has been the subject of heated debate.

In 1968, Olympic athletes Tommie Smith and John Carlos were thrown out of Olympic Stadium in Mexico City after raising their fists in a Black Power salute as they stood on the medal podium during “The Star-Spangled Banner.”

Beyond political protests, actual musical performances of the anthem have generated controversy. In 1968, singer-songwriter José Feliciano kicked off Game 5 of the World Series with a bluesy version of the song, which drew complaints from fans expecting a more traditional rendition.

In 1990, comedian Roseanne Barr sang the anthem before a Major League Baseball game. She ended her “screechy, off-key” performance by grabbing her crotch and spitting on the ground. President George H.W. Bush called Barr’s rendition “disgraceful.”

And in February of this year, singer Fergie came under fire for her “sexy” performance of the anthem at the NBA All-Star Game.Maybe you should start by teaching your bully of a husband @realDonaldTrump not to insult everyone he comes in contact with. How can you be an advocate for cyber bullying when the president is the biggest bully ever?...ESPECIALLY ON TWITTER! pic.twitter.com/bs512yZPwFAn armed protester from the so-called Bureau of American-Islamic Relations outside the Islamic Association of North Texas at the Dallas Central Mosque in 2015. John Moore via Getty Images

In 2015, the FBI issued a chilling intelligence bulletin. Far-right militia groups in the U.S. had new targets: Muslims. They were watching and plotting attacks against mosques. One group in Mississippi had discussed kidnapping and beheading a Muslim, then posting a video of the murder online. The increasing Islamophobia of these domestic extremists, the bulletin warned, could lead to “additional harassment of or violence against Muslims” in the years to come.

The FBI was right.

Earlier this month, 29-year-old Thomas McWhorter explained to the FBI why he and two fellow militia members bombed a Minnesota mosque last August. The attack, he said, according to an affidavit, was meant to send a message to Muslims: “Hey, you’re not welcome here, get the fuck out.”

Jury selection started this week in the trial of three other men, all members of a militia group called the Crusaders, charged in a foiled 2016 plot to detonate car bombs at a Kansas apartment complex occupied by Somali Muslim immigrants.

“The only good Muslim is a dead Muslim,” one of the Crusaders allegedly said in a recorded conversation. “If you’re a Muslim, I’m going to enjoy shooting you in the head.”

Curtis Allen 49, left, Gavin Wright, 49, and Patrick Eugene Stein, 47, are charged in a plot to massacre Somali Muslim immigrants. Sedgwick County Sheriff's Office via Reuters

YouTube removed a horrifying video earlier this month that showed members of the militia group called North Dakota Security Force III% firing guns at a miniature model of a mosque until it explodes.

And last month a Muslim mayoral candidate in Minnesota contacted police after finding a disturbing message posted to her Google+ profile. An account called “Militia Movement” had threatened to “EXECUTE all muslims in America.”

The FBI Laboratory’s Explosives Unit constructed and set off a 300-pound car bomb using fertilizer to show the damage that the bomb the Crusaders were allegedly building could have caused. FBI

Not only was the 2015 FBI intelligence assessment correct, it also appeared to be eerily prescient. Members of the growing anti-government “Patriot” movement, as it’s often called, repeatedly harass, threaten and plot attacks against Muslims.

The Southern Poverty Law Center identified 689 active anti-government extremist groups in the U.S. in 2017. Of those groups, 273 are militias, heavily armed organizations that train their members in paramilitary techniques.

These groups’ shift toward anti-Muslim violence is especially concerning given wider trends of Islamophobia in America, where the vilest ideas about Islam are lent legitimacy by a White House staffed with anti-Muslim conspiracy theorists and headed by a president who has said “Islam hates us.” Hate crimes targeting Muslims rose sharply in 2015 and 2016, according to the latest FBI statistics.

Which is all to say: Anti-Muslim violence by militias has the potential to get worse.

J.J. MacNab, a fellow at George Washington University’s Program on Extremism and one of the country’s foremost experts on anti-government extremism, said she’s “surprised” there haven’t been more attacks against Muslims already. It’s been frustrating, she said, to see what relatively sparse media attention the anti-government extremist movement has received in recent years.

“I don’t think [the media] give anti-government extremism the same amount of attention as neo-Nazis,” MacNab said. “But it’s more dangerous — guns, plots, shootings, murders ― you name it. White supremacists are more about getting camera time.”

Radicalized Against Muslims

Armed protesters from the so-called Bureau of American-Islamic Relations (BAIR) take part in a demonstration in front of a mosque on Dec. 12, 2015, in Richardson, Texas. John Moore via Getty Images

The anti-government extremist movement has existed for decades and has been connected to a slew of high-profile crimes, including bombings, occupations of federal land, armed standoffs with police and murders of law enforcement officers. Militia members generally believe that they must prepare for an armed revolt against a totalitarian and globalist federal government.

These militias saw a surge in membership after the election of President Barack Obama in 2008 — a growth propelled by fears that the nation’s first black president was weak on immigration, anti-Second Amendment and a threat to land rights in the West.

A Southern Poverty Law Center graphic shows the number of anti-government extremist groups through four presidential administrations. Southern Poverty Law Center

The 2015 FBI bulletin stated that many militia members also felt that Obama “not only sympathizes with Islamic extremists but directs US Government policy to align with their goals.”

Many also subscribed to the racist conspiracy theory that Obama himself was a secret Muslim. John Martin Roos, a fanatical Donald Trump supporter, was arrested in 2016 for repeatedly threatening to kill Obama and federal agents. Roos was a member of a Three Percenter militia group in Oregon. Three Percenters are a loosely organized movement of anti-government extremists with chapters across the U.S. It takes its name from the false notion that only 3 percent of Colonists challenged the British in the Revolutionary War.

“Obama is nothing less than than a vile muslim trash,” Roos wrote in a Facebook post. A search of his home uncovered four pipe bombs, an AK-47-like firearm, a rifle and shotgun, a .45-caliber Glock, and hundreds of rounds of ammunition. In another Facebook post, he wrote of wanting “to incite Patriots to wholesale cleanse our country of the muslim disease.”

“Good muslim = dead muslim,” he wrote in another.

Facebook

Facebook

The “general consensus” among militia groups these days, said MacNab, “is that the government isn’t doing anything about Islamic terror so they have to do it for them.”

The 2015 FBI intelligence bulletin concluded that militia groups’ fear and hatred of Muslims was fueled in part by “unfounded claims” and “conspiracy theories” that there were Muslim terrorist training camps in the U.S. (There were not.) The FBI pointed the finger at “self-appointed watchdogs of Islamic extremism,” including blogger Pamela Geller and some right-wing news media, including Fox News, for spreading these fake stories.

This kind of anti-Muslim propaganda led directly to at least one terrorism plot. In 2015, police arrested 63-year-old Robert Doggart, a Tennessee minister, for plotting a massacre in Islamberg — a New York hamlet that was often the focus of the terrorist training camp conspiracy theories. Doggart was convicted in 2017 of solicitation to commit a civil rights violation, solicitation to commit arson of a building and making a threat in interstate commerce.

Muslims of America, the group behind Islamberg, a primarily African-American community of Muslims in New York, released this photo of schoolchildren after reports emerged that Robert Doggart was specifically planning to attack the school. Muslims of America

Doggart had collaborated with a South Carolina militia group for the attack, which he planned to carry out with a “battle-tested” military-style assault rifle and multiple other weapons, including a machete. The people of Islamberg, Doggart said in a recorded phone call, “have to be killed .... If we can get in there and do that not losing a man, even the better.”

“We will be cruel to them,” he added. “And we will burn down their buildings ... And if it gets down to the machete, we will cut them to shreds.”

Later that same year, a militia extremist named John Ritzheimer announced in a video that he was driving from Arizona to Islamberg to confront editors of a Muslim newspaper there. “Fuck you Muslims!” he said. “Fuck all of you! We’re going to stop at virtually every mosque on the way, take a picture flipping them off, telling them to get fucked!”

“We’re fucking ready for them!” he added, brandishing a gun on camera. “Bring it on you Muslim fucks!” The FBI eventually scared off Ritzheimer from visiting Islamberg.

Ritzheimer had been known to authorities previously for organizing an armed anti-Muslim protest outside a mosque in Phoenix, one of many such militia-led protests that have struck fear in Muslim communities.

In 2017, when the anti-Muslim hate group Act for America held nationwide “March Against Sharia” rallies, armed militia members turned up in multiple cities.

In 2016, armed militia members stood outside a Georgia courthouse to protest plans for a new mosque. A Kansas mosque canceled a fundraising event and sent kids home early from Islamic school after learning that an armed militia group was planning a protest outside.

And in 2015, a group called the Bureau of American Islamic Relations (BAIR) — a play on the name of the prominent Muslim civil rights group, the Council on American-Islamic Relations (CAIR) — organized an armed protest outside a mosque in Texas.

A disturbing AJ+ video at the time showed BAIR conducting paramilitary training in the Texas countryside. “A lot of us here are either using pig’s blood or bacon grease on our bullets … so when you shoot a Muslim, they go straight to hell,” BAIR’s founder, David Wright, said on camera. “That’s what they believe in their religion.” (That’s not what Muslims believe.)

A Double Standard?

Alia Salem, former executive director of CAIR’s Dallas chapter, thinks there’s a double standard in how right-wing extremist militia groups get covered by the media.

She pointed to government studies showing that right-wing terrorists kill more people than Muslim terrorists in the U.S. And yet right-wing attacks or plots barely register a “blip on the radar” when they occur, Salem said. “They bomb a mosque and the coverage is over in a day.” But when a terrorist is Muslim, there’s wall-to-wall coverage, she said.

A Georgia State University study published last year found that from 2011 to 2015, a terrorist attack received 449 percent more media coverage if the perpetrator were Muslim. However, Muslims were responsible for just 12.5 percent of terrorist attacks during that time.

“Given the disproportionate quantity of news coverage for these attacks, it is no wonder that people are afraid of the Muslim terrorist,” the study said. “More representative media coverage could help to bring public perception of terrorism in line with reality.”

Salem knows what it means to be terrorized by right-wing militias. In early 2016, militia members protested outside the CAIR-Dallas office carrying AR-15s, she said.

Around the same time, CAIR-Dallas’ outreach coordinator, Omair Siddiqi, was nearly driven off the road by a man in a pickup with a Three Percenter militia bumper sticker. “Take your rag ass back to your country!” the driver screamed at Siddiqi, who is American. “I’m gonna fucking kill you.”

And on the Friday after Trump was elected president, armed Three Percenter militia members wearing masks circled CAIR’s office “five or six times,” on motorcycles and pickup trucks, revving their engines, Salem said.

“It was really scary,” Salem said, to have “people with military-grade weaponry circling our building.”

CAIR decided to move offices afterward, Alem added, and one staff member suffered a nervous breakdown.Neil Young stars in "Paradox," a Netflix film written and directed by Daryl Hannah. Courtesy of Daryl Hannah

Neil Young says he’s excited for fans to see “Paradox,” his new film with Daryl Hannah that hits Netflix this week. But he’s also feeling something else.

“It’s a little scary,” he told HuffPost. “We don’t have any control over it. It’s just going out. It’s different than what we’ve done our whole lives. It’s the first time either one of us has presented anything on a platform.”

“Paradox,” written and directed by Hannah, is a Western-inspired, music-rich film about a band of outlaws hiding out in the mountains. It stars Young as The Man in the Black Hat, along with the band Promise of the Real, which features Willie Nelson’s sons: Micah Nelson, who plays Particle Kid, and Lukas Nelson, who portrays Jail Time. Willie Nelson also makes an appearance in the film, which debuted at South by Southwest last week and premieres Friday on Netflix.

“I made characters that were all jokes on aspects of their personalities … and they all got really into it,” Hannah told HuffPost. “And they got so into it that they began improvising and doing other things. We just went for it and made it. It’s so goofy. Most movies, they talk about having so much footage on the cutting room floor. We basically used everything we shot.”

Hannah bought the wardrobe for the film at thrift stores. Courtesy of Daryl Hannah

Young said working alongside Hannah (also his romantic partner) was a breeze. He called her a “real artist.”

“I respect her totally,” he said. “She’s a real professional and I love her work ethic. She works around the clock. She went out herself and bought all of the wardrobe. Everything that everybody’s wearing she bought at thrift stores. … The whole thing was a labor of love for her.”

Hannah and Young attend the "Paradox" premiere on March 15 in Austin, Texas. Matt Winkelmeyer/Getty Images

Meanwhile, Hannah said Young was extremely supportive and even worked as her de facto assistant director at times on the set in Colorado.

“We didn’t have a crew. I had 11 guys to wrangle so every once and a while, he’d be like, ‘Quiet on the set!’ … But he was incredible. He couldn’t have been easier and better,” she said.

Hannah also had Young take on some interesting scenes in the film.

“Imagine, I’m sending him out in the snow with a rug tied around his neck. … He was a very good sport. He had never been on a dogsled before and he was an expert on his first take. There was no stunt double.”

Throughout “Paradox,” Young and the Promise of the Real’s music sets the tone for the journey. They created enough music that there’s also an accompanying soundtrack due out Friday to coincide with the movie release.

“It’s just real music. It’s just people playing. And not to say there’s not a lot of people playing great music out there, it’s just that by the time that it gets to be a record it doesn’t sound that good anymore. We like to have real performances. So everything in the film is spontaneous. There are no overdubs,” he said. “They’re all take one.”

The music in the film is spontaneous and not overdubbed, Young said. Courtesy of Daryl Hannah

Hannah has created short films in the past, but this marks her feature-length debut behind the camera.

“This is a spitting vinegar, homespun thing. This isn’t something I had to go out and ask anyone for permission,” she said. “We didn’t have any budget or anything. We just did it ourselves. We didn’t have a crew. We didn’t have anything.”

She was able to turn nothing into something that she now says she’s extremely proud of. Young says he’s proud, too, even if he’s a little scared about the Netflix release.

“It’s great that people are accepting it in this age of film,” he said. “Things are so different. I told Daryl this is a palate cleanser between two superhero movies.”Brian Acton, co-founder of WhatsApp Mike Blake / Reuters

A high-profile tech industry billionaire has lent his voice to the #deleteFacebook hashtag in the wake of the Cambridge Analytica data scandal ― Brian Acton, the co-founder of messaging platform WhatsApp, which was bought by Facebook for $19 billion in 2014.

Acton and business partner Jan Koum, former Yahoo employees, founded WhatsApp in 2009. The messaging app, one of the most popular apps in the world, allows users to place phone calls, and send and receive messages free over the internet. Facebook purchased the app in 2014 in a deal of cash and stock worth $19 billion, Facebook’s largest acquisition. Koum remains with the company, but Acton left WhatsApp in 2017 to start his own nonprofit foundation “focused at the intersection of nonprofit, technology and communications.”

On Tuesday, Acton published a short message on his Twitter account:

It was unclear whether he was advocating for others to delete their own accounts or if he was announcing that he would delete his account. Nonetheless, his contribution is just the latest to the #deleteFacebook hashtag, which has exploded this week following damaging revelations that data of 50 million users from the social media platform had been harvested by Cambridge Analytica, a political data firm with links to President Donald Trump’s 2016 campaign.Joshua Roberts / Reuters

Americans’ belief that new gun reforms are possible has receded somewhat from the record level it reached in late February, a new HuffPost/YouGov poll finds.

Two weeks after the Parkland shootings, with student activists’ push for gun control dominating headlines, Americans said by a 24-point margin, 50 percent to 26 percent, that it was politically possible to pass stricter gun laws.

In the most recent poll, that’s down to a 13-point margin, 44 percent to 31 percent ― a dip, but still well above the level recorded in previous surveys, including one taken in the immediate aftermath of the shooting.

HuffPost

Concern about gun violence has also declined: 52 percent now call it a “very serious problem,” down from 60 percent immediately after the shooting, and 56 percent later in February.

But other metrics suggest that public support for gun control isn’t fading as quickly as the confidence in its political prognosis. A majority of Americans continue to say gun laws should be made more strict, and a 47 percent plurality still say that Congress should take action to reduce mass shootings ― a slight downtick from 51 percent in the previous survey, but up from 41 percent late last year. Sixty percent say it’s possible to enact new gun controls without violating the right to bear arms, down from late February’s high of 65 percent, but still above the 53-to-55 percent range it spanned last fall.

Nearly a quarter of the public choose gun policies as among the two issues most important to them. Among those who want Congress to act, that rises to 34 percent, ranking it only narrowly behind their top issue, health care, at 37 percent.

Other surveys this month also suggest that for now, Americans are still both paying attention to the gun control debate and more open to the idea than they’ve been in years. A March Gallup poll put backing for stricter gun laws at the highest level since 1993, thanks to rising support across partisan lines over the past two years. As The Washington Post notes, polling has found stronger, more consistent support for gun control now than in the aftermath of the 2012 Sandy Hook shooting. Specific proposals, such as increasing the minimum age to buy guns, appear popular even among Republicans, relatively few of whom appear concerned that this administration will overreach on guns.

Gun control is likely to remain in the news for at least a while longer, as students and other advocates converge on Washington, D.C., this weekend for the March For Our Lives. What remains to be seen is whether the current increase in support for stricter laws represents a bounce or a turning point ― and, even if it’s the latter, whether supporters will continue to prioritize demanding political action.

Use the widget below to further explore the results of the HuffPost/YouGov survey, using the menu at the top to select survey questions and the buttons at the bottom to filter the data by subgroups:

The HuffPost/YouGov poll consisted of 1,000 completed interviews conducted March 14-15 among U.S. adults, using a sample selected from YouGov’s opt-in online panel to match the demographics and other characteristics of the adult U.S. population.

HuffPost has teamed up with YouGov to conduct daily opinion polls. You can learn more about this project and take part in YouGov’s nationally representative opinion polling. More details on the polls’ methodology are available here.After a riotous week full of revelations that Facebook enabled a shadowy British firm called Cambridge Analytica to harvest and exploit the personal information of more than 50 million users ― then failed to follow up on it for more than two years ― CEO Mark Zuckerberg offered an off-camera act of contrition Wednesday, yet no apology.

In the missive, Zuckerburg acknowledged there’s been “a breach of trust” between Facebook and its users. He outlined several steps he hopes will restore public trust in the company, all aimed at clarifying and restricting which apps have access to which types of data.

Facebook also said it will investigate the apps on the platform that had access to large amounts of user data prior to 2014, before the company began limiting developers’ access. It plans to ban those found to be in violation of Facebook’s terms and notify affected users, including those affected by Cambridge Analytica.

“We have a responsibility to protect your data, and if we can’t then we don’t deserve to serve you,” wrote Zuckerberg, who is scheduled to appear in an interview on CNN Wednesday night.

Notably, while Zuckerberg acknowledges Facebook made “mistakes,” his post stops short of anything resembling an apology.

Zuckerberg also failed to clarify how, exactly, Cambridge Analytica held onto and kept using the harvested data for a full two years after Facebook learned Cambridge had acquired it. He does offer the feeble defense that Facebook asked for, and received, a formal certification from the company verifying it deleted the data, but it was clearly insufficient.

In a separate post, Chief Operating Officer Sheryl Sandberg went a step further, stating she “deeply regrets” how Facebook handled Cambridge Analytica ― but again, it’s no apology.

“You deserve to have your information protected ― and we’ll keep working to make sure you feel safe on Facebook,” she wrote. “Your trust is at the core of our service. We know that and we will work to earn it.”

It’s been a response several days in the making, as neither Zuckerberg nor Sandberg offered so much as a peep earlier this week as the allegations piled up and Facebook’s stock tanked.

Both were absent from an internal briefing about the situation Tuesday (though they were never scheduled to appear in the first place). And while Zuckerberg was expected to speak at an all-hands meeting Friday, it seems that’s been bumped up a day or two.

Translation of Zuckerberg’s Wednesday post: He is super serious, you guys. This time, he promises it’ll be different.

Not like last time, in September, when he appeared before cameras and pledged Facebook would do a better job self-regulating and “create a new standard for transparency in online political ads.”

(That particular acknowledgment was only prompted by the revelation that more than half of all eligible voters in the U.S. were exposed to and interacted with Russian propaganda on Facebook between June 2015 and August 2017.)

Or the time before that, in July 2017, when a Facebook spokesperson flat-out told CNN “we have seen no evidence that Russian actors bought ads on Facebook in connection with the election.”

(Just two weeks later, Facebook revealed it had found more than 3,000 such ads, bought and paid for by a Russian group known as the Internet Research Agency.)

“Making you angry, making you afraid, is really good for Facebook’s business. It is not good for America. It’s not good for the users of Facebook.” - Roger McNamee, an early Facebook investor

Or the time before that, in November 2016, when Zuckerberg dismissed as “crazy” the idea that misinformation, spread via Facebook, could have “influenced the election in any way.”

(Then-President Barack Obama reportedly pulled Zuckerberg aside a couple of days after he made the statement and warned he should take the threat of disinformation on the network seriously. About a year after Obama’s warning, Zuckerberg wrote a mea culpa saying he regretted the statement. “This is too important an issue to be dismissive,” he said.)

Or the time before that, during the first Democratic primary of 2016, when Roger McNamee, an early Facebook investor, said he warned Zuckerberg and Sandberg that people were being manipulated on the platform ― yet his concerns went unheeded.

“They treated it like a public relations problem, rather than a substantive issue for the business,” he said, in a statement that’s just as relevant today as it was then.

Facebook has forcefully argued it’s fine policing itself since at least 2011, when the Federal Election Commission first considered regulating political ads on the platform, then backed down after being warned by company lawyers not to “stand in the way of innovation.”

“Making you angry, making you afraid, is really good for Facebook’s business,” McNamee said previously. “It is not good for America. It’s not good for the users of Facebook.”