Inside the chicly decorated clinic, the receptionist wore bright purple scrubs. There were no signs on the wall or brochures to indicate that Caitlin was not in a real doctor’s office.

The 23-year-old graduate student, home in San Antonio for Christmas break, had found the place by Googling “free STD testing San Antonio.” She usually got tested at the Planned Parenthood clinic in Austin, where she attended the University of Texas, but she was looking for a clinic near her parents’ house. The Google search pointed her to a woman’s health center in a ritzy part of town near a hospital. It was called Any Woman Can, and now here she was, having produced a urine sample, following a middle-aged woman into a private room for what Caitlin thought would be a conversation about the test results.

Instead, the woman “started asking me a lot of really emotionally intense and invasive questions,” Caitlin said.

“The first and last name of my current partner and where he lives; what age I lost my virginity; whether I had been molested as a child, or if I’d ever been raped or had an abortion. I said, ‘Is this really medically important? Is it OK if I don’t answer?’”

The woman continued to read questions from her script, each of which Caitlin declined to answer. Eventually she informed Caitlin that she had chlamydia.

Caitlin had never been diagnosed with a sexually transmitted infection before and naturally had many questions about what chlamydia is and how to treat it. But the woman “kept trying to steer the conversation away from the medical stuff.” She couldn’t prescribe the necessary antibiotic nor was there anyone on staff who could. She couldn’t even refer Caitlin to a doctor for treatment.

Upon leaving the clinic, Caitlin realized she had to find a real doctor and make a second appointment for an STI test, because she didn’t trust the first. “I went to the parking lot and cried for a while. I felt so gross, so deeply weirded out.”

Any Woman Can is part of a nationwide network of over 3,000 “crisis pregnancy centers” (CPCs) established by evangelical Christians to dissuade women from having abortions. They masquerade as women’s health clinics ― advertising free STD testing and pregnancy services, dressing their staffers in scrubs and setting themselves up near hospitals ― but they often have no licensed medical professionals on staff.

These centers ― “fake clinics,” as reproductive rights groups call them ― are the subject of the U.S. Supreme Court’s first abortion-related case under President Donald Trump. When arguments begin Tuesday, an attorney representing the Christian-run Pregnancy Care Clinic in El Cajon, California, will argue before the high court that California violated the clinic’s constitutional right to free speech by enacting a law that requires centers that are licensed as family planning facilities to notify women that the state offers free or low-cost birth control and abortion services. The law also requires pregnancy centers to disclose if they have no medical providers on staff.

“I went to the parking lot and cried for a while. I felt so gross, so deeply weirded out.” - Caitlin, 23

“They’re forcing us to use our walls as a billboard to promote abortion,” Pregnancy Care Clinic Executive Director Josh McClure told Reuters. The clinic is being represented by the National Institute of Family and Life Advocates legal organization (NIFLA).

California Attorney General Xavier Becerra (D) will defend the state’s 2015 Reproductive FACT Act, which the 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals upheld last year.

“Information is power,” Becerra said in a statement, “and all women should have access to the information they need when making personal health care decisions.”

It’s fitting that NIFLA v. Becerra will be the first abortion case to land on the Supreme Court’s docket in the Trump era. The CPCs are Trumpish things― hostile to expertise and insincere about their supposed mission. (Meanwhile, Trump’s administration is slashing funds from family planning and teen sex ed programs that have been shown to reduce unintended pregnancies and redirecting that money to abstinence-only programs, which don’t work.)

Didactic pregnancy centers, which date back to the 1960s, share Trump’s antagonistic relationship to facts. They push the myths that abortion leads to suicide and drug addiction, that condoms don’t work because they’re “naturally porous” and that birth control causes hair loss, memory loss, headaches, weight gain and breast cancer. Their advertisements ― often carrying slogans like “We inform, you decide” ― give the illusion that they’re disinterested purveyors of expert information and medical treatment, but in fact they are mostly interested in lecturing women about sex and abortion.

Mel G., 40, from southeast Missouri, told HuffPost that she visited a CPC at the age of 13 because her grandfather had been sexually abusing her and she feared she was pregnant. She lived about 65 miles from St. Louis and was limited to traveling by bike, so the religious-based pregnancy center was the only place she could find within biking distance that advertised pregnancy services.

Mel’s pregnancy test came back negative, but she said that no one at the clinic seemed to notice that she was a child rape survivor or offered her any help. “The lady told me I should be going to church and thanking God that I wasn’t pregnant and beg for forgiveness for even having to show up,” Mel said. “The shame that I experienced really compounded what I was going through and made it harder for me to reach out for help.”

CPCs believe they are providing an important public service by counseling and protecting women from making decisions they will regret. Requiring them to post information about state abortion and birth control services, they argue, is akin to forcing a McDonald’s to post directions to the nearest Burger King.

“Information about abortion is just about everywhere, so the government doesn’t need to punish pro-life centers for declining to advertise for the very act they can’t promote,” said Kevin Theriot, senior counsel for the Alliance Defending Freedom, which is representing the CPCs.

Abortion rights groups argue that women deserve to have all the facts about a health center in order to make the best decisions for themselves. “The principle here is simple,” said Amy Everitt, state director of NARAL Pro-Choice California. “Nobody’s ideology should ever be allowed to get between a woman and her doctor.”

The stakes are high for this case, which will be the first to indicate how the current Supreme Court may treat abortion rights for decades. And free speech questions are tricky: If the court strikes down this California law, the decision could also have implications for laws in red states that require doctors to convey state-sponsored anti-abortion messages.

For women like Caitlin and Mel who have been tricked by CPCs, the case is pretty simple.Even Hollywood royalty like Steven Spielberg can misspeak on the PR circuit. Or was he just misunderstood?

On Thursday, the Oscar-winning director was participating in a press conference for his new nostalgia-soaked, Easter egg-filled sci-fi actioner “Ready Player One” when he reportedly declared, “We couldn’t get any ‘Star Wars’ rights. … We [tried] very hard. They wouldn’t give up the rights.” Spielberg’s comments were then covered far and wide, including on Yahoo Entertainment.

By Friday, however, Spielberg was clearing up the narrative, telling us at the film’s Los Angeles press day that there are in fact “Star Wars” references in the screen adaptation of Ernest Cline’s bestselling book, and teasing a couple of them in the process.

“We requested [intellectual property] from almost all of the [movie] studios, and also game companies and toy companies, and everybody jumped on board, including Disney,” Spielberg said (watch above). Disney acquired Lucasfilm, originator of and gatekeeper to the “Star Wars” universe, in 2012.

The director was intent on only licensing characters and other IP from the original trilogy, however, which makes sense given the vast majority of “Ready Player One”’s countless Easter eggs originate from the ’80s and ’90s and include screen icons like King Kong, “Jurassic Park”’s T. rex, the Iron Giant, Freddy, Jason, and Chucky.

“I didn’t think it would be good to do the contemporary characters in all of the [new] ‘Star Wars’ films, because our film takes place in 2045 but everybody has returned nostalgically to the 1980s,” he said. “Disney was very generous in letting us basically cherry-pick the little items we needed.”

While it’s virtually impossible to pick out every pop culture reference in a single viewing of “Ready Player One,” Spielberg teased what “Star Wars” fans can look out for, including sightings of R2-D2 and an X-wing starfighter.

“[They are] in the periphery of the painting,” he said.

“Ready Player One” opens March 29.

Watch the trailer:

AdvertisementJimmy Kimmel fiercely rebuked President Donald Trump and lawmakers on Friday night, hours after 10 people were killed in a school shooting in Santa Fe, Texas.

“President Trump said he is ‘with the people of Santa Fe in this tragic hour and will be with them forever,’ except for when it comes time to do something ― then he will not be with them, and neither will any of the congresspeople or governors who don’t ever do anything because they are fearful that it will hurt them politically,” Kimmel said.

“They know the truth, they know this has gone too far,” he added. “But they are too cowardly to do the right thing.”

Kimmel said Trump and lawmakers care more about the support of the National Rifle Association “than they do about children.” “So they sit there with their hands in their pockets, pockets that are full of gun money, and they do nothing. They just wait for the outrage to pass,” he said.A prominent Washington, D.C., attorney said his law firm will represent, pro bono, anyone who wants to challenge the draconian nondisclosure agreements President Donald Trump reportedly demanded early last year from his senior White House officials.

Mark Zaid, who represents government workers in free speech and national security cases, was responding to a Sunday report from The Washington Post that administration officials are prohibited from disclosing information both during their employment and “at all times thereafter.”

Each infraction would be subject to a $10 million fine, according to a draft agreement the Post obtained. The draft covered all “non public” communications, including conversations with the press and with any other government official. It even barred any revelations in works of fiction.

Zaid, a founding partner of the nonprofit law firm Whistleblower Aid, said the staffers can only lawfully be constrained from disclosing classified information when their employment is over.

This is an unconstitutional prohibition on 1st Amendment rights. My law firm offers to rep pro bono any signatory (or individual legitimately contemplating) of these NDAs. Former employees can only be lawfully prevented from disclosing classified info.@BradMossEsq @AndrewBakaj https://t.co/awdjHweJmF — Mark S. Zaid (@MarkSZaidEsq) March 19, 2018

Several free speech and civil rights experts besides Zaid said the agreement is unconstitutional, and therefore unenforceable.

“Public employees can’t be gagged by private agreements,” Ben Wizner of the American Civil Liberties Union said in a statement. “These so-called NDAs are unconstitutional and unenforceable.”

The agreements “strike me as clearly unconstitutional under the First Amendment,” University of Minnesota law professor Heidi Kitrosser told Reuters. University of Florida law professor Mark Fenster told the outlet that “public employees can’t be forced to sign away the right to speak.”

Experts also noted that White House staffers don’t technically work for Trump, but for the United States, which would be the only party that could enforce the NDAs — and that’s not likely to happen.

The highest-profile nondisclosure agreement currently linked to the president is the one between Trump lawyer Michael Cohen and Stormy Daniels, the adult film star whose real name is Stephanie Clifford. Daniels says she had a year-long affair with Trump, but Cohen has warned her that she could be sued for up to $20 million if she violates the nondisclosure pact she signed in 2016, reportedly in exchange for $130,000.

The White House has not denied the existence of nondisclosure agreements for senior administration staffers. However, it told Reuters on Monday that staffers “were never asked or required to sign NDAs with $10 million clauses.”

Advertisement“Man. Crazy shit happens so fast in this presidency, sometimes it feels like I’m binge-watching it,” Meyers joked.

The late-night host then broke down the latest developments in the continuing fallout from Trump’s alleged 2006 affair with porn star Stormy Daniels, and the president celebrating the firing of former FBI Deputy Director Andrew McCabe just two days before he was scheduled to retire.TONIGHT: How do you get rid of a cop two days before his retirement? Ask our man in the Oval Office. #LSSC pic.twitter.com/4NiNyPcS1wEducation Secretary Betsy DeVos struggled to defend her department's new student loan guidance during a March 20 budget hearing. Joshua Roberts / Reuters

Education Secretary Betsy DeVos got an earful about her student loan policies on Tuesday during a House appropriations subcommittee hearing.

Rep. Rosa DeLauro (D-Conn.) went after DeVos over new departmental guidance that would tend to protect federal student loan servicers that employ predatory collection practices in violation of state regulations. The guidance, issued in March, states that only federal authorities have the authority to oversee such loan collection programs.

“Despite your statements all morning about supporting states’ rights, what your office has done, you’ve issued a declaration to pre-empt state regulations on companies that collect student loans,” DeLauro said in the budget hearing.

The Connecticut congresswoman pointed to multiple settlements in favor of student borrowers against a “track record of predatory practices and abuses” by loan servicers.

A number of states, including Connecticut, have lost the right to protect their consumers under the Education Department’s new policy.

DeVos made attempts to defend her department’s oversight efforts, but was interrupted by DeLauro. At one point, as she tried to speak, the congresswoman asked her, “Why doesn’t anyone believe what you are doing?”

DeVos stuttered and paused, closing her eyes, on several occasions.

“Who do you believe this serves?” DeLauro said. “Does it serve the borrowers or the servicers?”

Earlier this month, the bipartisan National Governors Association issued a statement warning against the Education Department’s guidance.

“States have stepped up to fill the void left, we believe, by the absence of federal protections for student loan borrowers, from potential abusive practices by companies servicing student loans,” the statement read. “With this declaration, the department moves to block state policies protecting student borrowers by establishing a federal regulatory ceiling.”

AdvertisementNEW YORK (Reuters) - U.S. film and TV studio The Weinstein Company, whose ex-Chairman Harvey Weinstein has been accused of sexual harassment and assault, said on Monday it filed for bankruptcy and was ending all non-disclosure agreements that may have silenced some women.

The Weinstein Company filed for bankruptcy in the Delaware court, listing $500 million to $1 billion in liabilities and $500 million to $1 billion in assets, and said it struck a deal with an affiliate of private equity firm Lantern Capital Partners to acquire its assets.

The bankruptcy comes after the studio spent months looking for a buyer or investor. The company inked a deal with an investor group led by former Obama administration official Maria Contreras-Sweet, but the group terminated its offer earlier this month after seeing that the company had more liabilities than previously disclosed.

The Weinstein Company said in a statement it entered into a “stalking horse” agreement with a Lantern Capital affiliate, that would purchase substantially all of the assets of the company.

The offer from Lantern will set the floor for higher and better bidders in a court-supervised auction.

Lions Gate Entertainment Corp had made an earlier offer for some of the company’s assets, as had Qatar-owned film company Miramax, which was founded by Harvey Weinstein and his brother Bob Weinstein. Both could be among potential bidders in the auction.

More than 70 women accused the company’s co-founder, Harvey Weinstein, who was one of Hollywood’s most influential men, of sexual misconduct, including rape. Weinstein has denied having non-consensual sex with anyone.

“Since October, it has been reported that Harvey Weinstein used non-disclosure agreements as a secret weapon to silence his accusers. Effective immediately, those ‘agreements’ end,” the company said in an emailed statement.

Movie producer Killer Content also said bankruptcy would be the best option for the company, and that it may be interested in the studio’s assets in a bankruptcy auction.

In February, New York Attorney General Eric Schneiderman sued The Weinstein Company, Harvey Weinstein and his brother Bob Weinstein, alleging that Harvey Weinstein sexually harassed employees and the company failed to respond. Bob Weinstein co-founded the company and is the co-chairman.

“This is a watershed moment for efforts to address the corrosive effects of sexual misconduct in the workplace,” Schneiderman said in a statement after the company’s announcement on Monday.

Launched in October 2005, the studio produced and distributed critically acclaimed hits including “The King’s Speech” and “Silver Linings Playbook,” as well as TV series such as long-running fashion reality competition “Project Runway.”Former Playboy model Karen McDougal filed a lawsuit Tuesday asking to be freed from a 2016 legal agreement she says requires her to keep silent about an affair she had with President Donald Trump.

The lawsuit, first reported by The New York Times, is the second legal challenge this month from a woman attempting to be released from a legal agreement forbidding speaking about extramarital relations with Trump. The president has firmly denied the women’s claims.

McDougal, in a lawsuit filed in Los Angeles Superior Court, says her $150,000 legal agreement with tabloid giant American Media Inc., whose CEO David Pecker is a close friend of Trump’s, should be deemed invalid. McDougal says the company, which owns the National Enquirer, conspired with Trump’s personal “fixer” Michael D. Cohen and her own lawyer to mislead her on the deal.

“The lawsuit filed today aims to restore her right to her own voice,” McDougal’s lawyer, Peter K. Stris, said in a statement to the Times. “We intend to invalidate the so-called contract that American Media Inc. imposed on Karen so she can move forward with the private life she deserves.”

McDougal’s suit centers on her claim that she had an affair with Trump in 2006 ― around the same time the porn star known as Stormy Daniels says she, too, had an extramarital relationship with him.

The suit says McDougal hired lawyer Keith Davidson in 2016, just after Trump had secured the Republican presidential nomination. The lawyer said her story was “worth millions” and connected her with American Media, the suit says.

McDougal’s lawsuit says she was unaware of the tabloid publisher’s relationship with Trump, or the company’s reputation for buying exclusive rights to a story damaging to Pecker’s friends and burying it.

Karen McDougal, who is suing for her right to speak out about her alleged affair with the president, at a Playboy event in 2010. Dimitrios Kambouris via Getty Images

McDougal says she gave an interview about her 10-month relationship with Trump, but the publisher told her it was not interested in buying the story. After she took steps to give the story to ABC News, American Media offered $150,000 for the story, about half of which would go to her lawyer.

American Media then said it wouldn’t publish her account of the affair, but would feature her on two magazine covers, including one on Men’s Fitness, and in more than 100 columns or articles over two years, the suit says. McDougal says her own lawyer pressured her to take the deal, and failed to disclose that the publisher didn’t actually have to print the promised coverage.

American Media has since published McDougal’s picture on one cover and featured her in about two dozen columns, the Times reported.

Stormy Daniels, whose real name is Stephanie Clifford, filed a lawsuit against Trump earlier this month, alleging that she should be able to speak out about their relationship because he never signed a nondisclosure agreement.Kushner Cos. has said that a third party was contracted to file the paperwork and that documents were amended whenever errors were discovered. “Kushner Companies values all of our tenants and takes our legal and ethical responsibilities very seriously,” said a company statement.

Housing Rights Initiative, however, said that paperwork often wasn’t amended for a year or two, by which time tenants had already been driven out.

Jared Kushner stepped down from his role as CEO last year but still holds major stakes in a number of family real estate holdings. He maintains a holding in Westminster Management, the Kushner Cos. subsidiary that oversees its residential properties. Westminster has been hit with a class-action lawsuit by Maryland tenants who say they were charged mysterious fees in a bid to drive them out, a charge the company has denied.

Special counsel Robert Mueller is reportedly looking into Jared Kushner’s efforts to secure financing for family real estate operations from foreign investors during the presidential transition that may have influenced his work in the White House.A federal judge lambasted Kansas Secretary of State Kris Kobach (R) on Tuesday for failing to take adequate steps to comply with a court order and inform thousands of potentially confused voters that they were eligible to cast ballots.

The voters were the victims of a Kansas state law requiring people to prove they were U.S. citizens when they registered to vote at the motor vehicle department. Under the law, which went into effect in 2013, people who couldn’t provide that proof were first sent notices that their voter registration was incomplete and then, if they didn’t prove their citizenship within 90 days, were removed from the voter rolls altogether.

In 2016, U.S. District Judge Julie Robinson issued a preliminary injunction blocking the law. According to the transcript of a status conference that October, the judge asked whether the affected voters ― about 18,000 at the time ― would receive the postcard that Kansans typically receive before an election informing them of their polling location. Kobach assured her that his office was taking all steps necessary to make sure those individuals ― and anyone else who failed to prove their citizenship when registering to vote ― would be treated the same as other voters.

Overall, the American Civil Liberties Union estimates that the requirement to prove citizenship impacted around 35,000 voters. The ACLU is currently facing off against Kobach at trial in Robinson’s courtroom in Kansas City in an effort to permanently overturn the law.

Despite Kobach’s apparent promise, the League of Women Voters of Kansas has said they’d heard from voters who had not received postcards ahead of the 2016 election. Earlier this year, the ACLU asked the judge to hold Kobach in contempt of court for failing both to send out the postcards and to update the Kansas election manual to reflect the fact that the proof-of-citizenship law was on hold.

In Tuesday’s contempt hearing, Kobach and the state’s elections director conceded that they had merely given verbal direction to county election officials to follow the court’s orders, but never provided express written instructions to send out postcards, according to KCUR and the Topeka Capitol-Journal. Moreover, instead of updating the election manual, Kobach had removed it from the Secretary of State’s website.

Robinson appeared to be “livid” at Kobach’s response, according to KCUR. She accused him of telling people only that they could vote in 2016 and of not doing enough to avoid confusion, the Kansas City Star reported. Robinson pounded on her desk as she told Kobach that she had made it clear that those affected were to be considered “fully registered voters,” according to the Kansas City Star.

The judge told him that in her view he’d “chosen to interpret” the preliminary injunction in a way that wasn’t “fully compliant.” “I haven’t changed any rules,” she said. Kobach had just failed to comply “until he’s called on it.” — Jessica Huseman (@JessicaHuseman) March 20, 2018

Kobach is the state’s chief election official, but he and elections director Bryan Caskey argued that each county has its own process for sending out the postcards and each does it slightly differently. Kobach said he could request that the states follow Robinson’s order, but could not compel them to send the postcards. ProPublica reported that Kobach also repeatedly sought to cast blame on other officials in his office who could have given the order to send postcards, but did not.

The judge did not seem to be persuaded. When Kobach said that all he could do was make sure counties were following the law, Robinson cut him off and said that her order was the law, according to the Kansas City Star. He said that she had never issued a written order specifically telling him to send out the postcards, the Star reported. But Robinson said she hadn’t issued such an order because Kobach had told her that he was working to get the postcards sent out. She added that Kobach had an ethical obligation as a lawyer to tell her the truth.

The contempt hearing came on the final day of an eight-day trial challenging the Kansas law. Kobach made the unusual choice to represent his own office in the case, and throughout the trial he and his legal team repeatedly failed to follow basic rules for introducing material into evidence. Robinson was patient at the beginning of the trial, walking his lawyers through how to present evidence. But she lost patience with them a few times after ACLU lawyers accused Kobach’s team of trying to present evidence before the ACLU had an adequate chance to review it.

AdvertisementQuestioned by a persistent lawmaker on Tuesday, Education Secretary Betsy DeVos said private schools that discriminate against LGBTQ students should not be eligible for federal dollars, backtracking from an answer she gave last year.

Rep. Katherine Clark (D-Mass.) had pressed DeVos on the issue at a House appropriations subcommittee hearing last May. At that time, DeVos indicated she thought the importance of state autonomy and parental choice should allow schools with such discriminatory policies to still qualify for federal dollars.

This year, Clark again focused on the issue at a similar hearing and DeVos finally relented, saying these schools should not be eligible for the money.

Clark’s questioning stemmed from Education Department’s 2019 budget proposal, which calls for giving more than $1 billion to school choice initiatives. Such programs ― which are currently only supported at the state and local level ― help families use public dollars to fund scholarships to private schools.

A HuffPost investigation previously found that many institutions that participate in these programs ― at least 14 percent of religious schools ― have explicit policies discriminating against LGBTQ students.

“I cannot find a single state that protects LGBT students within the states’ voucher anti-discrimination laws,” Clark said at Tuesday’s hearing. “State dollars flow to private schools that are allowed to discriminate. I couldn’t find any case where that didn’t happen.”

Clark asked DeVos whether approval of her department’s budget would mean federal funds ― in addition to state dollars ― would flow to these exclusionary schools.

DeVos repeatedly tried to evade the question, saying that “where federal dollars flow, federal law must be adhered to,” along with variations of that response. But Clark repeatedly demanded a “yes” or “no” answer.

“Is there some problem? Yes or no. Would you guarantee?” asked Clark.

Pinned down, DeVos complied with Clark’s request and said that “yes,” schools with discriminatory polices should be precluded from federal funds.

“Took a year,” Clark said in response.Stephanie Clifford, aka Stormy Daniels, passed a 2011 polygraph test in which she said she had unprotected sex with Donald Trump.

The Wall Street Journal reports that the adult film actress took the test seven years ago when she was attempting to sell her story for $15,000 to Bauer Publishing, the company behind magazines like Life & Style and In Touch Weekly. Though Bauer Publishing did not run the story about Clifford and Trump at the time, In Touch published the interview with her in January. Trump has denied the affair ever happened.

The person who administered the polygraph was Ronald D. Slay, who works for Western Security Consultants in Las Vegas.

“In the opinion of this examiner, Ms. Clifford is truthful about having unprotected vaginal intercourse with Donald Trump in July 2006,” Slay concluded, according to the Journal.

The results were inconclusive as to whether Clifford was telling the truth when she claimed that Trump promised to get her on “The Apprentice.”

Clifford’s ex-husband Michael Mosny also passed a polygraph test about her alleged affair with Trump. The Journal did not specify what questions the examiner asked Mosny.

Polygraph tests, commonly called “lie detector tests,” supposedly detect whether or not a person is being truthful by measuring various physical responses, including heart rate and respiration. The American Psychological Association notes that the accuracy of polygraph tests is controversial, and that

“most psychologists agree that there is little evidence that polygraph tests can accurately detect lies.”

However, the tests are still used in situations like criminal investigations and federal employee screenings.

Clifford’s attorney Michael Avenetti paid $25,000 for the rights to a video of her taking the test, the Journal reports. On Monday, he tweeted a screenshot of her hooked up to the polygraph.

Trump attorney Michael Cohen has admitted that he paid Clifford $130,000 in October 2016, reportedly as part of a nondisclosure agreement that would bar Clifford from sharing information about Trump.

AdvertisementBill Maher reprised his spoof “25 Things You Don’t Know About Me” comedy bit on Friday to poke fun at Michael Cohen, the embattled personal attorney to President Donald Trump.

The “Real Time with Bill Maher” host imagined the kind of things Cohen might say if he were ever asked to take part in Us Weekly’s regular feature.

“My kids use air quotes when they call me ‘a lawyer,’” joked Maher, before delivering a series of other brutal quips.Matt Winkelmeyer via Getty Images

“A lot of video vixens have spoke about this and nobody gives a fuck,” she said, referring to harassment faced by women who star in music videos.

“When I was trying to be a vixen, people were like, ‘You want to be on the cover of this magazine?’ Then they pull their dicks out. I bet if one of these women stands up and talks about it, people are going to say, ‘So what? You’re a ho. It don’t matter.’”

Cardi B Gives Her Most Explicit Interview Yet https://t.co/kwT1om7QCK pic.twitter.com/FMqHXhoDPv — Cosmopolitan (@Cosmopolitan) March 19, 2018

The Bronx rapper told the publication she was happy to see sexual harassment in Hollywood being exposed, but she has serious doubts about the impact of the movement for many women in the hip-hop world.

She even suggested that the men in Hollywood who have expressed support for the Me Too movement probably shouldn’t be trusted.

“These producers and directors, they’re not woke, they’re scared,” she said.

A post shared by Cardi B Official IG (@iamcardib) on Feb 27, 2018 at 8:01am PST

Cardi also talked about her former life as a stripperc and how it’s often twisted by the media to paint a misleading picture of her life. She said the real truth is that she made good money, and that stripping was (and is) a legitimate job.

“People ask, ‘Why did you strip?’” she said. “I don’t really want to say, ‘Oh, because I was in a relationship with a guy and I needed money to leave.’ People say, ‘Why do you always got to say that you used to be a stripper? We get it.’ Because y’all don’t respect me because of it, and y’all going to respect these strippers from now on.”SEDGWICK COUNTY SHERIFF

WICHITA, Kansas ― Jury selection begins here Tuesday in the trial of three militia members arrested by the FBI for allegedly plotting a terrorist attack against Muslims in southwest Kansas.

Patrick Stein, Gavin Wright and Curtis Allen were arrested in an FBI sting a few weeks before the 2016 presidential election. Operating under the belief that either Hillary Clinton would be elected or that President Barack Obama would declare martial law if Donald Trump won, they allegedly planned to “wake people up” by bombing a Garden City, Kansas, apartment complex and mosque occupied by “cockroaches” ― their term for Muslim immigrants.

“The only good Muslim is a dead Muslim,” Stein allegedly said, adding that he would “enjoy” shooting Muslims and that he wouldn’t even spare the life of a baby. “There’s no leaving anyone behind, even if it’s a one-year-old,” he allegedly said. “I guarantee, if I go on a mission, those little fuckers are going bye-bye.”

The trial of the defendants, who are facing both a terrorism-related charge as well as a civil rights charge, will be a test of the federal government’s ability to prosecute non-Muslim extremists.

Sting operations targeting white extremists are much less common, and tend to result in lower punishments for defendants. That’s because federal law makes it much harder for the federal government to target and secure convictions against terrorists who sympathize with domestic extremist groups than those who support foreign groups like ISIS.

The trial, anticipated to last six weeks, comes amid heightened concerns about domestic terrorism and an increase in murders committed by white supremacists.

Members of an Illinois militia led by a former sheriff’s deputy who put in a bid to build Trump’s border wall were arrested last week for allegedly bombing a mosque in Minnesota as well as a women’s clinic in their home state. A white supremacist who attended an extremist rally in Charlottesville, Virginia, over the summer was charged earlier this year with an attempted attack on an Amtrak train. Separately, a left-wing extremist shot at Republican members of Congress ― wounding House Majority Whip Steve Scalise ― over the summer as they practiced for a softball game.

A series of bombings targeting Austin, Texas, this month have renewed calls for the federal government to treat apparent terrorist attacks seriously even if there’s no readily apparent link to radical Islamic terrorism.

Stein, Wright and Allen appeared in a small federal courthouse in Wichita on Monday wearing either orange or blue jail jumpsuits and handcuffed at their feet, where a pretrial hearing and what U.S. District Judge Eric F. Melgren described as a “virtual tsunami of motions” gave a preview of their expected defense.

There’s a dispute about when precisely the trio’s plot began, and what exactly the conspiracy entailed. Melody J. Brannon, a federal public defender representing Allen, argued that the plot changed so much that there was no actual conspiracy the government could point to as a final plan.

“We don’t have any specific plan that the government can point to that says this is the conspiracy and this is what we are planning to do,” Brannon said.

Anthony Mattivi, one of the lead federal prosecutors on the case, told the court Monday that a “pivotal moment” in the plot came two days after the Pulse nightclub shooting in Orlando. Then-candidate Trump tweeted at the time that he appreciated “the congrats for being right on radical Islamic terrorism” and called for “toughness & vigilance.”

Judge Melgren, the George W. Bush appointee overseeing the trial, said that all of the actions the trio contemplated were violent in nature. After all, he said, it wasn’t as though they were conspiring to petition their lawmakers for legislative changes. Rather, they appeared to be in agreement to commit an act of violence against Muslims.

“The defendants said lots of things. They were extraordinary loquacious,” Melgren said. “Obviously to their regret at this point.”

Defense lawyers plan to argue that the violent rhetoric their clients used amounted to ugly, but protected, speech. There was a lot of discussion over their use of Facebook, where the defendants regularly posted anti-Muslim and pro-Trump memes and fake news stories.

As a result, Facebook could play a major role in the trial, and defense attorneys had sought to have all the Facebook evidence suppressed, arguing that a Facebook warrant that resulted in at least 28,000 pages of material was flawed as well as overbroad and “highly invasive.”

There was also a dispute about what exactly Facebook likes indicate. The federal government argued that a Facebook like was an “affirmative gesture” indicating support. Judge Melgren said a Facebook like amounted to a “very mild statement” and told the government they would need to seek permission each time they wanted to introduce a Facebook like as evidence.

Defense attorneys tried to argue that the government should not be allowed to refer to their clients as terrorists, domestic terrorists or even extremists. Judge Melgren wasn’t buying that argument.

“Terrorism is obviously stated in the indictment, it’s part of the charge,” Melgren said.

But Melgren isn’t allowing the government to use video from a bomb test that would’ve illustrated what sort of damage the bombs could have done. “The jury probably didn’t need the help” to know what an explosion looks like, Melgren said. The judge also said he wouldn’t allow testimony from any of the residents who would have been victimized by the plot, saying that they only knew about the plot because the government told them about it.

As jury selection begins Tuesday, a major part of the defense strategy will also be packing the jury with as many Trump supporters as possible. Federal prosecutors have already expressed concern that the defense will attempt to discriminate against non-white potential jurors.

Next month, as the trial continues, the courthouse will host a naturalization ceremony for new U.S. citizens. Downstairs in the courthouse, an extensive display tells the history of immigration in Kansas.

HuffPost will be covering jury selection from Wichita this week.Women participate in a protest march for survivors of sexual violence in Los Angeles, California, on Nov. 12, 2017. Lucy Nicholson / Reuters

In the wake of the Me Too reckoning, many have assumed that older and younger women ― second- and third-wave feminists ― have different perspectives on the anti-sexual-violence movement. The older generation allegedly believe younger women need to be less sensitive and essentially buck up, while younger women think older women are out of touch with what constitutes sexual assault and harassment.

A new survey from Vox Media in partnership with Morning Consult, however, disproves this theory by a long shot.

“The results of our survey contradict the idea that there’s a war raging over #MeToo between generations of American women,” Vox’s Anna North wrote. “Instead, we found a lot of similarities across the age divide when it came to what women think about #MeToo ― and what too many of them still experience in the workplace.”

According to the report, published on Tuesday, a majority of women of all ages support the Me Too reckoning and believe the movement fairly represents their interests. Seventy-one percent of women 34 and under and 68 percent of women 35 and older responded that they support the movement. Only 8 percent of women under 35 opposed Me Too, while a slightly larger percentage (14 percent) of women over 35 also opposed it.

The poll was conducted from March 2-8 of this year, and sampled 2,511 women over the age of 18. The survey was conducted online and centered around cis gender people.

Researchers explained why they divided women by this age range: “We chose to compare women ages 18 to 34 with women 35 and over because much media conversation around #MeToo and generational divides focused on millennials. Definitions of ‘millennial’ vary, but most put the oldest members of the generation in their mid-30s today.”

The survey found that younger women were more concerned about the negative outcomes of Me Too than older women.

Thirty-one percent of women under 35 said they were “very” concerned about the Me Too movement causing men to deny women professional opportunities, while only 23 percent of women over 35 agreed. The margin was smaller between younger and older women when asked if they were worried about men being denied due process: 22 percent of younger women and 23 percent of older women said they were “very” concerned about this issue.

Vox and Morning Consult also found another surprising fact: Older and younger women experience similar rates of sexual harassment despite decades of discussions about gender equality in the workplace. Twenty-nine percent of younger women and 33 percent of older women responded that they have experienced sexual harassment at work, although older women are less likely to report the harassment.Since this past Friday, we’ve been hit with revelation after revelation about Cambridge Analytica, the nebulous British firm accused of harvesting the Facebook data of over 50 million users and allegedly doubling as a bribery racket. Based on what one of the firm’s former employees told multiple news outlets, the company took advantage not just of Facebook’s data but of its aggressive disinterest in monitoring how third parties use that data. Even worse, Facebook found out that Cambridge Analytica had broken its rules a whole two years before the social media giant did anything about it.

So what’s up with you, Mark Zuckerberg?

Thus far, the Facebook CEO and founder has kept himself out of public view. He didn’t surface at Tuesday’s meeting for Facebook employees, at which they were finally able to ask a company lawyer questions about what the world has learned over the past four days. Neither has he made any sort of public statement, even as Congress has been demanding that he answer for his company’s behavior. So what has Mark Zuckerberg been doing all this time?

According to Facebook the company, Zuck’s been “working around the clock to get all the facts and take the appropriate action moving forward, because they understand the seriousness of this issue.” According to Facebook the website, however, he’s been busy smashing that “like” button.

Thanks to Facebook’s powerful public search features, we were able to see that Zuckerberg hit the like button on this Saturday morning post by Swedish billionaire Daniel Ek.

Facebook

As well as this post by early Facebook investor Don Graham.

Facebook

Then, on Monday, he engaged with some precious content once again.

Facebook

So what has Mark Zuckerberg been up to? As of right now, the only thing we know definitively is that he’s been scrolling through his feed, liking pics of places he’d rather be.

Do you know where Mark Zuckerberg is? Has he liked one of your posts? Mark, are you reading this? If any of the above apply to you, please do get in touch.

Know something? You can send tips to ashley.feinberg@huffpost.com.

AdvertisementPeople carry water across a field of rubble north of Sanaa, Yemen, after a Saudi-led air strike on March 8, 2018. Mohamed Al-Sayaghi/Reuters

WASHINGTON ― The Senate voted 55-44 Tuesday afternoon against taking up a resolution to end U.S. military support for a Saudi-led coalition that has killed thousands of civilians in Yemen ― which means the controversial policy will continue, but so will the growing Capitol Hill debate about it.

Sens. Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.), Mike Lee (R-Utah) and Chris Murphy (D-Conn.) introduced the bill to end the American role in the war three weeks ago, and it attracted high-profile co-sponsors like Sens. Dick Durbin (D-Ill.), Elizabeth Warren (D-Mass.), Kirsten Gillibrand (D-N.Y.), Cory Booker (D-N.J.) and Dianne Feinstein (D-Calif.).

But Senate leaders, notably top Senate Foreign Relations Committee figures Bob Corker (R-Tenn.) and Bob Menendez (D-N.J.), said the proposal was too hasty and should return to committee, and the Trump administration invested heavily in convincing lawmakers it would unwisely damage the American partnership with the Saudis. Menendez and nine other Democrats ― Sens. Chris Coons (Del.), Catherine Cortez Masto (Nev.), Joe Donnelly (Ind.), Heidi Heitkamp (N.D.), Joe Manchin (W.V.), Bill Nelson (Fla.), Jack Reed (R.I.), Doug Jones (Ala.), and Sheldon Whitehouse (R.I.) ― ultimately aligned with all but five Republicans to kill the bill.

The issue came to a head this week as Saudi Arabia’s de facto ruler, Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman, visits Washington. President Donald Trump said on Tuesday he was “very good friends” with the prince, who has been closely involved in Saudi-United Arab Emirates operations and alleged war crimes in Yemen.

Saudi Arabia's Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman speaks to U.S. President Donald Trump in the Oval Office at the White House on March 20, 2018. Jonathan Ernst/Reuters

Earlier Tuesday, Sanders said it would be cowardly and irresponsible for lawmakers to oppose putting his bill to a vote.

“I am deeply disappointed that Congress has once again abdicated its constitutional responsibility to authorize war,” he said in a statement after the resolution was tabled.

Still, the proposal’s backers secured significant Democratic support to at least consider the legislation, including from Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer (D-N.Y.). That meant they avoided what happened in the House of Representatives last year, when Rep. Ro Khanna (D-Calif.) introduced a similar bill, also citing the War Powers Resolution, and advocates and progressives ultimately felt Democratic leaders sided with Republicans to quash it and defer to the executive branch on foreign policy.

“We saw leadership divided” on the Democratic side, said Kate Gould, the Middle East legislative policy director at the Friends Committee on National Legislation. “We still had 44 senators that took the step not just of blocking a bomb sale, but of [considering] actually withdrawing U.S. armed forces from the conflict altogether, despite the fact that the Pentagon and the Saudis were really trying to scare senators.”

Critics of the war told HuffPost they also took some solace in the public relations impact of the debate and a commitment Corker made Tuesday morning to developing fresh legislation pertaining to Yemen.

“We still had 44 senators that took the step not just of blocking a bomb sale, but of [considering] actually withdrawing U.S. armed forces from the conflict altogether.” - Kate Gould, Friends Committee on National Legislation

Sens. Todd Young (R-Ind.) and Jeanne Shaheen (D-N.H.) have filed an alternative bill requiring the State Department to certify that the Saudis are trying to wind down the war, but it would not take immediate steps to end American support vital to the Saudi-led coalition’s operations. Peace groups also worry that it invites further conflict by making an explicit exception for U.S.-backed coalition actions against Iranian intervention in Yemen. On the floor on Tuesday, Young said his bill had already changed considerably and would evolve further.

“The ideal case would be that the Iran language is entirely stripped ... and that the certification language is significantly strengthened,” Gould said.

Activists who mobilized around the issue ― highlighting the plight of the more than 20 millions Yemenis now in need of some aid ― say Tuesday’s vote has only emboldened them. Some began publicly shaming the Democrats who voted against the Sanders-Lee-Murphy bill.

“Today should have been the day that the Senate moved to end US involvement in this catastrophe,” said Scott Paul of Oxfam America. “But it is clear from today’s debate that the tide is turning. A number of senators demanded, and were assured of, swift action in the Foreign Relations Committee. With more than 120 children dying each day from preventable disease, the Committee must act now to tear up the blank check that the administration has written to the coalition.”

Igor Bobic contributed reporting.Trevor Noah criticized President Donald Trump over the “heartless” sacking of former FBI Deputy Director Andrew McCabe on Monday’s “The Daily Show.”

Attorney General Jeff Sessions fired McCabe last Friday, just two days before his retirement, for an alleged lack of candor during a review of how the FBI and Justice Department had handled an investigation into Hillary Clinton. McCabe claimed his dismissal was a bid to “taint the FBI.” Trump called the firing “a great day for democracy.”

“I’m sorry man, but Donald Trump is a proper asshole,” said Noah. “Like if being an asshole was an arcade game, he would have all the top scores.”A dozen GOP Pennsylvania lawmakers filed legislation on Tuesday to impeach four Democratic state Supreme Court justices who ruled the state’s congressional map was unconstitutionally gerrymandered and replaced it with a new one.

The Republicans moved to impeach Justices David Wecht, Christine Donahue, Kevin Dougherty and Debra McCloskey Todd, all Democrats who found the state’s congressional map was designed to favor Republicans and must be replaced before the May primary. Justice Max Baer (D), who also voted to strike down the map, but said it could remain in place until 2020, wasn’t mentioned in the impeachment resolutions.

The legislation comes a little more than a month after state Rep. Cris Dush (R) urged impeachment of the Democratic justices. The state Supreme Court ruled in January 5-2, along party lines, that congressional districts drawn in 2011 were so lopsided to benefit Republicans that they violated the guarantee of free and equal elections. The court gave lawmakers three weeks to draw a new map with Gov. Tom Wolf (D), but imposed its own plan once they failed to reach an agreement. Two Republican appeals to the U.S. Supreme Court and a federal lawsuit have been unsuccessful in blocking the new map.

In an interview Wednesday, Dush denied that the push for impeachment was retaliation against the Democrats on the sate Supreme Court.

“It’s specifically to do what I’ve been sworn to do, which is protect and defend the constitutions of Pennsylvania and the United States, period. The Supreme Court overstepped its bounds, and the check-and-balance to that is impeachment and impeachment only. We have no other method to hold them accountable,” Dush said.

Even though the Supreme Court gave lawmakers and Wolf three weeks to come up with a new congressional map, Dush said it was clear the court always intended to draw its own map because it released its full opinion only days before the deadline it had given state officials.

Dush also said Republican House Speaker Michael Turzai and state Rep. Daryl Metcalfe (R), the chair of the state government committee, had told him they would allow his impeachment resolution to come up for a vote.

Dush had argued to The Philadelphia Inquirer on Tuesday that if the court was trying to exceed its power, future Republican-controlled courts might overstep as well.

A day earlier, the U.S. Supreme Court rejected an appeal from Republican lawmakers challenging the new map.

Douglas Keith, counsel at the Democracy Program at the Brennan Center for Justice, which filed a friend of the court brief supporting voters who had challenged the old map, said it was “remarkable” so many legislators were backing the impeachment effort.

“They may think this kind of posturing when they disagree with a court ruling will go over well with partisans in our current political climate, but if so they’re undermining our democracy to score cheap political points,” Keith said. “This is not what the impeachment power is for, and they’d be better served by following the lead of their Republican colleagues who said yesterday it’s time to move on.”

Former U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder, now chair of the National Democratic Redistricting Committee, accused Republicans of seeking retribution against justices who struck down the old map.

“This brazen attack on an independent court by those who are afraid to face the people in fair elections undermines our democratic values and must be rejected,” Holder said in a statement.

Supreme Court justices are elected in Pennsylvania. To impeach, the state Assembly must first find that a judge committed an impeachable offense. Then, two-thirds of the state Senate must vote to convict after a trial. As of January, Republicans controlled 120 of 203 seats in the Assembly and 34 of 50 seats in the Senate.

It’s unclear whether the legislation has a chance.

Neal Lesher, a spokesman for Turzai, said Republicans would consider the impeachment resolutions. “There are members who want [to] initiate impeachment, in particular when it comes to the behavior of Justice Wecht,” Lesher said in a statement. “We will need to review what the evidence is, and whether all of the leaders as well as a majority of the members of the House want to pursue that remedy. It is not a decision to be taken lightly and we have not had those discussions.”

Drew Crompton, a top aide to Senate President Pro Tempore Joseph Scarnati (R), said it would be inappropriate to comment because the chamber would have to preside over an impeachment trial. J.J. Abbott, a spokesman for Wolf, who has no role in the impeachment process, said the governor did not support impeachment.

The last time a judge was impeached in the state was in 1994, when a state Supreme Court justice was found guilty of a felony.

Pennsylvania Republicans controlled the redistricting process in 2011 and drew a congressional map that significantly benefitted their party, according to the court ruling. In 2012, 2014 and 2016, Republicans won 13 of the state’s 18 congressional seats, even though they’re outnumbered by Democrats in voter registration and won only about 50 percent of the vote.

The map the court imposed would make elections much more competitive in the state, and could give Democrats a chance to pick up three or four seats.

AdvertisementWomen protest a stricter anti-abortion measure in front of archdiocese headquarters in Krakow, Poland, on March 18, 2018. Beata Zawrzel/NurPhoto via Getty Images

Hundreds of women joined together in Poland on Sunday to voice their frustration with a campaign by Roman Catholic bishops to further restrict abortion access in the country.

The abortion rights activists were speaking out against a decision by the Polish bishops’ conference to support a bill that would ban abortion in cases where the fetus had a congenital disorder or deformity.

About 400 people demonstrated outside the Catholic archbishop’s headquarters in Warsaw, according to The Associated Press. Another group protested in front of an archdiocese building in Krakow.

The protesters carried wire hangers to symbolize the dangers facing women driven to obtain illegal abortions by Poland’s already stringent laws.

People hold up wire hangers as they demonstrate in front of the seat of the Warsaw archdiocese on March 18. JANEK SKARZYNSKI/AFP/Getty Images

The anti-abortion bill began as a citizens’ initiative pushed by conservative groups. On Monday, it won the support of a parliamentary committee on human rights, which means it will be studied by a second committee before potentially being submitted for a vote in Poland’s parliament, according to Agence France Presse.

If the measure passes these remaining hurdles, Polish President Andrzej Duda has pledged to sign the bill into law, AFP reports.

But according to the Federation for Women and Family Planning, a Polish reproductive rights group, the measure had been languishing in a “legislative freezer” ― until the Catholic bishops intervened.

“This illustrates the enormous power of the Church and the strong resistance of the politicians to put human rights over their own interests in the light of the upcoming elections in 2018 (local) and 2019 (national),” the federation said in a statement.

The women in Warsaw chanted the slogans “Nothing about us without us!” and “Save the women!” JANEK SKARZYNSKI/AFP/Getty Images

Poland already has some of the most stringent anti-abortion laws in Europe. The staunchly Catholic country made abortion illegal, with a few exceptions, in 1993. The move was strongly supported by Polish Catholic church leaders. Then-Pope John Paul II campaigned in his home country in favor of the bill.

Today, women in Poland are allowed to obtain abortions only if the mother’s life is at risk, there’s a fetal abnormality, or the pregnancy resulted from rape or incest. Women can have a hard time finding doctors who will perform abortions even when they fall under those exceptions, according to Time.

As a result, some women travel to nearby countries like Germany to have the procedure done or seek abortions from underground providers in Poland. Others order pills for abortions online.

A female protester holds a sign during the demonstration in Krakow. Omar Marques/SOPA Images via Getty Images

According to Poland’s official statistics, about 1,000 legal abortions occur there every year. (The country has a population of roughly 38 million.) Abortion rights activists say the number of illegal abortions could be more than 10 times higher.

An estimated 95 percent of legal abortions in Poland are obtained because of fetal abnormalities, The Guardian reports.Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.) speaks at the South by Southwest (SXSW) conference in Austin, Texas, on March 9. Bloomberg/Getty Images

WASHINGTON ― Sen. Bernie Sanders’ televised town hall on economic inequality drew about 1.7 million live viewers during an online broadcast Monday night.

The broadcast provided the Vermont independent with an opportunity to expand his new alternative media revue beyond “Medicare for all” to the broader issue of economic inequality, which he maintains that commercial media outlets frequently ignore.

“What I would say to our friends in the corporate media: Start paying attention to the reality of how many people in our country are struggling economically every single day ― and talk about it,” Sanders declared at one point during the discussion.

Not content to wait for the cable television channels and newspapers to take him up on his advice, Sanders partnered with The Guardian, The Young Turks, NowThis and Act.tv to do just that for about an hour and a half on Monday night.

Three co-hosts aided Sanders in his efforts: Sen. Elizabeth Warren (D-Mass.), New School economist Darrick Hamilton and filmmaker Michael Moore.

Together they interviewed three guests with specialized knowledge of the economic and political structures suppressing economic mobility and funneling wealth upward. Catherine Coleman Flowers, a founder of the anti-poverty Alabama Center for Rural Enterprise Community Development Corp., spoke about the destitute poverty of the rural black community in Lowndes County, Alabama, where exposure to untreated sewage prompted a rare outbreak of hookworm.

Cindy Estrada, a vice president of the United Auto Workers, addressed the role of organized labor in raising living standards ― and how its decline has lowered them. And Gordon Lafer, a political scientist from the University of Oregon, explained how corporate interests neutralized public opposition through campaign donations and massive lobbying efforts.

An audience of about 450 people attended the town hall in person in the U.S. Capitol auditorium. An additional 100 people viewed the event on monitors in an overflow room.

The rest of what Sanders’ staff estimates were 1.7 million live viewers saw the event online. (HuffPost’s back-of-the-envelope tally from the social media pages of Sanders, Warren and the various digital partners produced a similar figure.)

Billed as a seminar on the causes of, and solutions to, rising income and wealth inequality, the town hall often doubled as a progressive pep rally for social democratic reforms.

During Estrada’s appearance, for example, Warren’s homage to labor unions elicited thunderous applause. “Unions built America’s middle class. It’ll take unions to rebuild America’s middle class,” she said.

For his part, Moore focused on the failure of the Democratic Party, which fashions itself as the party of working people, to stand true to its mission. This line of inquiry took Moore first into a discussion of the ostensibly Democratic leanings of the three wealthiest men in the country ― Warren Buffett, Bill Gates and Jeff Bezos ― and later into a riff on the Democrats who voted to authorize the Iraq War exactly 15 years earlier.

Moore appeared to be saying that letting Democrats off the hook had contributed to the collapse of the middle class.

“It’s so important that we hold the people who say they’re for the people ― hold their feet to the fire! And if they’re not going to do the job they say they’re going to do, let’s get somebody else,” he concluded to loud ovation.

The origins of American inequality that Sanders and his allies sketched on Monday are by now familiar to left-leaning activists immersed in the works of Robert Reich and Jacob Hacker, among other progressive thinkers.

In this history, former President Ronald Reagan ushered in a new era of corporate domination with his symbolic decision to fire striking air traffic controllers in August 1981. The move was the opening salvo in a prolonged war against organized labor that steadily diminished unions’ ranks and reduced their clout, according to numerous liberal scholars.

A host of tax breaks, deregulatory measures, corporate-skewed trade agreements and safety net reductions backed by members of both parties in subsequent decades served to heighten the inequality generated in the 1980s. The result, Sanders said in his introductory remarks, is a country where “the top 10th of 1 percent owns almost as much wealth as the bottom 90 percent.

“In recent years, we have seen incredible growth in the number of billionaires, while 40 million Americans continue to live in poverty and we have the highest rate of childhood poverty of almost any major country on Earth,” he continued.

A prominent feature of the evening’s analysis that Sanders’ critics have sometimes accused him of downplaying was an explicit breakdown of the racial roots of American poverty.

Flowers, who invited the United Nations Special Rapporteur on Extreme Poverty to witness the squalid conditions in Lowndes County, argued that state authorities have failed to address the issue of inadequate sewage systems because of entrenched racist views.

“Some of those same types of attitudes that existed prior to the 1960s, the structural racism that was reinforced by racial terror, is still in existence today,” Flowers said.

Hamilton suggested that the universal programs Sanders favors would not erase the racial inequities that follow black Americans at every level of socioeconomic and educational attainment. He noted that a black household headed by a college graduate has, on average, less wealth than a white household headed by a high school dropout.

“So when Sen. Sanders proposes that we should have tuition-free public education ― absolutely, but as an end unto itself. We exaggerate the returns from education, particularly to marginalized groups,” Hamilton said.

Sanders, Warren and Moore all endorsed relatively well-known left-leaning solutions to inequality, including a $15 minimum wage, stronger unions, free college education and paid family leave policies.

Perhaps in keeping with his intersectional focus, Hamilton embraced more radical measures. His preferred solutions included the creation of trust funds for every American at birth, a federal job guarantee, the replacement of private payday lenders with postal banking and an end to academic tracking in grade school, which he argued often replicates racial segregation, even within relatively integrated schools.

“To really get beyond our race problem, when we’re ready as a nation to come together, we need to come to grips with reparations,” Hamilton concluded, prompting cheers from the crowd.