A Washington, D.C. Democratic lawmaker is apologizing after posting a video in which he blamed late-winter snow on Jewish bankers.

“Man, it just started snowing out of nowhere this morning, man. Y’all better pay attention to this climate control, man, this climate manipulation,” Trayon White Sr., who sits on the city council, said in the video. “And D.C. keep talking about, ‘We a resilient city.’ And that’s a model based off the Rothschilds controlling the climate to create natural disasters they can pay for to own the cities, man. Be careful.”

The Rothschilds, a wealthy banking family, has been the subject of anti-Semitic conspiracy theories for generations, and White seems to have mentioned them at least once before:

White also made an offhand remark about the Rothschilds and climate change at the last breakfast between the D.C. Council and @MayorBowser. https://t.co/Y4aW05Y7gm — Martin Austermuhle (@maustermuhle) March 18, 2018

The Facebook clip was deleted after coming under criticism.

“This kind of anti-Semitism is unacceptable in any public official,” Rabbi Daniel Zemel told The Washington Post. “This so diminishes what America is about and adds to the oppressive feeling going on in the country right now.”

The Anti-Defamation League reported last month that anti-Semitic incidents rose by nearly 60 percent in 2017, with 1,986 reported during over course of the year.

White later apologized on social media.

“I want to apologize to the Jewish Community and anyone I have offended,” he wrote. “The Jewish community have been allies with me in my journey to help people. I did not intend to be Anti-Semitic, and I see I should not have said that after learning from my colleagues.”

White also said he reached out to Jews United for Justice.

“They are helping me to understand the history of comments made against Jews and I am committed to figuring out ways continue to be allies with them and others,” he wrote.

The organization acknowledged speaking with White:

We spoke with @trayonwhite tonight about how his comments played into the long history of antisemitism. We look forward to working with him toward deeper understanding of antisemitism and toward our collective liberation. — JUFJ (@jufj) March 19, 2018

At least one of his fellow lawmakers appears ready to forgive him.Comedian Jim Carrey ruffled feathers Saturday when he tweeted a photo of a painting he made that looks a whole lot like White House Press Secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders.

The actor and comedian shared the image with the caption: “This is the portrait of a so-called Christian whose only purpose in life is to lie for the wicked. Monstrous!”

This is the portrait of a so-called Christian whose only purpose in life is to lie for the wicked. Monstrous! pic.twitter.com/MeYLTy1pqb — Jim Carrey (@JimCarrey) March 17, 2018

A spokeswoman for Carrey confirmed to The Associated Press that it was indeed his artwork, but would not reveal whether the painting depicts Sanders.

Many Twitter users shared their extremely varied responses to the piece. Some celebrated the image, while others criticized Carrey’s use of the word “Christian” in his caption.

I use to love your work, so gifted, but now I would rather not see or hear it. — Ilene Parkman (@ileneparkman) March 17, 2018

“How dare Jim Carrey paint an unflattering portrait of Sarah Huckabee Sanders?!” ask enraged Trump supporters, who are well-known for their distaste for personal attacks in politics. pic.twitter.com/zRvJxOdARq — Michael G. Stone (@M_G_Stone) March 19, 2018

So y'all are mad at Jim Carrey for a cartoon he drew but y'all aren't mad when Sarah Huckabee Sanders is at the podium telling straight lies? — ➖ Señor❌Macanas ➖ (@OnCloudIX) March 19, 2018

Hey @JimCarrey - @PressSec is not a "so-called" Christian. She IS a Christian. And there's nothing more beautiful than a follower of our Lord. https://t.co/Hav2Mc8KIH — toddstarnes (@toddstarnes) March 19, 2018

l love your paintings Jim, especially this one because you painted the truth. She does nothing but lie for her

criminal master

Thanks you are my hero pic.twitter.com/PzDJ3cofNE — Elfi (@flypapplilon) March 19, 2018

Pathetic BULLY, sexist, hater, bigot & "Christaphobe" @jimcarrey attacks @PressSec for her faith; what would be hypocritical Hollywood reaction if he called someone a "so-called Muslim" or "so-called Jew?" #classlessCarrey https://t.co/HCqHoER0Ru — Gov. Mike Huckabee (@GovMikeHuckabee) March 19, 2018

Carrey has been drawing and painting since he was a child, talking passionately about the hobby in a 2017 documentary short called “I Needed Color.” He talks about what his paintings mean, noting that people can “tell my inner life by the darkness in some of them” and “tell what I want from the brightness in some of them.” The 56-year-old also said that he has used painting as a way to heal a broken heart.

Carrey hasn’t said anything else on social media about the portrait that looks like Sanders, but he did share the following image on Monday:

If you liked my last cartoon you may also enjoy...



"THE WICKED WITCH OF THE WEST WING AND PUTIN’S FLYING MONKEYS“ pic.twitter.com/slBG7j1s8d — Jim Carrey (@JimCarrey) March 19, 2018IDAHO FALLS, Idaho ― It’s a lonely feeling being a progressive in the deep red state of Idaho, but Amy Pratt is finally ready to channel her frustrations into taking action she believes can improve the lives of her fellow Gem State residents.

In a state that’s been run by Republicans since the 1990s and that hasn’t gone for a Democratic presidential candidate since President Lyndon Johnson’s landslide win in 1964, Idahoans like Pratt are tired of feeling ignored ― and they’re banding together in living rooms and libraries and Facebook groups across the state.

The activists are focusing on an issue they think can bring Idahoans together: skirting their GOP-led legislature to make Idaho the next state to adopt Obamacare’s Medicaid expansion.

“My entire life, I’ve been watching the lack of care for people,” said Pratt, a 47-year-old bus driver. In her view, the state’s political leaders put money “in their own pockets for everything, and I have been waiting for a revolution, of a sort.”

She spent the cold winter weekends knocking on doors in her conversative hometown of Idaho Falls trying to persuade her neighbors to play a small part in that revolution.

Pratt is a volunteer for Reclaim Idaho, a tiny grassroots operation with a single paid employee and a mission to give Idahoans an opportunity to vote on a ballot initiative in November’s elections to expand Medicaid to working adults.

“To have hope, victory doesn't have to be certain. It doesn't even have to be probable. To have hope, victory just has to be possible.” - Luke Mayville, Reclaim Idaho

From March 11-13, HuffPost traveled across southern Idaho along the path of the Snake River from Idaho Falls to Boise with stops in between in Pocatello and Twin Falls.

In those southern Idaho towns, organizers, volunteers and first-time political candidates got together to carry out an ambitious quest to overrule the elected Republicans who run the state and haven’t taken action to help the uninsured.

The very fact that this campaign exists is evidence that Idaho’s government isn’t working the way it should, said Pat Tucker, who is trying her hand at elected politics by running for a local state House seat. “People are frustrated,” she said. “People are feeling personally the consequences of not being represented, of not being heard, in their own lives.”

Deep Frustration

These activists, most of them new to politics, spoke of being inspired by the opportunity to make positive change in their communities. Some spoke of being driven to act by the election of President Donald Trump. But they all lamented the feeling that their government doesn’t care what they want.

Like liberal activists mobilizing around the country on a variety of issues, taking action is making these Idaho volunteers feel less alone and more empowered.

“I didn’t think most of us realize how many out there feel the same way, and I found that knocking on doors,” Pratt said. “I hope this spurs more throughout the state, I hope this spurs more throughout the country.”

An estimated 78,000 uninsured people would be eligible for health coverage if Idaho, one of the 18 states that hasn’t opted into the Medicaid expansion, accepted federal dollars available through the Affordable Care Act to participate.

Nine percent of Idahoans lack health coverage, the same as the national uninsured rate. For 18 years before getting a new job in 2017, Pratt was one of them. “I can go out there and sell this. I can go out there from experience,” she said. “The fact is, everybody knows somebody who falls into the gap, and everybody has a story like this.”.

Luke Mayville and Garrett Strizich, both 32, natives of Sandpoint in the far north of Idaho, founded Reclaim Idaho last year because they believe state legislators are out of touch with what their constituents actually want.

The GOP Rules Idaho

Idaho has an unusual relationship with the Affordable Care Act.

The state hasn’t taken up the Medicaid expansion and recently tried to allow health insurance companies to sell policies that ignore key aspects of Obamacare, chiefly its ban on charging higher premiums to people with preexisting conditions.

But it’s also the most conservative state to establish a state-run health insurance exchange, Your Health Idaho. Gov. C.L. “Butch” Otter has proposed health care reforms that would extend coverage to some of those who’d qualify for Medicaid under an expansion, but legislators haven’t acted on them. That’s despite a unanimous 2012 recommendation by Otter’s hand-picked Medicaid expansion working group that the state expand the program.

All of those obstacles doesn’t mean Mayville and Strizich are crazy for trying to make Idaho the latest state to take up the Medicaid expansion, which would make health benefits available to anyone earning up to 133 percent of the federal poverty level (for a single person, the 133 percent figure is about $16,000).

According to a survey conducted by Boise State University in December, 71 percent of Idahoans support closing the so-called Medicaid gap, with just 22 percent opposing.

The gap refers to a quirk in how the Affordable Care Act was implemented. As written, the law envisioned a nationwide Medicaid expansion for those under 133 percent of poverty, and also made tax credits available to people whose incomes are above the poverty level, which is about $12,000 for a single person.

But the U.S. Supreme Court ruled in 2012 that states could opt out of the Medicaid expansion, leaving those with incomes between those two thresholds with no source of coverage. In states like Idaho, they’re effectively too poor for Obamacare.

Pratt was one of about 20 volunteers who got together for a meeting in Idaho Falls March 11 that transitioned into a celebration complete with guitar and banjo players. They gathered at a restored early 20th century house that Tucker, its owner, converted into a children’s art gallery to honor her daughter, Cady, who died in 2002 at 11 years old in a car crash in neighboring Montana.

Local elections, mostly for bonds and levies to fund schools, were coming on March 13, and Reclaim Idaho planned its biggest one-day effort to date. Mayville said the goal was to collect 10,000 signatures on Election Day.

As the evening wound down, the crowd heard from Mayville, who traveled back to Idaho with his wife, Elena Mayville, from their home in New York City. (The couple is planning to relocate to Idaho eventually.)

“There’s one thing that they really underestimated when people were skeptical of this campaign ― and this is something that we saw early on. They underestimated how much hope people have all over this state,” Luke Mayville said. “To have hope, victory doesn’t have to be certain. It doesn’t even have to be probable. To have hope, victory just has to be possible, and it has to be a victory that’s worth fighting for.”

Meeting For Coffee and Activism

Smaller gatherings on March 12 at Pocatello’s bohemian Bru House Galilei coffee house in the shadow of a vast mountain range and at a private home in a quiet Twin Falls neighborhood brought out handfuls of activists making plans for Election Day.

Volunteers in Pocatello, including Chris Stevens, a retired school teacher who’s also mounting her first-ever political campaign by running for Bannock County Commission, laid out cookies and crudités and talked strategy.

In Twin Falls, Democratic state Senate candidate Deborah Silver, who lost a state Senate race in 2016 and the state treasurer race in 2014, hosted a meeting in her home.

On March 13 in Boise and its suburbs, volunteers met in coffee shops to check in, collect materials and share stories. Aaron Swisher, one of two Democrats vying to challenge U.S. Rep. Mike Simpson (R) this November, stopped by to lend support. It’s Swisher’s first political campaign.

The obstacles to success are real, and not just because of Idaho’s conservative political base.

The state doesn’t have a history of successful ballot initiatives and referenda. In order to get Medicaid expansion on the ballot, Reclaim Idaho has to get 56,000 signatures, which would meet the threshold of 6 percent of the state’s registered voters. But under the law, they have to meet the same 6 percent threshold in 18 of Idaho’s 35 state legislative districts. They have until May 1 to submit their petitions.

That means they have to campaign in the reddest parts of Idaho. It also means they have to spread out across a state that’s the 14th largest by area and sixth-least dense by population. At least the Medicaid Mobile, which broke down during a stop in Hailey last month, is up and running again.

Jeffrey Young

Disappointment, With A Side Of Optimism

Election Day didn’t meet Mayville’s highest expectations. Mostly in the Boise suburbs and in Lewiston, on the border with Washington state, about 200 volunteers collected 5,000 signatures, half of what he wanted.

Voter turnout was low, even for an off-year election on relatively obscure local matters, Mayville said. The enthusiasm of the volunteers in Idaho Falls, Pocatello and Twin Falls didn’t translate into a lot of signatures.

At Boise’s Lake Hazel Middle School, Kenneth Freeman, 58, and Paula Schuelke, 71, were having a little luck getting signatures. The weather cooperated but there weren’t many voters coming to the polls during the key post-work evening hours.

Freeman has been active in progressive politics before, but his anger at Trump ― especially over net neutrality ― drove him to do more. “Trump made a leftist out of me,” he said.

Schuelke also is new to politics. Taking action lets her feel she has a say in a state where the elected leaders aren’t listening, she said. “We are so out of balance. If you are in the middle or you are a Democrat, you have no voice,” she said.

There’s a lot left to do, Mayville told HuffPost, but they’re getting there. After Election Day, Reclaim Idaho had collected 29,000 signatures, passing the halfway point. And they’ve either met or very nearly met the 6 percent threshold in as many as seven legislative districts and are within a couple hundred signatures in eight more, he said.

“That means that by the deadline we’re going to have the vast majority of signatures that we need collected by volunteers, because we’re likely to get at least 10,000 or 15,000 more in the next six weeks,” Mayville said.

So far, this has been an all-volunteer effort. Luke and Elena Mayville and Garrett and Emily Strizich aren’t getting paid. All their funding has come from small donations.

The Strizichs spent $1,500 of their own money to buy a camper van that became the Medicaid Mobile that’s been up and down Idaho over the past few months. Supporters have signed the outside of the van, making it a kind of rolling petition.

“The volume of the outpouring of volunteers has been astounding.” - Lauren Necochea, director of Idaho Voices for Children

Influential organizations including the Idaho Medical Association, Idaho Hospital Association and AARP formed a coalition three years ago to promote Medicaid expansion called Close the Gap Idaho. So far, however, those groups haven’t pitched in to help collect signatures for the ballot initiative.

Reclaim Idaho does have support from a union-backed national organization called the Fairness Project, which helped activists in Maine win a ballot initiative to expand Medicaid last year and scored victories in campaigns to raise the minimum wage in five states in 2016.

Paid canvassers funded by the Fairness Project also has begun gathering signatures in Idaho. Mayville didn’t know how many they collected and their tally isn’t included in the 29,000 Reclaim Idaho has secured.

As the campaign continues and, he hopes, gains more traction, Mayville expects Reclaim Idaho will get more help. “More and more people around the state, organizations around the state, are seeing the momentum we have and they really believe in this cause,” he told HuffPost.

The groups that compose Close the Gap Idaho are divided on whether to assist Reclaim Idaho, said Lauren Necochea, a spokeswoman for the coalition and the director of Idaho Voices for Children in Boise. But they are taking notice.

“The volume of the outpouring of volunteers has been astounding, and they’ve made remarkable progress just using volunteers,” Necochea said. Idaho Voices for Children is weighing how it can ramp up its involvement in the campaign separate from the coalition, she said.

In the meantime, the Mayvilles, the Strizichs and their small army of volunteers will keep knocking on doors. And the warming weather creates opportunities to find supporters at places like the Boise Farmers Market, the Treefort Music Festival, and gun-control rallies planned throughout the state, he said.

For Pratt, the Medicaid expansion campaign is a chance to prove that the people of Idaho can make change, even when their elected representatives won’t. She wants to win not only because she believes in the cause of expanding health coverage, but to prove a point to the lawmakers in Boise and Washington, D.C.

“We put them in office,” she said. “We have the power.”Katy Perry appeared to take a shot at Taylor Swift in their forever feud on Sunday’s “American Idol.”

It was a subtle dig ― but TalentRecap caught the moment in a clip it posted to Twitter.

When a contestant apologetically confessed to admiring Swift as an artist, Perry responded thusly:

Catch the perhaps-damning praise and shrug?

“Entertainment Tonight” reported that Perry threw the shade in a montage of contestants making awkward first impressions, so viewers missed out on a fair amount of the moment, including the guy’s performance.Disturbing undercover interviews with executives from U.K.-based political research firm Cambridge Analytica have revealed admissions of bribery, entrapment and the use of sex workers to sway political elections around the world, according to an investigative series airing Monday.

The results of a monthslong investigation by Britain’s Channel 4 News revealed Cambridge Analytica’s inner workings as told by Alexander Nix, the company’s chief executive, and Mark Turnbull, the managing director of CA Political Global, to a reporter posing as a client.

The interviews are part of Channel 4 News’ “Data, Democracy and Dirty Tricks” investigation series.

During phone calls and in-person meetings at a London hotel from November 2017 to January 2018, Nix was recorded bragging that his firm and parent company Strategic Communications Laboratories (SCL) secretly influenced more than 200 elections around the world, including those in Nigeria, Kenya, the Czech Republic, India and Argentina.

Cambridge Analytica was also hired by President Donald Trump’s 2016 campaign. The firm recently made news for using data acquired by Facebook to build “psychographic profiles” about voters without their knowledge.

According to Channel 4′s meetings with Nix, his firm’s methods for influencing an election included putting certain politicians in compromising positions and secretly recording them, as well as conducting their work using fake IDs, websites, and under different company names so that the company’s relationship with the client is not publicly known.

Cambridge Analytica's Alexander Nix and Mark Turnbull are seen during a secretly recorded interview with a Channel 4 reporter. Channel 4

“We do incognito very well indeed,” Nix said according to one December interview cited by Channel 4.

The company’s chief data officer, Dr. Alex Tayler, is also listed as having attended two of the meetings with the Channel 4 reporter.

During another interview in January, Nix reportedly said that one method of finding dirt on a candidate was to essentially create it.

“We’ll have a wealthy developer come in, somebody posing as a wealthy developer,” he said. “They will offer a large amount of money to the candidate, to finance his campaign in exchange for land, for instance. We’ll have the whole thing recorded on cameras, we’ll blank out the face of our guy and we post it on the internet.”

Tonight, we'll take you inside the world of Cambridge Analytica after our reporters went undercover as prospective clients.



The full story tonight at 19:00 GMT on Channel 4 - and at https://t.co/Rh0oIjmWgq pic.twitter.com/g42pQ8SrdQ — Channel 4 News (@Channel4News) March 19, 2018

In another example, the CEO reportedly said the firm will “send some girls,” specifically Ukranian women, to a candidate’s house to seduce the individual, an act that Nix said “works very well.”

“I’m just giving you examples of what can be done and what, what has been done,” he told the reporter.

Other methods involved making the public believe inaccurate facts about a certain candidate.

“I mean, it sounds a dreadful thing to say, but these are things that don’t necessarily need to be true, as long as they’re believed,” he said.

“... These are things that don’t necessarily need to be true, as long as they’re believed.””

“It’s no good fighting an election campaign on the facts,” Turnbull is reported as saying in November, “because actually it’s all about emotion, it’s all about emotion.”

Channel 4 noted that though Turnbull witnessed Nix’s comments on the use of sex workers, during a Dec. 19 interview, Turnbull said his company isn’t “in the business of entrapment” and “lying, making stuff up.”

“We wouldn’t send a pretty girl out to seduce a politician and then film them in their bedroom and then release the film. There are companies that do this, but to me, that crosses a line…” Turnbull is reported as saying.

A Cambridge Analytica spokesman, cited by Channel 4, denied reports that its firm and affiliates “use entrapment, bribes, or so-called ‘honey-traps’ for any purpose whatsoever ... ”

The firm, in a statement to HuffPost, accused Channel 4 of editing the recorded conversations in a way that would deliberately make them appear unethical.

Nix, in his own response, admitted to discussing controversial practices with the undercover reporter but said he did so only to humor what he thought was a prospective client.

AdvertisementSome “Grace Jones-looking chicks” are about to take a bite out of the Big Apple.

Marvel announced Friday that the Dora Milaje, AKA the badass female warriors from “Black Panther,” are getting a new comic miniseries, starting with the book Wakanda Forever: The Amazing Spider-Man.

Wakanda Forever: The Amazing Spider-Man Marvel

The comic, which will be released in June, will be followed up with Wakanda Forever: X-Men in July and Wakanda Forever: Avengers! in August.

Author Nnedi Okorafor is writing the three-issue miniseries that begins with Okoye, Ayo and Aneka on a mission to New York City in which they team up with Peter Parker.

“Typically when you see them, they’re with T’Challa, representing and protecting him,” Okorafor told Vogue of the soldiers, who have become fan favorites since the film “Black Panther” premiered in February. “Now you’re going to see the Dora Miljae for the first time as an independent entity; they’re not under the shadow of the throne.”

Okorafor is a Hugo and Nebula award-winning author whose fantasy and sci-fi works are inspired by Nigerian folklore and explore Afro-futurism.

“I like to write the future; the Africa I feel can be and the Africa that will be, that has always been my vision,” she told Vogue.

This is not the first time the Dora Milaje has gotten its own Marvel spinoff, however. Black Panther: World of Wakanda, written by New York Times best-selling author Roxane Gay, was cancelled after only six issues in 2017 — just a few days after the trailer for the “Black Panther” film was released.

Gay’s spinoff followed warriors Aneka and Ayo as they lead a revolt against women’s oppression and the Wakanda monarchy, according to The Root. Aneka and Ayo were also characterized as very out and open lesbians.

In the film, Ayo (Florence Kasumba) plays a minor role and no details about her sexuality are showcased.

An earlier version of the movie reportedly had a scene in which Ayo flirts with Okoye (Danai Gurira) — though Marvel has said that their relationship was never supposed to be interpreted as romantic. Kasumba has said the scene was filmed, but does not know why it was cut.

She told Vulture in February that she suspects that the scene was taken out due to time restraints — but said she’d “love to” see Ayo’s sexuality get fleshed out more in future films.(Reuters) - Cambridge Analytica, the firm at the center of this year’s Facebook privacy row, filed for voluntary Chapter 7 bankruptcy in a New York court late on Thursday.

Cambridge Analytica LLC listed assets in the range of $100,001 to $500,000 and liabilities in the range of $1 million to $10 million.

AdvertisementFew issues have hung over U.S. politics like the Iraq War. Republican foreign policy has been defined by it, and Democrats have had to answer for their vote in favor of the invasion, which is now widely considered to be one of the country’s biggest mistakes in modern times.

The 2020 election could be a break from this history. It could be the first presidential election without the politics of the Iraq War, with nominees who don’t have the baggage of a pro-war vote and foreign policy debates that aren’t defined by the 2003-2011 conflict. But as Democrats move away from that front, they’re struggling to find a new voice on foreign policy.

Democratic politicians, and much of the rest of the country, are now united around the idea that America should not have invaded Iraq in 2003. From fabricated intelligence, a media and political establishment that largely accepted the administration’s spin, unrealistic expectations, poor planning and a culture of militarization, the affair became a cautionary tale of what happens when the public ― and more importantly, the people who are supposed to represent them in Washington ― sleepwalk their way through foreign policy and let politics dictate war.

But it wasn’t always this way. A majority of the Democratic caucus in the Senate sided with all but one Republican in authorizing the invasion. Some of them believed the George W. Bush administration’s case for war. More knew it was a bad idea but were afraid to speak out in that post-Sept. 11 era.

“It was done out of fear of being accused of being soft on terrorism,” said former Sen. Russ Feingold (D-Wis.), who was one of the 22 Democrats in the chamber who voted against the war. “The completely phony notion that Saddam Hussein had been tied to al Qaeda had been thrown around the country, and frankly, people did not vote their conscience. They voted politics.”

Hillary Clinton was never able to overcome skepticism about her Iraq War vote in the 2008 election. Gabriel Bouys/Getty Images

Iraq’s Dominance In Presidential Elections

In the first few years after the invasion, people started to change their minds about the war. The weapons of mass destruction Bush warned about didn’t exist, and the fighting dragged on long after he declared “mission accomplished” in May 2003. The progressive group MoveOn.org, which had advocated against the invasion, saw its membership skyrocket between 2002 and 2004.

“It was just out of nowhere,” recalled Eli Pariser, who was running MoveOn’s Iraq War campaign at the time. “There were thousands and thousands of people meeting all around the country. That was the first moment I felt like this was striking a much bigger chord than I thought.”

But the anti-Iraq War shift wasn’t enough to fully make an impact in the 2004 presidential election. Bush was re-elected, still riding the wave of patriotic fervor, while the Democratic Party struggled to come up with a compelling, convincing alternative to the war.

On July 6, 2006, businessman Ned Lamont debated Sen. Joe Lieberman (D-Conn.). Lamont beat Lieberman in the primary, but Lieberman ran as an independent and won in the general election. Brian Snyder/Reuters

The 2006 midterm elections were completely different. The left, by this time, was gaining momentum around the idea that it was time to withdraw from Iraq. Progressive organizations on the ground were working with unions; think tanks like the Center for American Progress; and Democratic leaders in Congress to shift opinions both within the party and in the general public.

A key piece of the strategy was making hawks within the Democratic Party pay. Progressives ousted Sen. Joe Lieberman (D-Conn.), the party’s 2000 vice presidential nominee, in the Democratic primary that cycle. (The senator went on to win re-election as in independent.) But Tom Matzzie, another MoveOn veteran who also ran the coalition Americans Against Escalation In Iraq, said he still considered what happened a victory.

“For our political purposes, that almost didn’t matter,” Matzzie said of Lieberman’s win in the general election. “Every Democrat in Congress saw what happened and didn’t want that to happen to them ... The Lieberman primary really energized people across the country around the idea that this effort will take back the House and Senate in 2006.”

And they did. Democrats swept the midterms, knocking Republicans out of power in both chambers of Congress. Two critics of the war, Rep. Nancy Pelosi (D-Calif.) and Sen. Harry Reid (D-Nev.), took control as the leaders of the House and Senate.

By 2008, opposition to the Iraq War was firmly established in the party and was perhaps the major reason that Sen. Hillary Clinton (D-N.Y.) lost to Sen. Barack Obama (D-Ill.) ― who was not in the Senate in 2002 but had spoken out against invasion. In the general election, Obama against Sen. John McCain (R-Ariz.), who was one of the biggest hawks in Congress.

In 2012, Republican Mitt Romney, who lost to Obama, struggled on the issue of Iraq, criticizing the president’s withdrawal plan but largely avoiding the topic.

“I don’t think the Iraq War is going to be terribly important in 2020.” - Former Sen. Russ Feingold (D-Wis.)

The war also played a role in the 2016 presidential elections, albeit a smaller one. Clinton remained haunted by the problems from 2008, and Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.) occasionally used her Iraq vote against her.

The war arguably had a bigger effect on the Republican side. Former Florida Gov. Jeb Bush, widely considered the front-runner for the nomination, stumbled early in the race when he was unable to give a straight answer about whether he thought his brother’s war was a mistake.

Donald Trump, meanwhile, vocally called the war a mistake and claimed that he was publicly against the invasion from the beginning ― even though there is no evidence that he was.

Fresh Start In 2020

Rep. Seth Moulton (D-Mass.) is one of the young veterans in Congress pushing his party to engage more on foreign policy. Patrick T. Fallon/Bloomberg via Getty Images

The 2020 election is still two years away, but the Democrats most often talked about as potential candidates ― people like Sens. Kamala Harris (Calif.) and Elizabeth Warren (Mass.) ― largely have political careers that started after the 2003 invasion.

And for the contenders whose careers do intersect with the war, there’s little indication that it will be a major issue if they run.

Sen. Kirsten Gillibrand (D-N.Y.) voted to extend funding of the war in 2007, which was a break from most members of the party at the time. Former Vice President Joe Biden, another potential 2020 candidate, voted for the war, but he has disavowed his support and said it was a mistake.

Feingold said that he believes enough time has passed that the Democratic Party has a chance to have a clean slate.

“Democrats are going to say, ’Look, this is a new era. We’ve got to get this right,’” he said, adding, “That, I think, is the best approach. I don’t think the Iraq War is going to be terribly important in 2020.”

“After 9/11, the consensus among party elites was that you had to be pro-war,” Matzzie, the MoveOn veteran, said. “That consensus is totally shattered. The consensus is now, for a Democrat, that you can’t be the super pro-war hawk or you’re in danger inside the Democratic Party.”

As Iraq has faded as an issue for the party, Democrats have largely returned to talking about domestic and economic issues. In part, it’s because the country is focused there, but it’s also because these are the areas where Democrats have traditionally felt the strongest.

But many veterans of the Iraq fights worry that the party is giving up valuable ground in the national security arena that it was able to gain over the past 15 years ― making clear that strength doesn’t have to equal military might and that Republicans aren’t the only party that can be trusted on foreign policy. Officials haven’t offered clear alternatives to what Trump is doing that the party has been able to unify around.

“We’re struggling,” said Rep. Seth Moulton (D-Mass.), a veteran who is emerging as a leading foreign policy voice the party.

“We need to talk about what a strong national security policy means,” he said. “For too long, Democrats have just been talking about watering down our national security position or saying that we need to invest in national security ― but not too much.”

During the Iraq War, Democrats coalesced around the need to withdraw, spurred in large part by an influential report from the Center for American Progress. The report called for “strategic redeployment” ― a proposal to draw down troops from Iraq and redistribute them to other locations. It offered a progressive alternative to the Bush approach, arguing that the war was hurting military readiness and draining resources away from true national security threats.

It wasn’t just “cut and run” ― it was an actual plan for how to withdraw and redeploy.

The plan gave Democrats something to cite when Republicans charged that they had no path forward and no alternative to what Bush was doing in Iraq. It was influential with lawmakers like Rep. John Murtha, a conservative Democrat from Pennsylvania who shook up the national debate when he gave a speech calling for withdrawal in November 2005. Murtha, who served in the Marines Corps for 37 years, was the first Vietnam combat veteran elected to Congress who became one of the most powerful lawmakers on defense issues.

“Our military is suffering. The future of our country is at risk. We can not continue on the present course,” he said at the time.

Democrats who needed cover to come out against the war, who were afraid of being called weak, now had a protector. When Rep. Louie Gohmert (R-Texas) said “thank God” Murtha was not in Congress for World War II, because otherwise “we would be here speaking Japanese or German,” Murtha was able to rebuke him in a way few other people could.

“Were you there?” Murtha responded. “Were you in Vietnam? Were you in Iraq?”

Gohmert admitted he had not fought in any of those locations.

Brian Katulis, a senior fellow at the Center for American Progress and one of the authors of the strategic redeployment report, says part of the problem now is that Trump is so good at distracting people that it’s hard to get the left unified around one issue or one position.

“The Trump agenda on foreign policy is so potentially cataclysmic and disastrous,” he said. “We’re all like Pavlov’s dogs ― he does one thing and distracts us. We take our eye off the ball on huge issues.”

Looking For Alternatives

Right now, when Democrats talk about foreign policy, they tend to emphasize diplomacy and steadiness as a contrast to Trump hollowing out the State Department and tweeting recklessly, for example.

“I think Democrats are not afraid of using the military and certainly are supportive of [utilizing] the military,” said Sen. Tammy Duckworth (D-Ill.), an Iraq War veteran. “But we first and foremost understand that the primary tool of our foreign policy should be diplomacy, not military expeditions.”

But Democrats haven’t been able to unify in opposition even when it comes to responding to Trump’s foreign policy. In April 2017, when Trump launched missile strikes on Syria, many Democrats said they were furious that he didn’t involve Congress in the decision, saying what he did may be “unconstitutional.” Their objections were to the process ― in the end, they seemed to concede that the strikes themselves were the right thing to do anyway.

There are attempts by some prominent members of the party to talk more about foreign policy. Sanders, who has built his reputation by focusing obsessively on domestic economic issues, gave a high-profile foreign policy speech in September that attempted to tie his core policies to national security. It reframed the debate away from terrorism and whether to go to war and argued that there needs to be a holistic approach to what’s happening the world.

“What foreign policy also means is that if we are going to expound the virtues of democracy and justice abroad, and be taken seriously, we need to practice those values here at home,” Sanders said. “That means continuing the struggle to end racism, sexism, xenophobia and homophobia here in the United States and making it clear that when people in America march on our streets as neo-Nazis or white supremacists, we have no ambiguity in condemning everything they stand for.”

But speeches like this are usually more about vision, not about specifics. And many progressives acknowledge that the party needs to communicate more details and a clearer alternative. As Katrina vanden Heuvel, editor of “The Nation” magazine, wrote in 2017, “Where is the Bernie Sanders or Elizabeth Warren of foreign policy? Many Democrats are positioning themselves to take on Trump four years from now. They’d be wise to seek leadership by demonstrating it.”

“The Democrats have a chance to offer [an alternative] again against someone who’s even worse than George Bush in these respects,” Feingold said. “So I’m looking forward to people getting out there and starting to talk about this. I think it would be a mistake to think about only domestic issues, as important as they are, because Donald Trump is unbelievably unqualified to handle foreign policy.”

Ben Rhodes and Jake Sullivan, who both held top foreign policy positions in President Barack Obama’s administration, have started a new group, National Security Action, intended to be a political strike force to respond to Trump. It won’t be developing new policies, but it will connect the media, Democratic politicians and other groups with experts in this area and, they hope, get more traction for the progressive plans that do exist.

“There is a clear alternative, in that I think Democrats believe that we need to use military force when necessary, but we also need to exhaust diplomatic options to prevent conflicts or resolve conflicts,” Rhodes said.

Rhodes noted that there is often a vacuum for a political party that emerges from eight years in the White House and now has no clear leader.

“The consensus is now, for a Democrat, that you can’t be the super pro-war hawk or you’re in danger inside the Democratic Party.” - Tom Matzzie, former head of Americans Against Escalation In Iraq

That’s where people like Moulton and Duckworth hope some veterans will be able to step in, perhaps playing a role like Murtha. There are also at least 25 veterans running for Congress as Democrats this year.

“That is a role that I and other Iraq and Afghanistan veterans in the Democratic Party can play,” Duckworth said. “To say, ’Wait a minute, let’s just be clear,′ questioning the motives of the administration and questioning the veracity of the data that they’re presenting, does not make us weak on defense. If anything it makes us the stronger champions for the Department of Defense and the military.”

Since Sept. 11 and the Iraq War, the issues in foreign policy have gotten more diffuse ― and, in many ways, more complicated, in the sense that the public doesn’t know what side to take. Current issues like drones and operations in Syria and Yemen aren’t on the top of most people’s list.

People now seem to understand that going to war in Iraq was a bad idea. But many Democrats wonder if politicians, both on the Republican and Democratic side, have fully internalized why it was a bad idea and shed the mindset that led to supporting the invasion.

And if there were a vote to authorize the invasion of Iraq again today, Moulton said he’s absolutely worried Congress would do it all over again.If we don’t live to see their glory, at least we’ll have this moving “Hamilton” and “Dear Evan Hansen” mashup.

The forces behind the two acclaimed Broadway musicals have come together for a good cause, releasing the single “Found/Tonight” on Monday to push for an end to gun violence in schools.

In the latest installment of the Hamildrop ― the monthly release of new content from the musical ― Lin Manuel Miranda has partnered with fellow Tony winner Ben Platt on a mashup of “You Will Be Found” from “Dear Evan Hansen” and “The Story Of Tonight” from “Hamilton.”

A portion of the proceeds from “Found/Tonight” will benefit March for Our Lives, a planned March 24 demonstration in Washington led by survivors of the Feb 14 Florida high school shooting.

“In the wake of Parkland, I was awestruck by the strength and leadership of the students and their ability to speak truth to power,” Miranda said in a statement. “In the midst of their grief, they mobilized the youth of our nation and created a movement. This is their moment. Not just for themselves, but for all of us. This song is my way of helping to raise funds and awareness for their efforts, and to say Thank You, and that we are with you so let’s keep fighting, together.”

Platt added: “When Lin called me to be a part of this mashup, I couldn’t say no. Better gun control is something that all Americans should be passionate about. These students are paving the way for future generations and it’s so inspiring to see young people standing up for what is probably the most important cause right now in this country, and demanding action. I hope that this song can play some small part in bringing about real change.”

Emma Gonzalez, a survivor of the shooting who’s become one of the faces of the gun control movement, tweeted an emotional response to the song on Monday.

“I just listened to it and I can’t stop crying,” she wrote on social media. “I’m gonna listen to this forever holy heck.”A pair of alleged thieves in Seattle bolted through a Costco fire exit last week to what they had thought was a waiting getaway car.

The car was there, but so was the police, as the video above shows.

“Hey buddy!” one the cops greeted the pair as they burst through the doors to find their escape route blocked. Police officers could also be heard laughing at the easy apprehension.

The incident happened last Wednesday after Costco workers spotted someone they believed was involved in a previous shoplifting incident in which the suspects also ran out the fire exit, a Seattle Police Department news release said.

In this case, the police spotted a vehicle parked at the same exit and blocked the 18-year-old female driver from leaving. The officers then gathered around the fire exit door and waited.

Minutes later, a 30-year-old man and 21-year-old woman emerged with an armful of goods. Police said they had stolen computers and a vacuum, with an estimated value of $2,200.

The male also possessed a knife with a 7-inch blade, police said.WASHINGTON — Few moments in the 2016 presidential election delighted Donald Trump more than the hacking of Democratic operatives. In July, after the Democratic National Committee’s emails were posted online, he — perhaps jokingly — called for more hacks: “Russia: If you’re listening, I hope you’re able to find the 30,000 emails that are missing. I think you will probably be rewarded mightily by our press.” When WikiLeaks released the emails of Clinton campaign chairman John Podesta in October, Trump was ecstatic. “I love WikiLeaks!” he declared. He said “WikiLeaks” at least 141 times the month before the election.

Trump probably didn’t mean to invite hackers to target him and his allies and post their findings on WikiLeaks.

But politically motivated hacks and leaks have continued unabated since Trump won the election. White House chief of staff John Kelly’s personal cell phone may have been compromised while he was working on the transition team at the end of 2016. Outgoing White House communications director Hope Hicks told the Senate Intelligence Committee last month that one of her email accounts had been hacked. And Trump associates and others outside the administration have seen their emails hacked and released for political purposes. Yousef Al Otaiba, the United Arab Emirates ambassador to the United States, had his emails leaked to U.S. media outlets.

So did Trump confidant and top Republican fundraiser Elliott Broidy.

Broidy acknowledges the similarities between the hackers who targeted him last month and those who targeted Democratic operatives during the election. “For whatever reasons, they don’t agree with what someone’s doing, so they try to wreak havoc and destroy their reputation,” he told HuffPost.

The 2016 election hack wasn’t the first of its kind. But it was the most spectacular. And given the gambit’s success, it may be hard for any government, organization or powerful individual that wants to influence U.S. public opinion to resist trying to copy it.

“Everyone involved in politics — whether you’re on a more state-focused campaign or national — you’re going to be heavily targeted, especially seeing the success of what happened,” said Ben Johnson, a former cybersecurity specialist at the National Security Agency. “Everyone is a target, from the intern to the candidate.”

Hillary Clinton’s aides and allies warned that they weren’t the first, and wouldn’t be the last, to be hurt by politically motivated hacking and that the U.S. government should take the threat seriously. Even Broidy now seems to agree.

“I’m not happy to see anyone hacked. That includes whether it’s Hillary Clinton or John Podesta, or anyone else,” Broidy said. “What happened in the 2016 election, or what’s happened to me, or what will happen to somebody else today or tomorrow — it’s just not right and I think we should work hard to make sure it doesn’t happen.”

GOP fundraiser Elliott Broidy and his wife, Robin Rosenzweig, have been embarrassed or worse by a recent hack of his emails. Alex J. Berliner/BEI/REX/Shutterstock

Not all state-sponsored hacks have been aimed at the political process. China and North Korea, which are allegedly behind some of the highest-profile hacks, have stolen information with the apparent goals of obtaining intelligence, accessing trade secrets or securing a ransom. When the U.S. and Israel allegedly deployed an advanced team of hackers in Iran, their aim was to destroy a critical part of Iran’s nuclear program.

About a decade ago, hackers demonstrated how to use stolen information to advance a political narrative. Thousands of private emails sent by scientists affiliated with the Climatic Research Unit at England’s University of East Anglia were hacked in 2009. WikiLeaks published those materials and climate change deniers seized on parts of the emails to accuse the authors of scientific misconduct and fabricating a pattern of global warming.

Climategate, as it was termed, broke just weeks before a United Nations climate conference in Copenhagen, Denmark. Negotiations over ways to curb greenhouse gas emissions collapsed.

The release of the emails appeared to be timed to disrupt the conference, although it’s unclear how much damage they did. The stolen zip file was stored on a server in Russia, but investigators never conclusively attributed the hack to Moscow. Regardless of who orchestrated it, Climategate was an early example of hackers plotting to “take the fruits of illegal behavior, weaponize them, then use them in a political context,” Podesta told Mother Jones.

In 2013, the hacker Guccifer, later revealed to be a Romanian individual named Marcel Lazăr Lehel, began releasing emails he’d stolen from U.S. political figures. He leaked emails from former Secretary of State Colin Powell, former Bill Clinton adviser Sidney Blumenthal, and Dorothy Bush Koch, the sister of George W. Bush. There is no public proof that Lehel’s efforts were state-sanctioned.

The hackers who later targeted the DNC and Podesta adopted Guccifer’s persona, referring to themselves as Guccifer 2.0. WikiLeaks dumped the first cache of stolen emails about Hillary Clinton and the party’s internal deliberations only days before the Democratic convention. Podesta’s emails were posted about an hour after The Washington Post’s story about Trump bragging that he could grab women by the genitals in a 2005 “Access Hollywood” recording.

The Clinton campaign pleaded with reporters to be cautious about covering the hacked emails. “You’re basically doing Russia’s bidding right now,” Jesse Lehrich, a former campaign spokesman, recalled telling the media.

But Lehrich’s reminders had limited effect. WikiLeaks had already posted the emails online for anyone to read and some of them contained newsworthy information about a major presidential candidate.

“Unless there’s a giant pact among reporters that nobody will cover this stuff — which, let’s face it, is never gonna happen — reporters are trapped in this fucked-up situation,” Lehrich said. “You’re either missing out on stuff people are writing up, fighting a noble battle that’s not actually accomplishing anything. Or you’re furthering the agenda of foreign actors,” he said.

Another challenge for reporters — and anyone hoping to capitalize on hacked material — is that it’s often extremely difficult to determine who is responsible for a hack and what their motivations might be. Authentication can be a hurdle: Hackers might slip forged or altered documents into a giant release, which would be hard to catch. The Clinton team refused to confirm on the record the authenticity of any of the emails stolen during the campaign.

“You're basically doing Russia's bidding right now.” - Jesse Lehrich, a Clinton campaign spokesman

So far, the Trump administration has done very little to protect the country from cyberattacks. In January 2017, he vowed to appoint a team of experts to deliver a plan to counter hackers within the first 90 days of his presidency.

But months passed and Trump’s administration blew through self-imposed deadlines without taking action. When the president signed an executive order on cybersecurity last May, Robert Ackerman, the founder of a cybersecurity venture firm called Allegis Capital, described it as “the skeleton of a policy” that mostly built off existing initiatives. Trump later floated the idea of creating an “impenetrable Cyber Security unit″ — in coordination with Russian President Vladimir Putin. Lawmakers slammed the notion and Trump backed down.

Even members of Trump’s own party have blasted him for failing to address the nation’s cyber vulnerabilities. “Unfortunately, leadership from the executive branch on cybersecurity has been weak,” said Sen. John McCain (R-Ariz.) last August.

State-sponsored hacking is very tough to identify, track and prevent — especially as hackers develop more sophisticated ways to obscure their identities and hackers-for-hire allow states to direct an operation without leaving their fingerprints. But there are things the U.S. government can and should do.

Experts have long urged the government to take a more active role in protecting critical infrastructure ― like power grids, water systems and emergency services ― and in regulating security standards for internet-accessible consumer products ― like cameras, thermostats and baby monitors. They also have pressed the federal government to give states the money to replace easily hackable touch-screen voting machines.

And now that Trump is in power, he, his allies and coworkers, and his correspondents are targets as well — not just for Russia, but for anyone in the world who wants to sway American public opinion.

“This is not going away anytime soon,” said Hank Thomas, the CEO and founder of Strategic Cyber Ventures. “Hacking is far too lucrative and inexpensive for governments to not keep it as a primary tool in their arsenal of defense and espionage tools.”

Hackers stole emails from Ambassador Yousef Al Otaiba, of the United Arab Emirates, in which he criticizes President Donald Trump. Patrick T. Fallon/Bloomberg/Getty Images

The purpose of the DNC and Podesta hacks was to dump a massive amount of information online all at once and to allow everyone to comb through it, craft their own conspiracies or disinformation, and spread it quickly on social media. More recent hacks have been carefully curated and delivered to the reporters who knew best how to tell the story the hackers wanted the public to hear.

Last summer, a group that called itself GlobalLeaks selectively released to several media outlets, including HuffPost, emails belonging to Yousef Al Otaiba, the UAE’s influential ambassador who is close to presidential son-in-law Jared Kushner. The name GlobalLeaks appeared to be a nod to DCLeaks, the group that had distributed the Democratic emails during the 2016 election.

But unlike DCLeaks, GlobalLeaks targeted just one politically prominent individual: Otaiba. And instead of just being dumped online, the documents were leaked to specific reporters who wrote about foreign policy and the Middle East.

The emails, which showed Otaiba repeatedly criticizing Trump, were released amid a diplomatic crisis between the UAE (and others) and Qatar. Otaiba had been carefully cultivating ties to the new administration, working to gain Washington’s support in cutting off Qatar and its broader foreign policy agenda. The leaker denied having connections to Qatar. The source used a .ru email address, suggesting they were Russian or trying to appear Russian.

It’s not clear what, if any, effect the stolen emails had on Trump’s view of the Gulf dispute. Over the next several months, he flip-flopped between accusing Qatar of funding terrorism and offering to help Qatar resolve the rift with its neighbors. But the emails undoubtedly sullied Otaiba’s reputation in Washington. Last August, the Intercept published an account of Otaiba hiring escorts. The story relied, in part, on those emails.

Then last month, the hacking hit someone with personal ties to the president: Broidy. On Feb. 28, a group identifying itself as LA Confidential emailed reporters, again including at HuffPost, copies of the GOP fundraiser’s emails. The documents appeared to show Broidy trying to use his connections to the Trump administration to influence the outcome of a Justice Department investigation into a potential client of his wife’s law firm. (Broidy denies any wrongdoing.) They also show Broidy privately pitching Trump on the idea of a Gulf-funded Muslim army to fight America’s wars.

Broidy, who is outspokenly critical of Qatar, has accused the small gas-rich nation of orchestrating the hack. He told HuffPost that he would share proof to back up his allegation at a later date. Qatar denies it was involved in the hack.

He has not discussed the threat of state-sponsored hacking operations with Trump, Broidy said. Nor does he share the frustration of Trump’s critics, who say the president hasn’t done enough to respond to Russia’s election interference. “I’m more interested in law enforcement doing its job because the laws and the policies are there,” he said.

Asked how he reacted when the DNC and Podesta emails were released during the presidential race, Broidy said he couldn’t recall. “I mean I don’t think stealing stuff from people is right,” he said. “It’s just not my thing. I’m very interested in national security and law and order.”

Lehrich, the Clinton campaign spokesman, said he does have sympathy for Republican hacking victims like Broidy.

“This guy Broidy seems like a really bad dude, and the things that he’s done, obviously there is merit to them being exposed,” Lehrich said. “But at the same time, I think it’s a dangerous, slippery slope when they’re coming to light thanks to hostile foreign actors who have their own agenda.”Emma Gonzalez, David Hogg, Cameron Kasky, Alex Wind and Jaclyn Corin are making it their mission to be the last “mass shooting generation.”

The five Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School students sat down with “60 Minutes” on Sunday to discuss their upcoming March For Our Lives protest, and how the Feb. 14 massacre that left 17 dead at their Florida high school changed their lives forever.

“We’re the mass shooting generation. I was born months after Columbine. I’m 17 years old and we’ve had 17 years of mass shootings,” Kasky said.

The five students organized the March For Our Lives protest, set for March 24, and the #NeverAgain campaign to end gun violence. Their social media campaign has galvanized a movement and garnered support from big names like Oprah Winfrey, Steven Spielberg and George Clooney.

The teens also organized last week’s 17-minute walkout at high schools across the country, and even pressured Florida Gov. Rick Scott (R) to enact the state’s first gun control measure in over two decades.

Many people thought the 2012 Sandy Hook elementary massacre, which claimed the lives of 20 students and six teachers, would push politicians to finally act on gun laws. “60 Minutes” correspondent Sharyn Alfonsi asked the Parkland students why they believe they can have a bigger impact than the parents of Sandy Hook victims.

“We are the generations who have had to be trapped in closets, waiting for the police to come or waiting for a shooter to walk in to our door,” Wind answered. “We are the people that know what it’s like first hand.”

“We are the generations who have had to be trapped in closets, waiting for the police to come or waiting for a shooter to walk in to our door.” - Alex Wind, Parkland student

Alfonsi also spoke with parents of Stoneman Douglas survivors and victims.

“The victims are being represented by people that could have been the victims,” said Manuel Oliver, father of 17-year-old Joaquin, who was killed in the shooting.

“These kids have their cellphones on their hands the whole day. And we, as parents, we criticize that a lot because we ignore the power of that,” he continued. “The difference between this tragedy and others, if you ask me, is that this generation is used to [getting] answers right away. You think they’re going to wait for six months or a year for anybody — Congress or anybody that needs to make the right call?”

Gonzalez, whose rousing speech calling out the NRA went viral days after the massacre, became a public face of the anti-gun violence movement overnight. Her mother, Beth, said she’s proud of her daughter, but also “terrified.”

“It’s like she built herself a pair of wings out of balsa wood and duct tape and jumped off a building, and we’re just running along beneath her with a net which she doesn’t want or think that she needs,” Beth Gonzalez said of her 18-year-old daughter.

“Somebody said, you know, ‘Please tell Emma we’re behind her,’ which I appreciate,” she added. “But we should’ve been in front of her. I should’ve been in front of her. We all, adults, should’ve dealt with this 20 years ago.”YouTube

Apparently, bears are allowed to vote in Russia ― or at least people in bear costumes.

During Sunday’s national election, a voter in the Siberian town of Severobaykalsk ― more than 3,400 miles east of Moscow ― decided to show he was bullish on Russia by dressing up as a bear.

Russian government-controlled Sputnik News reported that the unnamed voter scared a few people with his loud roar, but that most people seemed amused.

However, there were some challenges. For one, the bear could barely fit into the voting booth, the video below shows.

Saturday’s election reportedly attracted other creatively dressed voters as well, including one dressed as a panda and one dressed as a yeti.