At least there’s one thing some of the “Sex and the City” cast can agree on: Cynthia Nixon is ready to run for office.

The award-winning actress announced her bid to run for governor of New York on Monday after months of speculation she might throw her hat into the ring. Nixon will challenge two-term incumbent Gov. Andrew Cuomo (D) in the Democratic primary this September.

“Sex and the City” co-star Kristin Davis kicked off former costars’ messages of support over social media, emphasizing Nixon’s commitment to childhood education, which she made a focal point of the video announcing her candidacy.

“I am so proud of @CynthiaNixon, no one cares more than she does about EVERY person getting a fair change and a good education,” Davis wrote on Twitter.

I am so proud of @CynthiaNixon , no one cares more than she does about EVERY person getting a fair change and a good education. I know that she would be an excellent Governor ! https://t.co/xEAyRxFBb8 — Kristin Davis (@KristinDavis) March 19, 2018

Willie Garson, who played the character Stanford Blatch in the HBO series, as well as in the two feature films, also backed Nixon in her jump from acting to politics.

“I cant think of anyone who’s more prepared, more caring, more educated on the issues and more READY than @cynthiaenixon,” he wrote. “Please join her on this journey, together we can turn things around with candidates such as her.”

A post shared by Willie Garson (@willie.garson) on Mar 19, 2018 at 11:30am PDT

Nixon’s other co-stars, Sarah Jessica Parker and Kim Cattrall, have yet to comment on her run for governor, but both appear to be on good terms with the actress.

The “Sex and the City” cast has been fractured in recent months after production on the planned third sequel in the franchise was indefinitely halted, reportedly due to Cattrall’s production demands. The actress has since denied the claims and has repeatedly slammed Parker in interviews and on social media.

But Cattrall seems to have only warm feelings for Nixon, and thanked her publicly for expressing condolences over her brother’s recent death.

Nixon and Parker reunited at a photoshoot for T: The New York Times Style Magazine in February and shared a sweet snap together.

A post shared by Cynthia Nixon (@cynthiaenixon) on Feb 26, 2018 at 1:12pm PSTPop star Bruno Mars is getting support against accusations of cultural appropriation from an unimpeachable source: Stevie Wonder.

TMZ asked Wonder to chime in on a debate that started last weekend, when activist and writer Seren Sensei called Mars a cultural appropriator on “The Grapevine,” a web series dealing with African-American issues.

Mars, whose mother is Filipino and his father Puerto Rican and Jewish, has made a career with songs based on musical forms that are historically and traditionally African-American, according to CNN.

But Sensei argued that Mars “takes pre-existing work and he just completely, word-for-word recreates it, extrapolates it.”

She added:

“He does not create it, he does not improve upon it, he does not make it better. He’s a karaoke singer, he’s a wedding singer, he’s the person you hire to do Michael Jackson and Prince covers. Yet Bruno Mars has an Album of the Year Grammy and Prince never won an Album of the Year Grammy.”

Sensei’s remarks caused a heated debate online.

Wonder, however, one of the most Grammy-winning artists of all time, said he doesn’t think Mars was doing anything inappropriate.

“Here’s the thing, God created music for all of us to enjoy,” Wonder told TMZ. “So we cannot limit ourselves by people’s fears and insecurities.”

He pulled no punches saying what he thought of the accusations.

“He’s a great talent, so all the other stuff is just bullshit,” Wonder said of Mars. “He was inspired by great musicians and great artists and songwriters. So it’s cool.”

As HuffPost has written before, the Cambridge Dictionary defines cultural appropriation as “the act of taking or using things from a culture that is not your own, especially without showing that you understand or respect this culture.”

TMZ asked Wonder if he thought Mars deserved a “pass” because of the reverent way he treats black-originated musical genres like reggae, hip-hop and funk.

Wonder dismissed the question, saying no pass is needed because God created music for everyone.Soccer players and other students from Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Florida, hold signs and wear the jersey of their former teammate, Alyssa Alhadeff, who was killed in the massacre at the school on Feb. 14. The students remembered Alyssa before the start of a She Believes Cup women's soccer match on March 7 in Orlando, Florida. Stephen M. Dowell/Orlando Sentinel via Getty Images

WASHINGTON ― Millions of dollars in donations have poured into a fundraiser launched by student survivors of the school shooting last month in Parkland, Florida. When it comes to activism, the teens say they’re running the show. But there are adults behind the scenes of March for Our Lives: A document uncovered by HuffPost reveals a diverse board of directors that includes public servants, legal experts and professionals based outside of Florida.

Money raised for the March for Our Lives Action Fund, a nonprofit, will cover expenses associated with the national student rally taking place in Washington, D.C., on March 24. The money will also be used to “fight for comprehensive gun safety legislation” and to promote voter education, ballot initiatives and lobbying efforts, according to 42 West, the bicoastal entertainment industry public relations firm handling press requests for the campaign.

A board that includes six volunteer directors is overseeing all March for Our Lives funds, a spokesperson for 42 West told HuffPost in an email. Decisions on how to spend the funds will be up to that board and a “student advisory board,” the spokesperson said. When asked what sort of oversight mechanisms are set up to ensure the money is going to the students’ desired reforms, the spokesperson said, “The board of directors will handle.”

It’s perfectly normal for adults to be involved when millions of dollars are at stake. But other than the document HuffPost discovered, a nonprofit registration filed in Florida and posted on the Florida Department of State’s website, there is little publicly available information about the March for Our Lives Action Fund or who’s running it.

The fund’s directors, according to the form, are George Kieffer, chair of the Board of Regents of the University of California; Jeri Rhodes, who is with the Friends Committee on National Legislation, a Washington-based lobbying group founded by Quakers; Aileen Adams; who served under former Los Angeles Mayor Antonio Villaraigosa; Nina Vinik, an attorney who has a background in gun violence prevention; Vernetta Walker from BoardSource, an organization that provides support for nonprofit leaders; and Melissa Scholz, an attorney who has expertise in nonprofit law. The fund is organized as a Delaware corporation and operates as a 501(c)(4) nonprofit.

The document lists Deena Katz, an Emmy-nominated producer and the co-executive director of the Women’s March Los Angeles Foundation, as president. She is helping organize the March for Our Lives on her own as an individual, a 42 West spokesperson said.

The application was linked to an address for a tax consulting firm listed on the March website advising donors where they could mail checks. An employee at the tax firm confirmed that March for Our Lives is a client. (The fund’s board of directors did not immediately respond to a request for comment.)

42 West did not say how much money the fund has raised.

The Parkland students who have become the face of the gun control movement have made a concerted effort to show that they’re not simply figureheads of the campaign. Although high-profile gun violence prevention advocates and wealthy donors have taken an interest in the effort, the students are careful not to be used for anyone’s agenda, they said in an interview with “60 Minutes” on Sunday.

The teens are allowing those who’ve backed them “to help where they can,” Cameron Kasky, a junior at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School, told the program. “But we make sure that we are calling the shots.” Kasky, who is 17, noted that he’s not old enough to book a hotel by himself or secure permits for the upcoming Washington rally. But he also said the teens have turned away money from people who offered donations with strings attached.

It’s not uncommon for robust fundraising efforts to spring up after a high-profile mass shooting. But they’ve typically focused on covering costs for victims and their families. A separate fund for Parkland victims, coordinated by the Broward Education Foundation, is dedicated to those efforts and has raised more than $4 million, according to the campaign’s GoFundMe page.

That makes the March for Our Lives Action Fund, which is focused on national anti-gun violence advocacy, unusual.

A petition on the campaign’s website highlights a few possible legislative priorities for the students, including banning assault weapons like the one used at the Parkland school and closing a loophole in federal background check law. With the Parkland students positioning themselves to be an enduring force in the gun policy debate, it’s also possible that these priorities will continue to evolve after the march.

Although public details are still vague, a number of high-profile figures have pledged donations. The 42 West spokesperson said they have received donations from Oprah Winfrey (a reported $500,000), George and Amal Clooney ($500,000), Gucci ($500,000) “and other gracious donors.”

There is a GoFundMe campaign that had raised more than $3.3 million as of Monday, which is being split equally between the March for Our Lives Action Fund and the Broward Education Foundation.

Students at Baltimore Polytechnic Institute stage a "lie-in" for 17 minutes on March 14 to memorialize the 17 lives lost in the Parkland, Florida, shooting. Students walked out of schools across the country to mark one month since the massacre. The March for Our Lives in Washington, D.C., scheduled for March 24, is expected to draw a broad range of participants. Kim Hairston/Baltimore Sun via Getty Images

There are also a number of large, progressive figures and groups publicly supporting the march, though it’s unclear what kind of guidance they are providing. The gun safety group named for former U.S. Rep. Gabrielle Giffords (D-Ariz.) is continuing to “lend support in any way the students need, especially helping to operationalize these marches, from logistics to programming,” a Giffords spokesman said.

A spokesperson for Everytown for Gun Safety, which is assisting in coordinating sibling marches around the country, emphasized that it’s a “student-led effort.”

As a 501(c)(4) group, March for Our Lives Action Fund is subject to few public disclosure requirements regarding donors or expenditures, meaning the Parkland students and the board aren’t obligated to be fully transparent.

For now, the students seem fired up to continue efforts to fight gun violence in America— even as they acknowledge they’re learning as they go along. “Working with money people and law people and everybody else from home today,” Kasky tweeted last month. “Never thought I’d actually be excited to return to school.”

This is a developing story. Got a tip? scoops@huffingtonpost.comJamilla Clark and Arwa Aziz say the New York Police Department's policy requiring women to remove religious head coverings for booking photos violates their civil rights. icenando via Getty Images

Two Muslim women who were arrested in New York City last year claim that police officers forced them to remove their hijabs to pose for mugshots despite the women’s tearful objections that doing so would deeply violate their faith.

Lawyers for Jamilla Clark and Arwa Aziz filed a federal class-action lawsuit against the city on Friday, seeking unspecified damages and a change to current city policy that requires head coverings to be removed for the police department’s official photo ― even those coverings, like headscarves, that do not obscure a person’s face.

“No New Yorker should be robbed of their right to practice their faith simply because they are arrested,” Albert Fox Cahn, a lawyer representing the women, told HuffPost. “We want city-wide reform because too many New Yorkers have already suffered under our existing policy, forced to undress against their will.”

Cahn, who is the legal director for the New York chapter of the Council on American-Islamic Relations, contends that the New York Police Department’s policy violates people’s right to religious freedom under the First Amendment and federal law. He said the lawsuit seeks to protect any New Yorker who wears religious head coverings that leave the face visible, including hijabs, yarmulkes, turbans and wigs.

“Requiring a Muslim woman to remove her hijab in public is akin to demanding that a secular person strip naked in front of strangers,” the lawsuit argues.

Currently, the NYPD’s patrol guide provides that arrestees who refuse to remove their religious head coverings for their official photo should be transported to police headquarters in Manhattan. There, the arrestee can have the picture taken in private by an officer of the same gender.

The New York City Law Department said in a statement to The Associated Press that it’s confident the current policy “passes constitutional muster.”

“It carefully balances the department’s respect for the customs of all religions with the legitimate law enforcement need to take arrest photos,” the law office said. “Persons who do not wish to remove religious head coverings in front of others have the option of being taken to a separate, more private facility to be photographed.”

Clark, a Muslim woman from Cedar Grove, New Jersey, was arrested on Jan. 9, 2017, at Manhattan Family Court for violating a protective order. The lawsuit claims Clark’s abusive former husband had fabricated the charges underlying that order. The charges were later dismissed by prosecutors, The New York Times reports.

According to the lawsuit, police officers ordered Clark to remove her hijab to pose for a booking photo. She told them that her religious beliefs barred her from removing her hijab in front of men who did not belong to her immediate family. Police then allegedly informed her that she would be prosecuted if she declined, and one officer made “numerous hostile comments about Muslims,” the lawsuit claims.

After being taken to NYPD headquarters, Clark agreed to remove her hijab so that a female officer could take her photo in a private room. But Clark contends that the female officer subsequently showed the photo to approximately five male colleagues.

“When they forced me to take off my hijab, I felt as if I were naked. I’m not sure if words can capture how exposed and violated I felt,” Clark said in a CAIR press release.

Her lawyers claim that the NYPD maintains at least one photograph of Clark without her hijab in its database.

“The existence of this photograph haunts Ms. Clark, who is distressed by the prospect of the photograph being viewed again and again by men who are not members of her immediate family,” the lawsuit says.

“When they forced me to take off my hijab, I felt as if I were naked. I’m not sure if words can capture how exposed and violated I felt.” - Jamilla Clark

Aziz, a woman from Brooklyn, New York, contends that she had a similarly distressing experience with New York police. She was arrested on Aug. 30, 2017, for violating a protective order filed “on false pretenses” by a sister-in-law, her lawyers allege. Those charges would also later be dismissed by prosecutors.

Officers at Brooklyn Central Booking demanded that Aziz remove her hijab for a photo, according to the lawsuit. She refused, explaining that she wore the hijab for religious reasons. She said she offered to pull the headscarf back slightly to reveal her bangs and hairline, but the officers continued to demand that she remove it entirely. Although they also said she could be transported to NYPD headquarters to take the picture, they allegedly claimed that there was no guarantee a female photographer would be present and that the move would force police to “restart” the entire booking process.

Aziz finally agreed to pull the hijab down to her neck. The lawsuit alleges she “wept throughout the entire ordeal” and continues to experience “distress and humiliation” when she thinks about how those pictures may still appear in the NYPD’s database.

For religious reasons, some Muslim women do not remove their hijabs in front of men who are not members of their immediate families. Yasser Chalid via Getty Images

Turning Point for Women and Families, a Queens-based advocacy group for Muslim survivors of domestic violence, is also listed as a plaintiff in the lawsuit. Its executive director, Robina Niaz, said that fear of police officers can discourage her group’s clients from coming forward with allegations of abuse.

“I fear this policy [on head coverings] makes it harder for victims of domestic violence that we serve to report their abusers to the police,” Niaz said in the CAIR press release.

The lawsuit seeks to prohibit the NYPD from requiring the removal of “any religious head or hair covering” for the purpose of post-arrest photographs.

Cahn declined to comment on how he feels the police department should handle booking photos for Muslim women who wear the niqab or burqa, two types of Islamic garments that cover the face. He said this lawsuit focuses exclusively on the rights of detainees whose religious head coverings leave their faces uncovered.

The suit points out that other federal and state entities have policies allowing Muslim women to remain covered in official photos. The U.S. State Department allows religious head coverings in official passport photos. New York’s Department of Motor Vehicles permits women to keep their hijabs on while taking driver’s license photos. Police departments in Michigan, Minnesota and elsewhere also permit religious accommodations in booking photographs.In April, a small group of high school students in Santa Fe, Texas, participated in the national walkout on the 19th anniversary of the Columbine High School shooting ― nearly one month to the day before a gunman would take at least 10 lives at their own school.

Photos from the April 20 protest, organized in response to February’s deadly shooting in Parkland, Florida, show a crowd of about a dozen teens holding signs that say “#NeverAgain.”

Instead of walking out of school at 10 a.m., as the movement’s organizers suggested, the Santa Fe students gathered in front of the school before its 7:05 a.m. start time “so more people would see us,” sophomore Kyle Harris, 16, told HuffPost.

“I wanted people to know that I will stand up for what I believe,” Harris said.

It was the first time any of the students ― a mix of other sophomores, some juniors and one senior ― protested gun violence at their school, he said.

Police arrested a suspect, reportedly identified as 17-year-old Dimitrios Pagourtzis, Friday morning shortly after the shooting. Officials say they have detained another “person of interest” and believe both to be Santa Fe students.

Twitter/mukethemusical

Another Santa Fe student who participated in the April 20 protest said members of the group had read a poem by a Parkland survivor, passed around “gun violence fact sheets” and orange ribbons ― the color associated with the gun control movement ― and observed 17 minutes of silence, one minute for each of the Parkland victims.

They then “talked about ways to raise awareness for gun violence, and make your voice heard,” she wrote.

The student declined to comment for this story.

In the hours after the shooting, another student shared the text of a speech she’d originally intended to read during the April 20 protest.

twitter/mukethemusical

“I am another teenager among the thousands in this country who fear every single day that their hallways are unsafe and that their campuses are, too. At this very school, we were exposed to that same fear. And you never think it will be you... until it is you,” she wrote.

The student continued: “Our country is the only country who believes that an amendment passed hundreds of years ago is still relevant and untouchable. This is coming from a time when a musket was the weapon of choice. The world and its people have changed a lot in those 200 plus years, and we must help to change our government, too.”

She did not respond to a request for comment for this story.

As of Friday afternoon, law enforcement officials said they are still searching for explosive devices around the high school area.Get happy, because the first look at Renee Zellweger as Judy Garland is here.

The Oscar winner is set to play the superstar singer and actress in the upcoming biopic “Judy.” The film is set during the winter of 1968 ― a year before Garland’s tragic death ― at a series of concerts in London.

Directed by Rupert Goold with a script from “The Crown” writer Tom Edge, “Judy” picks up 30 years after “The Wizard of Oz” as Garland performs for sold-out shows at The Talk of the Town nightclub, while also struggling with demons in her personal life.

Garland “battles with management, charms musicians and reminisces with friends and adoring fans” in the film, according to the official synopsis. She also finds love with Mickey Deans, who became her fifth and final husband.

After more than 40 years in show business, the legendary star is “exhausted; haunted by memories of a childhood lost to Hollywood and gripped by a desire to be back home with her kids,” the synopsis says. She was found dead in her home at age 47 from an accidental barbiturate overdose, just months after the tour came to a close.

“Judy” will feature performances of some of Garland’s best known songs, including “Over the Rainbow.” It’s unclear if Zellweger will sing, or if the filmmakers will use Garland’s vocals. Zellweger proved she’s more than capable in song and dance as Roxie Hart in “Chicago,” which earned her a Best Actress nod at the Oscars.

AdvertisementPrince Harry and Meghan Markle’s love story is getting the Lifetime treatment in the upcoming film “Harry & Meghan: A Royal Romance.” The movie’s first teaser trailer is here and it’s schmaltzy, to say the least.

Starring Parisa Fitz-Henley as Markle and Murray Fraser as Harry, the trailer offers a glimpse of the couple’s engagement (over a roasted chicken), a trip to what looks like Botswana and, of course, a few cheesy lines of dialogue.

“I don’t need my life to be this perfect royal picture,” Fraser tells the fake version of the “Suits” actress. “I just need you.”

A post shared by Parisa Fitz-Henley (@parisafitzhenley) on Mar 13, 2018 at 9:06am PDT

The movie is set to premiere on Sunday, May 13, at 8 p.m. EST, just a few days before the couple’s real royal nuptials take place on Saturday, May 19.Dan Scavino with President Donald Trump after the president addressed a joint session of Congress on Feb. 28, 2017. Tom Williams via Getty Images

Jennifer Scavino, the wife of Dan Scavino, an aide to President Donald Trump who serves as White House social media director, filed for divorce in late January 2018, county records reveal. Scavino, who is one of Trump’s closest aides, holds the title of assistant to the president, the highest-ranking staff position in the White House, one that he shares with aides like Kellyanne Conway, White House Counsel Don McGhan, and Trump’s son-in-law Jared Kushner, among others.

Jennifer Scavino filed for divorce on Jan. 18, 2018 in Dutchess County, New York, where the Scavinos own a home. In county records, she is listed as the plaintiff, while her husband is listed as the defendant. Not much else is known about the cause of divorce, as the state of New York keeps divorce records under seal, and they can only be accessed by the parties involved and their attorneys.

The Scavinos have two children. A wedding announcement in the Poughkeepsie Journal says they were married on Sept. 23, 2000.

The White House declined to comment. Jennifer Scavino did not reply to an email requesting comment by the time of publication.

Scavino, 42, has a long history with Trump and the Trump family. He met then- businessman Donald J. Trump in 1990, when he served as his caddie, and later served as the general manager of one of his golf clubs. Scavino was just 16 years old at the time.

A June 2017 profile of Scavino in Politico characterized him as “the president’s mini-me, a man whose bombast, impulse control and instinct for a good punch match those of his boss.”

During the 2016 presidential campaign, Scavino was a constant at Trump’s side and could often be seen at campaign rallies taking photographs or filming video, which he would post on Trump’s social media accounts. Scavino first gained national attention in July 2016 after it was revealed that he was responsible for sourcing and tweeting, from Trump’s account, an image of Hillary Clinton that many critics saw as anti-Semitic because the backdrop was a sea of cash along with a six-pointed star (like the Star of David) and the words “most corrupt candidate ever!”

In a tweet posted three days after the controversy erupted, Scavino said, “For the MSM to suggest that I am antisemite is AWFUL. I proudly celebrate holidays w/ my wife’s amazing Jewish family for the past 16 years.”

For the MSM to suggest that I am antisemite is AWFUL. I proudly celebrate holidays w/ my wife's amazing Jewish family for the past 16 years. — Dan Scavino Jr. (@DanScavino) July 5, 2016

While at the White House, Scavino has continued his bombastic style of tweeting, which has led him to run afoul of the law. In June 2017, after the Democratic-leaning watchdog organization, CREW, filed a complaint, the Office of the Special Counsel said that Scavino had violated the Hatch Act when he tweeted at Rep. Justin Amash (R-Mich.) and encouraged Trump supporters to defeat him. The Hatch Act limits certain political activities of federal government employees.

The tweet came about when Trump was in a spat with some members of the Freedom Caucus, of which Amash is a member. The representative had refused to support Trump’s plan to repeal the Affordable Care Act.

.@realDonaldTrump is bringing auto plants & jobs back to Michigan. @justinamash is a big liability.#TrumpTrain, defeat him in primary. — Dan Scavino Jr. (@DanScavino) April 1, 2017

Outside of controversial tweets, Scavino has generally kept a low profile in the administration, and he has only talked about his wife when referencing his advocacy for Lyme disease awareness and research. Jennifer Scavino has grappled with the disease for over a decade. (Scavino believes his wife got it from a tick bite while she was gardening in their backyard.)

Two months before Trump launched his campaign for the presidency in 2015, Scavino tweeted an image of his wife with the caption: “My amazing wife, Jennifer has Chronic Inflammatory Polyneuropathy Disease from a tick, resulting in Lyme Disease. We are both 39 years old. 10 years of this awful neurological disease, she is my hero. Not once feeling sorry for herself or really even talking about it outside of our home. While I had to leave my career, I have and will be with her every step of the way. Today is treatment day. Thoughts & prayers to everyone & anyone with neurological disease.”It appears Ben Affleck needs to backtrack on his previous statements about his back tattoo.

The actor was spotted training for a film over the weekend in Hawaii, revealing the massive, colorful back tattoo of a phoenix he previously insisted was temporary. (See it around 0:20 in the video above.)

Affleck’s gigantic tattoo first rose from the ashes made headlines in July 2015, shortly after he split from Jennifer Garner.

Paparazzi finally got a photo of the red, yellow and blue tattoo when the actor was on the set of “Live by Night” later that year. But in an interview with Mario Lopez, Affleck denied the ink was real.

“[It’s] fake for a movie,” he said. “I actually do have a number of tattoos but I try to have them in places where you don’t have to do a lot of cover-up. They get sort of addictive, tattoos, after a while.”

Affleck reveals his tattoo on the set of "Live By Night" on Dec. 8, 2015. BACKGRID

In an interview with Vanity Fair, Garner made it clear she didn’t approve of her ex’s ink one bit.

“You know what we would say in my hometown about that? ‘Bless his heart.’ A phoenix rising from the ashes. Am I the ashes in this scenario?” the actress said in 2016. “I take umbrage. I refuse to be the ashes.”

Jennifer Lopez, Affleck’s former fiancee, also didn’t have kind things to say about the tat when she appeared on “Watch What Happens Live” in 2016.

“It’s awful! I would tell him that,” she said. “I would tell him, ‘What are you doing?’ It has too many colors. His tattoos always had too many colors.”Sens. Kirsten Gillibrand (D-N.Y.) and Kamala Harris (D-Calif.) co-sponsored the Stop Enabling Sex Trafficking Act (SESTA). Michael Kovac via Getty Images

Twenty-four Senate Democrats, including potential presidential candidates Kamala Harris (D-Calif.) and Kirsten Gillibrand (D-N.Y.), have thrown their weight behind a soon-to-pass bill that is supposed to protect sex workers but would actually put them at greater risk by making it harder for them to use the websites they rely on to protect their identities and screen clients, according to sex workers and their advocates.

The Senate could vote as early as this week on the Stop Enabling Sex Trafficking Act (SESTA). A version of the legislation easily passed the House, 388-25, late last month. Both proposals would hold online platforms, such as Craigslist and the personal classifieds site Backpage, liable for user content related to sex trafficking. This could encourage websites to censor sex-related ads to protect themselves from litigation, free-speech advocates warn. Sex workers would have to turn to methods that offer less privacy to promote their services, making it tougher to screen clients or warn others about dangerous customers.

Voluntary sex work is often conflated with sex trafficking, which is less common than trafficking of people into farm, factory or household labor. But many sex workers are not victims of the sex trade or human trafficking; they are self-supporting and have decided for themselves to do the work. Given harsh prostitution laws across the country, sex workers often work underground and depend on sites like Backpage, which allow users to screen clients, protect their identities and find clients.

SESTA’s opponents argue that making websites liable for sex trafficking-related content will push both sex trafficking and voluntary sex work further underground ― leaving trafficking victims and voluntary sex workers worse off than they are now.

Once websites are legally liable for user-related content related to sex trafficking, they’ll turn to automated filters to find and delete that content, predicted Elliot Harmon, an activist at Election Freedom Frontier. But automated filters, while useful to site moderators, aren’t an effective method of monitoring content, leading to needless censorship. Google’s PerspectiveAPI, an automated filter meant to monitor “toxicity” in online discussions, was unable to differentiate between “I am a Jew” and “I don’t like Jews.” There’s no reason to believe automated filters will be any better at differentiating between ads for voluntary sex work and those tied to sex trafficking than they were at identifying anti-Semitism, Harmon added. And sites that can’t post sex workers’ ads without fear of being sued probably won’t post them at all.

“When websites are shut down, the sex trade is pushed underground and sex trafficking victims are forced into even more dangerous circumstances.” - Jean Burggeman, Freedom Network USA

And pushing sex work-related ads offline will leave sex-trafficking victims even worse off than they are now, said Jean Bruggeman, executive director of Freedom Network USA, an advocacy group that supports victims of human trafficking. Ads for sex work that appear online are easier to monitor and track than ones that appear elsewhere, Bruggeman noted. Without an online platform, sex traffickers and their victims will be more difficult to track down; having a digital footprint is actually helpful when it comes to finding and rescuing victims.

“When websites are shut down, the sex trade is pushed underground and sex trafficking victims are forced into even more dangerous circumstances,” Bruggeman said. Under SESTA, “trafficking victims face even more violence, are less likely to be identified, with less evidence of their victimization.”

SESTA “boasts of being the answer to uncovering and punishing those engaged in sex trafficking online, but what it actually is about is internet censorship,” Briq House, communications director for the Sex Worker Outreach Project-USA, which promotes the decriminalization of sex work, wrote last summer. “Without proper ways to establish identity, set service boundaries and screen people properly, this bill could turn casual meet-ups into life-or-death situation.”

The bill is cruising toward passage anyway. Its most prominent Democratic backers were reluctant to address sex workers’ critiques of the measure.

Harris, who as California attorney general charged the CEO of Backpage with felony pimping, did not respond to requests for comment, and Gillibrand’s office cited the fact that the bill has broad support from sex trafficking advocacy groups, tech groups and faith leaders.

A spokesman for Sen. Rob Portman (R-Ohio), the bill’s Republican author, similarly declined to comment on sex workers’ concerns and also pointed to the list of groups backing the proposal.

But some of the bill’s backers insist it will protect women who are at risk.

“I have a constituent whose daughter was trafficked and then killed using Backpage and these sites,” said Sen. Tammy Duckworth (D-Ill.). “We have to do something.”

“I think we need to do everything we can to try and shut down those websites,” said Sen. Jeanne Shaheen (D-N.H.). “But there are a lot of other things we need to do to support victims and to make sure law enforcement has the tools they need.”

About a dozen human trafficking organizations have endorsed the bills, including the National Center for Missing and Exploited Children, the Trafficking in America Task Force and the New Jersey Coalition Against Human Trafficking.

“Lawmakers are not listening to us.” - Ty Mitchell, queer culture writer, drag queen and gay porn performer

“This bill targets the business model of companies like Backpage.com by opening the door to civil liability and allowing states to enforce their trafficking laws when online entities choose to profit from the exploitation of sex trafficking victims,” Christine Raino of Shared Hope International, a religious-based organization focused on preventing sex trafficking, wrote in support of the measure. Major websites including Facebook, Google and Oracle also support SESTA.

But several groups that advocate for sex workers are concerned that no one is talking to those who would be most affected.

“Sex workers across the country, including survivors of sex trafficking, are vehemently opposed” to both the House and Senate versions, Ty Mitchell wrote for HuffPost Opinion last week. “But lawmakers are not listening to us.”

Congress’s attempt to combat sex trafficking is a good thing, Bruggeman said, but these laws are drawn up without consulting sex workers and victims of sex trafficking about their lived experiences.

That several feminist senators who are otherwise outspoken advocates for sexual assault survivors support the legislation is also a disappointing factor for many sex workers ― a group often left out of mainstream feminist movements to begin with.

“I live in California, and Kamala Harris is my senator. It has been dispiriting, to say the least, to see her zeal in using law enforcement to crack down on voluntary sex workers in an effort to combat trafficking,” Lola Davina, a former sex worker and author, told HuffPost. “I wish Senator Harris would take the time to actually talk directly to voluntary sex workers to learn about their lives and livelihoods. Sex work is often an occupation of last resort that women, queers and trans folk fall back on when they have few other options .… Making their work even more dangerous, more marginal, more stigmatized, more difficult does nothing to help them ― they are collateral damage in the fight against trafficking.”

And Davina isn’t sold on the idea that senators have assembled a broad coalition of advocacy groups to back SESTA.

“I wish lawmakers would see voluntary sex workers for what they are,” she said. “Small business owners attempting to promote their services, which, when consensual, harm no one.”Irish Prime Minister Leo Varadkar (left) said marching alongside his partner, Matt Barrett, at the St. Patrick's Day Parade in New York on Saturday was a sign "of change, a sign of great diversity." Anadolu Agency via Getty Images

Irish Prime Minister Leo Varadkar capped off his much-heralded U.S. visit by marching alongside his partner, Matt Barrett, in New York City’s St. Patrick’s Day Parade this weekend.

Varadkar, the first openly gay man elected to lead his country, and Barrett watched the Saturday festivities from St. Patrick’s Cathedral in Manhattan before joining the parade next to New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo (D).

It was a powerful gesture, given that LGBTQ groups had been banned from participating in the parade until 2015. Among the most outspoken critics of the ban was New York Mayor Bill de Blasio (D), who opted for the queer-inclusive St. Pat’s For All Parade in neighboring Queens in 2014.

That same year, producers of the Irish dry stout Guinness cited the ban as their incentive to drop their sponsorship of the Manhattan parade. (The company resumed its sponsorship the next year when the ban had been dropped.)

“Only a few years ago people couldn’t march under the rainbow banner, but that has all changed,” Varadkar (center) said. Anadolu Agency via Getty Images

The symbolism wasn’t lost on Varadkar. The prime minister said the chance to march with Barrett, a cardiologist who resides in Chicago, by his side was a “real privilege.”

“Only a few years ago people couldn’t march under the rainbow banner, but that has all changed,” Varadkar told media at the parade.

He added, “I’m going to be able to march in the parade now with my partner which is something that is a sign, I think, of change, a sign of great diversity, not just in Ireland, but in the community here as well.”

We have a long way to go, and there is always plenty to criticise, but Taoiseach @campaignforleo marching with his partner in a parade that until recently banned LGBT groups is progress worth marking. #StPatricksDay pic.twitter.com/xTW7McHFHT — Ruairí McKiernan (@ruairimckiernan) March 17, 2018

Cuomo shared similar sentiments, saying he was “proud to march alongside” the prime minister on Twitter Saturday.

“Today as every day, New Yorkers know diversity is our greatest strength,” he wrote.

A Happy #StPatricksDay to all. May the luck of the Irish be with you.



Today as every day, New Yorkers know diversity is our greatest strength.



Proud to march alongside Prime Minister Leo Varadkar. pic.twitter.com/ub4Nx6RxCE — Andrew Cuomo (@NYGovCuomo) March 17, 2018

The evening before the parade, Varadkar dropped by the Stonewall National Monument in New York’s Greenwich Village for a photo op. The nearby Stonewall Inn and its environs were the site of the 1969 riots considered the symbolic start of the modern day LGBTQ rights movement.

My first visit to the Stonewall monument. Really proud to be here #StPatricksDay pic.twitter.com/JOjlpMnbrf — Leo Varadkar (@campaignforleo) March 16, 2018

It was an eventful, weeklong visit for Varadkar, who took office last June.

He reportedly touched on trade, military assistance and cybersecurity during a March 15 meeting with President Donald Trump at the White House.

“He was aware of European affairs in terms of trade, and was also very aware that we have a low tax regime,” Varadkar later said of the meeting. “I wouldn’t say he was an expert on Ireland, but he had an awareness of issues relating to Ireland and gave us a lot of time during the day, which I think was very welcome.”Russian President Vladimir Putin won a landslide re-election victory on Sunday, extending his rule over the world’s largest country for another six years at a time when his ties with the West are on a hostile trajectory.

Putin’s thumping victory will extend his total time in office to nearly a quarter of a century, until 2024, by which time he will be 71. Only Soviet dictator Josef Stalin ruled for longer. Putin has promised to use his new term to beef up Russia’s defenses against the West and to raise living standards.

In a widely-expected result, an exit poll by pollster VTsIOM showed Putin, who has already dominated the political landscape for the last 18 years, had won 73.9 percent of the vote. Backed by state TV, the ruling party, and credited with an approval rating around 80 percent, his victory was never in doubt.

None of the seven candidates who ran against him posed a threat, and opposition leader Alexei Navalny was barred from running. Critics alleged that officials had compelled people to come to the polls to ensure that voter boredom at the one-sided contest did not lead to a low turnout.

Russia’s Central Election Commission recognized that there were some irregularities, but were likely to dismiss wider criticism and declare the overall result legitimate.

Putin loyalists said the result was a vindication of his tough stance towards the West.

“I think that in the United States and Britain they’ve understood they cannot influence our elections,” Igor Morozov, a member of the upper house of parliament,” said on state television. “Our citizens understand what sort of situation Russian finds itself in today.”

The immediate question is if and when opponents like Navalny organize protests, citing widespread fraud, and how large and sustained those protests will be. A senior opposition politician has warned they could descend into street clashes if police crack down too hard on demonstrators.

The longer-term question is whether Putin will soften his anti-Western rhetoric now the election is won.

HOSTILE RELATIONS

Putin’s bellicose language reached a crescendo before the election in a state-of-the-nation speech when he unveiled new nuclear weapons, saying they could hit almost any point in the world and evade a U.S.-built missile shield.

At odds with the West over Syria, Ukraine, allegations of Russian election meddling and cyber attacks, and the poisoning in Britain of a former Russian spy and his daughter, relations between Moscow and the West are at a post Cold War low.

Putin, 65, has been in power, either as president or prime minister, since 2000.

Allies laud the former KGB agent as a father-of-the-nation figure who has restored national pride and expanded Moscow’s global clout with interventions in Syria and Ukraine.

Critics accuse him of overseeing a corrupt authoritarian system and of illegally annexing Ukraine’s Crimea in 2014, a move that isolated Russia internationally.

Western sanctions on Russia imposed over Crimea and Moscow’s backing of a pro-Russian separatist uprising in eastern Ukraine remain in place and have damaged the Russian economy, which only rebounded last year after a prolonged downturn.

Britain and Russia are also locked in a diplomatic dispute over the spy poisoning incident, and Washington is eyeing new sanctions on Moscow over allegations it interfered in the 2016 U.S. presidential election, something Russia flatly denies.

Officials and analysts say there is little agreement among Putin’s top policymakers on an economic strategy for his new term.

How long Putin wants to stay in power is uncertain.

The constitution limits the president to two successive terms, obliging him to step down at the end of his new mandate ― as he did in 2008 after serving two four-year terms. The presidential term was extended from four to six years, starting in 2012.

Although Putin has six years to consider a possible successor, uncertainty about his long-term future is a potential source of instability in a fractious ruling elite that only he can keep in check.

Kremlin insiders say Putin has selected no heir apparent, and that any names being circulated are the product of speculation, not knowledge of Putin’s thinking.

“The longer he stays in power, the harder it will be to exit,” said Andrei Kolesnikov, senior fellow at the Carnegie Moscow Center, a think tank. “How can he abandon such a complicated system, which is essentially his personal project?”

(Additional reporting by Reuters reporters Writing by Andrew Osborn Editing by Christian Lowe)U.S. Attorney General Jeff Sessions testifies before a House Judiciary Committee hearing on oversight of the Justice Department on Capitol Hill in Washington, U.S., November 14, 2017. (REUTERS/Yuri Gripas) Yuri Gripas / Reuters

By Karen Freifeld, Sarah N. Lynch and Mark Hosenball

WASHINGTON, March 18 (Reuters) - U.S. Attorney General Jeff Sessions’ testimony that he opposed a proposal for President Donald Trump’s 2016 campaign team to meet with Russians has been contradicted by three people who told Reuters they have spoken about the matter to investigators with Special Counsel Robert Mueller or congressional committees.

Sessions testified before Congress in November 2017 that he “pushed back” against the proposal made by former campaign adviser George Papadopoulos at a March 31, 2016 campaign meeting. Then a senator from Alabama, Sessions chaired the meeting as head of the Trump campaign’s foreign policy team.

“Yes, I pushed back,” Sessions told the House Judiciary Committee on Nov. 14, when asked whether he shut down Papadopoulos’ proposed outreach to Russia. Sessions has since also been interviewed by Mueller.

Three people who attended the March campaign meeting told Reuters they gave their version of events to FBI agents or congressional investigators probing Russian interference in the 2016 election. Although the accounts they provided to Reuters differed in certain respects, all three, who declined to be identified, said Sessions had expressed no objections to Papadopoulos’ idea.

However, another meeting attendee, J.D. Gordon, who was the Trump campaign’s director of national security, told media outlets including Reuters in November that Sessions strongly opposed Papadopoulos’ proposal and said no one should speak of it again. In response to a request for comment, Gordon said on Saturday that he stood by his statement.

Sessions, through Justice Department spokeswoman Sarah Isgur Flores, declined to comment beyond his prior testimony. The special counsel’s office also declined to comment. Spokeswomen for the Democrats and Republicans on the House Judiciary Committee did not immediately comment.

Reuters was unable to determine whether Mueller is probing discrepancies in accounts of the March 2016 meeting.

The three accounts, which have not been reported, raise new questions about Sessions’ testimony regarding contacts with Russia during the campaign.

Sessions previously failed to disclose to Congress meetings he had with former Russian Ambassador Sergey Kislyak, and testified in October that he was not aware of any campaign representatives communicating with Russians.

Some Democrats have seized on discrepancies in Sessions’ testimony to suggest the attorney general may have committed perjury. A criminal charge would require showing Sessions intended to deceive. Sessions told the House Judiciary Committee that he had always told the truth and testified to the best of his recollection.

Legal experts expressed mixed views about the significance of the contradictions cited by the three sources.

Sessions could argue he misremembered events or perceived his response in a different way, making any contradictions unintentional, some experts said.

Jonathan Turley, a law professor at George Washington University, said Sessions’ words might be too vague to form the basis of a perjury case because there could be different interpretations of what the term pushing back means.

“If you’re talking about false statements, prosecutors look for something that is concrete and clear,” he said.

Other legal experts said, however, that repeated misstatements by Sessions could enable prosecutors to build a perjury case against him.

“Proving there was intent to lie is a heavy burden for the prosecution. But now you have multiple places where Sessions has arguably made false statements,” said Bennett Gershman, a Pace University law professor.

The March 2016 campaign meeting in Washington was memorialized in a photo Trump posted on Instagram of roughly a dozen men sitting around a table, including Trump, Sessions and Papadopoulos.

Papadopoulos, who pleaded guilty in October to lying to the Federal Bureau of Investigation about his Russia contacts, is now cooperating with Mueller.

According to court documents released after his guilty plea, Papadopoulos said at the campaign meeting that he had connections who could help arrange a meeting between Trump and Russian President Vladimir Putin.

Papadopoulos continued to pursue Russian contacts after the March 2016 meeting and communicated with some campaign officials about his efforts, according to the court documents.

Trump has said that he does not remember much of what happened at the “very unimportant” campaign meeting. Trump has said he did not meet Putin before becoming president.

Moscow has denied meddling in the election and Trump has denied his campaign colluded with Russia.Senator Bob Corker (R-TN) speaks to reporters as he arrives for a nomination vote at the U.S. Capitol in Washington, U.S., December 19, 2017. (REUTERS/Joshua Roberts) Joshua Roberts / Reuters

WASHINGTON, March 18 (Reuters) - Republican U.S. Senator Bob Corker, chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, said he expects President Donald Trump to pull out of the Iran nuclear agreement in May.

“The Iran deal will be another issue that’s coming up in May, and right now it doesn’t feel like it’s gonna be extended,” Corker told CBS’ “Face the Nation” in an interview broadcast Sunday.

“I think the president likely will move away from it unless my, our European counterparts really come together on a framework. And it doesn’t feel to me that they are,” he said.

Britain, France and Germany have proposed fresh EU sanctions on Iran over its ballistic missiles program and its role in Syria’s war in a bid to persuade Washington to preserve the 2015 nuclear deal with Tehran, according to a confidential document seen by Reuters.

The proposal is part of an EU strategy to save the accord signed by world powers that curbs Tehran’s ability to develop nuclear weapons, namely by showing U.S. President Donald Trump there are other ways to counter Iranian power abroad.

Trump delivered an ultimatum to the European signatories on Jan. 12. It said they must agree to “fix the terrible flaws of the Iran nuclear deal,” which was agreed under his predecessor Barack Obama, or he would refuse to extend U.S. sanctions relief on Iran. U.S. sanctions will resume unless Trump issues fresh “waivers” to suspend them on May 12.

Asked if he believed Trump would pull out on May 12, the deadline for the president to issue a new waiver to suspend Iran sanctions as part of the deal, Corker responded, “I do. I do.”GOP lawmakers offered a muted response on Sunday to the prospect of President Donald Trump pushing for the removal of special counsel Robert Mueller as head of the investigation into Russian interference in the 2016 presidential election.

The questions came on the heels of Attorney General Jeff Sessions’ firing of FBI deputy director Andrew McCabe on Friday, less than two days before McCabe was set to retire with full benefits. Most Republicans have opted not to weigh in on McCabe’s firing.

Trump’s attorney, John Dowd, on Saturday followed up on the move by urging the Justice Department to immediately end the special counsel probe, leading many to speculate that Mueller’s job could be the next one in peril.

Sen. Marco Rubio (R-Fla.) didn’t appear to share those concerns during a Sunday interview on NBC’s “Meet the Press.” Rubio offered cursory support for Mueller, while advising him against expanding the probe too widely.

Rubio expressed hope that the investigation “is going to arrive at the truth and is not going to go down rabbit holes that are not places that we need to be going.”

Some Republicans have cried foul at news that Mueller’s investigation has begun to look into Trump’s personal business ties to Russia, a move that has included a subpoena of the Trump Organization.

Mueller has also requested documents pertaining to the Trump campaign’s correspondence with data firm Cambridge Analytica, which ran the data operations for his White House bid and reportedly violated policies protecting the privacy of Facebook users.

Sen. @MarcoRubio on the Mueller investigation: “I remain confident that the Special Counsel is going to conduct a probe that is fair and thorough and is going to arrive at the truth and is not going to go down rabbit holes that are not places that we need to be going.” #MTP — Chuck Todd (@chucktodd) March 18, 2018

Sen. James Lankford (R-Okla.) similarly downplayed the alarm over Mueller’s potential sacking, calling Dowd’s statement “not different than what an attorney does typically.”

In an interview on ABC’s “This Week,” the senator maintained that Trump would not have Mueller fired because the White House wants him “to be able to finish the investigation.”

But he also echoed Trump’s criticism of the composition of Mueller’s team, calling it “odd” that the former FBI chief had selected a number of Democrats.

Sen. Rand Paul (R-Ky.), appearing on CNN’s “State of the Union” program, seemed even less perturbed by the prospect of Mueller’s firing.

When @jaketapper asks if he would be bothered if Trump fired Robert Mueller, Rand Paul says he “wouldn’t advocate for it.” — Kaitlan Collins (@kaitlancollins) March 18, 2018

On the same show, Sen. Lindsey Graham (R-S.C.) offered a markedly different response, suggesting that if Trump pushed to remove Mueller, it would spur impeachment proceedings.

Lindsey Graham reiterates this to Trump when asked by @jaketapper about the potential firing of Mueller. “If he tried to do that, that would be the beginning of the end of his presidency. We are a rule-of-laws nation. “ — Manu Raju (@mkraju) March 18, 2018

Sen. Jeff Flake (R-Ariz.), a persistent Trump critic, shared Graham’s view. He said on “State of the Union” that some of his Republican colleagues had told him they’d treat Mueller’s firing as a “massive red line that can’t be crossed.”

Democrats warned that any move to undercut the special counsel probe would serve as a threat to democracy.

“This would undoubtedly result in a constitutional crisis, and I think Democrats and Republicans need to speak out about this right now,” Rep. Adam Schiff of California, the ranking Democrat on the House Intelligence Committee, said on “This Week.” “Members need to speak out now, don’t wait for the crisis.”

Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer (D-N.Y.) issued a similar statement, accusing Trump of “floating trial balloons about derailing the Mueller investigation,”The show’s second trailer was released Friday, featuring clips from sketches and monologues that will give you a much better idea of what to expect.The Federal Election Commission has launched an investigation to determine if the National Rifle Association accepted illegal contributions from Russian nationals or organizations to support President Donald Trump’s campaign, Politico reports.

The FEC does not comment on ongoing investigations, but an NRA attorney told aides for Sen. Ron Wyden (D-Ore.) that the gun lobbying group was already “answering questions about possible Russian donations as part of an FEC inquiry,” according to a statement from Wyden’s office provided to Politico.

It’s illegal to use foreign money to influence federal elections.

The preliminary probe follows a complaint from the American Democracy Legal Fund. The ADLF called on the FEC to investigate “whether the NRA violated federal law by taking illegal contributions from foreign nationals in connection with the 2016 presidential election and violated the Federal Election Campaign Act of 1971,” according to the complaint.

Brad Woodhouse, ADLF treasurer, told Politico he received confirmation from the FEC that it had launched a preliminary investigation into the organization’s complaint.

McClatchy reported in January that the FBI was investigating if Alexander Torshin, the deputy governor of Russia’s central bank who has ties to Russian President Vladimir Putin, was funneling money to the NRA for the Trump campaign. Torshin, a lifetime member of the NRA, reached out to members of the Trump campaign through the organization, according to McClatchy. He also hosted dinners for NRA executives during a trip to Moscow in 2015.

The NRA spent a record amount on 2016 elections, including $21 million to back Trump and $14 million to attack Hillary Clinton.

Wyden, a senior member of the Senate Intelligence Committee and ranking member of the Finance Committee, has also been looking into any links between Russian funds to the Trump campaign funneled through the NRA, and has sent letters to the gun lobbying group seeking information.

“I am specifically troubled by the possibility that Russian-backed shell companies or intermediaries may have circumvented laws designed to prohibit foreign meddling in our elections by abusing the rules governing tax exempt organizations,” Wyden wrote to the NRA in early February.

The NRA responded that, as a “longstanding policy to conform with federal election law, the NRA [does] not accept funds from foreign persons or entities in connection with United States elections.”Michigan entered the NCAA tournament as a hot pick for the Final Four and a Vegas favorite to outplay its No. 3 seed.

Houston had other ideas Saturday in a second-round NCAA matchup, seemingly having the game in hand with senior forward Devin Davis securing a rebound and picking up a foul with 3.9 seconds left and the Cougars holding a 63-61 lead.

But Davis missed both of his free throws, setting up freshman Jordan Poole and the Wolverines for a moment they will never forget.

Jordan Poole is a freshman. And he just hit this buzzer beater to send Michigan to the Sweet 16.#MarchMadness pic.twitter.com/82G13HvExP — Yahoo Sports (@YahooSports) March 18, 2018

Poole’s desperation 3-pointer at the buzzer on a pass from senior guard Muhammad-Ali Abdur-Rahkman secured a 64-63 Michigan win and a date next weekend in the Sweet 16.

Poole told reporters that he didn’t even know the shot went in until he saw the reaction from the Michigan bench.

“We work on that play thousands of times in practice,” Poole said. “We executed it perfectly, especially from the inbounds pass, getting it to our senior guard Muhammad. Ham could have put the shot up easily, but he had the confidence to find me, and I just knocked the shot down.

“I think the guys on the team know that I never lose confidence. You’ve just got to always be ready for the opportunity and for the moment.”

Poole, a streaky shooter and spot rotation player hitting 37.8 percent of his 3-pointers, entered the game on a cold run, having scored just 16 points in the Wolverines’ previous five games. In contrast, he hit five 3-pointers against Indiana on Dec. 2.

Jordan Poole and teammates celebrate Poole's 3-point buzzer beater for a 64-63 win as Devin Davis of the Houston Cougars is seen on the ground. Jeff Gross via Getty Images

He obviously found his stroke at the right time.

He finished the game with eight points on 3-of-5 shooting from the field in 11 minutes off the bench.

“We had him in the scout team earlier in the year because he was still growing and was not a guy that was in our top nine,” Michigan coach Jim Beilein said of Poole after the game. “And the shot clock would get down and, you know, the first team’s all excited they’re going to get a stop, and he’d put in a buzzer shot.”

Davis, meanwhile, was great at the line throughout the game but missed three of his last four free throws as he finished 9-of-12 from the stripe.

It was a stunning finish that demonstrated the immense joy and devastating heartbreak the NCAA tournament is known for.

The game was tight throughout as both teams struggled to score and traded the lead 17 times. Houston shot 37 percent from the field while Michigan managed to hit 35.6 percent of its field goals.

Junior forward Mortiz Wagner did most of the damage for Michigan with 12 points, seven rebounds and three assists while Abdur-Rahkman also logged 12 points. Charles Matthews and Duncan Robinson were the only other Wolverines in double figures with 11 points each.

Rob Gray, Houston’s leading scorer, filled up the box score with 23 points and 10 rebounds, but needed 22 shots to get there. Davis put in a productive 35 minutes, logging 17 points and seven rebounds that will be of little solace after he missed those final free throws.

Michigan will move on to face the winner of Sunday’s matchup between North Carolina and Texas A&M. The Wolverines will depend on the stifling defense that led them to the Big Ten tournament title and through the first weekend of the NCAA tournament, but will likely need more from their offense to advance to the next round.

But Saturday’s not a night for Michigan to contemplate what’s next. It’s a night for celebration.

John Beilein knows how to party. pic.twitter.com/LD3NXthMKs — CBS Sports (@CBSSports) March 18, 2018

Read more from Yahoo Sports: