Frederick M. Brown via Getty Images

This article originally appeared on Outsports

Gus Kenworthy, fresh off a Winter Olympics that saw his profile soar for being an openly gay athlete, will be the grand marshal of the Miami Beach Gay Pride parade, Sunday, April 8, beginning at noon along Ocean Avenue.

Kenworthy, a freestyle skier, will be joined at the head of the parade by Roxanne Vargas, a local TV anchor who is designated as the ally grand marshal.

“Gus and Roxy are two preeminent public figures who well represent and support the LGBTQ community. Gus for being a role model as an out and proud sportsman who excels at his craft and Roxy for being a prominent ally for the community and equal rights,” said Mark Fernandes, chairman of the Pride board of directors.

Kenworthy did not medal at the Pyeongchang Games, but became a sensation after his kiss with boyfriend Matt Wilkas before the slopestyle competition was aired live on NBC. Along with skater Adam Rippon, Kenworthy became an important symbol of living and thriving as an out athlete. Both men came out as gay in 2015.

Miami Beach Gay Pride is one of the earliest LGBT events in the nation, so it’s possible that this won’t be the only parade where Kenworthy is the grand marshal.

AdvertisementAdult Swim has yet ordered new episodes of “Rick and Morty,” according to show co-creator Dan Harmon.

Harmon was making a joke on a tweet from “Lore” podcast creator Aaron Mahnke when a fan berated him for wasting time on Twitter and not writing more episodes of the program that wrapped up its third season last October.

Quit wasting time and go finish the next R&M season, you lazy alcoholic. Run the Jewels can get the animators to make a music video, but we're waiting on them for the next season? Nah, we're waiting on you to finish writing it, like that fuckin book. — DJ Wise Pariah (@DJWisePariah) March 16, 2018

Harmon ― known to respond directly to fans on Twitter, often in a refreshing self-deprecating way ― laid it out pretty plainly for the fan on why he hasn’t started writing Season 4: The network hasn’t asked for it.

I hear ya, tough spot. On one hand, it can be challenging, especially with crippling lazy alcoholism, to write a show that hasn’t been ordered by a network. On the other hand, the thought that fans like you pay the price...I mean...I’m gonna grab a drink https://t.co/mvn9nthxCE — Dan Harmon (@danharmon) March 17, 2018

Now, why the Adult Swim folks aren’t ordering as many episodes as they can get their hands on is surprising, but that doesn’t mean they won’t eventually. Probably just a matter of time.Interior Secretary Ryan during a Capitol Hill appearance last week. Win McNamee via Getty Images

Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke defended his “konnichiwa” response to a House member of Japanese descent when she asked him about funding to preserve World War II internment camps.

“How could ever saying ‘Good morning’ be bad?” Zinke said to reporters on Saturday following a tour of the U.S.-Mexico border, according to The Arizona Republic.

Zinke made the comment ― which means “good afternoon” or “good day” in Japanese ― last week during a congressional hearing after Rep. Colleen Hanabusa (D-Hawaii) recounted that her grandfathers were among those imprisoned by the U.S. government for their Japanese heritage. The camps, she argued during the hearing, ought to be preserved to mark the memory of that ugly chapter in American history.

Several lawmakers and Asian-American civil rights groups criticized Zinke’s ill-timed greeting.

Sen. Mazie Hirono (D-Hawaii) slammed the secretary for what she called his “flippant” and “juvenile” comment. Sen. Tammy Duckworth (D-Ill.) addressed the story by tweeting that “racism is not ok.” Hanabusa accused Zinke of perpetuating racial stereotypes.

The exchange between Hanabusa and Zinke occurred as she urged the Trump administration to maintain funding for the Japanese American Confinement Sites (JACS) grant program, which provides financial assistance to organizations working to preserve the internment camps. The administration 2019 budget proposal would eliminate this funding.Rep. Marcy Kaptur (D-Ohio) made history Sunday when she became the longest-serving woman in the U.S. House of Representatives.

The 71-year-old lawmaker, sworn into office to represent Ohio’s 9th congressional district on Jan. 3, 1983, has served in Congress for more than 35 years. Kaptur inherited the title from Rep. Edith Rogers (R-Mass), who died on Sept. 10, 1960 during her 18th term in office. Rodgers was sworn into office on June 30, 1925.

In January, Kaptur also claimed the title of the longest-serving woman currently in Congress after Sens. Barbara Boxer (D-Calif.) and Barbara Mikulski (D-Md.) retired.

“I thank [my constituents] for putting their faith in me for so many years and inspiring our work to make America a better place,” Kaptur tweeted Sunday.

It is my great honor and privilege to represent the people of Ohio’s Ninth Congressional District, and I thank them for putting their faith in me for so many years and inspiring our work to make America a better place. pic.twitter.com/hfajX43pZY — Marcy Kaptur (@RepMarcyKaptur) March 18, 2018

Born in Toledo, Ohio, in 1946, Kaptur was the first woman in history to run for the state’s 9th congressional district. She was one of just two dozen women serving in Congress when she assumed office in 1983. Today, there are over 100 women in Congress.

Kaptur’s most well-known legislative accomplishment involves the creation of the National World War II Memorial in Washington, D.C. She first introduced a bill focused on the memorial’s erection in 1987, though it wasn’t voted on and signed into law until 1993. The monument, which features 56 pillars, two arches and a fountain, opened in 2004 on the eastern side of the National Mall.

“I’m just one of those Americans who I think heard John Kennedy’s call to ask not what your country can do for you, but what you can do for your country, and what together we can do for the freedom of humankind,” Kaptur said in a video she shared on Twitter.

″I feel vey fulfilled in my own life,” she continued. “The people of our communities that I represent have helped me ... They have built me into a better member.”Rep. Trey Gowdy (R-S.C.) pushed back against President Donald Trump’s lawyer on Sunday, after attorney John Dowd said the special counsel’s Russia probe should end following the firing of FBI deputy director Andrew McCabe.

“To suggest that [special counsel] Robert Mueller should shut down and that all he is looking at is collusion [is wrong],” said Gowdy in a “Fox News Sunday” interview. “If you have an innocent client, Mr. Dowd, act like it.”

Attorney General Jeff Sessions fired McCabe on Friday, less than two days before he was set to retire with full benefits. Sessions claimed McCabe had “lacked candor,” a phrase that many have interpreted as an accusation that McCabe had lied, in an internal review of how the FBI and Justice Department handled an investigation into the Clinton Foundation.

In a Saturday response, Dowd, said that the Justice Department should immediately end Mueller’s probe into possible Russian interference in the 2016 presidential elections.

Republican Rep. Trey Gowdy:



“The President’s attorney frankly does him a disservice.”



“If you have an innocent client, Mr. Dowd, act like it.” pic.twitter.com/KA3RapnqxC — Ryan Goodman (@rgoodlaw) March 18, 2018

Gowdy, a member of the House Intelligence Committee, added that it was important for Mueller to continue his work examining possible Russian interference in the 2016 presidential election, which he said expands beyond the question of whether Trump’s presidential campaign colluded in those efforts.

“The president’s attorney frankly does him a disservice when he says that and when he frames the investigation that way,” said Gowdy.

Earlier this month, Republicans on the House Intelligence Committee released their findings of the investigation into Russian election meddling, concluding that there had been no specific effort to favor Trump. The finding challenged a previous determination made by U.S. intelligence agencies, and Gowdy himself appeared to contest the Republican conclusion in a later statement. Democrats on the committee rebuked their Republican colleagues, calling it “premature” to end the probe and vowing to continue investigating.

House Republicans also found no evidence of collusion between the Trump campaign and Russia. That would presumably mean that Trump’s attorney should have nothing to fear from the Mueller investigation, Gowdy added on Sunday.Democrats in Congress think they’ve found a way to help former FBI Deputy Director Andrew McCabe get access to his government pension, despite Attorney General Jeff Sessions firing him two days before he was to retire and be eligible for it.

Rep. Mark Pocan (D-Wis.) on Saturday extended a federal job offer to McCabe, who has worked for the FBI for 21 years. Pocan wants McCabe to work with his office on election security.

Should McCabe accept the offer, Pocan said in a statement, it would allow the former FBI official to reach the length of service he needs to retire and begin collecting his pension, estimated at $60,000 a year. (As things stand now, McCabe might still be entitled to receive his pension eventually, but the amount is in question and the payouts might be delayed for several more years.)

Andrew call me. I could use a good two-day report on the biggest crime families in Washington, D.C. https://t.co/DYVP00Em0x — Rep. Mark Pocan (@repmarkpocan) March 17, 2018

The congressman claims Sessions’ ousting of McCabe proves that President Donald Trump and his administration are working to “discredit the FBI and undermine” Special Counsel Robert Mueller’s investigation into whether Trump’s presidential campaign colluded with Russia.

“While Speaker Ryan and House Republicans have become complicit in the President’s destruction of our democracy, we must do all that we can to ensure that the investigation into Russia’s interference in our election is completed and that future elections are safeguarded from these kinds of attacks,” Pocan said.

Sessions ousted McCabe on Friday after the FBI’s Office of Professional Responsibility recommended he be fired for his alleged lack of candor during an internal review of how the FBI and Justice Department handled an investigation into the Clinton Foundation.

While Trump has accused McCabe of having a political bias in favor of Hillary Clinton, the Justice Department’s internal review reportedly says McCabe authorized a discussion between FBI officials and a Wall Street Journal reporter for an Oct. 30, 2016 story, which included details damaging to Clinton’s presidential campaign.

McCabe abruptly announced he was leaving the FBI in January, amid the Justice Department’s internal investigation. He was using accrued leave to stay on the FBI’s payroll until his retirement date on Sunday, his 50th birthday.

In a statement on Saturday, Pocan called his proposal to McCabe “a legitimate offer, adding: “Free and fair elections are the cornerstone of American democracy and both Republicans and Democrats should be concerned about election integrity.”

The offer came in response to a tweet from NBC News’ Andrea Mitchell, who suggested that a “friendly member of Congress” hire McCabe so he could “qualify for pension benefits by extending his service the extra days.”

Other congress members have followed suit.

Rep. Jamie Raskin (D-Md.) offered McCabe a position in his office as special senior staff attorney assisting the House Judiciary Committee, while Rep. Luis V. Gutierrez (D-Ill.) told McCabe to call him on Monday for a federal job.

Rep. Seth Moulton (D-Mass.) also tweeted that he would consider hiring the former FBI official.

A former federal official familiar with retirement rules told the Washington Post that McCabe’s federal job offers, even if the roles only last a few days, could save some of his pension benefits.

McCabe’s spokeswoman Melissa Schwartz told the Post that McCabe is considering all options.

What a vicious and terrible thing to do to a man who devoted 21 years of service to this country. Trump is purging people who refuse to put the President's politics ahead of the people's interests. https://t.co/Uv42sEt5Z5 — Rep. Jamie Raskin (@RepRaskin) March 17, 2018

Andrew McCabe: I have the need to hire a Special Senior Staff Attorney to help me with my work on the House Judiciary Committee dealing with threats to the Constitution and the rule of law in America. You're perfect for the job. DM me. — Rep. Jamie Raskin (@RepRaskin) March 17, 2018

McCabe, a lifelong Republican, has been a frequent target of Trump’s scrutiny.

In 2017, Trump reportedly called McCabe into his office for a meeting, then asked him which candidate he voted for in the presidential election, according to the Washington Post. Former and current U.S. officials told the Post the conversation between Trump and McCabe is of interest to Mueller and his investigation.

In an apparent attack on McCabe’s leading role in the FBI’s investigation into the Clinton Foundation, Trump also publicly speculated that McCabe’s wife Jill McCabe, a Democrat, received money from “Clinton Puppets,” during her unsuccessful 2015 run for a Virginia state Senate seat.

Trump was apparently referencing a donation of up to $675,000 from Democratic Virginia Gov. Terry McAuliffe’s political action committee, though the donation was made before McCabe was promoted to deputy director.

The president has also criticized McCabe’s oversight of the FBI’s Clinton investigations and even mocked his retirement plans.

In response to his firing, McCabe said the Justice Department’s internal investigation “has to be understood in the context of the attacks on my credibility.”

McCabe continued:

The investigation flows from my attempt to explain the FBI’s involvement and my supervision of investigations involving Hillary Clinton. I was being portrayed in the media over and over as a political partisan, accused of closing down investigations under political pressure. The FBI was portrayed as caving under that pressure, and making decisions for political rather than law enforcement purposes. Nothing was further from the truth. In fact, this entire investigation stems from my efforts, fully authorized under FBI rules, to set the record straight on behalf of the Bureau, and to make clear that we were continuing an investigation that people in DOJ opposed.President Donald Trump once again attempted to dismantle the credibility of former FBI deputy director Andrew G. McCabe and former FBI director James B. Comey in several tweets on Sunday that also questioned the work of special counsel Robert Mueller.

In a post taking aim at McCabe, who was abruptly fired on Friday for allegedly making an unauthorized disclosure to the news media, the president questioned the legitimacy of memos that the former FBI official reportedly wrote right after he would have conversations with Trump and Comey.

President Donald Trump is continuing to attack the credibility of special counsel Robert Mueller's team of investigators. Leah Millis / Reuters

Trump reasoned that he personally never saw McCabe write anything down when they met, so he expressed skepticism about the memos.

“Spent very little time with Andrew McCabe, but he never took notes when he was with me. I don’t believe he made memos except to help his own agenda, probably at a later date,” Trump tweeted.

Mentioning Comey, who has also said that he kept memos before being fired by Trump in May, the president said, “Can we call them Fake Memos?”

Spent very little time with Andrew McCabe, but he never took notes when he was with me. I don’t believe he made memos except to help his own agenda, probably at a later date. Same with lying James Comey. Can we call them Fake Memos? — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) March 18, 2018

Michael Bromwich, an attorney representing McCabe following his dismissal, hit back at Trump’s tweets on Sunday, calling them “defamatory, disgusting and false.”

“The whole truth will come out in due course. But the tweets confirm that [Trump] has corrupted the entire process that led to Mr. McCabe’s termination and has rendered it illegitimate,” tweeted Bromwich, a former Justice Department inspector general.

Trump also accused Comey of having lied under oath when questioned by a Senate committee in June about his knowledge of anonymous sources allegedly disclosing information to the media.

“Wow, watch Comey lie under oath to [a senator] when asked ‘have you ever been an anonymous source...or known someone else to be an anonymous source...?’” Trump tweeted.

Comey responded to a similar attack by Trump of his credibility on Saturday, telling the president on Twitter: “The American people will hear my story very soon ... They can judge for themselves who is honorable and who is not.”

Former FBI deputy director Andrew McCabe, seen last June, was abruptly fired on Friday. Sources have since said that he kept contemporaneous memos that detailed his conversations with Trump and former FBI director James Comey. Pete Marovich via Getty Images

Trump on Sunday also renewed his attack on Mueller’s investigation into Russian election meddling and possible ties between the Trump campaign and Moscow. He accused members of Mueller’s team of being politically biased and favoring his 2016 presidential opponent, Hillary Clinton.

“Why does the Mueller team have 13 hardened Democrats, some big Crooked Hillary supporters, and Zero Republicans?” he wrote. “Another Dem recently added ... does anyone think this is fair? And yet, there is NO COLLUSION!”

Some members of Mueller’s team in the past donated to Democrats, including to former President Barack Obama.

Trump has repeatedly claimed that Mueller’s investigation is tainted because, in the president’s view, it has been driven by a dossier containing unverified accusations against him that was partially funded by Clinton’s campaign and the Democratic National Committee. And Trump has made it no secret that he wants the Mueller probe ended.

“The Mueller probe should never have been started in that there was no collusion and there was no crime,” he tweeted on Saturday night. “It was based on fraudulent activities and a Fake Dossier paid for by Crooked Hillary and the DNC, and improperly used in FISA COURT for surveillance of my campaign. WITCH HUNT!”Former FBI Director James Comey’s forthcoming book jumped to a top spot on Amazon’s best sellers list following President Donald Trump’s flurry of Twitter attacks against him.

A Higher Loyalty: Truth, Lies and Leadership, slated for release on April 17, surged from #15 on the list as of Saturday morning to #2 on Sunday. Comey was a target of Trump’s multiple Twitter rants over the weekend, which almost assuredly helped draw attention to his new book.

Trump accused “Sanctimonious James Comey,” whom he fired last May, of covering up “lies and corruption” within the FBI. Comey responded hours later, tweeting that the American people would soon be able “judge for themselves who is honorable and who is not.”

Andrew McCabe FIRED, a great day for the hard working men and women of the FBI - A great day for Democracy. Sanctimonious James Comey was his boss and made McCabe look like a choirboy. He knew all about the lies and corruption going on at the highest levels of the FBI! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) March 17, 2018

Mr. President, the American people will hear my story very soon. And they can judge for themselves who is honorable and who is not. — James Comey (@Comey) March 17, 2018

Trump attacked Comey again on Sunday while celebrating the firing of FBI deputy director Andrew G. McCabe, which was carried out by Attorney General Jeff Sessions two days before McCabe was set to retire.

Spent very little time with Andrew McCabe, but he never took notes when he was with me. I don’t believe he made memos except to help his own agenda, probably at a later date. Same with lying James Comey. Can we call them Fake Memos? — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) March 18, 2018

Comey’s much-anticipated new book will offer an account of his career in government, which included overseeing the Hillary Clinton email probe, as well as the ongoing FBI investigation into whether Trump’s 2016 presidential campaign colluded with Russia.

In the book, Comey “shares his never-before-told experiences from some of the highest-stakes situations of his career in the past two decades of American government, exploring what good, ethical leadership looks like, and how it drives sound decisions,” Flatiron Books, the book’s publisher, wrote on their website.

The book has been available to pre-order for several months, according to CNN. Flatiron Books announced in February that it was moving up the book’s publication from May 1 to April 17 due to public demand.Attorney General Jeff Sessions said in December that under President Donald Trump, the Department of Justice is "completing, not closing, immigration cases." Joshua Roberts/Reuters

Attorney General Jeff Sessions used his office’s vast power over immigration courts on Thursday to curb immigration judges’ authority to administratively close cases. The order could dramatically increase the already record-high backlog that immigration courts are experiencing and encourage judges to issue swift removal orders for immigrants, even if they have a case to stay in the United States.

Sessions forced the policy change by using the attorney general’s exceptional authority to overrule decisions of immigration judges ― an authority restricted to that type of court. The case Sessions announced on Thursday is one of three he referred to himself, and the first to be decided. All three cases could have far-reaching consequences for the immigration system, raising fears among immigrant rights advocates that Sessions will use the approach to further the Trump administration’s efforts to maximize deportations.

Thursday’s case concerns an immigrant, referred to as Castro-Tum, who entered the U.S. as an unaccompanied minor and whose case was closed by a judge after he failed to appear at multiple court hearings.

Using the case to make a broad opinion not just on this decision, but those of immigration judges overall, Sessions argued that immigration judges were overstepping their authority by granting administrative closure, which doesn’t give an individual relief from deportation but pauses their case. Judges often use these closures when an immigrant has another application for relief pending; for example, if someone is in removal proceedings but waiting to be approved for a visa from U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services, or if someone is appealing a criminal conviction that, if overturned, could affect their immigration case.

Now, judges will be limited in their ability to close cases as those other processes move forward ― and sometimes drag on. This could lead them to order removals for immigrants who are still waiting for visa approval or other relief, attorneys warned.

“It’s the epitome of bad docketing practice to take a whole group of cases, thousands of cases, that could be resolved by another agency and have them just sit and linger in court,” said Jeremy McKinney, national secretary for the American Immigration Lawyers Association. “Or worse than that, to deport people who are trying to go through the immigration system the right way.”

Sessions has given plenty of indications he disapproves of these types of case closures, and especially the frequency with which they were used under former President Barack Obama. From October 2011 through September 2017, judges closed more than 215,00 cases, which was about three-quarters of the number closed in a 31-year span before 2011, according to the Department of Justice.

The attorney general proclaimed in December that under Trump, DOJ was “completing, not closing, immigration cases,” and earlier this year, the agency began to set quotas for how many cases judges must clear each year.

Sessions has also called for restrictions that would allow more removals of immigrants who came to the U.S. as unaccompanied minors, as Castro-Tum did.

“As the attorney general, as the head of the Department of Justice, as the person who is certifying immigration cases to himself, he needs to be neutral, impartial and he needs to adjudicate without a political agenda.” - Trina Realmuto, American Immigration Council

Based on the attorney general’s statements, the American Immigration Council and other groups have filed a brief arguing Sessions was unfit to be a neutral arbiter of the case.

“We know he is part of Trump’s political agenda to rush cases through the system,” Trina Realmuto, directing attorney of the Boston office of the American Immigration Council, said on Thursday. “But as the attorney general, as the head of the Department of Justice, as the person who is certifying immigration cases to himself, he needs to be neutral, impartial and he needs to adjudicate without a political agenda.”

Sessions did not heed their call to recuse himself, and his eventual opinion was exactly what immigrant rights advocates feared: a decision that limits the discretion of judges to determine how to operate their own dockets, potentially at the expense of immigrants.

Now, judges will only be able to administratively close cases if there is a specific regulation or settlement that authorizes them to do so. To avoid overwhelming the courts, Sessions ordered that cases would not be put back on the calendar until the Department of Homeland Security or the immigrant respondent in each case request to do so.

Sessions wrote that judges can issue continuances postponing court proceedings rather than closing cases if they’re waiting on other pending matters. But he is weighing a separate case that could limit judges’ ability to issue such continuances.

Sessions’ moves to limit judges’ abilities to pause cases could lead to a spike in removal orders for people with legitimate claims for relief, said McKinney from the American Immigration Lawyers Association. Not that attorneys wouldn’t fight it ― McKinney said lawyers would almost certainly appeal if a client waiting on a visa approval was ordered removed, or seek relief that the judge has authority to grant, such as asylum.Former FBI director James Comey fired back at President Donald Trump Saturday, vowing that his upcoming revelations will allow the American people “to judge for themselves who is honorable — and who is not.”

Comey tweeted minutes after the president crowed again on Twitter about his Friday firing of FBI deputy director Andrew McCabe, who the president said was “caught.” Trump added: “How many lies? How many leaks? Comey knew it all, and much more!”

The Fake News is beside themselves that McCabe was caught, called out and fired. How many hundreds of thousands of dollars was given to wife’s campaign by Crooked H friend, Terry M, who was also under investigation? How many lies? How many leaks? Comey knew it all, and much more! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) March 17, 2018

Mr. President, the American people will hear my story very soon. And they can judge for themselves who is honorable and who is not. — James Comey (@Comey) March 17, 2018

Trump later added:

The Mueller probe should never have been started in that there was no collusion and there was no crime. It was based on fraudulent activities and a Fake Dossier paid for by Crooked Hillary and the DNC, and improperly used in FISA COURT for surveillance of my campaign. WITCH HUNT! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) March 18, 2018

McCabe was fired for his alleged lack of candor during an internal review of how the FBI and Justice Department handled an investigation into the Clinton Foundation. But Trump also mentions McCabe’s wife in his earlier tweet. Jill McCabe, a Democrat who lost a state Senate race in Virginia in 2015, accepted $500,000 from the political action committee of then-Virginia Gov. Terry McAuliffe (Trump’s “Terry M”). McAuliffe is a longtime ally of Hillary Clinton (“Crooked H” in Trump’s tweet).

Comey’s promised revelations are about to come out in his upcoming book, A Higher Loyalty: Truth, Lies and Leadership, to be released April 17. He has already lined up speaking engagements and media appearances to discuss his history with Trump.The gang is staying in town.

The cast of “Will & Grace” announced Saturday that NBC had renewed their show for a third season. Eric McCormack, alongside Debra Messing, Sean Hayes and Megan Mullally, shared the good news with audiences in Los Angeles attending the annual PaleyFest, which honors current and former TV favorites.

In addition to a third season, NBC will also extend Season 2 from 13 to 18 episodes. Season 3 also will have 18 episodes.

Jennifer Jason Leigh, we’ve got a SEASON THREE! (AND more episodes for Season 2!) #WillAndGrace pic.twitter.com/7jbVXfLtDx — Will & Grace (@WillAndGrace) March 18, 2018

The announcement comes early in the revival’s lifespan ― the show hasn’t even wrapped the first season of its return, which will air through April 5. Season 2 will debut this fall, and the third season starts a year later, according to Deadline. That will bring the total number of “Will & Grace” seasons to 11 (the show previously ran on NBC from September 1998 to May 2006).

“As far as I’m concerned, we can’t get enough of ‘Will & Grace,’ and 23 more episodes is music to my ears” NBC Entertainment Chairman Robert Greenblatt said in a statement, according to EW.Chameleon Kate McKinnon again played an uncanny Betsy DeVos on “Saturday Night Live,” admitting with a smile on her vacuous face that she’s not good at her job.

The “Weekend Update” bit was a play on DeVos’ disastrous appearance last week on “60 Minutes,” when she admitted she lacked facts on school performance and said she never “intentionally” visits poorly performing schools to try to determine what isn’t working.

Asked to explain the awkward interview, a cheerful McKinnon explained to anchor Colin Jost: “I think the problem is that the words that were coming out of my mouth were bad, and that is because they came from my brain.”

As for her ideas on education, “I don’t like to think of things in terms of school,” she admitted, and encouraged states to come up with their own solutions, like establishing a school for bears in Wyoming, where there are lots of “potential grizzlies.” She added, “And in North Carolina, stop being trans.”

Asked why she is criticized so often, she responds: “I think it’s because I do not do a good job, and I can’t because I don’t know how.”

She does hope to make sure that “all schools are safe learning environments for guns.” And while “DeVos” admits not being good on camera, “behind the scenes my ideas are much worse.”It turns out that modern humans have a more complicated past than scientists realized. Researchers have discovered that populations of Homo sapiens swapped DNA in at least two regions of the world with a mysterious group of hominids known as Denisovans.

The Denisovans appear to have made a contribution to the modern human gene pool ― not nearly as significant as the Neanderthals, but notable.

Denisovans date back as far as 50,000 years ago, based on tests of a little Denisovan girl’s finger bone and a bit of molar discovered in a Siberian cave in 2008. The new species was called Denisovan after the name of the cave in the Altai mountains.

Scientists managed in 2016 to trace DNA of the Denisovans to some Melanesians — who live in Papua New Guinea and other Pacific islands — who were found to have 5 percent of Denisovan ancestry. Some East and South Asians have close to 0.2 percent. (Neanderthals have contributed between 1 percent and 4 percent of the genome in people in several continents.)

But after a new DNA survey of humans, scientists from the University of Washington in Seattle were surprised to discover a new distinct set of Denisovan ancestry among some modern East Asians — particularly among Han Chinese, Chinese Dai and Japanese. This Denisovan DNA is more closely related to the sample from the fossils discovered in Siberia, according to the study published in the journal Cell.

The discovery demonstrates that there were at least two distinct populations of Denisovans living in Asia, and likely somewhat geographically distant.

Harvard DNA researcher David Reich, who was not involved in the study, called the research a “breakthrough.”

“It’s a definite third interbreeding event,” adding to the previously known Denisovan and Neanderthal mixtures, he told The Washington Post. He said other scientists using a similar DNA survey method might discover additional cross-breeding.Actor and comedian Bill Hader returned to “Saturday Night Live” this weekend to host, and he brought with him one of the show’s most beloved characters: Stefon.

Stefon is an expert on New York’s hottest clubs and tries to help tourists find the perfect club. This weekend Stefon laid out the best places to celebrate St. Patrick’s Day. He even brought out his attorney, played by comedian and former “SNL” writer John Mulaney. Hader and Mulaney co-created the character of Stefon.

In his return, Hader could not keep it together, cracking up as if he was reading the jokes off the cue cards for the first time, which he actually might be!John Goodman returned to “Saturday Night Live” as booted Secretary of State Rex Tillerson and got to shout that President Donald Trump “is a moron” on national TV.

“It’s just crazy how one day you’re the CEO of Exxon, a $50 billion company, and the next day you get fired by a man who used to sell steaks in the mail,” Goodman’s Tillerson tells “Anderson Cooper” (Alex Moffat) before crushing the drinking glass in his hand.

“Call Jurassic Park, ’cause the Rex-y’s loose!”

It was the second week in a row that the cold open featured a spoof Cooper program, this time examining the Trump administration firings.

“Look at me, I still got a job,” says Kate McKinnon’s goofy, lizard-tongued Jeff Sessions.

When “Cooper” asks “Sessions” exactly why FBI deputy director Andrew McCabe was axed on Friday, McKinnon explains: “Mr. McCabe was in clear violation because of his lack ... of candor … I don’t know, I can’t even dance around, Trump made me do it! McCabe, he saw too much.”

McKinnon adds: “I’m always down to clown, but this was sneaky, even for me. I’m just a simple man who wanted to make things bad for immigrants and now here I am taking away the pension of a Christian white! It ain’t right.”

“Sessions” says if he goes, Donald Trump is going to launch special counsel Robert Mueller “right into space.”

Fred Armisen’s Michael Wolff reveals, half-heartedly, that Trump may name his favorite TV detective, Adrian Monk, to the administration. And “SNL” alum Bill Hader pops up as White House communications director Anthony Scaramucci to announce that Trump son-in-law Jared Kushner “is toast.” Wait, he adds, “is this being recorded?”China’s largely rubber-stamp parliament chose former top graft-buster Wang Qishan, a key ally of President Xi Jinping, as vice president on Saturday, a widely expected move that nonetheless breaks with convention and underlines Xi’s dominant authority.

Xi was also re-elected president by parliament, with no votes cast against him. The body is packed with party loyalists and there was no chance he would not win the vote.

Wang bowed twice and then walked over to Xi to shake his hand after the vote was announced inside Beijing’s Great Hall of the People. Only one person voted against Wang out of the 2,970 votes cast.

Xi and Wang spoke only to pledge allegiance to the constitution, with Wang giving the podium an emphatic tap after he finished.

Known as “the firefighter” for his central role in tackling issues like corruption and domestic financial problems over the years, Wang also has experience dealing with the United States in his former role as a vice premier who led annual economic talks with Washington.

He was a major player in Xi’s battle against corruption, with dozens of senior officials jailed during his tenure as the top graft-fighter, including the fearsome domestic security chief Zhou Yongkang, now serving life in jail.

Zhao Wanping, a delegate from the central province of Anhui, told Reuters Wang’s election was in line with the will of the people, pointing to his anti-corruption efforts.

“Our country needs someone like him who will continue to step out and shoulder responsibilities for the people,” he said.

Last Sunday, parliament voted to amend the constitution, which removed presidential and vice-presidential term limits, meaning Xi can stay in power indefinitely, a move the government has presented as widely welcomed despite criticism that has evaded the censors and seeped onto Chinese social media.

The party’s People’s Daily hailed Xi’s unanimous re-election in an editorial on its WeChat account, using language once more associated with Mao Zedong to say he was a “leader loved and respected by the people” and the “helmsman of the country”.

Wang’s appointment has the potential to reshape what has traditionally been a ceremonial role.China’s relationship with the United States is likely to be a key part of his remit, according to diplomats and sources with ties to the leadership.

“The vice president position in the PRC is not a very powerful one, but it depends who fills the job,” said Jean-Pierre Cabestan, a China expert at Hong Kong Baptist University, referring to the country’s formal name, the People’s Republic of China.

Cabestan said Wang would likely be considerably more influential than his immediate predecessor, Li Yuanchao, given his close relationship with Xi and greater international profile.

But any effort by China to elevate formal exchanges with the United States on tricky trade issues, for example from a cabinet to vice presidential level, would require the White House’s consent too. Wang also speaks no English.

China has been trying to head off a trade war with the United States, sending envoys to Washington in recent weeks, including Xi’s top economic adviser, Liu He.

U.S. President Donald Trump is seeking to impose tariffs on up to $60 billion of Chinese imports and will target the technology and telecommunications sectors, two people who had discussed the issue with the Trump administration said this week.

DELEGATE FROM HUNAN

Whether Xi could retain Wang in a senior role despite his reaching retirement age had been seen as a key measure of Xi’s power and the subject of much speculation in the lead-up to this month’s National People’s Congress.

In January, Wang, who turns 70 in July, was named a parliament delegate with the central province of Hunan despite having stepped down from the elite seven-man Politburo Standing Committee during a five-yearly leadership transition in October.

Despite holding no official senior party role, Wang has taken center stage at plenary sessions this parliament, seated immediately next to the seven members of the Standing Committee, in a clear indication of his actual status.

At the opening session where Premier Li Keqiang presented the government’s work report, Wang cut a relaxed figure, staring straight ahead impassively while other delegates busily read and jotted down notes.

Protocol at major political events, including seating arrangements and the order in which leaders are shown in state news bulletins, are tightly choreographed to convey a political message.

Wang cast his ballot on Saturday immediately after Han Zheng, the seventh-ranked and most junior Standing Committee member, drawing enthusiastic applause from the other delegates.

Wang has otherwise kept a relatively low profile at parliament so far, with no state media reports of any visits to other provincial delegations to rally legislators, as members of the Standing Committee have done, including Xi.

Cao Huiquan, a Hunan delegate who heads the province’s Economic and Information Technology Commission, told Reuters last week that Wang had taken part in the Hunan delegation’s discussions of Li’s work report.

Cao said Wang paid particular attention to whether party cadres had sufficiently understood the spirit of the October Party Congress including “how to understand and get a handle of new areas of societal problems, the public’s aspirations toward a better life, and uneven and insufficient economic development”.

On Saturday, parliament also formally approved a government restructuring plan that merges China’s banking and insurance regulators, gives new powers to policymaking bodies such as the central bank and creates new ministries.

(Reporting by Philip Wen and Ben Blanchard; Additional reporting by Christian Shepherd; Editing by Joseph Radford and Nick Macfie)Lawyers in Australia are seeking to hold Myanmar’s civil leader, Aung San Suu Kyi, directly accountable for the violent persecution of Rohingya Muslims in Myanmar.

On Friday, lawyers filed a private prosecution application against Suu Kyi in the Melbourne magistrates court, accusing her of crimes against humanity, The Guardian reported.

A statement from the lawyers cited the “extensive and systematic crimes against the Muslim Rohingyan population by the Myanmar security forces.”

It added: “Suu Kyi has failed to use her position of authority and power, and, as such, has permitted the Myanmar security forces to deport and forcibly remove Rohingya from their homes.”

Before moving forward, the prosecution application would have to receive the consent of Australia’s attorney general, Christian Porter. The Guardian reported it’s unlikely Porter would consent ― Suu Kyi is expected in Sydney this weekend for the ASEAN Australia special summit, at the invitation of the Australian government.

Rohingya refugees wait to receive aid in Bangladesh on Sept. 21, 2017. Cathal McNaughton/Reuters

International human rights groups have repeatedly denounced Myanmar’s government security forces for carrying out systemic violence against the Rohingya, a Muslim minority group from the country’s Rakhine state.

Roughly 700,000 Rohingya have had to flee to neighboring Bangladesh to escape persecution. Human rights group Amnesty International has reported cases of rape, torture and other abuse by state officials, calling the state-sanctioned attacks “apartheid, a crime against humanity,” in a 2017 report.

On Monday, a United Nations special rapporteur said that the systemic abuse of Rohingya in Myanmar ”bear[s] the hallmarks of genocide.”

Meanwhile, Suu Kyi, a Nobel Peace Prize laureate, has stayed largely silent on the attacks, dismissing reports of the military’s violence against the Rohingya as “misinformation.”

The Australian lawyers were able to apply to prosecute the Myanmar civil leader based on Australia’s recognition of the principle of “universal jurisdiction,” which states that a country can “exercise criminal jurisdiction over individuals responsible for the most serious crimes of international concern regardless of where the conduct occurs … crimes of genocide, war crimes, crimes against humanity.”

AdvertisementATHENS, March 17 (Reuters) - Sixteen people, including at least five children, drowned on Saturday when the small boat they on capsized in the Aegean Sea, Greek coast guard officials said.

The incident occurred off Greece’s Agathonisi island, which is close to the Turkish coast. The nationality of the victims was not immediately known.

Saturday’s incident was thought to be the highest death toll of migrants trying to reach outlyingGreek islands for months.

Greek authorities said they believed there were 22 people on the boat. Greek coast guard vessels assisted by helicopters were searching for survivors.

“We can’t tolerate (losing) children in the Aegean Sea ... the solution is to protect people, to implement safe procedures and safe routes for migrants and refugees, to hit the human trafficking circuits,” Greek migration minister Dimitris Vitsas said in a press release.

Hundreds of thousands of refugees and migrants arrived in Greece and further west in 2015 from Turkey, making the short but precarious crossing. Hundreds died in the attempt.

Following a 2016 agreement between the European Union and Turkey, the numbers have diminished.

Under that deal, anyone who arrives on Greek islands must be returned to Turkey unless they qualify for asylum. But procedures can take several months, leading to overcrowded conditions on the islands.

Two more migrants were killed and seven more were injured on Saturday, in a separate incident in northern Greece, when their driver lost control of a vehicle during a car chase with the police, a police official told Reuters.MOSCOW, March 17 (Reuters) - Russia expelled 23 British diplomats on Saturday in a carefully calibrated retaliatory move against London, which has accused the Kremlin of orchestrating a nerve toxin attack on a former Russian double agent and his daughter in southern England.

Escalating a crisis in relations, Russia said it was also shutting down the activities of the British Council, which fosters cultural links between the two countries, and Britain’s consulate-general in St. Petersburg.

The Russian Foreign Ministry said it was giving the 23 British diplomats one week to leave the country.

The move, which was tougher than expected, followed Britain’s decision on Wednesday to expel 23 Russian diplomats over the attack in the English city of Salisbury which left former Russian spy Sergei Skripal, 66, and his daughter Yulia Skripal, 33, critically ill in hospital.

Moscow announced the measures on the eve of a presidential election which incumbent Vladimir Putin should comfortably win. Putin has cast his country as a fortress besieged by hostile Western powers with him as its defender, and state media is likely to portray the anti-British move in that context.

A police officer stands at a cordon around the bench where former Russian intelligence agent Sergei Skripal and his daughter Yulia were found after they were poisoned, in Salisbury, Britain March 14, 2018. Henry Nicholls / Reuters

The Foreign Ministry said Moscow’s measures were a response to what it called Britain’s “provocative actions and groundless accusations.” It warned London it stood ready to take further measures in the event of more “unfriendly steps.”

Relations between London and Moscow have crashed to a post-Cold War low over the Salisbury attack, the first known offensive use of a nerve agent in Europe since World War Two.

British Prime Minister Theresa May said Britain would consider its next steps alongside its allies in the coming days.

“We will never tolerate a threat to the life of British citizens and others on British soil from the Russian Government. We can be reassured by the strong support we have received from our friends and allies around the world,” May said at the Conservative Party’s spring forum in London.

The Russian Foreign Ministry summoned the British ambassador, Laurie Bristow, to a meeting on Saturday morning in central Moscow at its Stalin-era headquarters during which he was informed of the retaliatory measures.

Bristow told reporters afterwards that Britain had only expelled the Russian diplomats after Moscow had failed to explain how the nerve toxin had got to Salisbury.

Britain’s foreign ministry said it had anticipated Russia’s response and its priority now looking after its staff in Russia and assisting those that will return home.

“Russia’s response doesn’t change the facts of the matter - the attempted assassination of two people on British soil, for which there is no alternative conclusion other than that the Russian State was culpable.” it said in a statement.

Prime Minister Theresa May addresses the House of Commons on her government's reaction to the poisoning of former Russian intelligence officer Sergei Skripal and his daughter Yulia in Salisbury, in London, March 14, 2018. Handout . / Reuters

WAR OF WORDS

Russia’s response was more robust than expected. The closure of the British Council’s Moscow office will sever cultural ties, while that of the consulate-general in St Petersburg will end Britain’s diplomatic presence in Russia’s second city.

Russian news agencies cited politicians in Russia’s upper house of parliament as welcoming the move to close the British Council, alleging it had been used as a cover by British spies.

The British Council said it was profoundly disappointed by Russia’s decision and remained committed to developing long-term people-to-people links with Russia despite the closure.

Russia has complained that Britain has failed to provide any evidence of its involvement in the Salisbury attack and has said it is shocked and bemused by the allegations.

Britain has escalated a war of words with Russia over the incident in recent days. On Friday, British Foreign Secretary Boris Johnson said it was overwhelmingly likely that Russian President Vladimir Putin himself had made the decision to use a military-grade nerve toxin to strike down Skripal.

Britain, the United States, Germany and France have jointly called on Russia to explain the attack, while U.S. President Donald Trump has said it looks as if the Russians were behind it.

Russia has said is open to cooperation with Britain, but has refused Britain’s demands to explain how Novichok, a nerve agent developed by the Soviet military, was used against the Skripals.

Skripal, a former colonel in the GRU who betrayed dozens of Russian agents to British intelligence, and his daughter have been critically ill since March 4, when they were found unconscious on a bench.

A British policeman was also poisoned when he went to help them and remains in a serious but stable condition.

Russian investigators said on Friday they had opened a criminal investigation into the attempted murder of Yulia Skripal and offered to cooperate with British authorities.

Russia offered some cooperation to British authorities after the 2006 London murder of ex-KGB agent Alexander Litvinenko too.

Britain said the assistance in that case was not enough, and in 2016, a judge-led inquiry concluded that Putin had probably approved Litvinenko’s murder, something Moscow denies.The highest-ranking member of the House Armed Services Committee introduced a resolution on Thursday calling for the White House to issue a public apology to Sen. John McCain (R-Ariz.) after a staffer reportedly made disparaging comments about the senator’s health.

Rep. Walter Jones (R-N.C.) authored the bill, titled “Calling on and encouraging the White House to issue a public apology.” He and co-sponsor Rep. Emanuel Cleaver (D-Mo.) argue that McCain deserves to be treated with respect and dignity given his many years of service to the country.

The apology would be issued on behalf of communications aide Kelly Sadler, who reportedly scoffed at McCain’s opposition to the nomination of Gina Haspel for Central Intelligence Agency Director by noting that “he’s dying anyway.” McCain was diagnosed with brain cancer last July.

“While this apology should have already taken place, it is never too late to apologize,” the bill says. It adds that “every family deserves dignity and respect in the trying times of a loved one’s declining health,” and states that “our religious and social traditions call upon us to apologize for wrongdoing.”

.@SenJohnMcCain is an American hero. Regardless of political differences he is a human being & deserves respect. Today, @RepWalterJones & I introduced a resolution calling on the @WhiteHouse to issue an apology for the insensitive remarks about his health.https://t.co/XHJL8F2hTK — Rep. Emanuel Cleaver (@repcleaver) May 17, 2018

“The president, perhaps more so than any elected official in this great country, should practice the politics of decency,” Cleaver said in a statement.

Although Sadler reportedly called McCain’s daughter Meghan McCain to personally apologize, the White House has yet to issue any kind of formal apology.

Various senators on both sides of the aisle have expressed their disgust with the comment, some also calling for a public apology.

Sen. Lindsey Graham (R-S.C.) said he wished “somebody from the White House would tell the country, ‘That was inappropriate, that’s not who we are in the Trump administration. And John McCain can be criticized for any political decision he’s ever made or any vote he’s ever cast, but he’s an American hero.’”

Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.) lamented that it was beyond his “comprehension” that the White House wouldn’t issue an apology.BEIRUT, March 17 (Reuters) - Thousands of civilians streamed out of their towns on Saturday to escape battles in the north and south of Syria, where two different offensives have prompted an exodus in recent days.

A new wave of at least 10,000 people fled a rebel pocket to army lines in eastern Ghouta near the capital Damascus. Rescuers and a monitor said air strikes pounded the besieged zone.

In the northern Afrin region, people fled as Turkish war planes struck the main town, Syrian Kurdish forces and the monitor said. More than 150,000 people have fled the town in the last few days, a senior Kurdish official said.

The two offensives - one by the Syrian army with Russia’s support, the other led by Turkey with allied Syrian rebels - entered decisive phases this week. Both have shown how foreign backers and their Syrian allies are reshaping the map after the defeat of Islamic State’s self-proclaimed caliphate last year.

Turkey launched the cross-border offensive in January against the Syrian Kurdish YPG fighters who control Afrin.

In its month-long assault, the Syrian military has marched into much of eastern Ghouta, the last major insurgent bastion around Damascus.

Syrian civilians evacuate from the town of Jisreen in the southern Eastern Ghouta, on the eastern outskirts of the capital Damascus, on their way to areas under government control on March 17, 2018. STRINGER via Getty Images

EASTERN GHOUTA

Troops splintered Ghouta into three besieged zones in one of the bloodiest offensives of the seven-year war. Residents came out in their thousands this week for the first time, from the southern pocket around Hammouriyeh town.

State media said 10,000 more civilians reached army positions on Saturday, and some others started leaving the Harasta zone as well in a new outflow.

Men, women, and children walked along a dirt road, staggering under bags and suitcases, footage on state TV showed. Many carried infants on their shoulders or pushed them in strollers. Some elderly people hobbled on wooden sticks.

The Syrian Observatory for Human Rights, a UK-based monitoring group, said air strikes on Zamalka killed 30 people gathering to leave for government lines in the morning. Damascus and its ally Moscow say they only attack armed militants and are seeking to end the rule of Islamist insurgents over the suburbs.

The rebel factions accuse Damascus of trying to depopulate opposition towns and deny its charges that they have blocked people from leaving.

The United Nations has said the exact number of people fleeing is not known nor are the destinations of all evacuees.

Mobile clinics were open and some people were taken to hospital in the capital, it said.

The governor of rural Damascus, Alaa Ibrahim, said the government was setting up new centers due to the massive crowds.

Residents would go back “in a very short time,” Ibrahim said. “As the army advances ... we will return the citizens to their homes ... then we will continue providing services.”

An army officer in charge of arrivals in Adra said authorities dispersed 25,000 people across temporary shelters there and in two nearby towns. In Adra, the newcomers stayed in schools, receiving food, water, and medicine, he said.

The officer said boys and men between the ages of 15-60 could “settle their affairs” with the state by writing a vow that says “I pledge not to return to armed actions.” Some 1,500 men had done so in the town, he said.

The state has proposed such settlements for those who accept the return of its rule in other enclaves it seized with the help of Russian jets and Iran-backed militias.

Khaled Hamad, a shepherd, said he signed a pledge after leaving Hammouriyeh with his wife and five children on a tractor. “They said now we were within the state’s embrace,” he recalled.

The last few days inside had become so harsh that his family ate their cow’s food, he said.”(Now) they eat every hour.”

Hamad said militants in Ghouta had fired at his brother, killing him and injuring his sons, for trying to get out.

Syrian women arrive at a check point in the village of Anab ahead of crossing to the Turkish-backed Syrian rebels side on March 17, 2018, as civilians flee the city of Afrin in northern Syria. More than 200,000 civilians have fled the city of Afrin in northern Syria in less than three days to escape a Turkish-led military offensive against a Kurdish militia, a war monitor said on March 17. BULENT KILIC via Getty Images

AFRIN

An estimated 12,000-16,000 people had already left Ghouta before Saturday, while more than 48,000 were reportedly displaced in Afrin, a U.N. aid official in Syria has said.

The Turkish military has pushed the YPG militia back from the border and nearly encircled it with advances on the western and eastern flanks of Afrin town. Ankara sees the YPG as an extension of the outlawed Kurdish PKK which has waged a decades-long insurgency inside Turkey.

“We can enter Afrin (town) any second. We can give you the good news any minute,” Turkish President Tayyip Erdogan told a congress of the ruling AK Party. “Conquest is close. We walk towards that aim.”

Turkish air and artillery strikes rained down overnight and in recent days, driving tens of thousands out of the main town by car and on foot, Kurdish authorities and the Observatory say.

Hevi Mustafa, a senior civic official, said people fled the main town to other Kurdish-held parts of the region and to government territory. Many were stranded out in the streets without food, she said.

The Turkish military denied on Saturday it had struck a hospital in Afrin, saying it waged the campaign in a way that would not hurt civilians.

The YPG and the Observatory had said a Turkish air strike on the town’s main hospital killed 16 people the night before.

Rezan Heddo, a YPG media adviser, and state TV, said people arriving in the nearby towns of Nubul and Zahraa, under government control, received some aid.

The journey was “catastrophic” for most residents as they walked dozens of kilometers and slept out in the open, he said.

Inside the town, “there is no water, there are no hospitals,” Heddo added. “There are civilians under the rubble and no capacity to get them out.”President Vladimir Putin secured a fourth term in office on Sunday, following a presidential election in Russia that observers say was merely a formality and lacked any serious challengers. The real intrigue was not the race itself, but what happens next.

The Russian Constitution bars Putin from running again in 2024, and this year’s vote is a starting gun for the country’s powerful officials and oligarchs to jockey for position ahead of an uncertain future.

The leading figures in Russia’s behind-the-scenes power struggles include longtime Putin associates and top government figures, a rising group of young technocrats and a powerful security service. These factions have been increasingly, openly at odds as anticipation grows over who Putin will include in his new government and who will hold influence outside of it.

“After March 18, Putin has to appoint a new government and he has to start thinking about his last presidential term. He has to start thinking about some kind of mechanism to remain in power, transfer to a successor or change the system,” explained Mikhail Zygar, a Russian journalist and author of a book on Putin’s inner circle.

“That’s the mystery for everyone. Everyone is very scared because they don’t know what surprise he is preparing.”

Igor Sechin, Putin's former secretary, is now CEO of one of the world's largest oil companies. “He has more influence than the prime minister,” an analyst says. Sergei Karpukhin/Reuters

A Corruption Case Shocks Russia’s Elites

Putin has long tried to prevent any one interest group or individual from gaining too much power, seeing political upstarts as threats to his authority. But it appears his control over his associates has begun to slip, and he hasn’t been able to keep disputes between major figures behind closed doors.

In an episode last year that showed the high stakes of these battles, a court sentenced former Economy Minister Alexei Ulyukayev to serve eight years in a penal colony and pay $2.2 million for corruption and accepting bribes.

Ulyukayev denied the charges and blamed a political opponent for setting him up ― Igor Sechin, a former deputy prime minister who is now head of Russian oil giant Rosneft. Sechin, in turn, denies Ulyukayev’s accusations.

The case centered on a meeting between the two men in late 2016 at Rosneft headquarters, where hidden cameras captured Sechin giving Ulyukayev a gift basket full of sausages and a large brown bag. The bag contained $2 million, which Sechin accused Ulyukayev of seeking as a bribe. Ulyukayev claims he thought the bag contained bottles of wine.

Based on the sting operation and Sechin’s testimony, Ulyukayev was convicted.

“The biggest prize for lots of public officials right now is the right to leave office after the election.” - Konstantin Gaaze, political analyst who writes for the Carnegie Moscow Center

Sechin served as Putin’s secretary in the 1990s and is now one of the country’s most powerful men, even though he no longer holds a position inside the Kremlin. Experts describe him as a staunch conservative and anti-Western figure in Russian politics, and he is currently under U.S. sanctions related to Russia’s annexation of Crimea.

Sechin is a linchpin in a group of hawkish former security officials known as the “siloviki,” who are looking to gain more influence during Putin’s next term. Sechin’s power has grown to the point where analysts say that in addition to his role in Rosneft, he also holds significant pull over both the court system and Russia’s security services.

“Sechin, on the one hand, is the CEO of the biggest Russian oil company, and on the other hand, is a member of Putin’s inner circle, so he basically can do everything he wants without the limitations that a public official has,” said Konstantin Gaaze, a political analyst who writes for the Carnegie Moscow Center think tank.

“He has more influence than the prime minister.”

Putin and Defense Minister Sergei Shoigu. Sputnik Photo Agency/Reuters

Staking A Claim In Putin’s Final Term

Ulyukayev’s harsh sentence and his allegations against Sechin set a disquieting tone for Russia’s elites. The former economy minister’s downfall provides both a glimpse of potential disputes to come in the next six years and a sign that even powerful figures are now vulnerable and that a wrong political move could result in jail.

In a closing statement at the trial, Ulyukayev paraphrased John Donne’s poem “For Whom The Bell Tolls” and warned those watching that “the bell could start tolling for any of you.”

“That case is a major reason why the level of trust in Russian elites is dramatically low. They just don’t trust each other,” said Gaaze.

“They are afraid not because of some abstract feeling, not because of the Western sanctions, but they are afraid because they feel the rules of the game in the Russian elite changed dramatically.”

“Everyone is very scared because they don’t know what surprise [Putin] is preparing.” - Mikhail Zygar, Russian journalist

Already, other tensions have begun to escalate within the Kremlin, including between the speaker of Russia’s parliament, Vyacheslav Volodin, and Putin’s first deputy chief of staff, Sergei Kiriyenko. Both wield sizable power within the government, control duties that go beyond their titles and are seeking to expand their roles.

But as Kiriyenko and Volodin gain more influence, their conflict has become increasingly heated. The two fought over the best way to manage Putin’s election campaign and address his opponents, experts say, with Volodin criticizing Kiriyenko for drawing too much attention to the race and turning it into a circus.

The next presidential term will likely also see other top members of the Kremlin, such as Defense Minister Sergei Shoigu and Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev, seek to secure their places. More liberal-minded economists, military figures and other interest groups are all expected to vie for prominence.

Putin talks to Vyacheslav Volodin in 2011. RIA Novosti/Reuters

The Young Technocrats

Even after the election, it won’t be immediately obvious who is set to emerge from the melee. Putin will appoint a new government and is likely to bring in new people for a number of positions, potentially even replacing Medvedev, who is mired in corruption allegations.

Positions in Putin’s new government may instead fall to a new generation of officials whose ambitions the president can easily control.

“For Putin, it will be much easier to choose young technocrats for government positions instead of trying to persuade some politically strong, experienced figures,” said Tatiana Stanovaya, head of the political analysis organization R.Politik.

As a result, Stanovaya says it’s likely that these younger, less ideological figures who won’t challenge Putin’s authority will enter Russia’s government. Important figures in the Kremlin may then shift to roles more like Sechin’s, using unofficial means of wielding their influence while avoiding the accountability that comes with public office.

“The biggest prize for lots of public officials right now is the right to leave office after the election. After the Ulyukayev case, they realize that they take all the risk with none of the benefits,” Gaaze said.

But several government positions Putin will pick still wield significant power, such as deputy prime minister, and are worth keeping an eye on. Given the uncertainty over what Russia’s next six years will look like, however, there’s no guarantee that whoever takes those jobs will hold on to them.

“The government he’s going to appoint right after the election is not the government that is going to be in power by the end of his presidential term,” Zygar predicted.