Janelle Monáe is thinking about mass-producing those iconic pants from her “Pynk” music video — but sadly, they won’t come with your very own Tessa Thompson.

“We may be working on that,” Monáe told People on Tuesday about the possibility of creating pink vulva pants for the masses.

The video for “Pynk” — one of the first singles off of the Grammy-nominated singer’s third solo album, “Dirty Computer” — made waves when it came out last month. It features neon “Pussy Power” signs, pro-pubic hair visuals and, of course, synchronized desert dancing in pants that resemble vaginas (yes, we realize vulva is technically the correct identifier).

“I’m so tickled and honored that people are talking about the Pynk pants, I think that it’s so cool to have discussions around women’s issues and women’s bodies,” Monáe said. “I think it’s amazing.”

She told the outlet that she hopes the “Pynk” video can be a celebration of all women’s bodies ― including women who don’t have vaginas.

“There are some women in the video that do not have on the pants, because I don’t believe that all women need to possess a vagina to be a woman,” Monáe said. “I have one I’m proud of it, but there’s a lot of policing and controlling that people are trying to have over our vaginas and when you think about female genital mutilation, when you think about all these women’s issues, I wanted to make sure we were discussing these issues but we were also celebrating each other.”

While promoting her album last month, Monáe came out as queer in a feature for Rolling Stone. She told the magazine that she identifies with aspects of pansexuality and bisexuality.

“Being a queer black woman in America ― someone who has been in relationships with both men and women ― I consider myself to be a free-ass motherfucker,” she told Rolling Stone.

“I want young girls, young boys, nonbinary, gay, straight, queer people who are having a hard time dealing with their sexuality, dealing with feeling ostracized or bullied for just being their unique selves, to know that I see you,” she added. “This album is for you. Be proud.”Ken Giles of the Houston Astros imploded in the ninth inning and then exploded on his own face. USA Today Sports / Reuters

Houston Astros relief pitcher Ken Giles got a sock in the jaw for blowing Tuesday’s game ― delivered by his own hand.

Watch the relief pitcher punch himself hard in the face after he was removed from a brutal outing against the New York Yankees in Houston. Giles had given up a three-run home run to the Yankees’ Gary Sanchez that broke open a 0-0 game in the ninth inning. The Astros lost, 4-0.

Here’s the one-man bout:

Gary Sanchez delivered the knockout punch, then Ken Giles delivered his own. pic.twitter.com/SP5MOqmPxt — YES Network (@YESNetwork) May 2, 2018

Another look:

Uh, did Ken Giles just punch himself in the face? pic.twitter.com/Y8kbDIDVtl — Kenny Ducey (@KennyDucey) May 2, 2018

“I just screwed up a win,” Giles told outlets. “We should have won this game. We should have bounced back. I didn’t give our team a chance. Of course I’m going to be frustrated over that.”

But the next time you have a rough night, dude, you might want to avoid going all-Mike Tyson on your own face.

AdvertisementA group of conservative Christian marchers will take to Washington, D.C., Saturday to promote their “freedom from homosexual [and] transgender lifestyles” ― and a survivor of the June 2016 Pulse nightclub massacre will be among them.

Luis Javier Ruiz, 34, wrote of his “struggles of perversion” in a Facebook post April 27, and seemed to imply that he no longer identified as gay.

Referring to the 49 people whom shooter Omar Mateen killed at the gay nightclub in Orlando, Florida, Ruiz wrote that he “should [have] been number 50.”

“I know who I am and I am not defined with who the enemy says I [used] to be,” he added.

Ruiz had expressed similar, albeit less explicitly worded, sentiments in a 2017 interview with Florida Catholic.

“My life really did change after Pulse. I am a different person now,” he said at the time, adding: “My life has changed, but [I] do hate the fact that it took this tragedy to change my life.”

Ruiz concluded his post with a number of hashtags promoting the “Freedom March,” which will take place in Washington on May 5. The event is being promoted by Voice for the Voiceless, a Virginia-based group dedicated to defending “the rights of former homosexuals, individuals with unwanted same-sex attraction, and their families.”

Ruiz will attend the event, according to reports.

Ruiz did not immediately respond to a request for comment on his role in the march, and by Wednesday afternoon appeared to have deleted the post or placed it on a private setting. However, the march’s organizers have shared a photo of Ruiz on their social media accounts, along with his April 27 status as it originally appeared, copied in full.

Although Ruiz didn’t specify whether he has undergone so-called conversion therapy, his post came on the same day that Hawaiian lawmakers voted in favor of a bill that would outlaw the “ex-gay” therapy for minors. Hawaii Gov. David Ige is expected to sign the bill into law, which would make the state the 12th in the U.S. to prohibit such practices.

Multiple medical and mental health organizations, including the American Psychological Association and American Psychiatric Association, have discredited the belief that a person can change their sexuality through conversion therapy, religion or other means. Still, the practice continues to be promoted in conservative religious communities.

Voice for the Voiceless’s president, Daren Mehl, told the Christian Post the event was “an opportunity ... to testify publicly of the life-changing grace available to leave the LGBT identity for something greater.”

“I decided the gay label and lifestyle didn’t align to my desired identity as a Christian,” Mehl said. “Trying to align my choices in behavior to my Christian identity took years of struggling, and sometimes it was quite painful.”Kim Kardashian is reportedly working with Jared Kushner and Ivanka Trump in an effort to pardon a 62-year-old great-grandmother serving a life sentence for nonviolent drug-related offenses.

In 1993, Alice Marie Johnson was arrested and in 1997 was convicted of drug conspiracy and money laundering, according to a Mic profile, which says she became involved with cocaine dealers after a series of deeply unfortunate events: She went through a divorce, she lost her job, she filed for bankruptcy, her home was foreclosed on, and one of her sons was killed.

Although they were first-time, nonviolent offenses, she was sentenced to life in prison without the possibility of parole.

Johnson became an ordained minister in prison and has mentored and tutored other inmates.

“It feels like I am sitting on death row. Unless things change, I will never go home alive,” she told the ACLU in 2013.

Kardashian got involved after sharing a Mic video in October that detailed Johnson’s case:

This is so unfair... https://t.co/W3lPINbQuy — Kim Kardashian West (@KimKardashian) October 26, 2017

A representative for Kardashian told Mic that she has since “been in communication with the White House and is working to bring Johnson’s case to the president’s desk.”

TMZ corroborated that report, saying Kardashian has gotten her personal attorney Shawn Holley involved and has been working with Kushner and Trump for months on the issue.

Johnson hoped to receive clemency in 2015, when President Barack Obama granted dozens of federal inmates their freedom. She told HuffPost at the time, “I did do something wrong. But this [was] a bad choice in my life that has cost me my life.”

She wrote a thank-you note to Kardashian for her efforts and expressed “deep and heartfelt gratitude.”

“Ms. Kardashian you are literally helping to save my life and restore me to my family. I was drowning and you have thrown me a life jacket and given me hope,” Johnson wrote in the letter, obtained by TMZ.Embattled political research firm Cambridge Analytica is closing all of its operations with plans to file for bankruptcy in the U.S., it announced on Wednesday.

The London-based company, which was hired by President Donald Trump’s 2016 campaign, was outed in March as having harvested personal data on millions of Facebook users, without their knowledge, for marketing and political purposes.

In a statement on its website, the firm said it has been the subject of “numerous unfounded accusations” and “vilified for activities that are not only legal, but also widely accepted as a standard component of online advertising in both the political and commercial arenas.”

The decision to close up shop followed rising legal fees and a loss of clients over the investigation into their work and use of Facebook data, The Wall Street Journal reported, citing a person familiar with the situation.

Shortly after the scandal broke, the firm announced an independent investigation into its practices. The results of that investigation, which were shared on the company’s website this week, stated that the allegations against the firm were not “borne out by the facts.”

Alexander Nix, who was suspended as Cambridge Analytica's CEO in March, is seen at the company's New York City office in 2016. The Washington Post via Getty Images

The firm also suspended its CEO, Alexander Nix, in March after he was recorded bragging about Cambridge Analytica and its parent company, Strategic Communication Laboratories, influencing more than 200 elections around the world with unethical practices.

Those methods included bribery, entrapment and the use of sex workers and inaccurate information. Nix had said that he was lying when he said that.

Cambridge Analytica did not immediately respond to a request for comment.

The founders and funders of Cambridge Analytica registered a new company in London last August called Emerdata Limited, according to business filings reported on in March.

Rebekah and Jennifer Mercer ― whose billionaire father Robert Mercer funded Cambridge Analytica as well as SCL Group and Trump’s election campaign ― were listed as directors of the company. Nix and SCL Group Chairman Julian Wheatland were named among Emerdata’s directors.

AdvertisementDonald Trump didn’t invent the undue influence of special interests over policymaking, however innovative his administration has been. NurPhoto via Getty Images

There are few genuinely uncontroversial ideas in American politics. But here is one: Corruption is bad. Another: Someone should really do something about corruption.

According to a Chapman University poll released last fall, “corruption of government officials” ranks as the single most ubiquitous American fear, ahead of “polluted drinking water,” “North Korea using weapons,” and “not having enough money for the future.” Public trust in government has been mired “near historically low levels” for a decade, according to the Pew Research Center.

The parade of outrages from the Trump administration (Kellyanne Conway hawking Ivanka Trump’s clothing line, Environmental Protection Agency Administrator Scott Pruitt securing cheap housing from an energy lobbyist’s spouse, Office of Management and Budget Director Mick Mulvaney’s admission that he only took meetings from lobbyists who contributed to his congressional campaigns, etc.) have sharpened the attention Americans ― or at least, liberals ― are giving government ethics.

But Trump didn’t invent the undue influence of special interests over policymaking, however innovative his administration has been. President Barack Obama’s Treasury Department deferred to big banks on its signature anti-foreclosure initiative, and Obama’s Education Department often prioritized the interests of student loan contractors over students.

“We can’t just address money in politics. We have to address money in government.” - Rohit Chopra, incoming federal trade commissioner

And yet there is almost no energy anywhere in Washington devoted to either studying or overcoming the subtle and not-so-subtle manifestations of corruption in American political life. Entire think tanks are devoted to tax policy, foreign policy, world peace, human rights, libertarianism, and whatever Google wants ― but anti-corruption work is generally relegated to a few scholars recycling the same ideas about campaign finance reform that have been floating around for decades. Even think tanks that specialize in international corruption create the impression that it’s predominantly a problem that exists overseas.

This paucity of serious work is not an accident. Think tanks themselves are meant to influence the political process, and think tanks have to get their funding somewhere. Some of the worst Washington corruption scandals in recent years have involved think tanks leveraging their reputations to help corporate donors.

So the latest policy proposal from the liberal-leaning Roosevelt Institute deserves special attention. Authored by incoming federal trade commissioner Rohit Chopra as he awaited Senate confirmation for his new post, the paper marks the first comprehensive attempt to rethink federal anti-corruption policy in years ― maybe since the Watergate era. Instead of focusing on campaign contributions and elections, Chopra takes a look at the way special interests exercise undue influence over the federal bureaucracy and the broader policy debate in Washington.

“We can’t just address money in politics,” Chopra told HuffPost. “We have to address money in government.”

Incoming federal trade commissioner Rohit Chopra proposes the creation of a new Public Integrity Protection Agency to centralize and streamline federal anti-corruption oversight. Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg via Getty Images

Most of the anti-corruption infrastructure in Washington was created in response to the Watergate scandals. Chopra thinks that infrastructure is too diffuse, weak and compromised by the chains of command that discourage serious oversight. The Office of Government Ethics was established in 1979, but can’t bring either civil or criminal enforcement actions for misconduct. Almost every federal agency has an independent inspector general’s office to investigate various improprieties. But IGs are appointed by the president, and most presidents aren’t terribly eager to unearth problems in their own administrations. “Good IGs are few and far between,” Chopra says.

In the Roosevelt paper, he proposes the creation of a new Public Integrity Protection Agency, or PIPA, to centralize and streamline the anti-corruption oversight that is currently dispersed throughout the federal bureaucracy. It’s an idea similar to the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau ― where Chopra previously served as an assistant director ― which consolidated the regulatory power previously spread across five different federal financial regulators.

Like other federal regulators, the PIPA would be empowered to bring enforcement actions in federal court, to issue fines against agencies or individuals and to remove rogue employees from government.

“We’ve long known that government agencies can be captured by corporations and special interests,” says Lisa Gilbert, vice president of legislative affairs at Public Citizen, a consumer watchdog. “This particular paper is an important contribution, and other efforts are coalescing across the country as people try to figure out what can be accomplished in a bipartisan manner.”

The new PIPA wouldn’t just be responsible for policing the bureaucracy. It would also have jurisdiction over think tanks, advocacy groups and other organizations that seek to influence the political process. The PIPA could propose and enforce new rules on funding disclosure, making clear to lawmakers, regulators and the public when organizations are speaking on behalf of particular donors.

Chopra would also empower the PIPA to “slow down” the revolving door between regulated industries and the agencies that regulate them, imposing new restrictions on officials who enter or leave public office. The specifics would be up to the agency, but the idea would be to prevent someone from, say, leaving a big bank to become a bank regulator and write weak rules.

“Since the 1970s, corporations have become more sophisticated about spending money in ways that are not considered lobbying,” notes Jeff Hauser, director of the Revolving Door Project at the Center for Economic and Policy Research, another liberal-leaning think tank. “That includes hiring people who are coming out of government and relying on their social networks as assets.”

“Since the 1970s, corporations have become more sophisticated about spending money in ways that are not considered lobbying.” - Jeff Hauser, Revolving Door Project, Center for Economic and Policy Research

Insulating PIPA itself from partisan pressures would be an obvious priority, since the agency would exercise tremendous power over the executive branch. Chopra suggests having a director appointed for a lengthy term ― seven to 10 years ― and being selected through a process that involves all three branches of the federal government. The Supreme Court could present a slate of potential nominees to the president, who would select a director who would then be subject to Senate confirmation.

The scope of PIPA’s regulatory authority would also be tailored to the First Amendment ― big donors would still be able to give freely to think tanks and other organizations, and working at a bank couldn’t be a lifetime ban on government service. But plenty of activities would still be eligible for oversight, from think tank funding disclosures to stock trading by federal employees.

“There is a lot more money spent on influence than official statistics on lobbying reveal,” Chopra says. “When I was at the Education Department, I saw firsthand how government contractors seemed to be calling the shots.”

None of these ideas are going to be implemented anytime soon. As campaign finance reform advocates can attest, it’s hard to convince members of Congress to reform a system that put them in power. And even anti-corruption experts are reluctant to criticize the existing system under the current administration, lest they undermine the few IGs that are actually doing good work.

But Washington seems to be changing. In the past few weeks, multiple senators have endorsed ambitious policy ideas that seemed unthinkable just a few years or even months ago. The Roosevelt Institute paper could be the start of a new conversation about clean government.

AdvertisementCNN anchor Jake Tapper has had enough of President Donald Trump’s wild conspiracy theories.

On Wednesday’s broadcast of “The Lead,” Tapper dissected Trump’s latest unsubstantiated “SPYGATE” claim that the FBI conducted surveillance on his 2016 election campaign for “political purposes.”

As “we await the investigation into the matter,” said Tapper, it’s “worth remembering that while we’re sticking to the facts and telling you just what we know, President Trump apparently has no constraints since he simply makes stuff up.”

“He frequently lies and has a long and well-documented career engaging in conspiracy theories about all manner of subjects with no concrete evidence ever provided,” Tapper added.

The CNN host then listed just a fraction of the unproven conspiracy theories that Trump has touted:

“For years he perpetuated the myth that President Obama wasn’t born in the United States. He’s claimed ― with no evidence ― he saw thousands of Muslims on TV celebrating 9/11 on rooftops in New Jersey. No evidence of that. And he bizarrely suggested Senator Ted Cruz’s father might have been involved in the assassination of JFK. Nope.”

“I could go on,” said Tapper, after reeling off several more of Trump’s highly-questionable claims. “But this is just an hour show.”Tonight at 11/10c, Facebook is getting into the dating game...minus the hookups. pic.twitter.com/Bqaa3BlJAO — The Daily Show (@TheDailyShow) May 2, 2018

Trevor Noah is not impressed with Facebook’s upcoming foray into the world of dating.

On Tuesday’s broadcast of “The Daily Show,” the comedian broke down why he doesn’t believe Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg’s “sweet” plan to foster long-term romantic relationships ― and “not just hookups” between users ― will work.

“Yay,” Noah said sarcastically. “Finally, relationships without the hookups. Yeah, Facebook really has its finger on the pulse.”

“You know how many times I’ve been in a relationship and I’ve been like ‘too much hooking up, too much hooking up, you know what would really turn me on? Meeting your parents,’” he added.

Noah then imagined some darker consequences to giving the social media platform a role in people’s love lives.(Reuters) - A veterinarian from Colombia was charged with illegally smuggling narcotics into the United States by surgically implanting packets of liquid heroin into the bellies of puppies, U.S. prosecutors said on Tuesday.

Andres Lopez Elorez was arraigned in a federal court in Brooklyn on Tuesday on an indictment of conspiring to import and distribute heroin into the United States, the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Eastern District of New York said.

Elorez, 38, pleaded not guilty, U.S. news reports said.

His court-appointed lawyer, Mitchell Dinnerstein, said his client “doesn’t have any real connection” to the United States, the New York Times reported. Dinnerstein was not immediately available for comment.

Andres Lopez Elorez, not pictured, is accused of conspiring to import and distribute heroin into the U.S. by surgically implanting these puppies with liquid heroin. Handout . / Reuters

Elorez faces up to life imprisonment if convicted, U.S. prosecutors said.

“Dogs are man’s best friend and, as the defendant is about to learn, we are drug dealers’ worst enemy,” Richard Donoghue, U.S. attorney for the Eastern District of New York, said in a statement.

Elorez is suspected of taking part in a conspiracy to bring drugs into the country more than a decade ago, prosecutors said.

The puppies, mostly purebred dogs including Labrador retrievers, had their bellies cut open and heroin stitched in. They were then exported to the United States with the smugglers hoping the dogs’ pedigrees would help ease their path through customs, the U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration has said.

A 2005 raid in Colombia found 10 dogs to be used as drug couriers who were rescued, but many puppies died in the operation, it said.

Elorez was arrested in Spain and extradited to the United States, prosecutors said.

AdvertisementTONIGHT: Mueller's questions for Trump don't go far enough for our host, so he's submitting a few queries of his own. #LSSC pic.twitter.com/tQyZRj8dt5The Republican-controlled Oklahoma House of Representatives on Thursday passed an adoption bill that critics argue could discriminate against same-sex couples.

The bill, which was introduced by Republican state Sen. Greg Treat, reads, “No private child-placing agency shall be required to perform, assist ... or participate in any placement of a child for foster care or adoption when the proposed placement would violate the agency’s written religious or moral convictions or policies.”

Zeke Stokes, a spokesman for GLAAD, an LGBTQ advocacy group, said in a statement, “This bill is heartless and un-American. No qualified parent should be turned away from adoption or foster agencies simply because they are LGBTQ.”

The measure would also allow agencies to turn away would-be parents on the basis of their marital status or religion.

Treat said the bill’s language has been mischaracterized.

“It doesn’t do anything ... to prohibit same-sex couples from adopting,” Treat told Oklahoma City TV station KFOR. “All it does is protect faith-based institutions who wish to participate, and some are sitting on the sideline right now, and I hope to get them involved to help us take care of the huge need.”

The bill, which the state Senate passed in March, will now move to Republican Gov. Mary Fallin, who has not made clear whether she will veto the bill or sign it into law.A Michigan Republican activist convicted of election fraud had VIP access to President Donald Trump’s April rally in the state.

In 2012, Brandon Hall forged signatures to get a judicial candidate on the ballot in Ottawa County, Michigan. He was convicted of 10 counts of election fraud and sentenced in 2016 to 30 days in jail and 18 months probation. He is still serving the probation portion of his sentence.

Hall was a volunteer on Trump’s campaign in Michigan and had VIP access to his rally in the state on April 28, according to photos he posted on his Facebook page.

The photos showcase Hall’s front-row seat to Trump’s rally in Washington, Michigan. One of the pictures shows him standing at the same lectern where Trump spoke.

Facebook

Facebook/Brandon Hall

Facebook/Brandon Hall

Hall’s level of access is notable given the Trump administration’s focus on voter fraud, which several analyses have shown is not a widespread problem. Trump claims that between three and five million people voted illegally in the 2016 election, but has offered no evidence to support that claim. In April, he dismissed the idea that voter fraud was a conspiracy theory, saying “in many places, like California, the same person votes many times, you probably heard about that.” Trump convened a panel to investigate voter fraud last year but disbanded it in January as it struggled to assemble voting data from all 50 states and faced a slew of lawsuits.

Hall declined to comment on his attendance at the rally.

“The fake news media should spend their time covering stories that matter to real Americans instead of pandering to DC elites, like President Trump’s historic peace talks with North Korea, which caused South Korean President Kim Jae-in to say President Trump should receive the Nobel Peace Prize,” he wrote in an email. “Employment levels for Hispanic and Black Americans are higher than they have been in decades, same for women. I could go on and on, but of course, you won’t publish it.”

In a follow-up email, he corrected the South Korean leader’s name to Moon Jae-in.

The White House did not respond to a request for comment.

The day before petitions were due for the 2012 judicial race, Hall used different colored pens to forge signatures to get 1,000 names, the minimum requirement. He told the Grand Haven Tribune in 2016 that he used a local phone book to find names to forge.

During his 2016 sentencing, Hall apologized for his crime.The younger brother of the accused Parkland, Florida, mass shooter has been jailed on charges he violated the terms of his probation.

Zachary Cruz, 18, who was on six months’ probation for trespassing at Marjorie Stoneman Douglas High School in March, was booked into the Palm Beach County jail on Tuesday evening, jailhouse records show.

Cruz was wanted on a warrant alleging he was driving a car without a license on Saturday and was within close proximity to a high school in Lake Worth, Florida, the Sun Sentinel reported. Both offenses violate the terms of his probation, which require him to stay away from schools where he’s not enrolled, according to the newspaper.

Zachary Cruz, 18, was arrested on Tuesday after allegedly violating the terms of his probation. Palm Beach County Sheriffs Office

Cruz is listed as residing in Lantana, Florida, approximately five miles from Lake Worth.

Cruz was arrested on March 19 for trespassing at the Parkland high school where authorities say his brother, Nikolas Cruz, fatally shot 17 people on Feb. 14.

Cruz, who had been warned by school officials to stay away from the campus, told police he was there to “reflect on the school shooting and soak it in,” according to an arrest affidavit.

Prosecutors have said that they will seek the death penalty against Nikolas Cruz, who has been charged with 17 counts of first-degree premeditated murder and 17 counts of first-degree attempted murder.Brad Pitt returned to “The Jim Jefferies Show” on Tuesday night to play a weatherman who’s trying to let the world know what the future holds.Alex Edelman via Getty Images

WASHINGTON ― The Republican food stamp plan would cut benefits by billions of dollars, but it would also create a new database of food stamp recipients, a new job-training bureaucracy and an expanded child support enforcement regime.

In other words, while the bill might reduce “government dependence” by kicking people off food stamps, it stands to increase the role of government in other ways.

And while the Congressional Budget Office says the bill wouldn’t raise spending over the standard 10-year budget window, its upfront costs in the next five years are now giving conservatives pause.

If House Agriculture Committee Chairman Mike Conaway (R-Texas) can’t win over the wavering House Freedom Caucus ― an influential bloc of roughly 30 right-wing Republicans ― then it’s hard to see how his bill could pass the House of Representatives, since Democrats seem to be uniformly opposed. (Last week, Freedom Caucus leaders suggested they were more open to the legislation than they had previously been.)

Conservatives have long sought big changes to the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program, which helps more than 40 million Americans buy food each month and is one of the biggest federal programs responding to economic need.

New “work requirements” in Conaway’s bill would reduce spending on benefits by $9 billion over 10 years, which is somewhere between 1 and 2 percent of the program’s projected cost in that time. The bill would invest $7 billion in job training, substantially increasing the scope of programs that states currently offer.

The new rules would require more SNAP recipients to log at least 20 hours per week of work or participation in a state scheme.

“They would force states to develop large new bureaucracies that would need to track millions of SNAP recipients, but likely would do little to boost employment, particularly given that the new funding provided in the bill for job training and work slots would amount to just $30 per month for those recipients who need a work slot to retain SNAP benefits,” the liberal Center on Budget and Policy Priorities said in an analysis of the bill this week.

Conaway and House Speaker Paul Ryan (R-Wis.) aren’t getting a ton of support for their food stamp plan from conservatives outside of Congress, either. Robert Rector, an influential welfare expert with the conservative Heritage Foundation, said the work requirements have “huge loopholes” and that the job training proposal would be ineffective.

Above all, the Heritage Foundation has faulted the Conaway bill for not fixing the so-called marriage penalty. Under current policy, it’s possible for a household to receive greater benefits if it excludes the income earned by a non-married parent on its application. Heritage claims this creates a disincentive for people to get married.

But the bill does include a provision to bring families together, at least through the administrative state. Parents applying for benefits would be required to cooperate with Child Support Enforcement, a federal-state program that can track down noncustodial parents and make them pay child support to the custodial parent. States already have the option to require SNAP recipients to do this, but only six do.

States should be allowed to choose whether to require cooperation with child support enforcement, Rep. Darren Soto (D-Fla.) argued during a hearing on the bill last month, since it could be dangerous for some parents.

“They may not want that other parent in their life because of violence or because of some fear,” Soto said.

The CBO said the child support provision would actually cost more than $3 billion over 10 years, because the savings from sanctioning some uncooperative parents would be outweighed by the administrative cost of tracking down other uncooperative parents ― who might be unable to pay, anyway.

Conaway questioned CBO’s analysis of the provision.

“It’s the right thing to do, but on paper it looks like it costs money,” he told HuffPost last week. “You want noncustodial parents and custodial parents to make agreements to take care of the kids, make sure the kids have the right resources and child support’s paid.”

Another provision in the bill would set up a new database of SNAP recipients in order to cut down on people receiving benefits in multiple states, and to measure the duration of people’s enrollment.

The CBO says the database would save roughly half a billion dollars. The CBPP, however, calls it a privacy risk, since it would contain personal information about SNAP recipients. “The data, which states would share with USDA each month, would be stored in the database for many years, if not indefinitely,” the center noted in its analysis.DeAndre Harris, a former special education instructor, is shown after receiving treatment for injuries he suffered in a beating as he protested last summer's white supremacist rally in Charlottesville, Virginia. Andy Campbell / HuffPost

A jury on Tuesday convicted a white supremacist who participated in the brutal beating of a black man in a parking garage during last August’s “Unite the Right” rally in Charlottesville, Virginia.

Jacob Scott Goodwin, a 23-year-old from Arkansas, was found guilty of a malicious wounding charge. The jury of three men and nine women recommended 10 years imprisonment with the option for a suspended sentence, along with a $20,000 fine and a rehabilitation plan for Goodwin. His sentence will be set by a judge on Aug. 23.

Video showing several people attacking DeAndre Harris, 20, went viral in the aftermath of the disastrous Aug. 12 rally that left one counterprotester dead. The men in the video used poles to beat Harris in the garage, which stands next door to the Charlottesville Police Department.

Harris emerged from the assault with his head dripping blood. He suffered a concussion and a broken arm, and required eight staples for his head wound, he told The Root.

Goodwin was shown in the video dressed in militia-style gear, including a helmet, and carrying a large shield.

His lawyer argued that his client feared for his life and had acted in self-defense, alleging it was Harris who picked a fight with the white supremacists. Goodwin testified that he thought he would “probably perish or be sent to the hospital and be terribly hurt” in the moments he faced off with Harris, according to The Washington Post.

But prosecutor Nina-Alice Antony told the jury Goodwin came to the rally “outfitted for battle,” complete with “a full body shield.”

Neither the prosecution nor the defense mentioned Goodwin’s white supremacy affiliation during the trial, the Post reported. During the rally, one of the pins he wore bore the number 88, code for Heil Hitler.

An attorney for Harris and his family said in a statement that they were pleased with the conviction, but that they felt hate crime charges should have been added.

“If hate crime charges were not appropriate in this case, it is difficult to imagine a situation in which such charges would be appropriate,” the statement read. “These shortcomings will be addressed in the civil litigation [the lawyer’s office] will move forward with upon the completion of these criminal matters.”

Earlier in a parking garage in #Charlottesville - white supremacists beat this black kid w/poles. [Photo for by @zdroberts @NationofChange] pic.twitter.com/LLPBPjb8si — Zach D Roberts (@zdroberts) August 12, 2017

After video of the beating circulated on social media, web sleuths associated with Black Lives Matter spearheaded an effort to identify Harris’ attackers. Goodwin was arrested in October and three others face charges related to the attack.

A warrant was also issued in October for Harris, who was charged with assaulting another of the white supremacists, Harold Ray Crews, moments before Harris was attacked himself. Harris was acquitted in March.

Fight broke out. Nazis beat black kid w/sticks at end. I kick one in back 2 help & he runs after me. Kid is safe but bloody #Charlottesville pic.twitter.com/kr11a8zQ0K — ChuckModi (@ChuckModi1) August 12, 2017

A trial for another man charged in the Harris attack, Alex Michael Ramos of Georgia, is set to begin Wednesday. The trial for the other two, Tyler Watkins Davis of Florida and Daniel Borden of Ohio, will begin this summer.Travis Scott and Kylie Jenner watch the Western Conference playoffs together on April 18. Bob Levey via Getty Images

Kylie Jenner talked about why she enjoys changing diapers, how she and boyfriend Travis Scott came up with the name “Stormi” and what’s changed in her life since becoming a mother in an intimate interview published Wednesday.

Kim Kardashian conducted the interview with her younger sister for the Evening Standard, bringing up everything from Jenner’s career to her views on plastic surgery. But the 20-year-old beauty mogul had the most to say about little Stormi. She told Kardashian all about what surprised her most about motherhood and even admitted that she likes changing her daughter’s diapers.

“I think more about the future because of her. Every time I leave and I’m stressed about leaving her, I’m like, ‘I’m doing it for you,’” Jenner said. “Everyone says you change completely when you become a mom, but I really feel the same, just better. So I don’t know what really has completely changed my world, besides her, of course.”

She added, “But I feel like it’s only gotten better. You’re less selfish — and I actually enjoy changing diapers. It’s really satisfying. To make her clean again. And I don’t know, the whole thing is really… it’s like such an amazing experience.”

Scott and Jenner, who are currently on vacation together, celebrated their daughter’s three-month birthday on Tuesday, sharing an adorable photo on Instagram.

A post shared by Kylie (@kyliejenner) on May 1, 2018 at 8:46pm PDT

Jenner noted in the interview that she and Travis were originally thinking of just going with the name “Storm” instead of “Stormi.”

“I really don’t know how we thought of Storm. Her dad insisted it was him, but I feel like it was me. And that kind of just stuck with us,” she said.

“And then I didn’t really like just Storm — I didn’t feel like that was her name. So then it became Stormi,” Kylie said. “And it just stuck. I feel like there were a lot of other names that I might have even liked better, to be honest, but I feel like Stormi picked her own name, like it was just her name.”

Jenner said that being a new mom has “been so amazing” and “so much fun” but she admitted things can sometimes be difficult.

“I’m learning so much more about myself and life, and it’s been such a great experience,” Kylie said. “Of course, there’s hard times and stuff … even in the beginning, just not sleeping, the nights, like, baby blues … and all the ups and downs.”

A post shared by Kylie (@kyliejenner) on May 1, 2018 at 11:12am PDT

Stormi Webster was born on Feb. 1, weighing 8 lbs., 9 oz. She is the first child for both Jenner and Scott, whose real name is Jacques Webster.

“Pregnancy has been the most beautiful, empowering, and life-changing experience I’ve had in my entire life and I’m actually going to miss it,” Jenner said in an statement a few days after giving birth. “I’ve never felt love and happiness like this I could burst!”On Wednesday, the league ruled that players who are out on the field must stand for the national anthem or fines will be levied against their team. The new regulation is an effort to counter the movement sparked by former San Francisco 49ers quarterback Colin Kaepernick, who began taking a knee during the anthem in the 2016 season to protest systemic racial injustice and police brutality.PHILADELPHIA ― Before he was the 2018 Super Bowl MVP and a civic hero, quarterback Nick Foles was a gentle, nurturing kid with white-blond hair and giant hands. That’s how I remember him, at least. Nick and I were childhood friends. His size always made him seem older and more imposing than he was. He was quiet and liked to play Nintendo.

Our families spent holidays together and visited each other between Texas and Louisiana. Nick’s dad, Larry, had been the manager of a Baton Rouge restaurant where my dad bartended in the late ’70s. When Nick was 8, my dad took him and my brother duck hunting in Grand Chenier, Louisiana, and Nick was more interested in caring for the injured ducks in the blind after they’d been shot than in hunting them. At one point he got upset because some of the ducks seemed not quite dead. He wanted to end their suffering. So he tried to shoot one on the floor with his BB gun, but he missed, and the BB ricocheted and nailed my dad in the forehead.

The Nick Foles who greeted me on Monday in a nondescript office at the Eagles’ Philadelphia training facility was not quite the Nick Foles I knew as a kid. I hadn’t seen him in 20 years. He is 6 feet, 6 inches now and in all ways a bona fide phenomenon. Grown colleagues of mine own shirts with his name on them. Men across Philadelphia have his face tattooed on their bodies.

We spoke for an hour about football and fame and faith, about being an apolitical quarterback in a politically charged moment for the NFL, and about his near retirement two years ago and his unusual journey since then, from backup to star to backup again.

Nick! You’re so much bigger than the last time I saw you. I have a picture of you and my brother arm wrestling when you were children.

Eagles PR guy, on his way out of the room: I bet your brother can’t beat him in arm wrestling now.

Nick: Taylor? He and I are getting older now, so we’d probably just have a beer and call it a day.

I thought you didn’t drink.

I’ll drink sometimes, usually hard dry cider. I’ve noticed, even though I’m 29, with all the hits and everything, my body just does not feel good when I drink alcohol. We have so much to do throughout the day, and when I’m healthier and on it, I can get more done and still be a dad and a husband.

Nick Foles (far left) arm wrestling my brother, Taylor, in the '90s. Laura Bassett

Do you have a vice? Do you ever just go nuts and eat a bag of Hot Cheetos?

I had two autograph signings the last two days for like eight hours, and I didn’t eat yesterday, so I got home and I was starving. And we eat gluten free ― my wife got real sick four years ago, so we’ve had to learn, and it helps me too with inflammation. But I got home and crushed a bag of chips. They were the healthiest chips you can get, made with coconut oil and stuff like that, but I’ll definitely have some gluten-free pizza.

So you don’t have a vice.

[Laughs]

What’s it like to suddenly be famous and see grown men around Philadelphia wearing shirts with your name on it and having tattoos of your face on their bodies?

It’s crazy because when I was here the first time around, we broke a lot of records, I got a lot of notoriety for that here. Philly just loves the Eagles. But when I came back after everything that happened in my career in St. Louis and being a backup in [Kansas City], I wasn’t as noticeable. I could go to the grocery store, and people would recognize me, but it wasn’t a big deal. Now I go anywhere in the nation and it’s a big deal.

Tori [his wife] and I were just in Hawaii on a pretty secluded island, and even there the locals knew who I was. A guy recognized me while I was snorkeling — it was crazy. People are always very nice. But I would never sit here and say you just get used to it — I don’t know if anyone’s ever supposed to be used to it.

What’s the weirdest fan encounter you’ve had?

The tattoo things are pretty crazy. I met a guy at a signing the other day — his whole back was me with a trophy on the “Rocky” steps.

Wow. Was it a good tat? What did you say?

I mean, it was his whole back. Forever. There’s not much you can say. I was like, “That’s cool, man.” That’s there forever.

Do you find Eagles fans to be different than fans of other franchises?

Yes. The thing I’ve always admired about Eagles fans is that it’s not fans; it’s family. It’s generational. I was at a signing yesterday and a lady started crying. She said, “I got to watch the game with my 90-year-old mother, and it was the greatest moment of her life, watching the Super Bowl.” Another woman said she was trying to have kids and couldn’t get pregnant, and after the Super Bowl she got pregnant. The doctor said something shifted in her body that allowed her to be pregnant. Stuff like that you hear, and you realize this isn’t just a game for people here.

So there are people in Philadelphia that credit you with their fertility.

This team. Yes.

I saw on Instagram that you have a “Rocky” trophy in your locker.

Yeah, actually the guy who made the real “Rocky” statue [in Philadelphia] sent me that after the Super Bowl.

It’s funny that you saw that on Instagram. I’ve never been great at social media. With what Tori and I want to do, with helping the community and maybe starting a foundation, it’s important to expand that stuff. But I don’t want it to be a highlight reel of me, I want it to be real. My wife gets sick, Lily [his 10-month-old daughter] hit her head the other day — stuff goes on. Though beautiful pictures of beaches are wonderful, I want to post things that inspire me — whether it’s a song or something I read. I’m just trying to home in on using the platform to help people. Because football — though this is awesome, and it’s great to be in the NFL — I knew a long time ago this wasn’t where my heart would be. But now because of this, I can help a lot of people through other avenues. I can go and speak, and people want to see me.

You’ve said that you want to be a youth pastor after the NFL, right?

The media sort of ran with that. People were like, “Oh, you want to be a pastor! God bless you!” When I was in Kansas City and having a tough time in my career, I decided to go to seminary to continue my spiritual growth. And the youth pastor thing — we have a great local church at home, and I always thought it would be cool to volunteer at the church. I could teach some sermons in the high school, but it’s more just to be one-on-one and help those kids at that point in their life.

There are so many people on your team from different backgrounds, different religions, different political views. Do you find yourself being a spiritual leader on the team or more kind of leaving everyone alone?

I think everyone knows I’m a Christian. But I just really want to show love to my teammates and show I genuinely care about them and that I’m not trying to be better than anyone.

When I’m on a team, it’s all about relationships and just getting to know each other. If you ask me about [University of] Arizona, I probably won’t remember a lot of games, but I’ll remember the locker room. I’ll remember working hard with those guys and that friendship. The NFL’s a little different because guys are in and out all the time, but when I step in the building, I just want to get to know people. I’ll go in the equipment room and chat. When you actually love each other and you go into a game, it’s easier to play. When adversity hits, like in the fourth quarter and stuff goes bad, no one freaks out because you’re like, eh, I got it. We all care for each other. We know we can play. Every team says they’re like family, but this team really is more than any other that I’ve seen. That’s why I believe we won the Super Bowl — because of the relationships in the locker room. That’s the coolest part of the game.

The number one thing I tell kids when I go speak is, if you’re doing this for money, fame, girls, boys, cars, whatever, you’re going to be very empty at the end of it. I can tell you that because I’m who you want to be if you want to be an athlete. I’m a professional athlete. And there’s nothing in there. The newest car’s not going to be good enough. For me it’s my relationship with Christ and my family, that’s what it’s all about.

A sign held up during the Eagles' Super Bowl victory parade on Feb. 8 in Philadelphia. Patrick Smith via Getty Images

Do you and your teammates joke around and make fun of each other? Do they have any nicknames for you?

Everyone knows I’m sort of goofy. Some guys are really serious when they play. I’m not. In practice, when I’m throwing with receivers, I’ll work on some no-look throws — I’ll look left and throw right. No one will ever do that in a game, but to me it’s just sort of fun, and there might be a day I do do it and everyone’s like, “HOW DID YOU DO THAT?” It’s just off-the-wall stuff. We played ultimate frisbee the other day, and I got to be a kid and run around like crazy. Even in games, I try to keep things humorous. If I throw a really bad ball or a long out-of-bounds ball, I’ll say: “Oh wow, that was really good, Nick. Wow.” But I won’t be down on myself, I’ll sort of laugh.

An example is, during the Super Bowl I threw a touchdown to Corey Clement, our running back, that was between three defenders, and everything happened so fast. But I went through my reads, and I went to throw to Corey and in my head was like, This looks horrible. This is not how we drew it up. I’m not throwing it. What do I do? And all of a sudden the safety slipped a little bit, a tiny bit, and I was like, Oh I got this. And I threw it, but that’s what went through my head in a split second. And it landed between three guys and he caught it.

I have to touch on Colin Kaepernick and The New York Times story about the owners’ meeting, the talk about going to the White House or not going to the White House. There’s obviously a super politically charged environment in the NFL right now. Some of your teammates have been pretty outspoken about politics, but you’ve stayed out of the fray. Do you think it’s possible to remain apolitical as a star quarterback in the NFL?

I just don’t know a lot about politics, it’s something that I just don’t have a great knowledge in, so I just listen and observe. That’s really it. If I spoke about it, I wouldn’t have a lot of knowledge in it. The character of people, the heart of people, that’s where my focus is. When it comes to political issues, I look at things differently. It’s not necessarily for me to speak. I might have opinions, but I like to listen in those situations, because a lot of times you can say something, but you’re not going to be right either way. So it’s pointless.

So you’re staying out of it.

[Laughs] So far.

How do you go from Super Bowl MVP to being a backup again? How do you flip that switch emotionally?

Well, it’s never been done, ever in the NFL, for a Super Bowl MVP to be a backup quarterback. I thought I might have been traded a month ago, because I saw everything in the news, and we’re aware of that because that’s our life. We just moved into a great home here last off season, we have a ten-and-a-half month old, a great place. And if you’re going to be traded, you have to be on your toes. But now that we restructured our deal, and we’re here for at least another year, it’s honestly a great opportunity to impact a lot of people, because a lot of people are gonna look at me and say, “Alright, let’s see how he really responds. Let’s see how he really acts. Let’s see who he really is.”

And pride does seep in, you know. You see a Super Bowl ad and you’re like, wow, that’s crazy! And you’d love the opportunity to start. But you have to reel back in. I think everyone deals with that in some sort of fashion. You know, it’s humbling. I have to humble myself daily to come in here and be a backup quarterback, sit in meetings, and I’m not the starter, though two months ago we were on stage holding the Lombardi Trophy. But it’s good for me. I’m learning a lot about myself and growing in ways I never could imagine. Everyone else looks at it like, “Oh, you should be starting, you should be getting paid this,” and it gets in your head a little bit, and then you have to get it out. Because it doesn’t matter. You really have to just focus on now and just being grateful. It goes back to perspective, like my family — seeing my daughter and my wife. We’re happy. We have great people here. Just sort of enjoying the moment, because eventually football will be over.

What was it like going up against Tom Brady after having been a backup in the same season? How did you not crack under the pressure? Were you nervous?

I didn’t know how my body was going to respond, because it’s such a big stage. You know how you’re going to prepare, but you never know until you step on that field how it’s going to happen. Because you always prepare to succeed, but guys have bad games. My focus was staying in the moment, staying present. It’s easy to look at the big picture and freak out, but we say, “Be where your feet are.” Like right now, I’m present, I’m talking to you. That’s where I am. My mind isn’t wandering. And with that it sort of clears the clutter in your mind. Every day I get up, make coffee, read scripture. I was journaling every day during that time, because there were so many emotions I was dealing with, for leaving the team and being in that situation.

So I felt good going into the game, but I remember sitting there for the national anthem, and I was taking everything in. And I knew the first play of the game was a pass, and on that play I’d sort of get an idea of how my body’s doing, how my heart’s doing, how my mind — like, is everything calm? Then I dropped back, our first read was covered and did a hard reset all the way across the field and threw it to Nelson Agholor for a completion, and I remember right then I thought, I feel really really good. It was probably the most relaxed I’ve ever played in a game, was in the Super Bowl, because I was just very present. The stage didn’t get too big.

And I really believe the reason I was so calm is because I have great teammates and that they’re very talented and work hard and do what they’re supposed to do. Not once this year did the offense get mad when the defense played bad, or the defense get mad when the offense played bad. That showed our team we always had each other’s backs.

Is that different from other teams you’ve been on?

Yeah. I’ve been on teams, I don’t want to name them, but the attention to detail wasn’t great. Schematically, we weren’t great. Great guys, good people, but we didn’t have a strong identity, and going into the games was very stressful, very tough. And I remember having a lot of trouble — like I’ve always thrown for 300-400 yards a game since I was in high school, and it was this one year of my life playing the sport where we could barely get over 150 in a game, where I was used to throwing for that in a quarter. And it was very tough. But there’s a lot of growth that happened that year.

I talk a lot to younger guys, and money can blind them. I mean, when you play, you should get paid for what you do. But make sure you go somewhere with a good system, good coaches. The grass isn’t always greener on the other side. It’s miserable if you get on a team and you aren’t playing well and everyone turns against each other. And I’ve experienced that. I thought I was going to retire two years ago. That was real. That was 100 percent. I was done.

It is because you lost faith in yourself and thought you weren’t good anymore?

I knew I could still play ― they knew I could still play at an extremely high level. I just did not like football. I couldn’t touch a football. Someone would throw me a football, and I would just drop it. I’d had enough, I’d lost the joy. I can’t do something without my heart. I think something inside me was going on, there was so much fear to play again. It wasn’t that I didn’t think I could play, I just had a horrible experience and it just blinded me. But I knew there would be more growth in playing than in stepping away.

And I knew I brought so much joy to my dad and my father-in-law and my family and the people watching, and [the idea of taking that away from them] hurt. They’ll watch me play the game, and it provides so much happiness and escape. My dad has rewatched the Super Bowl probably a hundred times. My father-in-law just watched it again last night.

Nick Foles celebrates with daughter Lily after the Philadelphia Eagles win the Super Bowl on Feb. 4. Kevin Lamarque / Reuters

That’s really sweet! My dad spent years trying to teach me how to throw a football correctly, giving me physics lectures about how my arm is like a whip. Are you going to do that to your daughter?

I’ll probably teach her how to throw a football. I really just want to do everything I can to love her and just be daddy. But I think she’ll have some good athletic genes — my wife is more athletic than me. She played volleyball at Arizona. She’s 5-foot-10, can run, jump. And Lily’s like, top percentile in length. She’ll just get a toy and throw it across the room.Hey, White House Correspondents’ Association, Robert De Niro is talking to you.

That brought out the “Raging Bull” in the 74-year-old Oscar winner.

“There was a lot of truth in Michelle Wolf’s jokes,” De Niro said at Monday’s Lincoln Center gala honoring Helen Mirren, according to multiple outlets. “And the bullies and the liars are still intimidated by the strength and the truth. Where we run into trouble is when we allow the bullies and liars to dictate the conversation.”

He then had a message for the association itself: “Shame on them. Stand up, strap on your balls and deal.”

Robert De Niro said "the bullies and the liars are still intimidated by the strength and the truth." Mike Coppola via Getty Images

De Niro also ripped Sanders, the White House press secretary who Wolf said “burned facts” to create the “perfect smokey eye.”

“What is she going to tell her kids in 10 years about how she represented or protected Donald Trump?” De Niro said, per Variety. “How is that going to come through? I don’t know. How could she justify, rationalize her behavior? What does it take to just walk away from that situation?”

If we had to sum up De Niro’s attitude toward those who criticized Wolf’s routine, this might do:Here's House Chaplain Patrick Conroy sitting peacefully. House Speaker Paul Ryan abruptly fired him for some reason. Tom Williams via Getty Images

WASHINGTON ― A Democratic congressman is quietly working with GOP colleagues to try to find a way to keep the chaplain of the House in his job, despite Speaker Paul Ryan (R-Wis.) abruptly forcing him out last month after he gave a prayer urging fairness in the GOP’s tax bill.

Rep. Gerry Connolly (D-Va.) said Wednesday that Republicans have approached him ― including some from the conservative House Freedom Caucus ― about finding a bipartisan solution to keeping House Chaplain Patrick Conroy in his post.

“They are willing to explore this. That is the nature of our conversations,” Connolly said of his talks this week with GOP lawmakers, whom he wouldn’t name. “We want to find a mechanism, if Republican leadership will accept it, whereby the resignation is rescinded.”

Talks have centered on the idea of letting Conroy stay in his role through the end of the year, and in the meantime, the House forming a bipartisan committee to search for a new chaplain. The panel could still consider Conroy to stay on, Connolly emphasized.

Ryan still hasn’t said why he pushed out Conroy, who has been the chaplain since 2011 and whose last day is set for May 24.

But Connolly previously told HuffPost he has been “informed reliably” by GOP colleagues that Ryan wanted Conroy gone after a prayer he gave during last fall’s debate on the GOP’s tax bill. In the prayer, Conroy urged Congress not to create “winners and losers” under the Republican tax measure, which greatly benefits rich people over time.

Ryan read that prayer as a “tilt to the Democrats” because it implied criticisms of the tax cuts helping the rich, Connolly said Republican lawmakers told him. “They cite that as evidence as that being more political than he’s comfortable with,” he said.

Ryan isn't making many friends by mysteriously firing the House chaplain. Joshua Roberts/Reuters

Lawmakers in both parties have fumed about Ryan’s move. Many learned last month that Conroy was leaving, but didn’t know until last week that he had been forced out. And Catholics like Connolly have been suspicious that conservatives were pushing to relieve the urban Catholic Jesuit priest in order to replace him with someone more ideologically aligned with them.

Rep. Mark Walker (R-N.C.), chairman of the conservative Republican Study Committee, all but confirmed their suspicions last week when he suggested the next chaplain should have a wife and a family ― a requirement that would automatically exclude Catholic priests from the position. Amid outcry from Catholics, Walker later removed himself from a bipartisan committee to find a new House chaplain.

Connolly said despite Walker’s comments, some conservatives want to find a way to “restore dignity for Father Conroy” and to the House itself by keeping the chaplain on the job for at least the rest of the year.

“I know for a fact that some members of the Freedom Caucus felt this was handled badly and sends a signal of bigotry they don’t want to be associated with,” the Virginia Democrat said. “I’ve never seen members so angry about something in this House in my 10 years. Because it’s not only political and not only about your faith. It’s personal.”

A Ryan spokeswoman did not respond to a request for comment on whether the speaker would be open to letting Conroy stay on for the year.

“I’ve never seen members so angry about something in this House in my 10 years.” - Rep. Gerry Connolly

Democrats unsuccessfully tried last week to pass a resolution creating a special committee to investigate why Ryan forced Conroy to resign. A GOP aide with a sense of the Republican conference later told HuffPost the resolution could have actually passed if Democrats had kept partisan language out of it. The measure, authored by Rep. Joe Crowley (D-N.Y.), twice referred to the Republican tax plan as the “GOP tax scam.”

Connolly said he hasn’t spoken to Conroy yet about the bipartisan talks underway to keep him in his job.

Asked why there should be anyone leading prayers in the House, given the country’s grounding in the separation of church and state, Connolly said that’s a different issue altogether.