BEIRUT (Reuters) - The International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC) said 25 aid trucks were waiting to enter Syria’s besieged eastern Ghouta on Thursday.

ICRC spokeswoman Iolanda Jaquemet said the convoy, waiting at the al-Wafideen crossing into the rebel-held enclave’s northern pocket, contained enough food aid for 26,100 people for one month, among other items.

What was the Syrian opposition’s largest piece of territory near the capital Damascus has been split into three encircled pockets by a government offensive that began nearly a month ago.

The aid convoy will head for the town of Douma in the northern pocket, controlled by rebel faction Jaish al-Islam.

It contains 5,220 ICRC food parcels and 5,220 World Food Programme flour bags, Jaquemet said. A parcel can feed a family of five for one month.

Russia said it expected at least 100 civilians to leave eastern Ghouta, where it daily declares a five-hour ceasefire, on Thursday, Interfax news agency reported.

This would be the third successive day on which small groups of civilians have left.

Citing the Centre for Reconciliation in Syria, a body run by Russia’s defense ministry, Interfax said eastern Ghouta would receive 137 tons of food as humanitarian aid.

The Syrian Observatory for Human Rights said overnight dozens of air strikes hit the southern pocket of eastern Ghouta, controlled by another rebel faction.Kate McKinnon is back with another killer impression of Rudy Giuliani.

The actress earned rave reviews for impersonating the former New York mayor (who has now joined President Donald Trump’s legal team) on “Saturday Night Live” earlier this month.

On Thursday’s broadcast of “Late Night with Seth Meyers,” McKinnon lightheartedly revealed that mimicking Giuliani “wasn’t as hard” as she thought it would be because she shares “something in common” with him.

Namely, they both do this:Prime Minister Robert Fico resigned on Thursday. Eric Vidal / Reuters

BRATISLAVA (Reuters) - Slovakia’s president accepted Prime Minister Robert Fico’s resignation on Thursday and asked his deputy to form a new government, as political leaders tried to ease a crisis provoked by the murder of a journalist.

The killing of 27-year-old reporter Jan Kuciak, who investigated fraud involving businessmen with political ties, has fueled public anger over corruption and led to the biggest protests in the central European nation since the fall of communism nearly three decades ago.

Facing calls for early elections, the three-party coalition government agreed on Wednesday that Fico would resign, provided that President Andrej Kiska allowed the outgoing prime minister’s Smer party to pick his successor.

Kiska has battled with Fico in the crisis and had urged a government revamp or early election to restore public trust.

On Thursday Kiska asked Deputy Prime Minister Peter Pellegrini to form a new government.

Fico has tried to keep the coalition government together halfway through its term rather than call early elections, which a junior government party had demanded on Monday.

The crisis in the Slovakia - a member of the European Union, the euro zone and NATO - has tarnished Fico, who has led for 10 of the last 12 years and had sought to stand out from more euroskeptic leaders elsewhere in central Europe.

Slovakia’s economy has grown rapidly in the last decade since he has been in office but many fault Fico for not clamping down harder on corruption and cronyism.

No one has been charged over the killing of Kuciak, who was found shot dead at home with his fiancée in late February.The governments of the United States, Britain, France and Germany released a blistering joint statement condemning Russia on Thursday, hours after the Kremlin said it plans to expel British diplomats.

“This use of a military-grade nerve agent, of a type developed by Russia, constitutes the first offensive use of a nerve agent in Europe since the Second World War,” the statement said. “It is an assault on UK sovereignty and any such use by a State party is a clear violation of the Chemical Weapons Convention and a breach of international law. It threatens the security of us all.”

Russia’s move appeared to be in retaliation against the U.K., which had announced a day earlier that it would boot Russian diplomats amid the investigation into the poisoning of former Russian spy Sergei Skripal and his daughter, Yulia.

“I would like to inform you that several diplomatic notes have been sent to the Foreign Office via the Russian Embassy in the United Kingdom,” Russian Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Maria Zakharova told Sputnik on Thursday. “They sought to launch an active dialogue with officials in London … We’ve received meaningless formal replies.”

Zakharova accused the U.K. of a yearslong anti-Russian campaign to push Russian diplomats out of the country.

Both countries accuse the other of failing to cooperate in the poisoning investigation.

A day earlier, British Prime Minister Theresa May announced the largest expulsion of Russian diplomats from the U.K. since the Cold War. She said all signs in the poisoning point to Russia, but the Russians rebuffed her demand for an explanation with “sarcasm, contempt and defiance.”

Skripal and his daughter, who were found poisoned on a bench in England earlier this month, remain hospitalized in critical but stable condition. The nerve agent used in the attack, novichok, was developed in the Soviet Union in the 1980s.RAMADI, Iraq, March 16 (Reuters) - A U.S. military aircraft carrying U.S. service members crashed in western Iraq, the U.S. Central Command said in a statement late on Thursday.

“Rescue teams are responding to the scene of the downed aircraft at this time,” the statement said, adding that further details were not immediately available.Larry Kudlow will be my Chief Economic Advisor as Director of the National Economic Council. Our Country will have many years of Great Economic & Financial Success, with low taxes, unparalleled innovation, fair trade and an ever expanding labor force leading the way! #MAGALarry Downing / Reuters

UPDATE: As of Monday, the e-book version of the torture report was no longer free.

PREVIOUSLY:

An independent book publisher is making it easier to read the Senate Intelligence Committee’s report on the CIA’s detention and so-called “enhanced interrogation” program, now that President Donald Trump has nominated Gina Haspel to lead the agency.

Haspel worked as a clandestine officer in Thailand in 2002. While there, she reportedly helped oversee the torture of a terrorism suspect at a secret prison and then allegedly helped destroy video tapes of interrogations. The methods used in the tapes included waterboarding one suspect 83 times in one month.

Independent book publisher Melville House responded to the news of Haspel’s nomination by making a free, fully searchable e-book of the torture report available for download on Wednesday.

“What’s clear from the Torture Report is that Haspel helped develop, authorize, and oversee what became one of the worst and most inhumane programs in US government history,” Melville House sales manager Peter Clark wrote in a blog post on the company’s website. “It tarnished the reputation of America and disgusted sensible people everywhere. It was evil and wrong. And it didn’t work.”

Haspel’s nomination to lead the CIA has drawn bipartisan criticism.

Sen. John McCain (R-Ariz.), the chairman of Senate Armed Services Committee who was subjected to torture during the Vietnam War, issued a statement Tuesday calling on Haspel “to explain the nature and extent of her involvement in the CIA’s interrogation program during the confirmation process.”

Sen. Rand Paul (R-Ky.) said he would oppose Haspel’s nomination because of what he called her “gleeful enjoyment” at torturing detainees.

“I find it amazing that anyone would consider this woman as the head of the CIA,” Paul, a libertarian-leaning critic of military intervention, said Wednesday.

Democrats, meanwhile, have called on the CIA to declassify documents that detail the role Haspel played in the George W. Bush administration’s interrogation and detention program.

Americans “deserve to know the actual role the person nominated to be the director of the CIA played in what I consider to be one of the darkest chapters in American history,” Sen. Dianne Feinstein (D-Calif.), ranking member of the Senate Intelligence Committee, wrote in a letter addressed to the agency.

But Feinstein, who in 2013 blocked Haspel’s promotion to acting head of the agency because of her reported involvement in the torture program, also offered some praise for the nominee earlier this week.

“Well, I have spent some time with her, we’ve had dinner together, we have talked ... everything I know is, is that she has been a good deputy director of the CIA,” Feinstein told reporters on Tuesday. “I think hopefully the entire organization learned something from the so-called enhanced interrogation program. I think it’s something that can’t be forgotten. And I certainly can never forget it. And I won’t let any director forget it.”WASHINGTON ― President Donald Trump downplayed the significance of the Democratic victory in the special election in Pennsylvania’s 18th Congressional District on Wednesday, claiming that Conor Lamb won because he tried to be “like Trump.”

Lamb, a political newcomer, was projected to defeat state Rep. Rick Saccone in Tuesday’s election, although the margin was thin. It was a staggering show of Democratic strength in a deep-red Pennsylvania congressional district that Trump won by almost 20 points in 2016.

“The young man last night that ran, he said, ‘Oh, I’m like Trump. Second Amendment, everything. I love the tax cuts, everything.’ He ran on that basis,” Trump said at a fundraiser in Missouri on Wednesday, according to The Atlantic. “He ran on a campaign that said very nice things about me. I said, ‘Is he a Republican? He sounds like a Republican to me.’”

Lamb, in fact, ran against the GOP-passed tax cut law. And even conservative groups realized that the signature achievement of the Republican Congress wasn’t resonating with voters; they shifted away from that issue as the campaign went on. Saccone, however, tried to sell himself as a politician in the mold of Trump.

Just last weekend, Trump campaigned outside of Pittsburgh for GOP candidate Rick Saccone, a state senator whose message was built on support of Trump and his policies. But what typically would have been an easy GOP victory on Tuesday evening became a narrow race between Saccone and Lamb that stretched into the wee hours of Wednesday morning.

Lamb declared victory, leading by only a few hundred votes. By Wednesday evening, he was projected to win as the remaining absentee, provisional and military ballots would not have been enough for Saccone to surpass Lamb.

Trump claimed Wednesday that he “lifted [Saccone] 7 points up,” although it’s not clear how he came up with that number.

“It’s actually interesting, because it’s only a congressman for five months,” Trump added, downplaying the results. Because of redistricting, the 18th District will exist in its current form only until the end of the year. Lamb’s hometown will be shifted into a new district, an area where Trump would have won by just 3 percentage points.

Saccone’s projected loss would add to a string of embarrassing Republican performances in special elections as the 2018 midterm primaries loom. Trump has distanced himself from previous GOP special election losers, including Alabama Senate candidate Roy Moore, who was upset by Democrat Doug Jones.

The southwestern Pennsylvania congressional district, a traditional GOP bastion that includes the affluent south suburbs of Pittsburgh and rural towns in former coal country, became vacant late last year, when former Rep. Tim Murphy (R-Pa.) resigned after pressuring a woman with whom he had an affair to get an abortion.

Republicans had invested vast time and energy trying to prevent a close race against Lamb, who gained support in part by distancing himself from national Democrats and staking out more conservative positions.

In addition to Trump, Vice President Mike Pence and two of Trump’s children, Donald Trump Jr. and White House senior adviser Ivanka Trump, had visited the area in recent weeks to drum up support for Saccone.

By Tuesday night, as a closer-than-expected race appeared likely, Republicans were already coming up with various reasons to blame Saccone and downplay the results, with one GOP strategist complaining about the candidate’s facial hair.

White House deputy press secretary Raj Shah suggested to reporters Wednesday that Trump should take credit for helping Saccone ― a message similar to what the president said at the fundraiser later that night.

“The president’s engagement in the race turned what was a deficit for the Republican candidate to what is essentially a tie,” he said.

But Saccone was widely predicted to win the traditionally GOP district.

Shah also claimed that Lamb won because he “really embraced the president’s policies and his vision.”

Under Pennsylvania law, this congressional election does not automatically trigger a recount. Saccone could petition for a recount within five days.Russians headed to the polls on Sunday to determine Russia’s next president, even though the results are already about 99.9 percent certain. Incumbent Vladimir Putin will unquestionably win a fourth term in office.

It’s no secret that Putin enjoys significant popular support across Russia. His approval rating has held at around 80 percent for the last four years, ever since Russia annexed Crimea, according to the Levada Center, the country’s only independent polling outlet.

Yet a vibrant opposition movement continues to unmask the government’s head-spinning corruption and gather tens of thousands in protest nationwide, which could ostensibly indicate that Putin’s days are numbered.

It isn’t so simple. Putin has developed an intricate set of techniques designed to placate his people, offering up what may look like democracy only to systematically chip away at it simultaneously. He won’t seize power by force, in other words, but he’ll make sure he does what he needs to do to win re-election.

He does have his work cut out for him, though. The cornerstone of this year’s strategy has relied upon physically getting people to the polls, making his victory look a little less like a foregone conclusion, while keeping the opposition on a tight leash.

Members of a local election commission empty a ballot box before starting to count votes during the presidential election at a polling station in a settlement in Smolensk Region, Russia March 18, 2018. Vasily Fedosenko / Reuters

High turnout is this year’s end game

The Kremlin has focused its efforts in the months leading up to the election on garnering a high voter turnout as a means to validate Putin’s victory. He’s facing expectations of a particularly low turnout, the Levada Center predicted, due to widespread apathy surrounding a political process that is largely predetermined. Parliamentary elections in 2016 drew only 47 percent of voters, the lowest number in Russia’s history.

“This is the election with no choice,” Nikita Pavlov, a resident of the Russian city of Nizhny Novgorod, told the BBC. He’s six days shy of being old enough to vote. “It doesn’t matter, I wouldn’t have voted anyway.”

Reports of incentives peppering the country to get people to the polls have abounded. Some include changing the date of the election to coincide with the annexation of Crimea, a move that has proven hugely popular among Russians; raffling cars and iPhones; and selling basic goods like sugar and meat at reduced rates at special stands set up near polling stations.

Putin wants the process to look as democratic as possible, Olga Oliker, the director of the Russia and Eurasia studies program at the Center for International and Strategic Studies, told HuffPost. “Ideally they’d like a nice, strong turnout without having to do any of that but they’re prepared if it goes another way. The goal is to get a large number of people to vote for Putin. But ballot boxes will [still probably] be stuffed.”

Protesters walk through St. Petersburg in support of Navalny's election boycott, Jan. 28, 2018. SOPA Images via Getty Images

What happened to the protests?

Mass protests have been relatively nonexistent in advance of this year’s election ― barring one day of mass demonstrations in late January across the country ― compared to this time six years ago when Putin was last up for re-election. It’s not that fewer people are frustrated with Putin, Oliker said. But given the government’s obsession with voter numbers, the choice not to vote holds new appeal for those who don’t support him.

Alexei Navalny, one of the country’s most prominent opposition leaders (whom Putin has barred from running in the election), decided to zero in on an election boycott versus his more traditional strategy of merely organizing protests and rallies.

“We refuse to call the reappointment of Putin an election,” Navalny said in a statement. “We are not going to vote and will convince everyone around us not to vote. We are going to campaign [for a boycott] with all our might.”

But the Kremlin can expect protests to pick back up after the election, at which point Putin will continue to face the reality that the energy for dissent in Russia is only growing louder, said Alina Polyakova, a Brookings Institution David M. Rubenstein fellow in the foreign policy program’s Center on the United States and Europe.

Not only are the protesters who have entered the scene in the last few years more spread out geographically than those who partook in demonstrations around the 2012 election, she noted, but they’re also much younger. They’re the group the Kremlin fears most.

“From Putin’s point of view, this generation of people born around the year 2000 when he came to power are really Putin’s generation ― they only have known Putin, they’re supposed to be the loyalists,” Polyakova said.

An internal debate in the Kremlin has swirled for years on whether to let the protests naturally peter out or forcefully put an end to them, added Oliker.

“These two viewpoints take turns winning out,” she said, “but what we saw in the most recent protests is that the Kremlin largely left the protesters alone, which draws less attention and everyone goes home. It’s probably the smart thing to do because the opposition isn’t smart or unified enough” for people to view them as a viable alternative to Putin.

Russian TV personality and opposition activist Ksenia Sobchak (R), who announced plans to run in the upcoming presidential election, meets with supporters in Saint Petersburg, Russia, Dec. 2, 2017. Anton Vaganov / Reuters

Is Putin threatened by his opponents?

The seven candidates running against Putin wouldn’t be allowed to have their names on the ballot if Putin himself hadn’t in some way approved their candidacies, Polyakova said. They legitimize the electoral process, all the while making Putin look good.

Putin’s opponents are well aware that they have no shot of winning, Oliker added. But the act of running, aside from aiding Putin, can in some cases be self-serving. In the case of Ksenia Sobchak, the Russian socialite and media presenter turned opposition figure, the election may represent the beginnings of what she hopes is an eventual political career.

Sobchak is “trying to establish herself as a political actor in Russia and globally and run for Parliament next year,” Oliker predicted. “She does genuinely believe things she says, just doesn’t expect to win the presidency. She believes that her candidacy will convince the Kremlin that they need to hand over power peacefully to someone like her.”

She doesn’t hesitate to call out Russia for all of its afflictions, according to Polyakova, but she does so tactfully.

“She’s there to soak up the Moscow and St. Petersburg liberals — let’s give them somebody who talks like a liberal, looks like liberal. She criticizes corruption but doesn’t name names, doesn’t air out dirty laundry.”

Then there’s the case of Navalny, whose entire career is defined by airing out dirty laundry. He and his team produce well-researched exposés revealing the layers of corruption linked to Putin and his inner circle. In addition to leaving him out of this year’s election, the Kremlin regularly raids his campaign offices, seizing materials and electronics, and is on a crusade to shut down his social media channels.

There’s no doubt the Kremlin views him as a threat, so they try to “undermine Navalny any way they can,” Polyakova added.

Yet his movement still has a long way to go, Oliker said, because he would never be able to beat Putin in an election. Navalny and his team “are able to galvanize people who are willing to come out into the streets and protest,” but the opposition is still too fractured to make a difference at the polls. “They have one guy and they organize meetings. But if [Navalny] were to come to power, who would he draw on?”Oklahoma is aiming to change the state’s primary method of execution by using nitrogen gas instead of lethal injection to kill death row inmates, which would make it the first state to do so.

The change pends on the development and finalization of an appropriate protocol, State Attorney General Mike Hunter and Corrections director Joe M. Allbaugh said at a press conference where they announced the decision on Wednesday.

The news comes amid a three-year halt on executions following unresolved issues with lethal injections, as well as state officials’ unsuccessful attempts to acquire lethal injection drugs after pharmaceutical companies refused to manufacture them.

The state has 49 inmates on death row, 17 of whom have exhausted their right to appeal, Hunter said.

A lethal injection death chamber is seen in a prison in Huntsville, Texas. David J Sams via Getty Images

“We can no longer sit on the sidelines and wait to find drugs,” he said of alternative methods. He added that using the gas “will be effective, simple to administer, easy to obtain and requires no complex medical procedures.”

Breathing in nitrogen, which could be administered through a mask, would cause one to lose consciousness and die within minutes due to the gas starving the body of oxygen, Hunter added.

He called it both “an effective and humane manner that satisfies both the constitution and the court system.”

Officials argued that the gas has been previously used in assisted suicides. However, the euthanasia is only legal in a few places, where there are strict rules about how to administer it.

Sister Helen Prejean, a prominent anti-death penalty advocate, voiced concern about the use of nitrogen on Twitter on Wednesday, calling it “human experimentation.”

The suggestion by authorities that this new method is "more humane" ignores the fact that it is an untried method, human experimentation practiced by the state upon its citizens. — Sister Helen Prejean (@helenprejean) March 14, 2018

“The suggestion by authorities that this new method is ‘more humane’ ignores the fact that it is an untried method, human experimentation practiced by the state upon its citizens,” she posted on Twitter. “More importantly, it ignores the unavoidable truths that there is no humane way to kill a conscious, thinking human being, and that the entire apparatus of capital punishment is deeply flawed and deeply wounding to us all.”

Dr. Joel Zivot, assistant professor of anesthesiology and surgery at Emory University School of Medicine, expressed similar views to HuffPost in an interview in 2015.

“There’s no therapeutic use of nitrogen gas, and there’s no way to ethically or practically test if nitrogen gas is a humane alternative,” Zivot said.

Nitrogen gas has been a backup form for execution in Mississippi since 2017, while a similar bill allowing it is pending in Alabama, the Associated Press reported.

Arizona, California, Missouri and Wyoming allow the use of a gas chamber as an alternative method of execution, according to the Death Penalty Information Center, a capital punishment monitor.

Other execution methods authorized by states include electrocution, hanging and death by firing squad.On Wednesday, March 14, students across the nation came together to protest gun violence , one month after the shooting in Parkland, Fla., in which 17 people — 14 of them children — were killed. Student walkouts were timed to begin at 10 a.m. local time and lasted for 17 minutes, one for each Parkland victim.

Students carried signs that did not mince words, with direct messages aimed at politicians and anyone over 18 who can use their voices to vote. “We want to read books, not eulogies,” read a sign in New York City, while in Alexandria, Va., over 65 children from an elementary school wore orange and stood silently, as reported by the Guardian’s Lois Beckett. Their eyes downcast — many looked to be on the verge of tears — the kids held signs with school shooting victims’ names written on them, interspersed with messages such as “Never again.”Darrell Hammond said he thought his phone was malfunctioning and “couldn’t believe it” when President Donald Trump tweeted praise for the comedian’s impersonation of him earlier this month.

“Bring back Darrell Hammond, funnier and a far greater talent!” Trump tweeted on March 2, imploring “Saturday Night Live” to replace the show’s current Trump impersonator, Alec Baldwin.

Alec Baldwin, whose dying mediocre career was saved by his terrible impersonation of me on SNL, now says playing me was agony. Alec, it was agony for those who were forced to watch. Bring back Darrell Hammond, funnier and a far greater talent! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) March 2, 2018

“I couldn’t believe it,” Hammond, who was replaced by Baldwin as the show’s Trump in 2016, said in an interview with The Hollywood Reporter on Wednesday.

“I was just out of bed. I put my phone in the next room, and I started hearing it ding because I just got a text. And then it really started dinging. And I thought to myself, ‘That damn phone is malfunctioning. It must be dying.’ It was just ding! Ding! Ding! Ding! Ding!”

Hammond said he ran into “SNL” showrunner Lorne Michaels later the same day, and Michaels cracked a joke.

“Lorne swept past me in the hallway with some of his people, and he leaned in and said, ‘The president knows your name. Yes, he knows who you are.’ I don’t know why, it made me laugh,” Hammond said.

Hammond has spoken about Trump’s tweet before, telling The Washington Post last week: “You know, I’m just like fooling around in my apartment, and the next minute Anderson Cooper wants to talk to me? What? Someone said to me, you realize people in Jaipur, India, are saying ‘Who’s Darrell Hammond?’ Do you realize that? In Jaipur. It’s true.”

When asked why Michaels swapped Baldwin for Hammond as the Trump impersonator to begin with, Hammond told the Post that the show “needed another force, on an acting level, to have the power that Trump was embodying then.”

“The Darrell Trump . . . it wasn’t the Trump that had gotten darker. It was the Trump from ‘The Apprentice.’”As Allison Mack and Keith Raniere await trial, new details have emerged about how the “Smallville” actress ended up in an alleged sex cult in the first place.

The Hollywood Reporter interviewed people for an in-depth look at Mack’s alleged role in DOS — short for Dominus Obsequious Sororium or Master Over Slave Women — which has been called a secret society in the supposed self-help group Nxivm. Mack and Raniere, the founder of Nxivm, have been charged with sex trafficking, sex-trafficking conspiracy, and forced-labor conspiracy for their involvement in the alleged sex cult.

So how did Mack go from a TV fan favorite to potential felon?

It started in late 2006, when she attended a two-day introduction to Jness in Vancouver. The program was billed as a “women’s movement” workshop within Nxivm and the then-23-year-old actress attended with thousands of other people around the world. Mack was living in Canada as she filmed “Smallville” and it was her co-star, Kristin Kreuk, who brought her along.

Kreuk, who played Lana Lang on the CW show, has admitted to being in Nxivm but denies any involvement in or knowledge of the secret sorority. She tweeted a statement explaining that she left the group years ago and has declined to comment further.

Susan Dones, a former Nxivm member and “field trainer” who had her own center in Washington state, tells THR that Raniere instructed members to roll out the red carpet for Mack. Nxivm’s president, Nancy Salzman, was speaking at the event and had her daughter Lauren seek out the young actress. “By the end of the weekend, Lauren and Allison were like best friends,” Dones, who left the group in 2009, recalls.

When the seminar concluded, Mack was invited to fly to Albany, N.Y., on a private jet to meet Raniere, whose teachings she had been hearing about all weekend. Mack accepted the offer, as she was told he could help her with her acting career. Apparently, this was a rare move even when attempting to recruit VIPs.

A few weeks later, Dones visited the corporate offices and training facility outside Albany, and she was surprised to see Mack still there: “[Allison] said she was having a great time.”

“Her celebrity was her appeal,” cult specialist Rick Ross tells THR. “There were other women who were pretty, but she was the one who was so poised, so good on camera. She was somebody who could really sell it.”

Mack, 35, has been in the entertainment industry for the better part of her life. She started acting at age 4 and was enrolled at the Young Actors Space in Los Angeles. (Leonardo DiCaprio and Keri Russell are a few notable names who attended the performing-arts academy.) Someone who worked with Mack — but didn’t want to be named — tells THR she was “as normal as ‘normal’ can be in this business … Her parents were just like, ‘This is what she wanted to do.’”

Mack was 18 when she landed the role of Chloe Sullivan on “Smallville,” which ran from 2001 to 2011. It was in her fifth season that she attended the Nxivm conference, and some friends say it was because she was looking for something more.

“She was so hungry for something bigger, some kind of sign [that would show] the purpose and meaning of life,” “Step by Step” actress Christine Lakin tells THR — the two were friends as fellow child actors in the ’90s. Some friends say Mack was insecure about not going to college and wanted to get knowledge elsewhere.

“I have a tendency to say I am stupid. I [have become] very comfortable chalking things up to the fact that I don’t have a ‘proper education,’” Mack wrote on her blog in 2007. “The truth is … I am an eternal student, and I am loving all the opportunities I have to grow.”

One of her former roommates in Vancouver also tells the publication she was looking for mentorship: “Allison had such a desire to be a strong businesswoman and have a mentor.”

Allison Mack arrives at the United States Eastern District Court for a hearing in relation to the sex-trafficking charges filed against her on May 4, 2018, in New York City. Photo: Jemal Countess/Getty Images

That’s exactly what Mack has said she found in Raniere. In an interview last year, she credited him with helping her cope with the “overwhelming and intimidating” fame she experienced from ”Smallville.” “I have a wonderful teacher and mentor named Keith Raniere, who really gave me some incredible guidance. I think everyone needs a mentor,” she said. “I don’t think any of us really know the answers without a little bit of wisdom. If you aren’t willing to be humble enough to seek wisdom from other people, I think you’re missing a lot of really incredible opportunities to build a certain amount of depth and value in your life that you wouldn’t have if you didn’t have somebody to help guide you.”

But some sources say Mack’s fame is exactly what drew Raniere to her.

One former Nxivm member tells THR that in 2009, Raniere sought to mimic more of what Scientology was doing. “The group’s leaders were studying Scientology and saying they wanted to be more like them — more visually appealing, more streamlined, more like the cool kids,” says the source. “And they wanted people who were attractive and compelling; that’s why they went after people like Allison Mack.”

Rick Ross adds, “She was the Tom Cruise of Nxivm.”

When Smallville ended, Mack purchased a house near Albany, and some say her ties to Raniere and Nxivm became only deeper. “She really believed that teaching the difference between men and women was good, that it was pure and noble,” says a former consultant. “I don’t think any of us saw where it was going, that it was teaching women to be subservient.”

Mack allegedly attempted to recruit friends and fellow celebrities to join the group, and if those close to her pushed back, sources say she usually cut them off.

“Her personality [increasingly] turned inside out,” a former employee says, alleging that Mack began berating and humiliating her for small instances. This person says Mack was just as hard on herself, proclaiming at one point she would never choose to have kids because she was “so f***ed up.”

It’s believed Mack became much more intimate with Raniere by 2010. Susan Dones alleges she knew firsthand that he kept a harem of more than a dozen women. One former member of this intimate group believes she saw signs that Mack was part of it. “I took one look at Allison, and I knew she was involved romantically and sexually with Keith,” the woman alleges. “She had a gray pallor that was common to Keith’s women because they all start to get a little sickly. I know I did. They drop weight. Their heads get too big for their bodies so they become bobbleheads. It’s scary looking.”

Three of the women in DOS that Raniere trusted most — called “the wolf pack” by Dones — left for various reasons from 2013 to 2016, and Mack appeared to fill this void. Frank Parlato, who briefly did PR for Nxivm and was the first person to expose DOS on his blog last year, says Mack “had the ability to bring women to Raniere’s bed. She procured some startling beauties.” He alleges Mack had more than 50 slaves, which was the same number cited by federal prosecutors.

OneTHR source claimed to have spoken with two of Mack’s alleged slaves. “These slaves said Mack was incredibly intimidating, cruel and punitive,” the source claims, adding that Mack blackmailed them to sleep with Raniere. “You made a lifetime vow!” Mack screamed, according to the source. “She berated them and told them they were worth nothing, that they were weak, and couldn’t uphold their word.” Both women allegedly were branded and in Mack’s “slave pod.”

People who know Mack seem to be split on whether she should be viewed as a victim herself, or simply as a co-conspirator. Some are worried the actress is so brainwashed, she might take the fall for Raniere by saying DOS was her idea and that he had no knowledge of it.

Raniere has pleaded not guilty on all counts, and some reports suggest that Mack is working on a plea deal. A status update has been set for June with a trial date of Oct. 1. They could each face up to 15 years in prison if convicted.All this time you were posting memes of doge and chemistry cat and Tide Pods , and you didn’t realize you were sharing units of culture.

According to the highly informative YouTube channel “Today I Found Out,” the word “meme” comes from evolutionary biologist Richard Dawkins. In 1976, he wrote a book called The Selfish Gene in which he attempts to establish a “unit of cultural transmission.”Stephen Colbert is still getting to grips with life in the Trump era.

So for Wednesday’s broadcast of “The Late Show,” the comedian underwent a lighthearted session of art therapy in a bid to resolve his issues.

Ostensibly inspired by Vice President Mike Pence’s wife Karen Pence, who is controversially using her status as second lady to promote the artistic form of psychotherapy, Colbert created a series of pieces for licensed art therapist Rachel Brandoff.

But his work was, well, a little bit haunting.

Colbert ended the segment by revealing how he was now auctioning off his work, with all the proceeds going to the American Art Therapy Association.

“For the record, I love my cat and art therapy is not stupid,” he clarified. “I was just working through some issues.”

AdvertisementTrump touted his “great idea” of a new branch of the military dedicated to defending the U.S. in space during a visit to Marine Corps Air Station Miramar in San Diego, California, on Tuesday.

So Meyers lightheartedly asked: “Did Trump stop off at a weed dispensary while he was in California?”

“Trump is what would happen if a 12-year-old wished on a Zoltar machine to become president,” the comedian added.“The United States shares the United Kingdom’s assessment that Russia is responsible for the reckless nerve agent attack on a British citizen and his daughter, and we support the United Kingdom’s decision to expel Russian diplomats as a just response. This latest action by Russia fits into a pattern of behavior in which Russia disregards the international rules-based order, undermines the sovereignty and security of countries worldwide, and attempts to subvert and discredit Western democratic institutions and processes. The United States is working together with our allies and partners to ensure that this kind of abhorrent attack does not happen again.”Ricardo Moraes / Reuters

Marielle Franco, a Rio de Janeiro city councilwoman who had become a symbol of hope for many of the city’s poorest residents, was shot and killed Wednesday night in an attack police are preliminarily calling an assassination.

Franco, a black woman from the Socialism and Liberty Party, or PSOL, was a fierce critic of the role of Rio’s police in outbreaks of violence that have gripped the city for the last two years ― there were more than 5,000 homicides in 2016, according to federal data, and police killed more than 900 people that year. She was also opposed to President Michel Temer’s February military intervention, which put the armed forces in control of security across the city.

The murder of a popular advocate for the city’s most vulnerable citizens suggests that an already fraught situation in Rio is about to get even worse.

Franco’s election ― she won the fifth-most votes in 2016′s city council race ― turned her into a beacon of hope for residents of Rio’s favelas, and especially for black women and youth. She was also a point of pride. After she won, it was impossible to visit the Complexo de Maré or other Rio favelas, where Franco had worked for years to improve social conditions, and not hear residents speak of her or what she meant to them.

Her seat on the city council, it seemed, had instilled in residents the belief that they finally had a voice in places of power they’d rarely accessed.

That was in part because Franco was one of them. She was from Maré, a sprawling network of favelas ― the informal and long-neglected communities that are home to more than a million of the city’s people. And she had based her candidacy for city council on fierce criticism of the power structures that have for so long neglected and stigmatized favela residents.

She was also a sociologist who focused her education, according to news reports, on “pacification,” the failed policing program designed to seize control of favelas from Rio’s drug gangs and deliver social services they have long lacked, but instead led only to more violence inside the neighborhoods.

And as a councilwoman, she had continued to use that voice on their behalf.

After Temer announced the military intervention in February, many observers blasted the plan as a political maneuver that would only exacerbate killings and human rights violations, especially for the mostly black and poor favela residents.

Franco was among the most vocal critics.

She had recently been appointed to a city commission to monitor the intervention, and in the days before her murder, she used social media to blast Rio’s police and military authorities for targeting poor favela residents.

“Another homicide of a young man who may be coming into the [Military Police] account,” she wrote on Facebook over the weekend. “Matheus Melo was leaving the church. How many more have to die for this war to end?”

“We need to scream so everyone knows what’s happening in Acari right now,” she wrote in another post, referencing a neighborhood in Rio’s north zone. “The 41st Battalion of the Rio de Janeiro Military Police is terrorizing and raping residents of Acari. This week two young men were killed ... Today the police walked the streets threatening the residents. It has happened since forever, and with the intervention it got even worse.”

“Marielle worked tirelessly to defend the rights of black women and young people in the favelas and other marginalized communities.”” - Jurema Werneck, Amnesty International’s Brazil director

Franco was killed by two gunmen who fired at least nine shots into her car as she was leaving an event in downtown Rio de Janeiro, police told The Associated Press. Her driver was also killed, and a press officer was injured.

Leftist news outlets have used Franco’s death to call for an end to the military intervention. Her party, the PSOL, said in a statement posted to its web site that it “can not rule out the hypothesis of political crime, that is, an execution.”

Human rights organizations called for immediate investigations into the “chilling” murder.

“This a chilling development and is yet another example of the dangers that human rights defenders face in Brazil,” Jurema Werneck, Amnesty International’s Brazil director, said in a statement. “As a member of Rio de Janeiro’s State Human Rights Commission, Marielle worked tirelessly to defend the rights of black women and young people in the favelas and other marginalized communities.”

Protests began in Rio Thursday morning as a result of Franco’s murder. Similar demonstrations are planned in other cities, including São Paulo, according to posts on Facebook and other social media sites.

Franco’s murder will almost assuredly become a symbol of the dangers that Rio’s favela residents face each day, especially as the bulk of the city’s violence continues to target its poorest residents and the people who work on their behalf.Fox News unveiled a new slogan this week, and Jordan Klepper is now taking aim at the network on his comedy show “The Opposition.”

As far he’s concerned, the network’s new “Real News. Real Honest Opinion.” motto made for an easy target.

“You know Fox is really real because they say it two times,” the host said on Wednesday.

Klepper called the ad line “great” in his satirical takedown, so just know that his praise isn’t real, Fox News.

Watch above to see how the news channel inspired Klepper to come up with his own slogan for “The Opposition.”Ready to take this post to the next level?

Suggested Videos Ready to take this post to the next level? Add a relevant video to your entry.

A potential breach by hackers has never been brought up in Election Day training for Monroe County, said Andi McClanahan, who has served as a judge of elections for her ward for the last six years.

“The issue has never been spoken about,” she said, “which now I’m thinking is problematic with the current issues we are facing.”

While hacking attempts failed in Pennsylvania, they were successful in Illinois, as hackers in 2016 accessed registration data for as many as 90,000 voters. Officials, though, say the hackers did not erase or modify any records.

Adam Weiner, who served as a poll worker in his South Loop neighborhood in Chicago during the 2014 midterm elections, said if a voter roll had been compromised by hackers, “it would have ground everything to a halt.”

“It was just not questioned that the data there was accurate,” Weiner said. “If we can’t trust the list, how can people vote?”

David Bjerke, the director of elections and general registrar of voters for Falls Church, Virginia, a Washington suburb, said if registration information is changed, voters should still cast provisional ballots, because officials can verify the eligibility of voters by going back to check paper registration records. Voters, he said, should check their registration status well before Election Day. And if the option is available, they should vote by mail or vote early so they can discover a potential problem with time to spare.

According to U.S. officials, Russian hackers have not changed ballot counts. And as more systems move toward paper ballots and away from digital voting machines, the risk of hackers manipulating vote counts decreases.

“At no time was the voting process from a tabulation or count perspective in jeopardy,” said Chris Chambless, the supervisor of elections for Clay County, Florida. “People hear there was an attempt to change the results of the election. And that was never in play.”

But Chambless, whose county outside of Jacksonville has sophisticated network security, is still concerned about “zero-day malware,” viruses so new that security systems cannot detect them. Florida also was targeted by hackers in 2016.

Where is the Support?

For more than a year now, after designating election infrastructure as critical, the federal government has begun working with states to assess the security of their voting systems. But officials say they need more resources to get cybersecurity experts in offices, to increase audits and to update equipment.

A bipartisan bill in the U.S. Senate, which would provide $386 million in federal grants to state election security, has stalled. The bill’s author, Sen. Amy Klobuchar, a Minnesota Democrat, said in February that more than 40 states rely on a voting system that is at least a decade old.

The U.S. State Department has not spent a dime of the $120 million it was allocated after 2016 to fight Russian election meddling. And for his part, President Donald Trump has not told intelligence agencies to stop Russian attempts to target U.S. election systems.

So, many local and state leaders are tackling security alone. Travis County, Texas, which surrounds Austin, brought in academics to develop a system that encrypts votes and stores them in a secure database. The system would allow for efficient auditing. Similar programs are in place in Los Angeles and San Francisco, and California is looking to replace its aging equipment.

Local election officials now need to be cybersecurity officials. But they have always had to be wary of misinformation campaigns.

In Bend, Oregon, Blankenship never thought she would have to fend off Russian hackers. But she has been concerned about misinformation for the last 15 years.

“It doesn’t necessarily need to come from another country,” she said. “It could come from another candidate to a voter who doesn’t have the time to see whether the information is valid or not.

“That’s not new, that’s politics.”President Donald Trump woke up in California on Wednesday morning and enjoyed a scenic helicopter ride over sunny Los Angeles before jetting off to Missouri aboard Air Force One. He toured a Boeing plant and talked up his party’s tax reforms, and then he jumped back on his plane, White House bound.

At no point during the day did Trump himself publicly acknowledge the thousands of students walking out of school nationwide to protest gun violence and lawmakers’ inaction. (His favorite news network barely mentioned it either.)

Over Twitter, where he frequently shares his thoughts and feelings, the president posted several messages Wednesday morning on unrelated issues. He opined on “unfair trade practices,” his desire to overhaul U.S. infrastructure, “business fundamentals” and “very important Ambassadors and Judges” whom he would like to appoint more quickly.

In one late-afternoon tweet, Trump applauded the House for passing the STOP School Violence Act of 2018. With a bipartisan vote of 407-10 in favor, the act aims to finance school safety training and security equipment, but it is not a gun control measure. But by late Wednesday evening, he had not acknowledged the school walkouts.

Today the House took major steps toward securing our schools by passing the STOP School Violence Act. We must put the safety of America's children FIRST by improving training and by giving schools and law enforcement better tools. A tragedy like Parkland can't happen ever again! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) March 14, 2018

He was trailed by White House pool reporters all day, but Trump didn’t speak to them about the protests, either. White House deputy press secretary Raj Shah told the press that the president “shares the students’ concerns about school safety” on Wednesday afternoon. “That is why he supports measures like Fix NICS and mental health provisions.” (Fix NICS refers to proposals to close loopholes in the National Instant Criminal Background Check System.)

Deputy White House press secretary Hogan Gidley told HuffPost by email Wednesday evening that the president respects Americans’ First Amendment rights and “will continue working with students, educators and other school personnel to prevent tragedies like the Parkland massacre.”

“President Trump remains committed to ensuring this is the last generation of American children to face the threat of school violence,” the statement continued. “The Administration is taking immediate action now while also pursuing a long-term strategy to develop the very best and most effective policies for protecting America’s schools.”

Students mobilized in response to a shooter’s rampage Feb. 14 at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Florida, in which 17 people were killed.

Powerful imagery taken outside schools across the country Wednesday showed young people holding up signs calling for tighter gun control laws. Organized through Youth EMPOWER, a branch of the Women’s March, students were encouraged to observe 17 minutes of silence ― one for each victim ― before heading back to class.A student from Grace Church School in New York City holds a sign made for the day’s protests. Photo: Alexandra Mondalek

To commemorate the one-month anniversary of the Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School shooting, students across the country staged a 17-minute walkout to remember each of the people whose lives ended.

While response to the walkout itself has been mixed, the day’s events inspired much more than moments of silence for the iGeneration. Rallies and protests accompanied the walkout, and students carried signs unique to their own experiences and causes.

At Grace Church School in New York City, students walked in a procession ahead of the 10 a.m. walkout time to memorialize a school employee who died by gunshot near the school in November. Of the roughly 220 students participating (about two-thirds of the student body, Grace Church School chief communications officer Topher Nichols tells Yahoo Lifestyle), many carried signs with slogans ranging from lobs against the National Rifle Association to names of people those students knew personally who died from gun violence.

At the rally in Washington Square Park, hundreds of students gathered from neighboring schools. Photo: Alexandra Mondalek

Photo: Alexandra Mondalek

Photo: Alexandra Mondalek

Students from Grace Church School joined those from Harvest Collegiate High School for a larger rally in Manhattan’s Washington Square Park, where hundreds of students and faculty gathered around speakers with a megaphone extolling the student organizers at the Parkland, Fla., high school and encouraging their peers to remain politically engaged, despite most of them being too young to vote. One student, watching the rally from the fringes, held a sign that read, “What if it was your friend?” and said a family friend died in the school shooting at Sandy Hook Elementary School in Newtown, Conn.

Another sign, held by Nicholas Dumais from Harvest Collegiate, said, “I should be playing dodgeball, not dodging bullets.” Dumais explained that schools he’s attended have no trouble banning a game but haven’t banned weapons like guns.

Photo: Alexandra Mondalek

Photo: Alexandra Mondalek

Also in attendance at the rally was Tamika Mallory, a national co-chair for the Women’s March and advocate for gun-violence prevention. Mallory, speaking to the crowd through a megaphone, reminded kids that their voices were powerful enough to effect change, regardless of their age.

“Having these young people engaged on this level is exactly what we’ve been missing in terms of legislative reform, but just to change the hearts and minds of the people who are more attached to their guns than they are to our young people.”

Outside New York City, other young people put their politics on posters.

national school walkout @ little rock central high school. honoring the students lost, not only at parkland but all students that have been killed by school shootings #booksnotbullets #walkout pic.twitter.com/O1DacxHbY9 — ag (@anniegmcc) March 14, 2018

The walkout was scheduled for 10 a.m. ET, and protests ended along with the school day, though the students seemed emboldened to continue to speak out beyond the day’s events.

“I wrote, ‘I should be worried about my SAT, not our lives,’ because my SAT is next week,” Roxanna Ruedas, a 16-year-old from Harvest Collegiate in New York, says. “There are proposals coming in for teachers to have guns in schools. What the hell? We’re starting a club every Friday, called Harvest Action. I think that’s a perfect name for the club.”

AdvertisementDaniel Alexander James performs as Jomama Jones in "Black Light," now playing in New York. Joan Marcus

For the past month, Daniel Alexander Jones has been dazzling audiences as a legendary rock, R&B and disco songstress in the immersive musical spectacle “Black Light.”

To do so, Jones ― who spends his days as head of Fordham University’s playwriting program ― embodies his female alter ego, Jomama Jones.

Jomama, he said, is an “aggregate of an incredible pantheon of singers” such as Diana Ross, Tina Turner and Dionne Warwick. Much like her idols, she sings and dances alongside two backup performers she has deemed her “vibrations.” She doesn’t skimp on the costumes, either, emerging onstage in five sequined gowns over the course of the 12-song show.

Despite all of his gender-bending, Jones doesn’t identify as a drag queen. He has a “tremendous love and respect for drag,” but nonetheless sees Jomama as a spiritual entity, much like Beyoncé’s Sasha Fierce or Lady Gaga’s Jo Calderone.

“It’s a little hard for people to believe that she isn’t a character,” Jones told HuffPost. “It’s been an interesting journey for me in terms of gender expression. While I identify as a man and I’m in the body of a [cisgender] man, I experience this expansion around gender in relationship to her. … I’m dealing with two spirits in one body. I have Daniel, and then I have Jo who comes, and when she comes, I make way for her.”

“It’s a little hard for people to believe that she isn’t a character,” Jones said of his theatrical alter ego, Jomama Jones. Joan Marcus

“Black Light,” which opened last month at Joe’s Pub at the Public Theater in New York City, is billed as a “revival for turbulent times” that explores race, queerness and identity. The show has earned Jones critical acclaim, both as a performance artist and as a singer-songwriter. The New Yorker called Jomama “an homage to the transformative power of black style,” while the Daily Beast praised Jones’ performance as “a little slice of magic.”

Jones’ primary goal with “Black Light” is to entertain, but the current political climate in the U.S. also plays a significant role in the show.

“I think what [Jomama]’s asking us to do with this show is to take a very clear look at what’s at stake ― what we’re dealing with emotionally, internally, personally ― and what we might put forward as the questions or the options in front of us,” Jones said. “So it’s kind of a meditation on the crossroads right now.”

“It’s been an interesting journey for me in terms of gender expression. I have Daniel, and then I have Jo who comes, and when she comes, I make way for her.” - Daniel Alexander Jones

Jones first began developing ― well, channeling ― his alter ego for 1996’s “Blood: Shock: Boogie.” Jomama, he said, was initially borne out of his nostalgia for “Soul Train” performances of the past, and took cues from Ross, Turner and Warwick, as well as Sade and disco queen Donna Summer.

Still, Jones was adamant that Jomama sing original music, not cover songs. He worked with Bobby Halvorson, Laura Jean Anderson, Dylan Meek and Josh Quat to write 12 new songs for “Black Light.”

“She has things she wants to express in her own way,” Jones said.

Since the debut of “Blood: Shock: Boogie,” Jones has recorded three independent albums as Jomama, including 2017’s “Flowering.” He said his Fordham students love Jomama’s music and are “incredibly supportive” of their professor’s glamorous, downtown persona.

“They get her,” he said. “Some were like, ‘Can she come teach our class instead?’ They don’t need to put her in a box; they don’t need to put me in a box.”

As Jomama, Jones pays tribute to Diana Ross, Tina Turner and Dionne Warwick, among other era-defining icons. Joan Marcus

Jomama, too, has evolved from her 1980s and ’90s pop star heyday to a mature diva; Jones sees her as having decamped to Switzerland, where she lived with goats for a while. These days, Jones said, Jomama splits her time between her Swiss chalet, New York and Los Angeles, and serves as a sort of “high priestess of the questions that we have at any given time.”

“If you don’t know her, if you’ve never seen her, you’re going to be in the presence of somebody who has a lot of joy and magic and flirtation around her, but also has a lot of wisdom,” he said. “It’s wisdom that, honestly, Daniel doesn’t have, but she seems to have.”The “Yanny” vs. “Laurel” debate that’s baffled the internet this week is dead.

Members of President Donald Trump’s administration took time out from making America great again to weigh in on the important question that’s been perplexing people online. Namely, what word is this robotic-sounding voice really saying?

What do you hear?! Yanny or Laurel pic.twitter.com/jvHhCbMc8I — Cloe Feldman (@CloeCouture) May 15, 2018

Vice President Mike Pence, White House press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders and Trump’s special adviser Kellyanne Conway were among those who attempted to answer the question in humorous ways.

Trump himself also chimed in for the clip, which was posted online Thursday:

But it did not go down well with people on Twitter:

Had all this time to create this stupid video but no time to address the issues facing our nation. Ridiculous — George Espinal (@EspinalGeorge) May 17, 2018

That video was almost as white as it was unfunny. — Miss Matched Shoes (@threejuniormnts) May 17, 2018

This is dumbest thing I've ever watched. — Marwa Balkar (@MarwaBalkar) May 17, 2018

I hear impeachment. — B U Z Z • A L D R I N (@AldrinContact) May 17, 2018

For the record, multiple news outlets have confirmed the voice is actually saying “Laurel.”A Republican and a Democratic senator are introducing legislation to protect animal welfare on airplanes after a dog died aboard a United Airlines flight on Monday.

Sen. John Kennedy (R-La.) and Sen. Catherine Cortez Masto (D-Nev.) filed the Welfare Of Our Furry Friends (WOOFF) Act on Thursday to prohibit individuals from putting animals in overhead compartments. Under the bill, the Federal Aviation Administration would be directed to establish regulations and fines for anyone who violates the prohibition.

The bill’s introduction comes just days after a flight attendant reportedly forced a woman and her daughter to put their 10-month-old French bulldog, Kokito, in the overhead bin for the duration of a United flight from Houston to New York.

When the plane landed, the family found the dog dead in its carrier.

“Too many animals have died as a result of human neglect and carelessness,” Cortez Masto said in a tweet about the bill. “Our WOOFF Act is designed to protect the well-being of our beloved family members - our pets - when traveling.”

In an interview with ABC News, 11-year-old Sophia Ceballos said the flight attendant knew the family’s dog was in a carrier but insisted the pup spend the flight in the overhead bin.

“The flight attendant came, and she was like, ‘You have to put him up there because it’s going to block the path,’” Sophia told ABC News on behalf of her mother, who is not fluent in English. “And we were like, ‘It’s a dog, it’s a dog.’ And she said, ‘It doesn’t matter, you still have to put it up there.’”

A spokeswoman for United apologized and said the airline is conducting a full investigation into the matter. “This was a tragic accident that should never have occurred, as pets should never be placed in the overhead bin,” she stated. “We assume full responsibility for this tragedy and express our deepest condolences to the family and are committed to supporting them. We are thoroughly investigating what occurred to prevent this from ever happening again.”

“This pattern of animal deaths and injuries is simply inexcusable.” - Sen. John Kennedy (R-La.)