Jon Herskovitz1 / Reuters

AUSTIN, Texas (Reuters) - A U.S. appeals court panel on Tuesday upheld most of a Republican-backed Texas law to punish “sanctuary cities,” allowing it to remain in effect while the case is being fought in a lower court.

The law was the first of its kind since Republican Donald Trump became president in January 2017, promising to crack down on illegal immigration and communities that protect the immigrants.

The 5th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals struck down one provision in the law enacted by the most-populous Republican-led state to punish local officials who endorse policies running contrary to the law.

Plaintiffs including the cities of Houston, Dallas and Austin said the provision would allow the state to remove duly elected officials if they criticized the measure, a violation of constitutional free-speech protections.

The law, known as Senate Bill 4, calls for jail for police chiefs, sheriffs and possibly frontline officers who fail to cooperate over U.S. immigration. It also allows police to ask about immigration status during a lawful detention, such as traffic stops.

Lawyers for Texas said the law helped ensure conformity across the state on the application of immigration law and prevented localities from adopting positions of non-cooperation with federal authorities.

Plaintiffs contend the law could lead to racial profiling and divert resources from local police, who would be under the threat of job loss and fines if they do not cooperate with federal immigration authorities.

So-called sanctuary cities often do not use municipal funds or resources to enforce federal immigration laws. Sanctuary supporters say enlisting police in deportation actions undermines community trust in local law enforcement, particularly among Latinos.

Texas Republican leaders have not identified any sanctuary cities in the state. The major cities that were plaintiffs in the suit said they had been abiding by all legal U.S. detainer requests.

Republican Attorney General Ken Paxton praised the decision, saying in a statement: “Enforcing immigration law prevents the release of individuals from custody who have been charged with serious crimes.”

Lee Gelernt, deputy director of the ACLU’s Immigrants’ Rights Project and a lead attorney for the plaintiffs, said: “We are exploring all legal options going forward.”Getty Images/iStockphoto

A New Zealand diplomat to the United States is facing censure from her department after a series of loose tweets in which she told the Democratic Party to “get your shit together or we will all die.”

Caroline Beresford, who is New Zealand’s deputy head of mission to the United States, published the posts on her Twitter account on March 10. In replies to a tweet from political news website The Hill, which shared a link to an article with the quote “a Sanders-Warren ticket could win big in 2020” ― referring to Sens. Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.), a former Democratic presidential candidate, and Elizabeth Warren (D-Mass.) ― Beresford wrote, “No it couldn’t. Please get your shit together or we will all die.”

According to New Zealand website Newsroom, Beresford sent further replies to The Hill’s tweet regarding the Democratic Party, including “They’ve learned nothing,” and “If this is what they have against Trump we should be planning for the eight years.” Beresford later deleted the tweets and locked her account, making it inaccessible to people who do not already follow her on Twitter.

Twitter

Newsroom reported that Beresford confirmed she did send, and later delete, the tweets.

“Yes I did send those tweets and realised very quickly that they were inappropriate, which is why I deleted them,” the diplomat said in a statement.

New Zealand’s Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade said it was aware of the incident.

“The ministry does not in any way endorse the content or tone of the tweets, which we note were deleted,” an MFAT spokeswoman said. “Our code of conduct and guidelines around the use of social media set very clear expectations of staff when making public comment, including maintaining political neutrality and care in expressing personal opinion. These expectations were not met in this instance.”

The controversial tweets are Beresford’s second high-profile contribution to U.S.-New Zealand relations in recent times. Her dog was the catalyst for the first phone call between President Donald Trump and then-Prime Minister Bill English.

Not long after Trump ascended to the White House, New Zealand was trying in vain to link up a phone call with the new president. In a story told on a New York Times podcast, lobbyist Robert Stryk said he helped put the two leaders in touch after Beresford’s Labrador approached him at a Four Seasons hotel in Washington. It led to Stryk and Beresford talking.

″[Beresford] said she couldn’t get a phone call set up between Bill English and Donald Trump, and this is one of our closest allies,” Stryk told the podcast. “They didn’t know who to call. It wasn’t a slight, it was just so chaotic.

AdvertisementBill Hinton via Getty Images

As thousands of students across the country participated in walkouts on Wednesday to protest gun violence, several schools received threats that forced them to cancel planned events.

Walkouts were set to begin at 10 a.m. in each time zone and last 17 minutes ― one minute for each person who was killed in last month’s shooting at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Florida.

But just minutes before it struck 10 a.m. on the West Coast, Righetti High School in Santa Maria, California, received a threat that forced the school to go into lockdown, preventing students from leaving the building.

“They weren’t able to participate in the walkout because [the lockdown] happened at the same time,” Kelly Hoover, a public information officer for the Santa Barbara County Sheriff’s Office, told HuffPost. Hoover could not offer additional details about the nature of the threat, but she noted that no injuries had been reported.

Police were still investigating the potential threat by mid-morning, well after many of the walkouts in the state had already started winding down.

“While it’s disheartening that we couldn’t support the kids in doing the walkout, we need to live to see another day.” - Scott Wakeley, Superintendent of Schools for Bradley-Bourbonnais Community High School District 307

Also in California, Atascadero High School temporarily went on lockdown around 9:40 a.m. in response to a threat that had been posted on social media. A juvenile suspect was quickly identified and taken into custody, the Atascadero Police Department said in a statement. The “shelter in place” order was lifted at 10:30 a.m.

“School safety is our number one priority and AUSD is committed to ensuring the safety of our students and staff,” superintendent Tom Butler said in a message to parents. “We absolutely honor our students’ voices and their First Amendment Rights, yet not at the risk of compromising school safety.”

Two Illinois schools ― Bradley-Bourbonnais Community High School and Romeoville High School ― announced on Tuesday night that threats had led them to cancel planned walkouts.

The Bradley Police Department received a phoned-in threat that officials ultimately deemed to be “unsubstantiated,” but that led the district superintendent to cancel the walkout.

“We were going to have a few thousand kids out on North Street, and we couldn’t be wrong,” superintendent Scott Wakeley told the Daily Journal on Wednesday morning. “Even though it’s a rumor for a 17-minute walkout, if we are wrong, I couldn’t live with myself. While it’s disheartening that we couldn’t support the kids in doing the walkout, we need to live to see another day.”

Demonstrators at a rally outside the Capitol on Wednesday as they call on Congress to act on gun violence prevention. Tom Williams via Getty Images

Some students, however, said they planned to go ahead with the walkout without the school’s consent.

Romeoville police received messages from students and parents on Tuesday regarding a social media post depicting a male student holding a firearm.

The weapon pictured turned out to be an air-soft gun, and police determined that the post did not constitute a real threat. But the school decided to keep students indoors and postpone the show of solidarity for a later date.

In Wisconsin, Mukwonago High School and Pewaukee High School also canceled their walkouts due to potential threats.

The Mukwonago Area School District said in a statement posted on Facebook on Wednesday morning that police were investigating a rumor that someone was planning to open fire at the high school during the walkout. The threat was deemed invalid, but the school canceled the walkout to be safe.

Pewaukee High School closed for the day after police arrested a student early Wednesday morning in connection with a threat.

Officials at Hackensack High School in New Jersey canceled a walkout after receiving reports of potential violence, so students held a presentation to show their solidarity with protesters across the country.

Schools across the country also received intimidating messages and threats in the days immediately following the Parkland shooting ― a phenomenon that is common in the wake of many gun tragedies.

“Copycat threats” in the days after the Florida massacre led officials from Maryland to Hawaii to lock down campuses, close entire school districts and arrest dozens of students.

Kids who make threats after a mass murder reflect what psychologists say is an epidemic of poor mental health in young people and a fundamental lack of resources. Some may be seeking help and attention, while others lash out because the shooter’s anger mirrors their own frustrations.

Exhaustive media coverage may also play a roll, according to a scientific study on mass shootings published earlier this year.Officials at a school in Bath, England, have refused to expel a group of white students who allegedly tied a black classmate to a lamppost, whipped him with sticks and called him “extreme racist names” as part of a “mock slave auction,” the Bath Chronicle reported this week.

A woman whose child attends the school told the BBC the alleged incident was filmed on Snapchat and shared among students. The woman said she did not see the footage, but said the black student was “really humiliated” and “apparently panicking.”

At least seven teenagers allegedly participated in the attack during a lunch break on Jan. 22, according to The Guardian. The head teacher of the secondary school (for students ages 11-16) initially suspended three of the alleged perpetrators, but the decision was overturned by school governors and the students are now back in class.

Police are investigating the incident, according to the BBC. Six teens have volunteered to be interviewed about the alleged attack, and another student is expected to be interviewed at a later time.

Parents were only informed of the incident on Tuesday, the Chronicle reports.

“We have today become aware of media interest in an incident which took place in January and involved a group of established friends and related to a single incident of unacceptable behavior within the school grounds,” the school said in a message to parents. “A full investigation was instigated in line with both internal school procedures and Department for Education requirements, including contact with the police.”

The parents of the alleged victim declined to speak to the Chronicle, but other parents are reportedly outraged.DeGeneres doesn’t actually remember the encounter, but it didn’t stop her from explaining how that one decision could’ve saved the future duchess’s life.Does President Trump’s Twitter activity undermine the first lady’s cause? Photo: MANDEL NGAN/AFP/Getty Images

On the same day President Trump announced by tweet that he was replacing Rex Tillerson as secretary of state, the Washington Post reported that Melania Trump is scheduled to meet with tech giants to discuss strategies to curb cyberbullying.

Sources told the paper that the first lady, who has spoken in the past about her desire to see more “positive” online interactions, will address leaders from Amazon, Facebook, Google, Twitter and Snap.

Trump is reportedly hesitant to use the term “cyberbullying,” however, and her spokeswoman confirmed only that she had “simply asked for a meeting to discuss one of the many things that impacts children.”

Though the consensus is that more can be done to promote civility and crack down on trolls online — particularly when children are involved — Trump’s project has been met with some derision.

Many called it “ironic,” given President Trump’s reputation for online attacks — most recently, a New York Times reporter whom he blasted as a “Hillary flunky” — and Donald Trump Jr.’s liking tweets that promote conspiracy theories involving 17-year-old Parkland shooting survivor David Hogg. Hogg’s 14-year-old sister, Lauren, personally called on the first lady to stop the cyberbullying.

Not surprisingly, the Twittersphere had some strong reactions.

Local woman won’t acknowledge the call is coming from inside the house https://t.co/8xz2MtJCBc — shauna (@goldengateblond) March 14, 2018

It's coming from INSIDE THE HOUSE pic.twitter.com/FIuRqfPDuY — Stef Sealy (@stefsealy) March 13, 2018

Could she has chosen a more ironic cause than cyberbullying? — Etienne Fortin (@ebfortin) March 13, 2018

Hey @FLOTUS, you might want to start at home if you really want to gain any respect whatsoever. — kerrihp (@kerrihp) March 13, 2018

“can you block my husband for me?” — Randy Marsh (@twinsgotwins) March 13, 2018

Melania Trump Meeting with Twitter to discuss “rise of online trolls and the spread of malicious content”?



That’s trolling on the highest level... — knutster (@knut2jensen) March 14, 2018

Melania Trump - whose husband's tweets include "low class slob," "short and fat" and "perv sleazebag" - will meet with Facebook and Twitter executives next week to talk about the "need for kindness online" https://t.co/aGCyQnbqzC — Drew Harwell (@drewharwell) March 13, 2018

First she should deal with the bully she is married to. — Sharon Lee Mandel (@MommaMandel) March 14, 2018

Does @FLOTUS know that her husband is a bully? How can she be a champion of cyber bulling with a husband who behaves in this way! Sorry but she needs to lead by example! — Amma Opoku (@OpokuAmma) March 14, 2018

The first lady’s meeting is scheduled to take place March 20.“The View” co-host Joy Behar apologized Tuesday for making disparaging comments about Vice President Mike Pence’s Christian faith.

The on-air apology stemmed from a Feb. 13 conversation on “The View” during which Behar mused that Pence must have a “mental illness” if he believes Jesus talks to him.

“I think Vice President Pence is right,” Behar said on the show Tuesday, speaking directly to the camera. “I was raised to respect everyone’s religious faith, and I fell short of that. I sincerely apologize for what I said.”

A clip of Behar’s apology was posted separately to the YouTube page of “The View.”

The Feb. 13 conversation began as a discussion about former White House aide Omarosa Manigault Newman and her thoughts about whether Pence would make a better president than Donald Trump.

“I’m Christian. I love Jesus,” Manigault Newman said in a clip played from “Celebrity Big Brother.” “But [Pence] thinks Jesus tells him to say things. I’m like, ‘Jesus ain’t saying that.’”

“It’s one thing to talk to Jesus,” Behar said in the ensuing discussion. “It’s another thing when Jesus talks to you. That’s called mental illness, if I’m not correct, hearing voices.”

Co-hosts Megan McCain and Sherri Shepherd pushed back, saying they believe Jesus also talks to them.

Later on in the same conversation, Behar defended Pence, saying that she thought he would be a better president than Trump.

“I don’t think he’s mentally ill, even though he’s hearing voices,” Behar said.

Vice President Mike Pence told Fox News Sean Hannity that he encouraged Behar to apologize in a public forum. NurPhoto via Getty Images

Pence went on the offensive after Behar’s comments, claiming on C-SPAN that they were an insult to “the vast majority of the American people who like me cherish their faith.” He said it demonstrated how “out of touch” the mainstream media is about religion.

According to The Washington Post, ABC received at least 40,000 protest phone calls about “The View” segment by the end of last Friday.

Pence confirmed to Sean Hannity that Behar had apologized personally to him during a phone call.All bullying reports are treated with the utmost importance. Students and parents are encouraged to contact school officials anytime there are bullying concerns, and they can use a link on the DeSoto County Schools website if they would prefer to report bullying incidents anonymously.

All claims are investigated thoroughly, and school counselors are trained to help students and intervene when they are aware of a situation. Our hearts go out to this young student’s friends and family.Fans of “This Is Us” clearly love the show but, apparently, some are not very good listeners.

In a nod to the NBC drama’s much-anticipated season finale Tuesday night, “The Tonight Show” writer Arthur Meyer interviewed the show’s followers about it ― but badly mispronounced the title.

He called “This Is Us” everything from “Miss the Bus” to “Whip His Nuts” and the fans in Rockefeller Center didn’t seem to notice.Sarah Drew went from a surgeon on the outs to a legendary crime solver in a hurry.

The actress, who is exiting the medical drama “Grey’s Anatomy” after nine seasons as Dr. April Kepner, will resurrect the role of Cagney in a pilot reboot of the popular 1980s buddy-cop series, “Cagney & Lacey,” according to Deadline.

Sarah Drew, pictured with Jesse Williams on "Grey's Anatomy," will play Cagney in a reboot of "Cagney & Lacey." Mitch Haaseth via Getty Images

Michelle Hurd of “Blindspot” will play the “polished” Los Angeles police detective Lacey, a former high school track champion. She will be somewhat of a mentor to Drew’s Cagney, described as a “nimble and easygoing partner and protege,” Variety reported.

Michelle Hurd plays the "polished" LAPD detective Lacey. Jason LaVeris via Getty Images

The original “Cagney and Lacey” (1981-88) featured Sharon Gless as Cagney after the first season and Tyne Daly as Lacey. The setting was New York City.

The series captured multiple Emmys ― including for best drama and for Daly and Gless in the best actress category.

Drew’s departure from “Grey’s,” along with longtime castmate Jessica Capshaw, came to light last week, when it was reported that producers did not renew their contracts due to the show’s “creative direction.”

Advertisement“I’m very proud of the work that we have done in Oregon to ensure that we prohibit discrimination based on sexual orientation and gender identity,” Kate Brown said. Tom Williams via Getty Images

“I think it’s so critically important that we have LGBTQ voices at the leadership table,” said openly bisexual Governor Kate Brown of Oregon, the first and only openly gay, lesbian, bisexual or transgender person elected to gubernatorial office in the United States and one of only six women who currently hold governorships.

Speaking with me on Monday on SiriusXM Progress, Brown underscored how Oregon has been at the forefront among the states on LGBTQ rights.

“I’m very proud of the work that we have done in Oregon to ensure that we prohibit discrimination based on sexual orientation and gender identity,” she said. “Obviously we achieved marriage equality as well in 2014. And we’ve been able to move forward under my leadership.” Brown then mentioned recent measures the state has taken to protect transgender students, and allow residents to obtain gender-neutral driver’s licenses and birth certificates that reflect their gender identity.

What can the rest of the country learn about standing up for #LGBTQ Americans from #Oregon? @OregonGovBrown spoke w/ @MSignorile all about what she is doing to protect the rights of all Oregonians. pic.twitter.com/ddTcPBR5DB — SiriusXM Progress (@SXMProgress) March 13, 2018

As governor, Brown has also done what’s in her power at the state level to battle President Donald Trump’s attempt to ban transgender people in the military.

“I’ve made it very clear to the adjutant general, the head of our National Guard — I am the commander in chief ― but I made it very clear to him that we would continue to allow folks in the trans community to serve,” she said. “We see their service as instrumental and critical to making sure that we keep Oregonians safe, and their service is instrumental to the nation as well.”

Brown has helped make history in other ways, and views the issues she’s worked on as integral to one another. As secretary of state, she spearheaded Oregon’s first-in-the-nation automatic voter registration system in which Oregonians are registered when they obtain or renew a driver’s license, ID card or permit ― what she calls the “nudge principle,” since people have to opt out in order not to register ― which has made it much easier for residents to participate in the democratic process in Oregon.

And she views voting as among the most powerful ways for LGBTQ people and others who feel threatened in the Trump era to fight back.

“I think it’s critically important [for people to have] their voices be heard,” she explained. “I am extremely ― I’m gravely concerned about what’a happening across this country in terms of providing barriers for people to participate in their most fundamental right, and that’s the right to vote. I crafted the automatic voter registration [as Oregon’s secretary of state] and, in a weird twist of fate, I signed it into law as governor. We’ve been able to increase the number of young people participating in elections as well as communities of color and I think it’s really critical that we make the right to vote as accessible as possible to every single American.”

Early last week, Brown was the first governor to sign an expansive gun safety law in the aftermath of the Parkland, Florida, school shooting. The law will further protect women from becoming victims of gun violence.

“Closing what we call the intimate partner loophole will keep guns out of the wrong hands, out of the hands of stalkers and domestic abusers,” she said of the legislation, which expands existing legislation aimed at barring gun purchases and possession among individuals with a domestic violence or stalking conviction.

“It was a priority for me this legislative session because of the impact of guns in domestic violence situations,” she said. “The presence of a gun in a domestic violence situation makes it five times more likely that a woman will be killed. And in my last two years as governor, we had more than 60 deaths due to domestic violence, and more than half of those were due to guns. So it was absolutely imperative that the legislature move forward and close this loophole.”

In a time when women are standing tall, speaking out against sexual assault and physical abuse, and running for office in record numbers, one role Brown sees for herself is as a leader who encourages others to get involved.

“I think we can only make change ― and change that is resilient and respectful of the communities and continues to reflect the communities — when you have a diversity of voices at the leadership table,” she explained.

She pointed to the work ahead, noting that that she is one of only six women in the country who, as governors, are members of the National Governors Association.

“I like to say it’s the malest, straightest, whitest organization that I’ve been a part of,” Brown said. “And it’s really important that that organization reflects the diversity and experiences of people across the country.”Xander Heinl via Getty Images

BERLIN (Reuters) - German lawmakers voted on Wednesday to re-elect Angela Merkel as chancellor for a fourth, and likely final, term that may prove her most challenging yet as she takes charge of a fragile coalition with her personal standing diminished.

Lawmakers voted by 364 to 315, with nine abstentions, in favor of re-electing Merkel, a humbling start as the coalition of her conservatives and the center-left Social Democrats (SPD) has 399 votes in the Bundestag lower house of parliament.

“I accept the vote,” a beaming Merkel, 63, told lawmakers.

In office since 2005, she has dominated Germany’s political landscape and steered the European Union through the economic crisis.

But her authority was dented by her decision in 2015 to commit Germany to an open-door policy on migration, resulting in an influx of more than one million people.

She must now juggle competing domestic demands from her conservative CDU/CSU alliance and the SPD, just as Germany is locked in a trade stand-off with the United States.

“It is a good start for Germany to have a stable government... after so many months, there is now a big incentive to get down to work with energy,” Defence Minister Ursula von der Leyen said.

Merkel was due to meet President Frank-Walter Steinmeier before returning to the Bundestag to be sworn in.

Ministers will then be sworn in later in the day - almost six months after last September’s national election in which both coalition partners lost support to the far-right Alternative for Germany (AfD).

FAULT LINES

The conservative bloc only turned to the SPD to prolong the ‘grand coalition’ that has governed Germany since 2013 out of desperation, after talks on a three-way alliance with two smaller parties collapsed last November.

Fault lines have emerged in the new government even before its first cabinet meeting, with tensions evident over the sequencing and extent of reforms.

The pressure is on for both camps to deliver: the inclusion in the coalition deal of a clause that envisages a review of the government’s progress after two years gives each the opportunity to leave the alliance then if it is not working for them.

The priority the government gives to different reforms set out in the coalition deal, the extent to which it implements them, and the personnel involved promise a welter of competing pressures that Merkel will need all her political skill to balance.Win McNamee via Getty Images

WASHINGTON ― Early in their efforts to push through tax reform last year, Republicans insisted the legislation was key to maintaining GOP majorities in Congress. Tax cuts, they said, would be popular enough that Americans would vote to keep Republicans in power.

But Democrats’ shocking upset in Tuesday’s special congressional election in Pennsylvania, in a district where Donald Trump won by nearly 20 percentage points in 2016, cast doubt on that argument and further served as a warning sign for the GOP ahead of November.

Public polling on the tax law has improved over the initial numbers. But it became evident a few weeks ago that Republican messaging on the law wasn’t working the way the party hoped. Outside GOP groups, which had poured nearly $11 million into the race ― much of it on advertising the tax law ― suddenly shifted tactics. Instead of touting their signature legislative achievement, Republicans began airing scary-sounding ads about immigrants, and attacking Democrat Conor Lamb’s record as a prosecutor. One GOP ad accused Lamb of allowing “gun runners” to avoid jail time and “walk free.” It’s a well-worn playbook, one that Republicans used to turn out their base last year in gubernatorial races in Virginia and New Jersey.

Don’t forget that they went fully Willie Horton at the end, because their tax cuts don’t sell. — Brian Schatz (@brianschatz) March 14, 2018

It didn’t work on Tuesday. Democratic enthusiasm proved too great, giving Lamb a lead of several hundred votes with all absentee ballots counted. Republican candidate Rick Saccone, meanwhile, is expected to petition for a recount in the coming days.

Republicans attempted to downplay the results of the race Wednesday by arguing that Saccone was a terrible candidate with regrettable facial hair, and that Lamb ran a unique race that can’t be used to make predictions about other parts of the country. Some even argued that running on the GOP tax law is still the way to go for candidates this November.

“We aren’t even in full momentum on tax reform,” House Republican Conference Chair Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-Wash.) told reporters Wednesday.

Sen. Pat Toomey (R-Pa.), meanwhile, said the tax bill helped Saccone, and that recent stories about how the bill has fueled a surge in corporate stock buybacks rather than raises didn’t hurt the Republican candidate.

“I’m quite confident that the tax bill is net favorably perceived in that district,” Toomey said. “People understand that there’s a combination of increasing compensation for employees, returning money to shareholders, more investment by the business ― all of those things happened as a result.”

But not every Republican was so sanguine.

“There’s no way to pretty this up, and I’m not going to insult the American people. We got our butt kicked last night. We need to find out why,” Sen. John Neely Kennedy (R-La.) told HuffPost. “The truth will set you free, but sometimes it’ll make you feel like hell first. We need to face facts.”

Another possible cause for GOP concern is the potential psychological effect of Tuesday’s election on other candidates and incumbents alike. If Republicans can’t win in a district that Trump carried so handily, they may also not be able to win in districts where the margin was smaller. That realization could prompt further GOP retirements, opening seats like the one in Pennsylvania.

Rep. Tom Cole (R-Okla.) doesn’t buy this view. “There’s a lot fewer open seats if you look at competitive open seats,” he said Wednesday.

Cole, who served as chair of the National Republican Congressional Committee in 2006, argued that incumbents will have an easier time defending the GOP tax law.

“It’s tougher for a candidate like Rick Saccone to run on it, because he wasn’t here to vote for it,” he said. “And it’s easier for a candidate like Conor Lamb to negate it, ’cause he wasn’t here to vote against it.”

Democrats plan to run against the GOP tax law in November, at least indirectly. Last week, they introduced a $1 trillion infrastructure plan meant to overhaul the nation’s roads, bridges and waterways, and proposed paying for it by rolling back some of the tax cuts for the wealthy.

The success of GOP messaging on the tax law and the economy in November may ultimately hinge on other factors, though.

“The popularity of the bill has increased since passage, no doubt aided by voters seeing both increased take-home pay and stories of bonuses and increased benefits due to the bill,” said Doug Heye, a former spokesman for the Republican National Committee.

Heye lamented “the cacophony of Trump-created noise,” adding that the president “could help things tremendously by staying out his own way and letting, indeed helping, these stories break through.”Tiffany Haddish attends the 'The Last O.G' Premiere 2018 SXSW Conference and Festivals at Paramount Theatre on March 12, 2018 in Austin, Texas. Matt Winkelmeyer via Getty Images

Tiffany Haddish has answered calls for her to host the Oscars in 2019.

But she has one condition that needs to be met first — and it has nothing to do with co-hosting with Maya Rudolph, wearing her Alexander McQueen dress again, or being allowed to ambush Meryl Streep as many times as she wants.

Variety reports that during a screening of her upcoming TBS series “The Last O.G.,” at SXSW, the actress and comedian told the crowd:

“At the end of the day, I would love to do something like [host the Oscars]. That would be a dream come true. I know my father would be extremely proud if I got to do that. As long as I get a paycheck.”

Haddish presented with Rudolph during this year’s Oscars earlier this month, and their chemistry was so delightful that Twitter exploded with posts begging the academy to hire the duo for the 2019 Oscars.

The “Girls Trip” actress is slated to host the 2018 MTV Movie & TV Awards in Los Angeles on June 18 — making her the first black woman to host the show.

Advertisement“Even when you get fired from a Domino’s, the manager takes you into that crappy little office and tells you to your face,” said Meyers. “Tweets are for finding out which band is in town or which airline was mean to Chrissy Teigen.”Lawyer Aaron Schlossberg is facing serious consequences after video footage captured his bigoted diatribe about workers and customers who were speaking Spanish to each other in a Manhattan restaurant on Tuesday.

Since the video of his outburst went viral, the Trump supporter has been evicted from his law offices, named in a disciplinary complaint and chased by reporters. He’s been trashed on Yelp and singled out for a mariachi band serenade.

Earlier this week, Schlossberg was filmed angrily complaining to a restaurant worker about the people speaking Spanish around him. He said he suspected they were in the country illegally and threatened to call the authorities. “They have the balls to come here and live off of my money I pay for their welfare,” he complained. “The least they could do is speak English.”

Ironically, the website for Schlossberg’s legal business — which has now been trashed online — boasts that he “speaks Spanish.”

The New York Daily News reported that Corporate Suites, the landlord of the Madison Avenue space that Schlossberg used for his legal business, barred him from his office on Thursday.

“We’ve decided to terminate his agreement with us,” company president Hayim Grant told the News. “His actions don’t fall in line with our beliefs and our community. We’re a diverse community of global businesses that have mutual respect for each other.”

Extra points to whoever changed the Google info for Aaron Schlossberg's company to "Spanish restaurant" pic.twitter.com/sX4xUyd8H6 — Adam Feldman (@FeldmanAdam) May 17, 2018

Meanwhile, in a letter Thursday to the state court disciplinary system, Rep. Adriano Espaillat (D-N.Y.) and Bronx Borough President Ruben Diaz Jr. (D) accused Schlossberg of misconduct for his “viral racist rant.” Diaz told The Washington Post that Schlossberg should be suspended or disbarred.

Schlossberg ran from news reporters Thursday outside his Manhattan home. He called the police on his phone, saying he was being “accosted by reporters. Please send help.”

Schlossberg is apparently no stranger to angry public confrontations captured on video.

Manhattan resident Willie Morris posted a vlog about his bizarre encounter with Schlossberg on a street in 2016. The lawyer bumped into Morris, called him an “ugly fucking foreigner,” and threatened to call the police.

Another person said that Schlossberg yelled at Jewish people in the street, accusing them of not being “real” Jews.

The asshole lawyer caught on video mad about people speaking Spanish in NYC that @ShaunKing is calling out?@Ike_Saul caught him on video yelling "You are not a Jew" to Jewish people last year.pic.twitter.com/rSl2rpnmZw — jordan (@JordanUhl) May 16, 2018Past climate projections predicted that, in a warming world, winters would be the seasons to heat up the fastest — and yet recent winters in the Northern Hemisphere were more severe than scientists anticipated, said Judah Cohen, the study’s lead author and director of seasonal forecasting at Atmospheric and Environmental Research, an organization that assesses risks from weather events and climate change.

To understand what might be driving these unusual episodes, Cohen and his colleagues looked at pulses of warmth in the Arctic during winter months, to see how they lined up against weather anomalies elsewhere in the globe.

“When the Arctic pulse is warm, you tend to get an increase in occurrences of extreme winter weather across the midlatitudes, including the eastern U.S., northern Europe and northern Asia,” Cohen told Live Science.

The relationship between spiking Arctic warmth and pockets of cold to the south was “really, really strong” — and it was strongest in the eastern U.S., Cohen said.

Since 1990, the eastern U.S. has been visited by winter storms so severe that they earned highly dramatic nicknames, such as “Snowzilla,” “Snowmaggeddon” and “Snowpocalypse.” The increase in incidences of extreme storms with heavy snowfall corresponded with periods of excessive Arctic warmth, the study authors wrote.

Disruption comes in waves

How does this relationship work? As the scientists’ observations reflected only the comparison of weather patterns over time — and not what was driving them— the researchers could not conclude that a warmer Arctic was directly responsible for harsh winter storms in the U.S., they reported in the study.

But answers may lie in another atmospheric disturbance linked to a warming Arctic, Cohen said.

According to the study, data from past decades showed that fall snow cover in Siberia increased as the Arctic warmed, which cooled northeastern Eurasia. Meanwhile, melting sea ice fueled warmer temperatures in northwestern Eurasia.

These air-temperature changes close to the surface led to similar changes higher up in the atmosphere. This, in turn, affected the jet stream — a conveyer belt of wind that carries warm air and moisture around the globe — by increasing its “waviness,” making jetstream waves dive farther south and stretch farther to the north. In turn, this extra amplification can alter the movement of cold air masses near the pole, otherwise known as the polar vortex, Cohen explained.

And this disturbance of the polar vortex could end up shaping conditions that worsen winter weather in the U.S.

“The cold air that’s normally confined to the Arctic, it’s kind of dammed in by the polar vortex itself — because winds normally blow from west to east inside the polar vortex, so it acts as barrier, keeps the cold air to the north and the mild air to the south,” Cohen said. “When it breaks down, the cold air that’s penned up in the Arctic spills to lower latitudes, and that’s when you get those episodes of severe winter weather.”

Arctic scientists like to say that “what happens in the Arctic doesn’t stay in the Arctic,” but the interconnectivity between Earth’s dynamic atmospheric systems is no laughing matter, Cohen said. The complexity of these systems is reflected in emerging disruptions that are likely the products of climate change, though there is still much to be learned about how climate change could shape weather patterns around the world, the study authors reported.

“I’d argue that our expectations for climate change were overly simplistic,” Cohen said. “It was kind of expected that if you warm the Arctic, the only thing that’s going to lead to is just milder temperatures everywhere — and that’s not a complete picture.”

The findings were published online today (March 13) in the journal Nature Communications.

Original article on Live Science.At 10 a.m. local time across the country, thousands of students walked out of their schools for 17 minutes to observe the one-month anniversary of the mass shooting at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Florida ― one minute for each person killed. Young people linked arms, held signs, led chants, sang songs and shared all of it on social media to protest gun violence.

And if you watched Fox News on Wednesday morning, you’d barely have known it was going on.

The network that has repeatedly given a platform to gun-rights advocates devoted little time to the massive protest effort trending online, prompting mobile push notifications and earning wall-to-wall coverage on rival networks CNN and MSNBC.

Instead, Fox News bounced between a number of other national stories, spending much of its time on the Pennsylvania special election as the margin between Democrat Conor Lamb and Republican state Rep. Rick Saccone remained razor-thin, leaning ever so slightly in Lamb’s favor.

Reporters on the conservative network’s “America’s Newsroom” program discussed President Donald Trump’s Tuesday announcement that Secretary of State Rex Tillerson would be replaced by CIA Director Mike Pompeo and pondered other shake-ups that could be on the way. They showed footage of Trump visiting border wall prototypes, which he also did Tuesday. They covered the House Russia probe that ended Monday and paused to check in on Austin’s deadly package bombs.

Bizarrely, Fox News also took time to report on an armed home invasion in Milwaukee.

Meanwhile, students called on legislators to enact change on gun policy that has stagnated in the U.S. over recent decades. Powerful imagery circulated on social media and other news networks showing young people holding signs with #NeverAgain, the hashtag started by Marjory Stoneman Douglas student activists in response to the tragedy at their school.

When Fox News devoted time to the protests, it focused on students gathered in Washington, D.C., who spent their 17 minutes sitting with backs to the White House before marching on to Capitol Hill. One Fox field reporter checked in from a high school in Georgia.

HAPPENING NOW: students walk out nationwide to protest gun violence and mark one month since the Parkland, FL shooting pic.twitter.com/CSXH0ywGAc — America's Newsroom (@AmericaNewsroom) March 14, 2018

Earlier on Wednesday, “Fox & Friends” reported on a Pennsylvania Catholic school that planned to pray for the Stoneman Douglas victims instead of stage a walkout like their secular counterparts.

“By praying for the victims, we could bring a great focus to the victims in this situation,” said a priest interviewed on the air.

According to Fox News, “upwards of 600 demonstrations” were expected across the country. However, Youth EMPOWER, the branch of the Women’s March that organized Wednesday’s National School Walkout movement, expected thousands of events.Ellen DeGeneres and Sean Hayes exchanged barbs Wednesday, teasing one another about their respective legacies as two of the most prominent LGBTQ stars on mainstream television. Rest assured, however, that it was all in good fun.

During a conversation on “The Ellen DeGeneres Show” that the host dubbed the “battle of the gays,” Hayes joked that the success of his Emmy-winning series, “Will & Grace,” surpassed that of “Ellen.” DeGeneres’ sitcom was canceled in 1998, shortly after her character came out as a lesbian.

DeGeneres, however, wasn’t fazed by Hayes’ cheeky jab, and pointed to the fact that her series is widely credited for having paved the way for “Will & Grace” and other queer-inclusive TV programming.

“That’s right, I had to come out first for you all to do that sitcom,” she replied, as seen in the clip above. “Go ahead!”

Of course, there’s no true rivalry between the two stars. Hayes later presented DeGeneres with what he said was a “beefeater hat,” as a belated birthday gift. (It’s actually called a busby hat.)

The host modeled her new headgear, prompting the audience to erupt with applause ― though she had lingering doubts about her ability to drive home while wearing it.

AdvertisementI moved on her like a bitch. But I couldn’t get there. And she was married. Then all of a sudden I see her, she’s now got the big phony tits and everything. She’s totally changed her look. ...

You know, I’m automatically attracted to beautiful — I just start kissing them. It’s like a magnet. Just kiss. I don’t even wait. And when you’re a star, they let you do it. You can do anything. ...

Grab ’em by the pussy. You can do anything.TONIGHT: The long-rumored firing of Secretary of State Rix Tillerson finally took place this morning on Twitter, naturally. #LSSC pic.twitter.com/cFmJ9BI2Wx

And that meant it was time for “Late Show” host Stephen Colbert to break out his Trump impression. He not only read the tweet as Trump, but also worked in a few extra lines “congratulating” Tillerson on his departure.ELIZABETH TOWNSHIP, Pa.― Democrat Conor Lamb held a slim lead over Republican state Rep. Rick Saccone Wednesday in a race likely headed to a recount.

With 100 percent of precincts reporting and all of the absentee ballots counted, Lamb led Saccone by a mere 627 votes. Provisional ballots were still being tallied.

The Associated Press said late Tuesday it was not declaring a winner because the race was too close to call. Still, Lamb declared victory early Wednesday.

Democratic #PA18 candidate Conor Lamb declares victory: “It took a little longer than we thought, but we did it” https://t.co/UaL9pCcksi — CNN Politics (@CNNPolitics) March 14, 2018

Pennsylvania Gov. Tom Wolf (D) and Pittsburgh Mayor Bill Peduto (D) on Wednesday congratulated Lamb.

Congratulations to Congressman-Elect @ConorLambPA - you ran a campaign you should be proud of & I look forward to working with you for the betterment of SW PA. — bill peduto (@billpeduto) March 14, 2018

There is no automatic recount on the congressional district level in Pennsylvania, according to state law. Candidates can, however, petition for a recount within five days after counties complete their vote computations.

“I would rather be in Lamb’s shoes right now,” former Sen. Rick Santorum (R-Pa.) said late Tuesday on CNN.

About 11:30 p.m. Tuesday, Saccone came downstairs from the war room with his wife, Yong, his son, daughter-in-law and two grandchildren. “I just came down to let you know, we’re still fighting the fight,” he said. “It’s not over yet.”

At one point a woman in the crowd yelled out, “There was some monkey business going on at the voting polls, Rick!”

Saccone thanked his supporters and let them know they could go home, because his campaign would be working late into the night

Supporters monitor election returns for Conor Lamb, the Democratic congressional candidate for Pennsylvania's 18th District, on Tuesday night in Canonsburg, Pennsylvania. Drew Angerer via Getty Images

Yet, win or lose, the result represents massive progress for the Democratic Party. It reflects the heightened enthusiasm of the party’s liberal base ahead of the 2018 congressional midterms, and it also signals dissatisfaction of many voters with President Donald Trump. The commander in chief carried the district by nearly 20 percentage points in the 2016 election.

“The congressional map for potentially competitive races has just gotten a whole hell of a lot bigger,” said Mike Mikus, a western Pennsylvania-based Democratic consultant. “If I’m the Republicans, I’m terrified. If I’m the Democrats, I’m very energized looking toward November.”

The Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee claimed victory Tuesday night before a winner had been declared. Ben Ray Luján, the chair of the group, said the results should “terrify Republicans” who spent millions to defeat Lamb.

“We have incredible candidates with deep records of service running deep into the map this year, and it’s clear that these Republican attacks are not going to stick,” he said.

Pennsylvania’s 18th Congressional District opened up in October, when eight-term incumbent Republican Tim Murphy resigned under pressure. Murphy, who publicly opposed abortion rights, was caught encouraging a woman with whom he was having an extramarital affair to get an abortion during a pregnancy scare.

Murphy enjoyed a virtually unshakable hold on the southwestern Pennsylvania district, running unopposed in the two previous elections. The district, which was heavily gerrymandered to favor Republicans, covers a vast swath of southwestern Pennsylvania.

Doug Heye, a former spokesman for the Republican National Committee, said Tuesday’s result served as a warning sign for the GOP come November even if Saccone retains the seat.

“Regardless of who ultimately wins, this is not a good result for the GOP. Look for more retirements to come,” Heye tweeted, referring to the growing number of Republican lawmakers headed for the exits.

Much of the national commentary on Lamb’s race has centered on how he used his Catholic faith, background as a Marine and moderate positions on guns, coal and fracking to find favor with the district’s culturally conservative voters.

But Lamb also had a laser-like focus on kitchen-table economics, particularly with his promises to protect Social Security and Medicare.

And in a district where nearly one in four voters is a union member, Lamb made his support for organized labor a leading theme of his campaign. He promised to protect collective bargaining rights, signed onto a bipartisan fix for the underfunded coal miners’ pensions and supported efforts to “level the playing field” for American manufacturing.

In his courtship of union voters, Lamb had a helpful foil in Saccone. Although former Rep. Tim Murphy enjoyed a solid working relationship with unions, Saccone had a resolutely anti-union record, which included a host of controversial state House votes and support for the so-called “right-to-work” laws that are a third rail for unions.

“It’s a good win for the labor movement.” - Tim Waters, United Steel Workers

Labor unions, which have sometimes been divided in their electoral efforts, united passionately behind Lamb. They conducted a massive effort to inform their members why they believed Lamb was the right candidate and Saccone was unacceptable.

The United Steel Workers alone contacted all 20,000 of its members in the district at least once, according to the union’s political director Tim Waters.

“It’s a good win for the labor movement,” Waters said. “This is a union district and Republicans decided that because of the [district] lines they could come here to our backyard and run a blatantly anti-union candidate.”

The nature of the district made the race something of a “litmus test” on the political resonance of unions ― and unions passed that test with flying colors, according to Waters.

Although there is not detailed enough data to document exactly how votes broke down based on union membership, several working-class precincts where labor has a large presence went from voting for Trump to voting for Lamb.

In Burgettstown, a hamlet in a Washington County school district where just 15 percent of residents have a bachelor’s degree or higher, 56 percent of residents voted for Trump in 2016. On Tuesday, the exact same percentage of the town’s residents voted for Conor Lamb.

Likewise, in a part of the rural coal mining town of Waynesburg, where Lamb held one of his final rallies, 57 percent of residents voted for Trump and 54 percent backed Lamb.

“If you look at his win and what happened recently with teachers unions in West Virginia, the labor movement is resurgent,” said Krystal Ball, founder of the People’s House Project, which recruits and advises candidates in GOP-held districts in the Midwest and Appalachia. “I hope the Democratic Party is smart enough to know their best friends and allies are in the labor movement.”Trevor Noah thinks he’s pinpointed one of President Donald Trump’s conditions.

In a behind-the-scenes clip published online by “The Daily Show” on Tuesday, the comedian lightheartedly suggested that Trump was suffering from “xenophobic FOMO” (fear of missing out).

As evidence, Noah used Trump’s idea to make his long-promised U.S.-Mexico border wall see-through so that officials can check whether cartel members are on the other side.

“That’s, like, such a weird thing to say,” Noah said. “That’s like saying, ‘I need my wall to my neighbor to be see-through because what if my neighbor is jacking off, then I won’t know?’”WASHINGTON ― Sen. Rand Paul (R-Ky.) said Wednesday he intends to oppose President Donald Trump’s nominees to head the CIA and the State Department.

Trump on Tuesday announced the ouster of Secretary of State Rex Tillerson, and said he was replacing him with CIA Director Mike Pompeo.

Trump also said he plans to nominate Gina Haspel, now deputy CIA director, to replace Pompeo as head of the spy agency. Haspel helped oversee the agency’s controversial torture program, and allegedly played a part in the destruction of video recordings that captured torture sessions.

Paul, a libertarian-leaning critic of U.S. military intervention, said he was “perplexed” by both nominees, and called them “the wrong fit for America.” He added that he feared Pompeo and Haspel both would push for military force in Iran because they supported nearly two decades of war in Iraq that followed the U.S. invasion.

Paul criticized Haspel for what he called her “gleeful enjoyment” torturing detainees. “I find it amazing that anyone would consider this woman as the head of the CIA,” he said at a press conference.

Sen. Rand Paul (R-Ky.) said he'll oppose President Donald Trump's nominees to head the State Department and CIA. Kevin Lamarque / Reuters

Paul’s opposition could imperil both nominations in what is likely to be a heated confirmation process. Sen. John McCain (R-Ariz.) is still recovering in his home state after being diagnosed with cancer, leaving Pompeo and Haspel with as few as 49 GOP votes in the Senate.

Paul’s position on the Foreign Relations Committee could threaten Pompeo’s nomination early in the process. Republicans hold a one-seat majority on the panel, and Pompeo’s nomination could stall if Democrats on the committee decide to oppose it.

Rep. Liz Cheney (R-Wyo.), the daughter of former Vice President Dick Cheney, one of the architects of the Iraq War, defended Haspel on Twitter and accused Paul of “defending and sympathizing” with terrorists.

Gina Haspel has spent her career defending the American people and homeland. @RandPaul is defending and sympathizing with terrorists. https://t.co/NNddDvSsRm — Liz Cheney (@Liz_Cheney) March 14, 2018

It’s unclear, however, how many Democrats will end up supporting either nomination. Pompeo was confirmed as the CIA director by a bipartisan 66-to-32 vote.

Sen. Dianne Feinstein (D-Calif.), who blocked Haspel’s promotion to acting head of the CIA’s clandestine service in 2013 for her involvement in the torture program, offered some praise for the nominee on Tuesday, but did not say how she planned to vote.

“Well, I have spent some time with her, we’ve had dinner together, we have talked ... everything I know is, is that she has been a good deputy director of the CIA,” Feinstein said. “I think hopefully the entire organization learned something from the so-called enhanced interrogation program. I think it’s something that can’t be forgotten. And I certainly can never forget it. And I won’t let any director forget it.”

Other Democrats, meanwhile, are calling on the administration to declassify information surrounding Haspel’s management of the CIA torture program.

“We should not be asked to confirm a nominee whose background cannot be publicly discussed and who cannot then be held accountable for her actions. The American public deserves to know who its leaders are,” Sen. Martin Heinrich (D-N.M.) said in a statement.President Donald Trump speaks at an installation of U.S.-Mexico border wall prototypes near the Otay Mesa Port of Entry in San Diego on Tuesday. Kevin Lamarque / Reuters

SAN DIEGO ― It could have been a victory lap. On a foggy Tuesday, President Donald Trump traveled to the desert outside of San Diego to visit eight wall prototypes constructed in service of his signature policy goal: his “big, beautiful” southern border wall. Trump, ever the showman, examined eight contestants in his wall pageant, a contest in which he hopes to one day pick a winner. Which one would he pick? Would the fans know before the first-term series finale?

The visit also marked Trump’s first trip to California since winning the presidency. It could have been the perfect moment to troll the state that so forcefully rejects him and his policies.

And it was all going so well. In the hours before Trump’s arrival just before noon, the handful of pro-wall, pro-Trump rallies around Otay Mesa, the southern San Diego community that backs right up to the U.S.-Mexico border, brought together hundreds of supporters of the president and his proposed expansion of the border wall. The crowd chanted familiar Trump rally refrains ―“Build that wall!” “Lock her up!” ― while flying “Make America great again” flags.

Shortly after Air Force One touched ground at Miramar Marine Corps Air Station, a Trump supporter grabbed the microphone: “Trump has landed!” she shouted. The crowd erupted with excitement. The fans were ready for their hero. But the thrill quickly died down.

Then, a car drove by and yelled “Fuck Donald Trump!”

As the crowd was shaking off the insult, a man in a passing car waved a Mexican flag, which fell off his pole and into the street. Suddenly a group of Trump supporters found their courage. They raced to the flag and snatched it up.

“Burn it!” they chanted. They settled for shredding it.

At last the motorcade arrived. Trump, flanked by federal and local law enforcement, was finally here to see his wall prototypes. Within hours of Trump’s visit, federal authorities were charging three rural Illinois men ― one of whom was a bidder on Trump’s border wall contract ― for the bombing of a Minnesota mosque last year and the attempted bombing of a women’s health clinic in Illinois.

Touring the site, Trump explained he preferred “see-through” walls. “You have to know what’s on the other side of the wall,” he explained. He is partial to taller walls, arguing some of the people who cross the border are “like professional mountain climbers.”

“They’re incredible climbers,” Trump said. “They can’t climb some of these walls. Some of them they can. Those are the walls we’re not using.”

A pro-Trump rally in Otay Mesa near the wall prototypes the president visited Tuesday. Matt Ferner/HuffPost

Unlike most of Trump’s campaign promises, many of which were drafted in a matter of weeks or months, the promise of a southern border wall has been part of his policy platform since he first announced his candidacy in June 2015. The idea of a newly fortified border wall electrified his base, who have gleefully chanted “Build the wall!” at his rallies. It also has become a rallying cry for racists, middle school and teenage bullies, and college students on spring break in Mexico.

“We have a lousy wall now,” Trump said Tuesday. “When we put up the real wall, we’re going to stop 99 percent [of illegal crossings], maybe more than that.”

The cost estimates for Trump’s “real wall” vary wildly. In January, Trump said he wants $25 billion for border security efforts, including for his wall. He’s said at various points that he believes the wall can be built for $8 billion to as much as $12 billion. Senate Democrats have said it would it would be far costlier, closer to $70 billion. Independent analysts have pegged the cost at anywhere between $15 billion and $40 billion. Trump has long promised that Mexico will pay for the wall, whatever the cost, while Mexican President Enrique Peña Nieto has rejected those claims.

What is clear is that Trump’s wall, if it is actually ever constructed, will represent the culmination of decades of hardening of the U.S.-Mexico border zone. Throughout the 20th century, barbed wire, then fencing, then some observation towers, then more fencing have been constructed in and around various border towns, ranches and expanses of border land in an attempt to deter traffic. By 2006, President George W. Bush ushered in the construction of the more than 650 miles of fencing and barriers along the U.S.-Mexico border that exists today.

The structures that now make up the border barrier consist of iron fencing, stretches of vehicle barriers and barbed wire, as well as natural barriers, such as the Rio Grande. The border fencing has long been full of gaps and stops and starts along the way. The border barrier has been fairly effective at deterring illegal crossings. Apprehensions at the southwest border, which represent nearly 98 percent of total illegal crossings nationwide, fell to just over 300,000 in 2017, less than one-fifth of the 1.6 million apprehensions in 2000. But the barrier has the negative effect of pushing vulnerable people into more dangerous environments, cleaving communities and being profitable for human smuggling networks.

President Donald Trump tours U.S.-Mexico border wall prototypes near the Otay Mesa Port of Entry in San Diego. Kevin Lamarque / Reuters

Trump, undeterred by these realities, examined the proposed wall slabs for about an hour.

At a smaller gathering overlooking the wall prototypes, a couple of dozen people gathered. Wearing Trump gear, they listened to music, held signs expressing support for Trump and his wall, and waited for the president to inspect the prototypes in the distance. One Trump supporter shouted “President Trump, we love you.” Another chanted, “Build that wall!”

Trump, a mile or two away, couldn’t hear them. And his supporters couldn’t hear him, either.

Shortly after 1 p.m., Trump was loaded back into his caravan to return to Miramar Air Station. Next up was Los Angeles, where the president would spend about four hours at the private residence of a Republican National Committee fundraiser.

As he headed north, a few dozen Trump supporters stood on one side of a street while a few dozen Trump protesters stood on the opposite side. They pointed their signs at each other and waved their flags near the entrance of a shipping facility where Trump’s motorcade would drive by. The motorcade was met with the requisite cheers and boos, but that soon faded away.