The New York Post appeared to take inspiration from a memorable front page to report President Donald Trump’s firing of Secretary of State Rex Tillerson.

For its Wednesday cover, the Rupert Murdoch-owned tabloid featured a photograph of Tillerson with the headline: “Worst Rex He Ever Had.”

Tomorrow's cover: Tillerson says he’ll ensure smooth transition after being fired https://t.co/o6cvlf71xL pic.twitter.com/ZdrwGfk6wI — New York Post (@nypost) March 13, 2018

As CNN host Brian Stelter noted on Twitter, it bore a striking resemblance to the newspaper’s 1990 front page detailing Trump’s reported sex life with his soon-to-be second wife Marla Maples:

“Take a bow,” wrote Stelter.

The Trump-themed punchline, albeit almost three decades later, also was praised by others on Twitter:

I needed this laugh. I deserved this laugh. Thanks @nypost https://t.co/KkDvwjxc1m — Jill Lawrence (@JillDLawrence) March 13, 2018Fox News host Sean Hannity took his defense of President Donald Trump to the next level on Thursday night, calling special counsel Robert Mueller’s probe a “direct threat” to the nation.

Speaking on the one-year anniversary of Mueller’s appointment, Hannity described the investigation of Russian interference in the 2016 election and the Trump campaign’s alleged ties to Moscow a “monumental abuse of power” and insisted that a sitting president can’t be indicted.

He also said Mueller may not be able to subpoena Trump since the president’s attorneys have turned in more than 1 million documents.

“Mueller already has everything that they have requested and the only point of a presidential interview is to set a perjury trap,” Hannity said in comments posted online by Media Matters. “This witch hunt is now a direct threat to this American republic. Mueller is causing irreparable damage to the rule of law in this country.”

That statement contradicted what Hannity said when he welcomed the probe a year ago, calling it a “good thing,” as the Washington Post’s JM Rieger pointed out on Twitter:Toys R Us, an iconic U.S. retailer of children’s toys, has announced plans to file liquidation papers and likely close most if not all of its remaining stores, potentially impacting up to 33,000 U.S. workers.

In a conference call with staff on Wednesday, reported on by The Wall Street Journal, CEO David Brandon said the company would file the papers ahead of a bankruptcy court hearing Thursday.

“I have always believed that this brand and this business should exist in the U.S.,” Brandon told employees.

The CEO blamed the liquidation on a number of factors, including vendors who didn’t support the company during the crucial holiday season and customers who choose to shop elsewhere.

They “will all live to regret what’s happening here,” Brandon said.

A representative for Toys R Us on Wednesday confirmed the Journal’s report and noted that there would not be an immediate shut down.

Administrators for the retailer also said Wednesday that the company plans to close all 75 remaining stores in the United Kingdom, which will affect roughly 3,000 workers.

The big box retailer, which has some 1,600 Toys R Us and Babies R Us stores around the world, filed for bankruptcy in September over $5 billion in long-term debt. The company said the debt had prevented it from investing to compete in what it called “an increasingly challenging and rapidly changing retail marketplace worldwide.”

The company missed payments to several suppliers in recent days, Bloomberg reported, prompting some to speculate that liquidation was likely on the horizon.

The toy chain is already in the process of closing down about 180 of its more than 800 U.S. stores. A CNBC report Wednesday cited people familiar with the situation who said the retailer was working on a proposal to keep about 200 stores open even after the liquidation.“Blood is being spilled in our classrooms. Teachers should be armed with pens, not guns. Students should not be afraid of attending school. And to the NRA: stop buying out politicians, stop risking our lives.” - Jason, freshman, Lowell High in SF #NationalWalkoutDay pic.twitter.com/rNWeaJHNugStudents from Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Florida, were among the thousands of students across the country who took part in walkouts to protest gun violence on Wednesday.

Their walkout was confined to the football field, which kept press and family members outside school grounds ― but that didn’t stop community members from showing up and cheering on students as they made their voices heard one month after a gunman killed 17 people at the school.

Photographer Johanne Rahaman was in Parkland for HuffPost and captured the show of support from the Parkland community. See Rahaman’s images from Parkland below.Emails published Monday suggest that Housing and Urban Development Secretary Ben Carson and his wife were personally involved in redecorating his government office, which led to the purchase of a $31,000 dining set.

The Carsons were involved in back-and-forth discussions about furniture purchases, according to internal staff emails made available through a Freedom of Information Act request from American Oversight, a left-leaning watchdog group.

In one email with the subject line “Secretary’s dining room set needed,” a staffer is said to have “print outs [sic] of the furniture the Secretary and Mrs. Carson picked out.” Carson previously said he had no say in the matter, a claim that his office supported. “I left this matter alone to concentrate on much bigger issues. I was as surprised as anyone to find out that a $31,000 dining set had been ordered,” he said in a statement. “I have requested that the order be canceled. We will find another solution for the furniture replacement.”

HUD Secretary Ben Carson previously denied having any involvement in the purchase of furniture for his office. Mark Wilson via Getty Images

HUD spokesman Raffi Williams, when reached for comment by HuffPost on Wednesday, only confirmed that the secretary’s wife, Candy Carson, had any involvement in the redecorating efforts.

“When presented with options by professional staff, Mrs. Carson participated in the selection of specific styles,” Williams said in an email.

A HUD spokesman, who previously spoke to CNN under the condition of anonymity, had said the Carsons did not know which items were being purchased for the office and that Candy Carson had no interest in redecorating.

“I don’t think it even crossed her mind, this separate room,” he said of the decorating plans.

Emails show that Candy Carson, Ben Carson's wife, had been invited to meet with a designer for ideas on "redecorating the Secretary's office" with "new furniture." Kevork Djansezian via Getty Images

However, an email sent by HUD’s director of scheduling, Jacie Coressel, shows that Candy Carson was asked to give her input on the process.

In an email dated Aug. 8, 2017, Coressel invited Candy Carson to meet with a designer for ideas on “redecorating the Secretary’s office and bringing in new furniture.”

“Are you available on any of those dates and would you like to come in and have input on the redecorating?” it asks her.

A response from Candy Carson was not included in the string of emails.

HUD chief of staff Sheila Greenwood sent an email Feb. 20, 2017, in which she suggested showing Candy Carson some furniture choices during a planned visit the following day.

In a Facebook post last week, the Carsons denied allegations that they were responsible for the purchase of the $31,000 dining set.

“I did not request new furniture, but asked if it could be remediated. I was subsequently told that it was beyond repair and needed to be replaced,” the post states.

“I made it clear that I was not happy about the prices being charged and that my preference would be to find something more reasonable,” it continues. “I left this matter alone to concentrate on much bigger issues. I was as surprised as anyone to find out that a $31,000 dining set had been ordered.”

It’s not clear whether anyone attempted to fix Carson’s office furniture. One email published by American Oversight indicates that HUD received an estimate that said fixing a chair would cost about $1,100.

The emails show that Carson asked to see photos of previous secretaries’ offices, as well as to examine furniture being stored in a basement.

Former HUD official Helen Foster filed a complaint with department’s special counsel late last year, in which she claimed she had been demoted because she raised concerns about the purchases. She said she argued that any redecorating efforts that cost more than $5,000 would require congressional notification.

The newly published emails show she told fellow staffers about this concern. They also show that staffers discuss spending $24,666 on a collection of items, including a dining table, desk and chairs, despite that $5,000 limit.

One email sent on Aug. 29, 2017, by Aida Rodriguez, an administrative officer in the secretary’s office, summarizes that $24,666 quote as “a very reasonable price,” adding “the funds are available.”Hillary Clinton provoked ridicule and censure for tone-deaf comments at a conference in India about the differences between the states that voted for her during the 2016 presidential election and those that voted for Donald Trump.

“If you look at the map of the United States, there is all that red in the middle, places where Trump won,” said the former secretary of state at the India Today Conclave event in Mumbai on Saturday. “I win the coast. I win, you know, Illinois and Minnesota, places like that.

“I won the places that represent two-thirds of America’s gross domestic product,” she continued. “I won the places that are optimistic, diverse, dynamic, moving forward.”

Trump’s “Make America Great Again” campaign, on the other hand, “was looking backwards,” Clinton said, suggesting the GOP nominee’s platform targeted racists and misogynists.

“You didn’t like black people getting rights, you don’t like women, you know, getting jobs. You don’t want, you know, see that Indian-American succeeding more than you are. Whatever your problem is, I’m going to solve it,” said Clinton, describing her opponent’s message.

Conservatives reacted with fury to Clinton’s remarks. The Republican Party accused Clinton of trash-talking “America’s heartland to a foreign audience.”

“This is an example of why she didn’t win. She doesn’t know America,” said “Fox & Friends” host Ainsley Earhardt on Tuesday. Her co-host Brian Kilmeade called Clinton’s comments the “lowest of the low.”

Clinton was widely criticized in 2016 for referring to half of all Trump voters as a “basket of deplorables.” She also was lambasted at the time for being out of touch with the needs and fears of many Americans.Sad to hear about Stephen Hawking. What a remarkable life. His contributions to science will be used as long as there are scientists, and there are many more scientists because of him. He spoke about the value and fragility of human life and civilisation and greatly enhanced bothEnvironmental Protection Agency Administrator Scott Pruitt is considering rolling back age requirements to protect minors working in the agricultural industry. A group of senators is urging him not to. Joshua Roberts/Reuters

A group of 28 senators sent a letter to Environmental Protection Agency Administrator Scott Pruitt on Tuesday urging him not to roll back restrictions on the use of dangerous pesticides by young workers.

HuffPost first reported that EPA leadership was considering undoing age requirements put in place in 2015 to protect minors working in agriculture and other industries. Those rules required workers to be at least 18 years old if they are going to handle pesticides on farms or get certified to work with “restricted use” pesticides, such as arsenic and methyl bromide. RUPs, as they are known, are not sold to the general public because of how toxic they are.

The EPA issued two notices in the Federal Register late last year indicating it might lower or do away with the age requirements implemented under former President Barack Obama. Public health groups including the American Academy of Pediatrics had called for the restrictions, pointing out that young teenagers aren’t mentally and emotionally sophisticated enough to evaluate the long-term risks of handling chemicals that could affect brain development.

Many of the young workers on farms are also migrants who speak little English and may not understand their rights.

In their letter, the 27 Democrats and one independent said “the lives of children and families across the country are at stake.”

“These rules protect not only the workers that handle and are exposed to the pesticides, but also areas around agricultural land and the children who may incidentally come in contact with the pesticides,” they wrote.

According to disclosure records, the American Farm Bureau lobbied Trump’s EPA on the rules after Obama’s EPA finalized them, suggesting they weren’t happy with the tighter regulations. Supporters of the age restrictions told HuffPost in January that growers probably want to remove them because work performed by minors tends to be cheaper than work done by adults. (The immediate family members of farm owners are already exempted from the rules so that children could still use pesticides on family farms.)

So far, the Trump administration has repealed or stalled a host of workplace protections at the behest of employers, and the EPA has been one of the most aggressive agencies in wiping away Obama-era regulations. Before he came to run the agency, Pruitt sued the EPA 13 times as attorney general of Oklahoma.

“I think that there’s a pretty strong likelihood that if the minimum age is eliminated or lowered, there will be more people getting sick,” William Jordan, a former EPA official who worked on developing the tighter pesticide rules, previously told HuffPost.

In addition to the age minimums, regulators are also considering scrapping what’s known as the “right to know” provision of the pesticide rule. That stipulation guarantees that a farmworker can designate a third party, such as a lawyer, to obtain information from the grower about what chemicals the worker has been exposed to. Supporters of that provision suspect the farm lobby wants it scuttled to avoid litigation.

AdvertisementPaulus Hook, Jersey City, is a neighborhood with restrictions to help push independent businesses over chain stores. Walter Burns

If you’re not looking for it, you might not notice what makes Candice Osborne’s Jersey City neighborhood different. Like so many other newly developed areas of American cities, it is filled with glass-clad condos stretching dozens of stories into the sky.

But as Osborne and I walk around, she points out what isn’t there: no Starbucks, no CVS, no Chase Bank. Instead, on the ground floor of Osborne’s building, there’s an independent coffee shop called Beechwood Cafe, a hair salon, a public school and Downtown Pharmacy ― where Osborne picks up a packet of jalapeño-flavored Mary’s Gone Crackers, her new favorite snack.

“They don’t carry this kind of stuff at CVS,” she says. The 39-year-old digital strategist can also get an omelet with whatever she wants at Beechwood and treats for her dog, things she couldn’t grab at a Starbucks.

“It’s little things,” she says. “But they’re indicative of the fact that they understand the neighborhood.”

Candice Osborne (left) at the annual All About Downtown Street Fair in Jersey City. Winward Lift

There is a reason for the absence of big chain stores, also known as formula businesses, in this part of Jersey City. In May 2015, the Jersey City Council ― with the help of Osborne, who was on the council at the time ― voted on an amendment to the city’s development code that in effect banned most chains from newly developed areas of the city.

Unsurprisingly there was pushback, with pharmacy giant CVS threatening to sue the city after being denied the right to open a branch near Osborne’s building under the new rules. But the local residents and businesses I spoke to when visiting the area support the restrictions, saying they’ve been successful at helping keep out big business.

The area certainly feels a lot less like a bedroom community and more like a neighborhood. On our 10-block walk around the Paulus Hook neighborhood, for example, we bumped into three people, all small-business owners, with whom Osborne is friendly.

“It feels like a small town,” Terri Acosta, who owns Canine Canteen, tells us. “It’s like everybody knows each other.”

I envy Osborne. I grew up directly across the Hudson River, in Manhattan’s West Village. There, nearly every independent business has been replaced by high-end chains, and I no longer know most of the people I used to interact with. It feels dead.

Empty storefronts in a West Village neighborhood in New York City. Spencer Platt via Getty Images

Chain stores have taken over cities in the past few decades. In the 1980s, independent businesses ― defined as those with fewer than 10 locations ― accounted for about half the goods sold to Americans. Today that number has fallen to about one-quarter, according to the Institute for Local Self-Reliance (ILSR), which helps develop and lobby for policies that support strong local economies and challenges concentrated corporate power.

As that number has declined, towns and cities have found innovative ways to push back, including through the kind of “formula business restrictions” implemented in Jersey City. Those guidelines limit the number of chain stores that can operate in a particular area.

Jersey City’s restriction is limited: It applies only to newly redeveloped areas, and it still allows up to 30 percent of retail space to go to chains. But that doesn’t mean it hasn’t had an effect.

Ariel Zaurov, who owns the two Downtown Pharmacies in Osborne’s neighborhood, believes he would likely be out of business without the protection. “When they passed the law, it was the first time I believed regular people could have a voice,” Zaurov says.

Even Zaurov’s competitor Bellande Jean-Baptiste, who owns a smaller pharmacy a few blocks away in a part of the city not protected by the chain restriction, appreciates it.

“CVS is a threat. They try to come in, buy out your patients, and then you go away or you go work for them,” he says. “I would rather have Ari, because we’re in the same predicament.”

Ariel Zaurov at one of the two Downtown Pharmacies he owns in Paulus Hook, Jersey City. Peter Moskowitz

According to the ILSR, more than 30 municipalities have implemented formula business restrictions in the U.S. One of the big pioneers is San Francisco, where restrictions were enacted in 2004 and won the support of a public ballot measure in 2006. Chains are limited in nearly every neighborhood in the city apart from its downtown business district. And while the city’s rule doesn’t ban chains outright, it requires each one to go through an application process during which locals can voice their opinions and vote on whether the chain will add anything to the neighborhood. The city planning department gets a say too.

“Let’s say it’s a Subway, and they want to come into a low-income neighborhood, and there are only expensive independent sandwich shops, then that [Subway] is serving a unique niche,” says AnMarie Rodgers, San Francisco’s director of citywide policy.

While most of the chain applications end up being approved, the restrictions are still “very effective,” says Rodgers, in part because the application process deters chain businesses from applying to move in in the first place: A 2014 study found that only 12 percent of stores in San Francisco are chains, compared with 32 percent nationally.

Norma Garcia, policy director at the Mission Economic Development Agency, grew up in the historically Latino and now rapidly gentrifying Mission neighborhood of San Francisco.

“If you don’t leave San Francisco, you don’t realize how homogenous the rest of the world is,” she says. “If you leave, you see mall after mall, and realize what a wonderful city [San Francisco] is, and that’s because people have taken care to protect it.”

A post shared by Cordi | the wanderous traveler (@thewanderoustraveler) on Mar 5, 2018 at 5:41am PST

However, there may be some unintended consequences of the restriction. Sean Quigley, president of local neighborhood group Valencia Corridor Merchants Association, says that while it has helped keep chains out, rents are still rapidly rising, so businesses are skewing toward serving the wealthy.

Tom Angotti, a professor of urban planning and policy at Hunter College, agrees formula business restrictions are not a panacea, especially for small businesses that serve lower-income residents.

“U.S. cities have very little planning for commercial establishments,” he says. “All they do is zone enormous swaths of the city and let the chips fall where they may. They leave it to the market.”

Angotti says urban planning departments could exert more control over exactly what kinds of businesses go into any given commercial space, or allow local communities more of a say over which businesses are allowed to move in and which are not. Commercial rent control ― i.e., limiting the amount landlords can charge tenants ― could also help, he adds.

According to Stacy Mitchell, co-director of the ILSR, chains often win out over local businesses not only because they can afford more rent but also because banks will often finance lease deals only with companies they know, and big real estate firms will often approach only chain tenants to fill vacant spaces. Still, Mitchell believes formula business restrictions can go a long way toward keeping small businesses alive.

“There are all these complicated things going on behind the scenes with bank financing and commercial brokers that disadvantage independent businesses, and [these restrictions] can help rebalance the market a little,” Mitchell says. “And rebalancing that market can have a big effect.”

For more content and to be part of the “This New World” community, join our Facebook Group.That last sentiment by Daily Kos’ Wagatwe Wanjuki is highly important to note.

This teacher has since been removed from the classroom. But she taught at a public school in Crystal River, Florida ― a mere four-hour drive away from Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School ― and also argued that “science” has proven that certain races are smarter than others.

Racial bias in the classroom is a known issue in classrooms across America, according to research, and the average teacher in the U.S. tends to be white and female despite an increasingly diverse population of students.

“Bringing more guns into our schools does nothing to protect our students and educators from gun violence,” Lily Eskelsen García, president of the National Education Association, said last month. “Our students need more books, art and music programs, nurses and school counselors; they do not need more guns in their classrooms.”

Trump recently established the Federal Commission on School Safety, chaired by Secretary of Education Betsy DeVos. The goal for the commission will be to “address school safety and the culture of violence;” it will also investigate “age restrictions for certain firearm purchases” and “the effectiveness and appropriateness of psychotropic medication for treatment of troubled youth.”Drew Gray Miller, a Libertarian candidate in Pennsylvania's 18th Congressional District, faces accusations that he "spoiled" Republican Rick Saccone's chances. Drew Gray Miller/Facebook

Until Tuesday night, Drew Gray Miller, the Libertarian candidate for Pennsylvania’s 18th Congressional District, was treated like an afterthought by Democrats, Republicans and most news outlets.

Miller jumped through numerous bureaucratic hoops just to get his name on the ballot. His $2,000 campaign haul was below the threshold requiring him to report it to the Federal Election Commission but just enough for some social media outreach to his target demographic of high school seniors and college students.

Thanks to a January story in the Pittsburgh Tribune-Review, the best-known fact about the south Pittsburgh energy lawyer seemed to be that he lived outside the district’s boundaries.

He was not invited to the televised candidate debates, and on Election Day he was still publicly pestering CNN, which he had provided with a photo of himself, to mention him as one of the choices on the ballot.

I gave my photo to @CNN. Come on, @wolfblitzer, @jaketapper. You KNOW there are THREE options. #PA18 — Drew Gray Miller (@DrewGrayMiller) March 14, 2018

Then the election results came in. Miller had received 0.6 percent of the vote ― accounting for far more than the 0.2 percentage point lead Democrat Conor Lamb ended up holding over Republican Rick Saccone at the end of the night. (Lamb has declared victory, but Saccone is challenging the results.)

Suddenly Miller was the man of the hour, as pundits discovered that Miller’s candidacy might have cost Saccone the race.

When CNN finally flashed Miller’s photo on screen, his 20-person election watch party at Fat Head’s Saloon erupted in cheers. They high-fived one another and took selfies in front of the TV as the party took a rowdier turn.

“I wouldn’t call it a Cinderella story. But this is what the founders of our country wanted ― for an average person to run for Congress who’s not backed by anybody financially,” Miller told HuffPost.

Miller embraced the “spoiler” moniker on Twitter, gleefully predicting late Tuesday that he would soon be the “most hated man in America.”

But he rejects the underlying premise that any one candidate can be an actual spoiler.

“No candidate is entitled to somebody’s vote. You have to earn somebody’s vote,” he said. “If you have to silence a third-party candidate because your candidate cannot win otherwise, that tells me that you either have a crappy candidate or a crappy message. And in the case of Lamb and Saccone, it’s probably both.”

For now, though, Miller appreciates the “notoriety” that comes with the label, he said. “This idea that I’m a spoiler or I took votes away from somebody essentially is ridiculous, but as long as it’s getting me media coverage, I’m not going to argue with it.”

It’s attention that he hopes to use to spread the Libertarian gospel of individual liberty in all facets of life, including freedom from high taxes, marijuana prohibition and an overbearing surveillance state.

Ironically, up until Election Day, most of the emails Miller got from district political activists came from Democrats who were adamant that he would scuttle Lamb’s chances at victory.

And there is not yet any available evidence that the people who voted for Miller would not have opted for Lamb ― or stayed home ― had Miller not been on the ballot.

Miller, 37, lives with his wife, Terri Butler, in south Pittsburgh. They have a French bulldog named Mugsy, and a chug (Chihuahua-pug mix) named Frankie.

Miller grew up in the northern suburb of Hampton, where he gradually identified more with the Republican views of his father than the Democratic leanings of his mother. However, a stint on the staff of then-state Sen. Jane Orie (R) several years ago soured him on the two-party system. In 2010, Orie was charged with theft and other criminal violations for using taxpayer resources on her sister’s campaign for state Supreme Court justice. Miller had to testify against her.

“If you have to silence a third-party candidate because your candidate cannot win otherwise, that tells me that you either have a crappy candidate or a crappy message.” - Drew Miller

On the face of it, the Libertarian combination of social liberalism and fiscal conservatism does not have a natural constituency in the largely Roman Catholic, union-heavy 18th District. Lamb, for example, thrived with a message that was in some ways the inverse of Libertarianism, pairing economic populism with moderation on social issues.

Miller emphasizes that he is a “pragmatic” Libertarian, however. He backs having the government make birth control free and provide housing for homeless people, because he is convinced that the policies are empirically proven to save money over the long term.

And while he considers Social Security a “Ponzi scheme” and is “not thrilled” with the idea of Medicare, he realizes that immediately eliminating them would be a disaster. He prefers “weaning people off” of the social insurance programs.

Miller is not sure what his next step is. Libertarian activists want him to run for the state legislature.

Thanks to court-ordered redistricting, Miller’s home will be in the new 18th District in the November midterm election. He might decide to challenge Pittsburgh’s veteran Rep. Mike Doyle, a popular progressive Democrat in his eighth term in Congress.

For now, though, he is just happy to have landed even the slightest of blows against the dominance of the two major political parties.NSC spokesman Robert Palladino told HuffPost last week that the reorganization was meant to streamline the NSC and that Ziemer left “on the warmest of terms.”

Reps. Ami Bera (D-Calif.) and Gerry Connolly (D-Va.), members of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, also sent a letter to Bolton on Tuesday voicing their concerns over the disbanding of the global health security unit, combined with President Donald Trump’s decision last week to include unspent Ebola funds in his rescissions proposal.

“Forcing out some of our nation’s most respected leaders on global health security and scaling back our investment in countering pandemic threats sends a dangerous message to our GHSA [Global Health Security Agenda] partner countries that the U.S. no longer considers global health security a priority,” the congressmen wrote.

“We urge you to reconsider the demotion of the global health security portfolio and reject the proposal to rescind Ebola contingency funds,” they added.WASHINGTON (Reuters) - U.S. President Donald Trump has picked television commentator and economic analyst Larry Kudlow to replace Gary Cohn as the top White House economic adviser, the Washington Post and CNBC reported on Wednesday.

CNBC said the announcement of Trump’s decision could come as soon as Thursday.

White House spokeswoman Sarah Sanders told reporters that Trump spoke to Kudlow, 70, on Tuesday, but she would not confirm whether he had offered him the job. “No personnel announcements,” she said.

The appointment of Kudlow as director of the National Economic Council would not be a major surprise.

Trump told reporters on Tuesday that Kudlow, a Republican who served as an economic adviser to former President Ronald Reagan in the 1980s and also worked on Wall Street, had “a very good chance” at being selected to replace Cohn.

Kudlow, an informal advisor to Trump’s 2016 presidential campaign, had criticized the president’s decision last week to place steep tariffs on imports of steel and aluminum, saying they would harm steel-consuming producers. Cohn also opposed the tariffs.

But Trump said on Wednesday that Kudlow had “come around” to view tariffs as a useful tool for renegotiating trade deals.Armed with only their words and voices, thousands of students passionately poured out of their classrooms and rallied against school violence across the country on Wednesday, with many of them asking, “Am I next?”

Signs held into the air, from Washington, D.C., to Washington state, called for tighter gun control and background checks, while some of the youngest participants waved signs bearing hand-drawn hearts and peace signs in support.

The emotional day marked one month since a lone gunman killed 17 people at a high school in Parkland, Florida on Feb. 14. That attack and two others, which each happened within the last five months, are among the 10 deadliest mass shootings in modern U.S. history.

“We’re done taking bullets for Congress,” one sign read.

“My dress code is stricter than the gun laws,” read another.

Check out some of the most powerful signs that students, teachers and parents alike carried during the marches:

Placards urging gun control are seen in Washington, D.C. on Wednesday. Marina Fang/HuffPost

Student sign says: As a black boy, I hope one I day I have as many rights as a gun. #nationalschoolwalkout pic.twitter.com/PuIXpy5yo1 — Brett Murphy (@ladybrettgm) March 14, 2018

“My Dress Code is Stricter Than The Gun Laws” pic.twitter.com/KoSaUUILmk — Anne Helen Petersen (@annehelen) March 14, 2018

Students at Roosevelt high school in Seattle during their walk out. pic.twitter.com/cBqZtk83OP — Manuel Valdes (@ByManuelValdes) March 14, 2018

High school students in La Crescenta, California, take a moment of silence for the victims of last month's shooting in Parkland, Florida, on Wednesday. Kyle Grillot / Reuters

Even young kids K-5 from University Cooperative supporting Seattle students march for #walkout #Q13FOX pic.twitter.com/io3HDSS3Uz — John Hopperstad (@JohnHopperstad) March 14, 2018

Woman speaking: “I’m a baby-boomer. And to all the students here: we have failed you.” pic.twitter.com/Wb2fI8V45A — Anne Helen Petersen (@annehelen) March 14, 2018

These students from Bethesda Chevy Chase High School in MD did *not* get permission to come out here, did it anyway. #NationalSchoolWalkout pic.twitter.com/FFeK7q2HBy — Nathalie Baptiste (@nhbaptiste) March 14, 2018

Teacher sends a message at #NationalSchoolWalkout at the White House pic.twitter.com/Z3smqzDT7U — Zoe Daniel (@zdaniel) March 14, 2018

A creative sign from Vasiliki Frantzis from Winston Churchill High in Maryland. Guns “should be regulated because they are dangerous,” she says. pic.twitter.com/2tRHR462x7 — Marina Fang (@marinafang) March 14, 2018

A sign reading "Our Blood Your Hands" is seen during a protest at the U.S. Capitol in Washington, D.C. on Wednesday. Joshua Roberts / Reuters

Katey Hegge, a junior at La Follette High School, holding her sign in the state Capitol. #NationalWalkoutDay pic.twitter.com/wBE7FILLbd — Jessie Opoien (@jessieopie) March 14, 2018

A sampling of other signs. pic.twitter.com/43tJsZP4an — Marina Fang (@marinafang) March 14, 2018

A sign reading "NRA We Will Out Live You" is held during a protest in Washington, D.C. on Wednesday. Jim Bourg / Reuters

More signs from East High, DSA student walkout #NationalSchoolWalkout pic.twitter.com/uQj88Y4jo4 — Melanie Asmar (@MelanieAsmar) March 14, 2018

A student holds a sign reading 'Am I Next?' outside the White House on Wednesday. Bloomberg via Getty Images

Kids walk out of school and head to the #WhiteHouse to protest guns #ParklandShooting pic.twitter.com/LShzdDzaPI — Zoe Daniel (@zdaniel) March 14, 2018FBI acting Director Andrew McCabe speaks during a news conference, July 20, 2017. Aaron Bernstein / Reuters

WASHINGTON ― Andrew McCabe, who took over as acting head of the FBI after President Donald Trump fired former Director James Comey last year, may soon be fired by the Trump administration just ahead of his formal retirement date on Sunday, putting his pension in peril after more than two decades at the bureau.

McCabe ― a lifelong Republican ― has a strained relationship with the president. Trump has complained about the Democratic political affiliation of McCabe’s wife, and criticized his oversight of FBI investigations into Hillary Clinton.

Trump has pressured Attorney General Jeff Sessions ― another frequent target of Trump’s wrath ― to get rid of McCabe. As first reported Wednesday by The New York Times, Sessions is now reviewing a recommendation to fire McCabe for alleged lack of candor in his discussions with the Justice Department’s inspector general in the course of an investigation into how the Justice Department and the FBI handled the Clinton investigation.

Trump’s statements about McCabe put pressure on Sessions to fire him, and would create an appearance of impropriety even if Sessions’ decision to fire McCabe were backed by a formal recommendation. The Justice Department said no formal decision has been made on McCabe’s fate.

“The Department follows a prescribed process by which an employee may be terminated,” Justice Department spokeswoman Sarah Isgur Flores said in a statement. “That process includes recommendations from career employees and no termination decision is final until the conclusion of that process. We have no personnel announcements at this time.”

Reporters had been chasing down leads about McCabe’s fate in the past few days as he approached his official retirement date. McCabe formally stepped down from his position at the end of January, but was using accrued leave to carry him past his official retirement date of March 18.

While Trump has suggested that McCabe was a Clinton supporter, the justification for firing him ― ironically ― has to do with a decision he made that was damaging to Clinton and Obama appointees in the Justice Department.

In 2016, McCabe evidently authorized a top aide and the FBI’s chief spokesman to speak with a Wall Street Journal reporter for a story indicating that McCabe battled with Obama appointees within the Justice Department to allow an FBI investigation into the Clinton Foundation to continue. The FBI isn’t supposed to disclose information about ongoing criminal investigations, but the Oct. 30, 2016, story went into an extraordinary level of detail about turf wars between the FBI and the Justice Department over the handling of the Clinton Foundation probe.

That article came on the heels of a Wall Street Journal story suggesting ― to McCabe’s displeasure ― that McCabe had a conflict of interest because his wife’s political campaign had received money from groups tied to Clinton ally Terry McAuliffe. The chat with then-Wall Street Journal reporter Devlin Barrett was evidently intended to push back on the suggestion that McCabe was in Clinton’s pocket. The chat was referenced in text messages between two FBI employees that Republicans, as well as The Hill’s John Solomon and conservative media outlets, attempted to use to imply the FBI was leaking to hurt Trump ahead of the election.

In reality, the FBI’s actions ahead of the election indisputably harmed Clinton. DOJ’s inspector general is conducting a broader investigation of the FBI’s handling of the Clinton probe that is expected to examine Comey’s actions.

The IG’s findings on McCabe ― issued in a separate report ― started up the internal disciplinary process at the FBI. McCabe declined to comment through a spokesperson. A representative of the inspector general’s office declined to comment when reached by HuffPost this week, and the office has generally been tight-lipped about the forthcoming reports.

But their decision to issue a separate report focusing solely on McCabe is somewhat unusual, and has enabled Sessions to take disciplinary action before McCabe’s retirement date, if he chooses.

McCabe and his attorney recently signed nondisclosure agreements that allowed them to read the results of the investigation but banned them from discussing its contents.It’s probably just a coincidence, right?

The NRA posted the tweet, that read, “I’ll control my own guns, thank you,” on Wednesday morning.

An AR-15 was allegedly used by the Parkland, Florida, school shooter in the Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School massacre last month that left 17 dead. Since the shooting — which spurred student organizers to plan Wednesday’s nationwide walkout — many have called for stricter gun control, urging retailers to stop selling assault-style rifles and putting pressure on the NRA to support common-sense safety measures.

Wednesday’s tweet falls within the gun lobby’s hardline stance on preserving Americans’ right to own firearms.

Some on social media questioned the timing of the tweet, coming on a day when many are speaking out about gun violence.

Your eternal douchebagery does not serve you well. One month to the day since a mass school shooting, same day as teenagers across America walk out in protest of easy availability of guns, and you do this?

You just don't get it, do you?

The times, they are a'changin'. — I am a real human in Brooklyn (@Brooklynwatch) March 14, 2018Lindsey Cambardella, CEO of a translation and interpretation company in Chamblee, Georgia, one of the few cities where women make more than men. She earns more than her husband, who is Atlanta’s director of urban agriculture. Ryan Fleisher / Lindsey Cambardella

By Tim Henderson

CHAMBLEE, Ga. — This Atlanta suburb is a lot like other metropolitan suburbs around the country. A manufacturing economy is giving way to new apartments and tech enterprises built around a quick commute to Atlanta.

And as in other communities, there’s a measurable pay gap between its working men and women. But there’s something different about Chamblee: Here it’s the women who earn the higher wages, typically $1.37 for every dollar brought home by a man.

That’s astonishing in a country where — nearly universally and in nearly all of the 2,700 locations reviewed by Stateline — men earn more than women. Nationally, the pay gap is wide: Women still earn less than 80 cents for every dollar men take home.

Of the 2,700 locations in the United States with more than 10,000 workers, Stateline found, there are just six municipalities and one county that flip the script in a statistically significant way.

A Stateline review of census data on earnings across the country found that women also make more in Lake Worth, Florida; the cities of Plainfield and Trenton in New Jersey; Inglewood, California; the village of Hempstead on Long Island, New York; and the Washington, D.C., suburb of Prince George’s County, Maryland.

Most are diverse suburbs in large metro areas. All are majority-minority, and many have low-income neighborhoods as well as the economic benefits of proximity to vibrant cities.

The reasons for the pay differences are complex and uncertain: Pay may be relatively higher for young millennial women who have landed jobs in big cities and found affordable housing in commuter suburbs such as these. And the communities’ high numbers of single male laborers, many of whom are immigrants working without documentation, can also hold down male income, which makes female income relatively higher.

But there are also some hopeful signs for all women in these places: Women in Chamblee, for instance, earn more than women in the Atlanta area as a whole, and out-earn men in some lucrative, male-dominated fields, such as computers and engineering, with the help of female business entrepreneurs sensitive to the need for flexibility to attend to family responsibilities.

In Chamblee, one of those women is Lindsey Cambardella, an attorney who grew up in the area and yearned to run a business. She applied last year for her dream job, running a national language interpretation and translation firm. She was married, in her 30s, with no kids — and worried about that impression.

“I was very up front,” Cambardella recalled recently. “I said, ‘I’m planning to have children — and soon. I don’t want you to have any surprises.’”

Fortunately, the business owner was also a woman, one who had built the firm up by herself over 20 years after a career in sales and state government, while also raising a son.

“She immediately shot back: ‘That doesn’t scare me at all,’” Cambardella, 34, recalled. “I think I was lucky in that she was open-minded and not worried about it.”

Cambardella now makes more than her husband, an urban landscape architect who took a step down in pay recently to take a job with the city of Atlanta.

Claudia Goldin, a Harvard University economist, argued in a 2015 paper that more flexible hours would go a long way toward solving the gender pay gap, which she said is often caused in part by women working fewer hours and stopping work at times, often to raise children.

That’s one reason Shear Structural, an engineering firm started by three women in Chamblee, prioritizes flexibility, said co-founder Malory Atkinson.

“They say a lot more women study STEM fields than actually end up working in it,” she said, “so we’re very cognizant of that, and we do whatever it takes to be accommodating.”

The gender pay gap is especially wide for women with children and women who are married (because employers suspect they will have children). Men, by contrast, tend to get paid more after marriage based on the assumption it will make them more ambitious.

“Marriage adds a premium to a man’s income, and it’s a drag on women’s income,” said Ariane Hegewisch, study director for the Institute for Women’s Policy Research in Washington.

More Men in Low-Paying Jobs

But the reason women make more than men in the seven places on Stateline’s list is not entirely a reflection of their own success. Many of the places on the list have low-wage male workers, often unauthorized immigrants, and that alone can bring down the median male wage to a point where it is lower than that of women.

“All low-paying jobs have similar pay for all,” Goldin said. “If everyone got the minimum wage, then the gaps would disappear.”

In Chamblee, a city shared by professionals commuting to Atlanta and immigrants working locally, women make more than the typical Atlanta metro worker, but men make far less.

Yet even in this town, the gender pay gap that exists between people working in the same professions still tends to favor men.

A majority of Chamblee’s female employees work in management, science and arts jobs, where their typical pay is about $57,000 — less than men working in the same fields. Women make more than men in the city as a whole, across professions, because immigrant men working in low-paying service or labor jobs bring down the median pay for men.

Chamblee has long been a destination for immigrants. The city has a dense housing district called “the Triangle” where Chinese and other Asian immigrants once lived and worked in nearby factories. Asian institutions and restaurants remain, and the name “Chinatown” is still on many facades — but most of the factories have closed, and the city’s immigrants are now mostly men from Latin America.

Most men in Chamblee work in service jobs, construction, factories or moving and shipping jobs, where they typically earn $20,000 to $25,000 a year, the equivalent of $10 to $12 an hour.

Census data shows that Chamblee’s immigrants are mostly from Mexico and Guatemala, and those who are not citizens are predominantly men, by a nearly 2-1 ratio.

Those men typically arrive alone in their 20s, work for three to five years, and go back home to enjoy the money they’ve saved, said Julio Penaranda, who manages Plaza Fiesta, a Hispanic-themed shopping center in Chamblee.

“Their earning potential is very limited,” he said, “because these workers are unskilled and undocumented.”

Diversity and High Income

Another reason women might earn more than men in some predominantly black suburbs, like Prince George’s County along with Trenton, New Jersey, and Inglewood, California — is that black women tend to be better educated than black men, said Nicole Smith, chief economist at the Georgetown University Center on Education and the Workforce and co-author of the center’s 2018 report on the pay gap.

Prince George’s County has only a modest boost for women’s pay at 103.5 percent of men’s earnings. But it’s the only county on the list and by far the most populous area, with about 900,000 residents.

Tonia Wellons, 46, lives comfortably there, in a 3,200-square-foot home in Upper Marlboro. Wellons is a vice president at the Greater Washington Community Foundation, and has held high-ranking positions in the Peace Corps and at the World Bank.

She makes “a little more” than her husband, Lyndon Joseph, an electrician with his own home improvement business. They have four children, including one in college.

Tonia Wellons, vice president for a Washington, D.C., community foundation, prepares to say grace with her family in Prince George’s County, Maryland, a majority-black suburb and one of the few places in the nation where women typically earn more than men. “Maybe racial equality encourages other kinds of equality,” said Wellons, shown with her husband, Lyndon Joseph, and three of their children, Asa, Catherine and Noah. The Pew Charitable Trusts

Wellons said many of her neighbors moved there from neighboring Washington, D.C., in search of a more serene setting to raise children. The county is known for its prosperous black community — it has by far the highest household income, about $76,000, of any majority-black county. The second is DeKalb County, Georgia, where Chamblee is located.

Some of the factors that stand out in Prince George’s County: a large minority population and a lot of people who work for the federal government, which has civil service rules that discourage discrimination in hiring and promotions.

Nationally the pay gap between black and Hispanic women and men of the same group is smaller than that between white women and white men, according to census data. White women earn 77 cents for every dollar earned by white men, and a gender gap exists across all racial groups.

Prince George’s has the third-most full-time federal workers — about 65,000 — of any county in the nation, more than half of whom are women. Another 32,000 residents work for nonprofits, and two-thirds of them are women too, including Wellons.

The importance of federal and other government employment is clear, said several experts on pay inequity.

The fact that all seven places are majority-minority is harder to explain.

Race alone is not enough to explain why women make more in some majority-minority communities, Hegewisch of the Institute for Women’s Policy Research said.

“The few places with no gap or reverse gap do tend to be urban and majority-minority,” said Kevin Miller, senior researcher at American Association of University Women. “What’s happening there is that white men, the group with the most disproportionately high salaries, are more absent from those areas.”

Wellons has a theory about why racially diverse areas may see more equity in pay by gender.

“There’s more [racial] equity here. There really is. I can feel it,” she said. “Maybe racial equity encourages other kind of equity too.”

What Now?

Working to reduce the pay gap is an ongoing issue for women, even in those communities where overall they make more compared with men.

Wellons got her first lesson in pay discrimination in one of her first jobs out of graduate school 20 years ago. She learned that a male colleague with the same job and qualifications was making $7,000 a year more.

“Back then, that was significant. I was making $27,000 and he was making $34,000. So it was a lot,” Wellons said. She approached her bosses, who argued with her and threatened to invite others to apply for her job as a test of its market value, but she prevailed and got the raise.

In her career, she said, she’s also been surprised at the difference between male and female attitudes toward pay. At the World Bank, she spent years negotiating pay for new hires.

“Men always wanted to negotiate,” she said. “The women would just say, ‘Thank you.’ They were so happy to be offered fair pay.”

Women don’t negotiate for their own pay as aggressively as men, said Hegewisch, but that’s partly because they’re judged more harshly than men for doing so.

“When women do negotiate as assertively as men,” she said, “they do not get the same results.”

In Chamblee, Cambardella said she was surprised that a male family friend with a good job negotiated when he was offered a raise a few weeks ago.

“I would have just said ‘Thank you!’” she said. “He said, ‘Oh I have a different figure in mind.’”

Cherlee Rohling, a 28-year-old Chamblee resident who is engaged to be married, said she thinks the pay gap sometimes favors young women because they’ve had to work hard for the success they get. An operations manager for a manufacturer, she makes more than her fiance.Credit: Shutterstock

Whether it’s scrolling through Instagram or constantly refreshing your Facebook feed, social media can eat up hours of your day. But if you find it particularly hard to stay away from social media, your personality may be partly to blame.

According to a new study, people with certain personality traits are more likely to develop a social media addiction.

“There has been plenty of research on how the interaction of certain personality traits affects addiction to things like alcohol and drugs,” study co-author Isaac Vaghefi, an assistant professor of information systems at Binghamton University in New York state, said in a statement. But relatively few studies have looked at how personality traits may affect tech addiction, including addiction to social media, the researchers said. [7 Signs Your Child Is an iPad Addict]

In the new study, the researchers surveyed about 300 college students to assess their personality and gauge their level of addiction to the social media site each individual used most frequently. (Questions to measure social media addiction included: “I sometimes neglect important things because of my interest in this social networking website”; “When I am not using this social networking website, I often feel agitated”; and “I have made unsuccessful attempts to reduce the time I interact with this social networking website.”)

The study found that three personality traits in particular — neuroticism, conscientiousness and agreeableness — were related to social media addiction. Two other personality traits, extraversion and openness to experience, weren’t linked with social media addiction.

Specifically, the researchers found that people with high levels of neuroticism, or the tendency to experience negative emotions such as stress and anxiety, were more likely to develop addiction to social media, compared with people who had low levels of neuroticism.

In contrast, people with high levels of conscientiousness, or the tendency to have impulse control and a strong drive to achieve specific goals, were less likely to develop addiction to social media.

However, the researchers noted that even people with high conscientiousness could be prone to social media addiction if they were also high in neuroticism. This may be because high levels of stress and anxiousness could override a person’s perceived control over their social media use, the researchers said.

In addition, the trait of agreeableness — or the degree to which someone is friendly, empathetic and helpful — by itself had no effect on social media addiction. But this was not true when the researchers looked at agreeableness in combination with conscientiousness.

They found that people with low levels of both agreeableness and conscientiousness were more likely to develop social media addiction than people with average levels of these personality traits. But surprisingly, people with high levels of both of these personality traitswere also more likely to develop social network addiction, compared to people with average levels of the two traits.

It’s possible that people who have high levels of both agreeableness and conscientiousness make a conscious decision to use social networks more, in order to help their friendships flourish, the researchers said.

It’s important to note that because the study involved a few hundred college students at a single university, more research is needed to confirm the findings, the researchers said. But they added that the findings could have implications for those who treat tech addictions.

“Our findings explain that users with higher levels of IT addictions may not be considered as one homogeneous group of users, as different personality traits can play different roles in users’ dispositions toward IT addiction,” the researchers wrote in their paper, which was presented in January at the 51st Hawaii International Conference on Systems Science.

Vaghefi added that he hopes the findings will encourage people to look at the “whole picture” of how personality traits affect tech addiction, “rather than just focusing on one personality trait” at a time.

Original article on Live Science.Gun culture and wellness culture may seem like they have as much in common as an AR-15 and essential oil. But don’t let superficial differences between Gwyneth Paltrow and Wayne LaPierre fool you. Members of their respective communities are actually seeking the same kind of existential comfort: safety and security in a fallen, dangerous world, where the only person you can really count on is yourself. Whether it’s wielding a weapon to protect your family against home invaders or taking natural supplements to protect your body against invasive toxins, the allure of the fantasy is identical — and it explains the profound appeal of both when empirical evidence doesn’t.

I’ve spent the last four years studying how people end up believing in a range of medical pseudoscience, including reversing cancer with a raw vegan diet and avoiding vaccines in favor of homeopathic medicine. They are united by a set of shared concerns, all built around grains of truth: frustration with arrogant and uncaring doctors, suspicion of corrupt government scientists and a heightened sense of environmental risks. Their discontents metastasize rapidly, eventually causing severe emotional pain that demands to be addressed. This process is often catalyzed by tragedy — a devastating medical diagnosis in oneself or a loved one — and the realization that standard approaches can’t guarantee a solution. As a consequence, the afflicted immerse themselves in personal narratives of redemption outside mainstream medicine, which come paired with reassuringly detailed instructions on how to defend yourself against suffering when the authorities can’t, or won’t, help.

The result is what I call an “empowering epistemology”: a way to make sense of the world based not on the best possible evidence but rather on the evidence that gives you the strongest feeling of control. The communities that embrace it share some structural features with archaic aspects of traditional religion: Like-minded people gather and testify to the power of their rituals and talismans, be they “empowering coconut oil” or energy crystals. The power is all the more real for being denied by “conventional” wisdom.

I’ve always associated this way of thinking with medical pseudoscience, so I was shocked to see textbook signs of it in the least likely place: a recent essay on gun culture for The Atlantic by the conservative writer David French. Then, less than a week later, I saw those same signs in a New York Times op-ed, “I Wanted to Be A Good Mom. So I Got A Gun,” by Bethany Mandel. A visit to the magazine section of my local Barnes and Noble confirmed it: Gun culture and wellness culture are both built on an empowering belief system.

***

French and Mandel open their explanations of gun culture with stories of personal trauma. In his essay, French tells readers that his wife was a victim of sexual abuse and that his family has received multiple threats. In her op-ed, Mandel recalls a spate of burglaries in her neighborhood just after her father left her home, when she was only 3 years old. Were they writing about wellness culture, the stories might have described the sudden onset of chronic pain or an autism diagnosis. French generalizes the power of these experiences perfectly: “It starts with the consciousness of a threat. Perhaps not the kind of threat my family has experienced. Some people experience more. Some less. And some people don’t experience a threat at all — but they’re aware of those who do. With the consciousness of a threat comes the awareness of a vulnerability.” It’s how Dante’s archetypal tale of redemption begins: In the middle of our life’s journey, I found myself in a dark wood.

The need for empowerment comes from a place of intense disempowerment, and the rhetoric of gun culture, like that of wellness culture, reinforces it with endless terrifying anecdotes. “We all know someone whose home has been violated,” reads a typical article in Recoil magazine. “We see stories on the news with increasing frequency about families being brutalized by home invaders.” Once you’ve heard enough of those stories, even experienced them yourself, the conclusion is inevitable. “There are evil men in this world, and sometimes they wish to do you harm,” says French grimly. Whereas wellness magazines emphasize an environment polluted by toxins, gun culture emphasizes souls polluted by evil. In both cases, the magnitude of real dangers is exaggerated far beyond the evidence by showcasing anecdotes instead of data.

These anecdotes are a key part of any empowering epistemology. Does the establishment say vaccine-related illness is rare? It’s harder to believe that when you’ve heard how your friends’ child fell sick after being immunized. Are there no natural alternatives to chemotherapy? Websites list countless personal testimonials to the contrary.

Studies about the inefficacy of guns as protective measures are overcome in the same way. In Mandel’s essay, she tells the story of her “heroic mother” driving away a home intruder with a gun and uses it to undermine official studies. “Our incident won’t show up in the statistics about gun use in self-defense scenarios. I doubt my mother ever reported it to the police.” Likewise, French argues that one’s opinions on guns are shaped by personal experiences and stories shared by members of the in-group, which are far more important than “any study.”

In both communities, the rejection of data and statistics is tied to a broader suspicion of established authority. French can’t imagine relying on a sometimes “shockingly incompetent government” for his family’s security (“the police can only protect the people you love in the most limited of circumstances”). Mandel slams federal law enforcement as “bearing some responsibility” for mass shootings. The parallel in the medical world is unscrupulous physicians and government regulators in the pocket of Big Pharma who can’t be trusted with our health — just look at the opioid epidemic. No matter that the NRA actively suppressed federal research on gun danger. No matter that “natural” supplement companies lobby to exempt themselves from the same regulations that apply to pharmaceuticals, just as guns are the only product that cannot be recalled by the government if they’re defective. The supposed downsides of these exceptions are likely to be mainstream disinformation. The only people you can really trust are your friends, and yourself.

Worshippers at World Peace and Unification Sanctuary hold weapons during their "commitment" service Feb. 28 in Newfoundland, Pennsylvania. Those who embrace guns often are searching for a form of empowerment. DON EMMERT via Getty Images

It’s no coincidence that the word “empowerment” is ubiquitous in wellness culture and gun culture. When you are dedicated to an empowering epistemology, the ability to secure your life needs to be in your hands, not someone else’s. “In our house we saw [guns] as tools of protection and empowerment,” writes Mandel. Her words echo French, who explains succinctly: “People want to be empowered. That’s how gun culture is built.”

Once you want to be empowered, cultural ambassadors are ready to meet your needs. Physicians may not have time for your life history; they may not be sympathetic to your fear of toxins. But alternative medicine practitioners tend to be empathic listeners, with ample time and openness to a wide range of therapies. They will talk you through a multifaceted approach to wellness that puts you in charge, and they will be extremely confident in its success rates. The same is true for gun store owners. “The first thing you’ll notice — and I’ve seen this without fail,” says French, “is that the person behind that counter is ready to listen. They want to hear your experience. They’ll share their own. They’ll point you immediately to a potential solution.” Suddenly you’re on your way to conquering those existential fears with no more than a kind ear, a few new purchases and a detailed plan of action.

That plan of action is key, because it functions as a script in safety fantasies. When the thought of an imminent threat makes you feel vulnerable — cancer, an intruder — you can mentally rehearse the steps you’ll take to ward it off. Mandel’s story of her heroic mother using a gun to ward off a burglar becomes your own story; the guns themselves become talismans of protection. “Your thought-process starts to change,” as French puts it, and that change is exhilarating. No longer are you a helpless victim “dependent on the state for your personal security.” You don’t need doctors, or the police. You have your empowering narrative and the props to act it out.

The importance of this narrative cannot be overstated — it is completely transformative. French describes it in language reminiscent of religious conversion: “Your life has changed for the better. Your community has expanded to include people you truly like, who’ve perhaps helped you through a tough time in your life, and you treasure these relationships. You feel a sense of burning conviction that you, your family, and your community are safer and freer because you own and carry a gun.”

It’s easy to see why gun owners are so angered, and threatened, by the rhetoric of gun control advocates. Owning a gun for self-defense springs from a deep-seated desire to protect yourself and your family, no different from the motivations of parents who reject vaccines or try unproven experimental stem cell therapies. Yet detractors call you a murderer, a terrorist, an idiot, someone who wants children to die. They label you the villain and threaten to force you into vaccination or giving up your guns. But those aspects of your life are the keystone in the architecture of your security, your personal identity — they define you not as a villain but as a hero. “Support for gun rights is motivated precisely by our devotion to protecting our kids,” says Mandel. Why can’t others see that?

***

In a 1993 advertisement that is either comedic or profoundly chilling, depending on who you are, Mel Gibson hides in his kitchen clutching a bottle of vitamin C as armed government agents swarm the premises. “The federal government is actually considering classifying most vitamins and other supplements as drugs,” warns the ad. “Could raids on individual homes be next?” The melodrama will seem absurd to anyone who doesn’t depend on supplements for talismanic protection. But in light of the anxieties just beneath the surface of an empowering epistemology, it makes perfect sense. It’s as if the government were trying to regulate your religion. Or maybe it’s more than that, since concealed weapons and nutritional supplements become a literal extension of yourself: It’s as if the government were trying to regulate your body.

Wellness culture and gun culture exploit truths for their persuasiveness. Guns really do save some people’s lives, and certain aspects of wellness culture are legitimate ways to improve health. There’s no denying that the medical establishment has serious flaws, as does law enforcement, and the world is filled with danger and tragedy. But both of these cultures exaggerate the extent of the problems, overstate their ability to help and distract us from the root causes. Economic and social injustice is a far greater threat to people’s health than medical error or malfeasance — just as it is by far the greatest risk factor in gun violence — but this does not fit neatly into an empowering epistemology. Nor does it fit to acknowledge that friends and family are more likely to attack you than some random home invader and that no matter how well-trained you are with guns or how securely you store them, those precautions won’t save you from using one to kill yourself if you’re depressed.

A church official throws holy water on an AR-15-style rifle while people attend a blessing ceremony with their weapons at the Sanctuary Church in Newfoundland, Pennsylvania. Eduardo Munoz / Reuters

But once you understand the foundations of gun culture, it becomes obvious that statistics won’t convince anyone to give up an AR-15 purchased for home defense. That gun is part of a larger set of beliefs and rituals that, in French’s words, make “you feel more ‘free’ than you’ve ever felt before.” Without them you feel scared, helpless and dependent. Moreover, these beliefs and rituals are sustained by anecdotes, community and personal experience, not logic and establishment statistics.

Instead, the best approach is the one that pediatricians and other experts have laid out for dealing with vaccine hesitancy. First, don’t vilify. Like parents who are hesitant to vaccinate, gun owners are genuinely trying to be good parents, and good citizens — dismissing them as irrational and dangerous will only serve to alienate them. Second, lead by listening. “Attentiveness to parents’ concerns is important,” notes the American Academy of Pediatrics in its clinical report on countering vaccine hesitancy. This is the best way to earn trust and respect, especially when engaging with someone who feels threatened and disempowered. Lastly, make sure to acknowledge gun owners as a diverse community of individuals, each with their own story and reasons for behaving the way they do. Talking about “gun nuts,” like talking about “anti-vaxxers,” is counterproductive. It reinforces us-vs.-them, which makes it difficult to reach persuadable members of each culture, further cementing their loyalty to a community that provides affirmation instead of condemnation.

I still get incensed when I see NRA spokeswoman Dana Loesch shilling for guns (or for some new superfood). It scares me that people take her seriously, whether about AR-15s or about SuperBeets. But I also understand that those people are trapped by their need for an empowering epistemology. They’re scared, too, probably even more scared than I am. Any effort to make the world safer, for all of us, has to begin there — with the fear at the heart of gun culture and with the faith-like structures built around that fear.