Pennsylvania state Rep. Rick Saccone (R) was trashed by his own party as a weak candidate. Drew Angerer/Getty Images

ELIZABETH TOWNSHIP, Pa. ― A special election in Pennsylvania’s 18th Congressional District was still too close to call Tuesday night, although the fact that it was this close at all was bad news for Republicans. It was a district that Donald Trump won by nearly 20 points in 2016, and the GOP should have easily held on to it.

According to some Republicans, the fact that they were on the verge of losing wasn’t because their messaging was weak or the president had created an incredible backlash effect. And it certainly didn’t mean that Democrats were going to dominate at the polls in November.

All it means, at least according to these strategists, is that their candidate running in Pennsylvania’s 18th District sucked. State Rep. Rick Saccone was horrible, and it’s his fault the GOP was embarrassed nationally.

“He came across as establishment. And I think that’s part of the problem,” said Jason Miller, a former aide to Trump’s campaign, in a CNN interview Tuesday. “He’s in the Statehouse. He very much sounds like he’s already part of Washington. You flip on the TV there ... and a lot of it looks really cookie-cutter, like, we’re Washington, and we’re here to help.”

But other Republicans thought he could have used a bit more polish.

“This may not be nice to say: The fact is that the Saccone campaign was a joke. If we had a candidate who could walk and chew gum at the same time, we would have [easily] won the race,” said Corry Bliss, executive director of the Congressional Leadership Fund super PAC, in a statement.

An anonymous Pennsylvania GOP strategist told The Washington Examiner they had a very specific complaint about Saccone: His moustache was disgusting.

″It’s a porn stache,” the strategist said.

Saccone was overwhelmingly favored to win the race. The district was so solidly Republican that Democrats didn’t even field a congressional candidate here in 2014 and 2016. GOP groups dumped nearly $11 million into the campaign on advertising and media messaging ― an astounding amount for a district that will not exist due to redistricting next year.

But instead, Democrat Conor Lamb gained momentum. The 33-year-old political novice left his job as an assistant U.S. attorney in Pittsburgh to run in the special election, and he significantly outpaced Saccone in fundraising throughout the race ― another mark against the GOP candidate.

“When candidates don’t raise as much in hard dollars, it’s very difficult to run these things from afar,” Mike DeVanney, a Pittsburgh-based Republican political consultant told HuffPost.

“Candidates and campaigns matter, and that’s why it’s a race,” said a national Republican operative active in the race who asked not to be named. “You have one candidate that’s out of central casting, Conor Lamb, and then you have a candidate on the Republican side who, it was expected, would be lackluster in fundraising.”

Many of Saccone’s supporters who came to his election party in the Youghiogheny Country Club on Tuesday night were close friends from Elizabeth Township. Saccone grew up there and now lives there with his family.

Some of them said they were frustrated that the national Republican Party chose to spend almost all of its resources on negative ads rather than ads highlighting the character traits of the humble and generous man they say they know from their neighborhood.

“I feel like when the national party got involved and they put out the advertising and everything, it doesn’t focus on Rick. Rick is freaking amazing,” said Lesa DeMaio, 52, who runs a tutoring business in town.

Shar Tibbitt, 56, Saccone’s office manager at the state House, provided a similar assessment. She teared up recounting the moment she told Saccone that she had undergone a double mastectomy to remove breast cancer. Saccone broke down crying and then prayed with her.

“I know Rep. Saccone doesn’t like to do attack ads. I wish [the national groups] would have promoted Rick more and stopped attacking the opponent,” Tibbitt said.

When these same Saccone partisans were asked what they then made of Republican operatives blaming Saccone and his campaign for the close nature of the race, they were very frustrated.

“That’s unfortunate. I don’t understand how they can blame him. They’re the ones who made the ads,” Tibbitt said.

But Bryer Cochenour, an 18-year-old student at Westminster College who cast the first vote of his life for Saccone, was not particularly ruffled by GOP criticism of Saccone. He saw it as the typical behavior of political operatives in both parties trying to pass the buck.

“They threw Hillary under the bus,” he said of Democratic presidential candidate Hillary Clinton. “Anyone who sees that a race might be close or might not be in their favor, they throw them under the bus.”

Trump made a last-minute campaign appearance for Saccone, although he spent very little time actually talking about the race itself. The president has reportedly trashed Saccone in private, considering him a ”weak″ candidate.

But there was far more going on than just whether or not Saccone was a strong candidate. Nationwide, Democrats have dominated at the ballot box since Trump took office, flipping 39 state legislative seats from red to blue ― along with the governor’s mansion in New Jersey and a U.S. Senate seat in Alabama. Republicans, meanwhile, have taken over just four state legislative seats previously held by Democrats.

A number of voters who backed Trump but decided to support Lamb said they did so not because Saccone was an unpolished or incompetent candidate but simply because they didn’t like his policy views on issues like labor rights ― a major factor in this union-heavy district.

The Republicans’ marquee legislative achievement just didn’t play well here either. The GOP intended to make passage of the tax cut law the centerpiece of its strategy in the 2018 midterms. But Republican groups stopped airing ads mentioning tax cuts toward the end of the Pennsylvania race after realizing the issue wasn’t moving voters.

And, of course, there was that much-mentioned energy that has been fueling the Democratic side and grassroots groups in the age of Trump. Stunned by losses in 2016, the left has mobilized in a way that even Republicans acknowledge could portend a blue wave in November.

Although Trump likes to boast that his supporters will never desert him, results like the Pennsylvania special election show that his appeal is limited. At least some members of his base have no problem rejecting Republican candidates ― even ones he supports.UPDATE: March 17, 11 a.m. ― Maine state House candidate Leslie Gibson (R) dropped out of the race on Friday after facing strong backlash for maligning student activists who survived last month’s school shooting in Parkland, Florida.

Gibson had been running unopposed, but his comments prompted Democrat Eryn Gilchrist ― who has never run for office before ― to jump into the race just before the filing deadline Thursday. She was joined by Republican contender Thomas Martin Jr., a former state senator.

“I am not walking away with my head hung low. I am walking away with my head held high,” Gibson told the Portland Press Herald.

PREVIOUSLY:

A Republican candidate for the Maine legislature apologized after attacking two students who survived the Parkland high school massacre, calling one a “skinhead lesbian” and another a “bald-faced liar.”

Leslie Gibson, who’s running unopposed in this year’s election for the Maine House 57th District, deleted tweets bashing the students and wrote a letter to 18-year-old Emma Gonzalez, who he had called a “skinhead lesbian.” Gonzalez identifies as bisexual.

“I would like to extend to you my most sincere apology for how I addressed you. It was wrong and unacceptable,” Gibson said in a tweet. “You are doing work that is important to you. I would like to extend my hand in friendship and understanding to you.”

Gibson didn’t apologize for calling 17-year-old David Hogg a “bald-faced liar.”

Gonzalez and Hogg have been among the most vocal student advocates for stricter gun control since the Feb. 14 mass shooting at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Florida. Hogg appeared on CNN this week to urge President Donald Trump to prove he isn’t “owned” by the National Rifle Association. Gonzalez was honored by LGBTQ rights group Equality Florida for her activism.

Gibson, a lifetime NRA member, took to Twitter to attack Gonzalez after seeing an article in The Hill about the teen surpassing the NRA in Twitter followers.

“There is nothing about this skinhead lesbian that impresses me and there is nothing that she has to say unless you’re a frothing at the mouth moonbat,” he wrote.

You said it was @gibson_house that said that?



Like, LESLIE GIBSON, the Tresurer of @AndroGOP? The guy running for District 57 State House seat? He called @Emma4Change what???



A "skin head lesbian"? #ParklandShooting#mepolitics pic.twitter.com/0q0YEZMCvL — Darth Mueller (@TrumanChapman27) March 12, 2018

In another tweet, Gibson claimed Gonzalez should not be called a “survivor” because she was “in a completely different part of the school” during the shooting. Gibson also called Hogg a “moron” and accused him of lying after the student said NRA spokeswoman Dana Loesch “owns” members of Congress.

“Hogg doesn’t get a pass when he blatantly lies,” Gibson tweeted.

The candidate’s insults were met with outrage. State Sen. Amy Volk (R) called for Gibson to withdraw from the state House race, as did Phil Barlett, chairman of the Maine Democratic Party, who blasted Gibson’s comments as “disgusting and not representative of Maine values,” reported the Sun Journal.

As criticism mounted, Gibson scrubbed the tweets from his Twitter account and apologized to Gonzalez. He later made his personal and campaign Twitter accounts private.

He told a Sun Journal reporter that while “it was not appropriate to single out the Parkland students ... I stand firm in my defense of our constitutional rights.”

“I am very passionate about protecting our constitutional rights from those who seek their elimination,” Gibson said.

GOP Candidate for Maine's 57th Congressional District, Leslie Gibson, tweeted this message in regards to Parkland's @Emma4Change



"There is nothing about this skinhead lesbian that impresses me."



Les Gibson, you’re a coward for deactivating your account.

Keep fighting Emma! pic.twitter.com/ZdPgMC23Ky — Martin Ladera (@MLaderaFranco) March 14, 2018

Gibson is the only declared candidate for a state House district where the Republican incumbent has already served the maximum number of terms allowed by law. Democrats have until Thursday to come up with a candidate. The filing deadline for independent candidates is June 1.People ridiculed President Donald Trump on Tuesday after he warned that undocumented immigrants trying to enter the U.S. were like “professional mountain climbers.”

Trump made the comment while inspecting prototypes of his long-promised U.S.-Mexico border wall just south of San Diego, California.

“Getting over the top is easy,” said Trump, as he attempted to explain why the barrier needed to be a tough obstacle to circumvent.

“These are like professional mountain climbers,” he added. “They are incredible climbers. They can’t climb some of these walls. Some of them they can. Those are the walls we’re not using.”

Tweeters picked up on his rambling claim, and immediately called Trump out:

We’re gonna build a climbing wall and Mexico is going to pay for it! pic.twitter.com/fRs1T52lpP — Darren Bigelow (@dsbigelowauthor) March 14, 2018

So a Mexican professional mountain climber can only find employment by entering the USA illegally? — Moonbeam Mike (@MrMoonbeamMike) March 14, 2018

Trump looking at the border wall just called Mexicans “professional mountain climbers”

Oh and don’t forget “rapists,”

So “professional mountain climber rapists” are going to ruin our country.



I assume some are good people. Who rape after climbing mountains.



Wow. — Christopher Titus (@TitusNation) March 13, 2018

Your president @realDonaldTrump literally just said that Mexican immigrants “are professional mountain climbers.” — Aimee Carrero Rock (@aimeecarrero) March 13, 2018

Yes, @realDonaldTrump really did just compare undocumented immigrants who go over border wall to 'professional mountain climbers.' #borderwall — Foon Rhee (@foonrhee) March 13, 2018

"They're bringing drugs. They're bringing crime. They're rapists. And some are professional mountain climbers."...Trump/Dotard — Len Friest (@friest_len) March 13, 2018

Mexico is not sending us their finest... except mountain climbers. They're sending world class mountain climbers. #Trump — Hoag in the House (@HoagML) March 13, 2018

Mexicans. Bad hombres. Good mountain climbers. -- Donald J Trump — SageRobinson (@SageRobinson) March 13, 2018

"These are professional mountain climbers" -Trump on Mexicans trying to scale his imaginary walls. — TheWeekInTrump (@TheWeekInTrump) March 13, 2018

BREAKING NEWS: President Trump bans mountain climbers and people with ropes or ladders. — Ruby Twill (@rubytwill) March 13, 2018

Trump just called Mexican immigrants “professional mountain climbers”.



I just can’t. — Olivia (@olianderrr) March 13, 2018When it comes to addressing gun violence in the U.S., the general consensus seems to be that there’s no consensus. Gun owners and non-gun owners apparently can’t find common ground on policy solutions, which some Americans argue explains why there’s been so little action despite the mass shootings and other routine bloodshed of recent years.

But that explanation might be a bit too simplistic, according to a new study comparing support for gun violence prevention policies among gun owners and non-gun owners. The survey, conducted in January 2017 by the Johns Hopkins Center for Gun Policy and Research and published Thursday in the American Journal of Public Health, found that both groups largely approve of the majority of the 24 proposals examined. For most of those policies, the approval gap between gun owners and non-gun owners was in the single digits.

“This signals that we have higher levels of support and higher levels of agreement between gun owners and non-gun owners than is generally understood,” said Colleen Barry, a Johns Hopkins professor and the lead author of the study.

Survey respondents were asked about a number of widely discussed gun measures, such as mandating universal background checks including for private sales of firearms, which are currently exempt under federal law. With support from 85 percent of gun owners and 89 percent of non-gun owners, this was the most popular proposal.

The study revealed broad support for a variety of lesser-known policies as well. The second-most popular measure was suspending the license of any gun dealer unable to account for 20 or more guns in their inventory, which 82 percent of gun owners and 86 percent of non-gun owners backed. Just behind that was a proposal to require concealed-carry licensees to undergo safety and proficiency testing ― 83 percent of gun owners and 85 percent of non-gun owners expressed support.

Large majorities of both groups also approved of so-called red flag laws. These measures give law enforcement additional authority to confiscate weapons from dangerous individuals, often following a petition filed by a family member or police. Four states have passed red flag laws since the Parkland, Florida, shooting in February, meaning nine states now have them on the books. A handful of other states are currently considering similar legislation.

For 23 of the 24 proposals in the study, the majority of respondents came down on the side of greater gun restrictions or regulations. The least popular proposal involved prohibiting individuals convicted of drunk and disorderly conduct from possessing a gun for 10 years.

“The most fruitful directions for policy are areas where gun owners and non-gun owners are a little more in agreement.” - Colleen Barry, Johns Hopkins Center for Gun Policy and Research

On certain proposals, there were significant gaps between gun owners and non-gun owners.

The two groups were sharply divided on allowing concealed-carry permit holders to bring guns onto school grounds, though neither gave the idea majority support. Forty-three percent of gun owners backed the proposal, compared to 19 percent of non-gun owners.

There was also less agreement on requiring people to lock up firearms in the home when not in use ― 58 percent of gun owners supported the idea versus 79 percent of non-gun owners. The groups were similarly split, 63 percent to 81 percent, on requiring would-be gun owners to first obtain a license from a local law enforcement agency, as they must in Massachusetts.

Some of the most divisive measures were among those most often proposed in public debate. The survey showed large gaps and less overall support for banning the sale of military-style semiautomatic rifles ― 44 percent of gun owners versus 68 percent of non-gun owners ― and banning the sale of high-capacity ammunition magazines ― 41 percent of gun owners versus 67 percent of non-gun owners.

These results could be used to guide decisions about which gun violence prevention measures to pursue, said study author Barry.

“In my mind, the most fruitful directions for policy are areas where gun owners and non-gun owners are a little more in agreement,” she said. “If that’s where policymakers are interested in moving, there are a lot of policies to choose from.”

Barry also noted that research on the effectiveness of a so-called assault weapons ban is somewhat limited, at least when it comes to reducing overall levels of gun violence. While lawmakers may understandably wish to prevent the sort of massacres that have been repeatedly carried out with AR-15s and similar rifles, she suggested they may not want to push that measure to the exclusion of more politically feasible proposals.

“There are potentially lost opportunities to focus more attention and political capital around policies where we do see much higher levels of support overall, but also across the gun owner/non-gun owner divide,” she said.

Banning assault-style weapons, which this protester may well support, is not one of the areas in which gun owners and non-gun owners agree. Spencer Platt via Getty Images

Barry has conducted similar studies twice before, with the first coming in January 2013, just weeks after the Sandy Hook Elementary School shooting. She said that she was initially concerned that support for gun reforms might be merely a reaction to a recent tragedy, but that subsequent surveys in 2015 and now 2017 have shown stable support for many proposals among gun owners and non-gun owners alike.

Although her latest survey was conducted before the Parkland shooting, Barry said she believes that event has likely only reinforced the public opinion trends seen in the 2017 survey, including the divisions on policies like banning assault weapons.

“Folks who are in favor of a stronger regulatory environment may feel even more strongly about that, and folks on the other side who are more concerned about gun rights being restricted in the aftermath of recent events may or may not take a more stringent view,” she said.

The question now is whether lawmakers at the state or federal level will focus on gun violence prevention policies that have wide support among both gun owners and non-gun owners.

There are a few reasons they might not, even in the face of a vigorous push for gun reform following the Parkland shooting. For one, Barry’s study was national in scope, meaning it didn’t gauge public opinion in specific states or local jurisdictions, where gun policy is often decided.

Then there’s the matter of lobbying by interest groups like the National Rifle Association, which hold plenty of political power ― perhaps even more than public opinion alone.Kim Hong-Ji / Reuters

WASHINGTON ― The Me Too movement has already upended the careers of more than a half dozen members of Congress, with plenty more who are the subject of allegations and rumors that could feel the wrath of voters in November. And even though the movement has had mixed results in cleaning up state legislatures thus far, the push could help propel a record number of women into office.

Emily’s List, a PAC that supports pro-choice women running for office, pointed out that there are a record number of women running for office this year, and they believe there will be a record number of women who win, even if some men with questionable histories survive a November purge.

“You can’t yell every offending member out of office,” an Emily’s List spokesperson told HuffPost. “It comes down to the ballot at the end of the day.”



The Me Too movement is, of course, much larger than just exposing stories about predatory men and having women win elections. The conversations happening now could play an important role in preventing future abuses ― to say nothing of the movement’s impact in industries like Hollywood and journalism. But for all the success stories of men finally facing accountability for their actions, there are others who’ve been able to stick around in a system that has harbored and rewarded them for years.

In politics, it seems the only guarantee that such men will leave is if voters drag them out in November.

In California, two of the leading contenders to become governor ― current Lt. Gov. Gavin Newsom and former Los Angeles Mayor Antonio Villaraigosa ― have both had very public affairs while in office. (Newsom actually had an affair with a good friend’s wife, who was one of Newsom’s aides at the time, while Villaraigosa has acknowledged two affairs.) Interestingly, their past indiscretions have not disqualified them from the governor’s race. There are no allegations of harassment in either case, but their affairs have come up again this cycle in the new context of the Me Too movement. Both men have repeatedly apologized for their past actions.

In Georgia, one of the leading contenders to become lieutenant governor ― current state Rep. David Shafer (R) ― was accused late last week of retaliating against a lobbyist who turned down his advances. Despite those allegations, Shafer is moving ahead with his campaign. And current Lt. Gov. Casey Cagle (R), who’s now running to become governor, has long been the focus of numerous rumors of infidelity. In fact, strategists and close political observers of Georgia politics told HuffPost that those rumors were the real reason Cagle dropped out of a 2009 race to become governor, not back problems as he said at the time.

(Cagle’s office did not respond to multiple requests for comment.)

Now, those strategists and observers are wondering if the Shafer allegations will put the Cagle rumors back into the spotlight.

“The truth is, the Georgia primary isn’t really ‘about’ anything,” a GOP strategist familiar with the race told HuffPost in an email. “Most Republicans agree on most issues. So differentiators tend to be based more on personal issues. That’s one reason Republican primaries can get so ugly.”

The strategist added that, because of the Shafer news, the public was primed for Me Too issues to blow up. “And as we’ve seen in Washington and in other industries, when #MeToo blows up, it often has a big blast radius,” the strategist said.

But others are wondering if that will really be true in a place like Georgia.

“After the Me Too movement erupted late last year, there wasn’t the same cascade of allegations in Georgia as in other states,” one close observer of Georgia politics said. “But the ethics complaint filed involving Shafer has the potential to really shake up that race, and there’s a sense that it could be the start of more allegations against other politicians from both parties.”

Stories of inappropriate advances and sexual misconduct have already forced the resignations of numerous state politicians across the country, roiling statehouses in Texas, Florida and Missouri. It just isn’t clear how much it will all translate into electoral victories or tangible legislative changes.

“Ultimately, stories of sexual harassment are not a surprise to women, who have lived their whole lives as women,” one female source familiar with how the movement is playing out in Illinois told HuffPost. “The voters who would be moved by these stories of harassment already are motivated to turn out in this election by any number of issues, from Republican attacks on women’s access to health care to Donald Trump’s tiny, overzealous Twitter fingers.”

This source pointed to how politicians have used allegations against some staff members of Illinois state House Speaker Mike Madigan to rally against the divisive Democrat. And while those who were already convinced Madigan needed to resign have used these stories against some of his staffers to renew those calls, the allegations don’t seem to have moved many voters.

The strategists HuffPost spoke with just weren’t sure how much allegations of sexual misconduct or sexism would play in races ― at least, they weren’t sure if those stories would play more than any other year.

In Florida, where a prominent state senator was forced to resign, a strong anti-harassment bill recently died in the legislature, and it’s unclear if a toxic culture in the state ouse will actually end. (Lobbying firms were apparently paying “closers” to perform sexual favors for Florida lawmakers in an attempt to influence them.)

“The Emily’s List spokesperson pointed out that, since Election Day 2016, the group has been contacted by 34,000 women who are looking to run for office, compared to just 920 women during the 2016 election cycle.”

And then there is the potential backlash to the Me Too movement. In Minnesota, where some voters are upset that former Sen. Al Franken (D-Minn.) was forced to resign over allegations and photos of inappropriate touching, one of the state’s leading voices against sexual harassment, Lindsey Port, suspended her campaign for the state House and is struggling to keep a nonprofit supporting Democratic candidates afloat. She said that women within her own party accused her of “softening the ground” for the ouster of Franken, a beloved figure in the state.

It is clear to most strategists across the country, however, that women are motivated to vote this year ― whether spurred by the Me Too movement, opposition to President Donald Trump or other factors.

The Emily’s List spokesperson pointed out that, since Election Day 2016, the group has been contacted by 34,000 women who are looking to run for office, compared to just 920 women during the 2016 election cycle. And while Emily’s List acknowledges that the influx of women seeking office isn’t entirely due to the Me Too movement, they do think it has further encouraged women to run and vote. The group is currently targeting 598 statehouse races, 60 congressional seats, a dozen governor’s mansions and two Senate seats.

Perhaps the most representative state of the broader female trend in politics is Pennsylvania. In the Keystone State, there are currently no women in the congressional delegation, 38 of 203 House seats in Pennsylvania are women, and in the 50-member Senate, there are only nine women.

One GOP state legislator, Nick Miccarelli, has been accused of sexually assaulting an unidentified woman, and another state representative who was once romantically involved with Miccarelli has a restraining order out against him. But Miccarelli is pressing ahead while even running for reelection at the moment.

The Me Too movement may not take down someone like Miccarelli in Pennsylvania, but it might help usher in historic numbers of women. One Democratic strategist in Pennsylvania, Dan Fee, predicted that at least two or three women would end up as part of the congressional delegation after November, and Emily’s List pointed out that 98 women had filed to run for the state legislature in Pennsylvania.WASHINGTON ― As part of Wednesday’s nationwide walkout against gun violence, hundreds of students from Washington-area schools gathered at the White House before marching to the U.S. Capitol, in a bid to take their gun reform message directly to lawmakers.

A lot of D.C. area students outside White House for gun violence walkout, with more arriving every minute, chanting “enough is enough” and “the NRA has got to go” pic.twitter.com/OIgI5yepgn — Marina Fang (@marinafang) March 14, 2018

At 10 a.m., they sat for a 17-minute moment of silence in honor of the victims of last month’s massacre at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School, with some students holding posters with the names of the dead.

President Donald Trump wasn’t there to see their protest as he was completing a trip to California.

Students protest against gun violence outside the White House on March 14, 2018. Marina Fang/HuffPost

Students told HuffPost that they had gathered early Wednesday morning at their schools in nearby suburbs and then took the Metro into the city.

Billy Scott, a student at Montgomery Blair High School in Silver Spring, Maryland, said that like many other schools, his held a moment of silence on Wednesday. But he thought that participating in a protest at the White House would be a bigger show of support for gun violence victims.

“Coming to D.C., coming to the White House, is a whole other thing to get our point across,” he said. “Power in numbers, right?”

Vasiliki Frantzis, from Winston Churchill High School in Potomac, Maryland, said that she remembered the Sandy Hook Elementary School shooting in 2012, which she said made her think about why people “would try to bring a gun into school.”

A creative sign from Vasiliki Frantzis from Winston Churchill High in Maryland. Guns “should be regulated because they are dangerous,” she says. pic.twitter.com/2tRHR462x7 — Marina Fang (@marinafang) March 14, 2018

Rohan Kurup, from Northwood High School in Montgomery County, Maryland, said that he normally has not taken part in student protests, but was inspired this time.

“Maybe I should,” he said. “I don’t want to get shot at school.”

Most of the students who spoke to HuffPost said that school administrators and teachers seemed sympathetic toward students’ participation in Wednesday’s walkout, although they couldn’t publicly express that support. In fact, many schools nationwide have said they will penalize students with unexcused absences.

Callie Newburgh and Chloe Appel, from Magruder High School in Rockville, Maryland, said some administrators were worried that “pro-gun people would put us in harm’s way.”

Appel estimated that about half of her school’s students were active in the protests, some at the White House and others at a lunchtime moment of silence at their school.

“The other half thinks it’s useless because we’re minors,” Appel said. “There are so many minors being affected by this. We can really make a difference, even if we’re not 18.”

A sampling of other signs. pic.twitter.com/43tJsZP4an — Marina Fang (@marinafang) March 14, 2018

Some students held signs noting that they would soon be old enough to vote, and their many chants included “Rock the vote.”Rihanna just made these dancing kids Instagram famous. Image: Rihanna via Instagram

Rihanna has some pretty adorable new squad members.

The songstress celebrated being the first female artist to reach 2 billion worldwide streams on Apple Music by posting an adorable video of some young girls dancing their hearts out to the song “Nowo” by DJ Spinall and Wizkid. The post, which RiRi said represented her mood, has generated 2.6 million likes — and interest in who the kids were.

Turns out these dancing queens are part of a troupe out of Lagos, Nigeria, called Dreamcatchers. which is made up of 10 children — seven girls and three boys. They’ve been dancing together since November 2014. According to their social media bio, they are “street kids” from the city Ikorodu. “Dance puts us in school & off the streets,” it says. The kids and their 26-year-old instructor, Seyi Oluyole, were recently nominated for the Best Creative Social Enterprise Award via African Creative Exhibition and Awards. (Voting is open until March 15.)

Here are some more of their performances:

In one of the group’s Instagram posts, the caption reads, “This time last week, we didn’t have lunch, but here we are this week getting so much love with 12k followers!” (That number has since climbed to 42,000.) “Our hope has been renewed.”

Rihanna, at a Vogue event in October, has helped put these “street kids” from Africa on the map. Photo: Dimitrios Kambouris/Getty Images

A post on the Dreamcatchers Instagram page shows the gratitude the kids have for Oluyole, the force behind the group: “You see all our smiles and dance videos, there is someone behind it all. There is a special person who took us off the street and takes care of us. She feeds us, sends us to school, buys us clothes and takes care of us even when we are sick. She is Aunty Seyi. And if we don’t eat, she won’t eat. If we are sick she will stay by us until we are well. She even teach us to dance. She is the helper God sent to us.”

On Oluyole’s own page, she wrote, “I don’t usually think there’s anything special that I’m doing. I’ve been doing this for years and always found joy.” In a recent BBC News feature on her, she talked about how soon after started working with the kids, she told them that she would no longer teach them dance unless they attended school. It was a big motivator for them. Part of them living with her and learning to dance includes an agreement, also signed by their parents, that they must be doing well in school.

Oluyole tells Yahoo Entertainment that as a teenager, she “slept on the road a couple of times due to some financial issues her family was going through.” That influenced her to help other children, specifically “children who are from the street and from bad homes.” She “saw so many potentials in children, and decided to harness this potential, rather than let it go to waste.”

The BBC recently did a feature on Seyi Oluyole:

And fame they have found. After Rihanna shared the initial video, which has also been posted by Naomi Campbell (Diddy shared a second one), the kids made her a thank you video, in which they held up a sign and told her that they love her.

Oluyole reports to Yahoo that the Dreamcatchers are “elated” about Rihanna’s shout-out.

“All the children work very hard for a better future and to get the recognition from Rihanna after all our hard work in the past four years is definitely a great thing,” she says. “It just goes to show that we are doing something right and there is truly hope for the children. The shout-out from Rihanna is proof that being born in the ghetto/street/[a] poor home doesn’t mean we can’t achieve something good.”She adds that all the kids “got a piece of chicken today to celebrate.”

On Tuesday, Rihanna shared part of that thank you in a post, in which she referred to the dancers as her “Lil squad” and told them they made her day. In just five hours, it’s received 1 million likes.

Truly, there’s a lot to like in their performances — and spirit.Actor Eddie Redmayne, who won an Academy Award for his big-screen portrayal of Stephen Hawking, is paying tribute to the renowned physicist, who died on Wednesday at age 76 from complications stemming from amyotrophic lateral sclerosis.

Redmayne was among many touched by Hawking who remembered the groundbreaking scientist with moving comments, including posts on social media.

“We have lost a truly beautiful mind, an astonishing scientist and the funniest man I have ever had the pleasure to meet,” Redmayne said in a statement via The Hollywood Reporter. “My love and thoughts are with his extraordinary family.”

The British actor famously portrayed Hawking in the critically acclaimed 2014 romantic drama “The Theory of Everything,” which documented Hawking’s early days at Cambridge University, where he met his future wife Jane Hawking, played by actress Felicity Jones.

Stephen Hawking and Eddie Redmayne attend the UK Premiere of 'The Theory Of Everything'. Karwai Tang via Getty Images

Jones also expressed condolences. “So sad to hear of Stephen’s death. Stephen Hawking pushed the boundaries of who we are and what we believe,” she said in a statement. “An extraordinary human who could bring humour to the most despairing moments and find hope in the unknown. He showed the world that anything is possible. My thoughts are with his wonderful family in this difficult time.”

Hawking gave the film his blessing and met with Redmayne, who spent months researching his speech patterns and physical ticks, a few days before filming. Later, after screening the film and remarking that it didn’t get his electronic voice quite right, Hawking offered to lend his actual electronic voice to the filmmakers.

Jane Hawking and Felicity Jones attend the U.K. Premiere of "The Theory Of Everything." Tim P. Whitby via Getty Images

“When I met Stephen, it was this astounding moment with this man who’d become an idol in my mind. I actually had feared, ‘What if this man ends up in reality being nothing like what I predicted?’” Redmayne told The Hollywood Reporter in 2014 about meeting Hawking in person. “Fortunately, in that meeting, he just emanated humor and wit and a joy of life. It became absolutely clear in meeting him that the illness is secondary.”

Hawking apparently shared a fondness for Redmayne as well, describing the film as “broadly true” and praising his performance.“Prison jumpsuits are not known for their fashion ... or comfort,” Hammer wrote on Instagram. Rich Fury/BAFTA LA via Getty Images

Armie Hammer’s mug shot is almost up there with “hot convict” Jeremy Meeks.

On Tuesday, Hammer shared a shot of himself in a black-and-white-striped prison jumpsuit from a 2011 arrest in Texas. Despite his late night — according to E! News, the actor once joked “it was definitely not 5:45 in the morning” when he was arrested — Hammer somehow manages to pull off his popped collar, almost perfectly coiffed hair, slight grin and unbuttoned shirt.

“It might not be Thursday, but this throwback seems worth it...,” he captioned the photo on Instagram, adding the hashtag #godblesstexas. In the comments, the actor wrote that this is “probably not the last mug shot” he’ll ever have. “Prison jumpsuits are not known for their fashion ... or comfort,” he wrote elsewhere.

A post shared by Armie Hammer (@armiehammer) on Mar 13, 2018 at 8:11am PDT

The “Call Me By Your Name” actor was arrested in Sierra Blanca, Texas, in November 2011. Authorities claimed Hammer was in possession of three pot cookies and one brownie at the time, according to TMZ.

Though prosecutors later dropped the charges ― as the actor allegedly had 0.02 ounces of weed ― the then-25-year-old still spent one day in jail and paid a $1,000 bond.

Hammer addressed his arrest before, telling Conan O’Brien in 2013 that he “wasn’t supposed to talk about it.”

“It was a long time ago,” he said. “It was a misunderstanding of laws and interstate laws versus state laws and apparently federal laws supersede state laws. I mean, who knew? Let’s just say it was a great learning of the legal system.”Stephen Hawking died Wednesday after complications due to amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, a progressive neurodegenerative disease. He was 76.

The world-renowned theoretical physicist and cosmologist was best known for his work on black holes. Hawking theorized that, contrary to the prevailing scientific belief that black holes were inescapable for all forms of matter and energy, they actually emitted a form of radiation ― now known as Hawking radiation. He also played a key role in the mathematical effort to unify Einstein’s general theory of relativity with the emergent field of quantum physics.

Hawking used his position as one of the world’s most famous scientists as a platform to discuss a wide range of issues, from the existence of extraterrestrial life to the nature of philosophy. He skyrocketed to public prominence in 1988, when he published his first general-audience book, A Brief History of Time: From the Big Bang to Black Holes. The cosmology treatise has sold approximately 10 million copies worldwide, making it one of the best-selling science books of all time.

In 1963, when he was just 21 years old, Hawking was famously diagnosed with the debilitating motor neuron disease amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. Though 80 percent of those with ALS die within five years of diagnosis, and Hawking’s own doctors gave him roughly two years to live, he survived for decades, perhaps longer than any other patient with the disease in medical history. Hawking used a wheelchair to move around and a sophisticated computer system to speak for much of his time as a public figure.

The physicist’s inspiring ― and turbulent ― personal story was dramatized in the 2014 movie “The Theory of Everything,” which was based on a memoir by Hawking’s first wife, Jane Wilde. Actor Eddie Redmayne’s portrayal of Hawking in the film won him an Oscar for best actor.

Stephen Hawking, Jane Wilde Hawking and family attend the British Academy Film Awards at The Royal Opera House on Feb. 8, 2015 in London. Fred Duval/FilmMagic via Getty Images

Hawking was born on Jan. 8, 1942 ― the 300th anniversary of Galileo’s death ― in Oxford, England, to Frank, a physician specializing in tropical disease, and Isobel, a medical secretary. He and his three younger siblings grew up mostly in the town of St. Albans, just north of London, in what has been described as a highly intellectually-engaged home.

At the St. Albans School, Hawking was an indifferent student, preferring to spend his time playing board games and tinkering with computers. But he nonetheless gained admittance to his father’s alma mater, University College at Oxford University, in 1959, at the age of 17.

Upon arriving at Oxford, Hawking toyed with the idea of studying either math or medicine before eventually settling on physics. His attitude toward academic work remained lackadaisical in college. He rarely attended lectures and has said that he spent only 1,000 hours on studies during his three years at Oxford, or just an hour a day.

Still, Hawking’s natural brilliance started to shine through as an undergraduate ― and he apparently felt that his tutors resented him for doing so well with so little work. When he submitted his final thesis, it was given a grade on the border between first-class honors and second-class honors, so Hawking had to face an oral exam that would determine his grade. Knowing his reputation, he reportedly told his examiners, “If you award me a First, I will go to Cambridge. If I receive a Second, I shall stay in Oxford, so I expect you will give me a First.”

He got a First. And, as promised, Hawking enrolled in graduate school at Trinity Hall, Cambridge in 1962, studying under the physicist Dennis Sciama and the famed astronomer Fred Hoyle. He became interested in the then-nascent study of black holes and singularities, the existence of which had been implied by Einstein’s general theory of relativity.

Stephen Hawking in Chicago on Dec. 15, 1986. After Hawking lost his voice to pneumonia the prior year, computer scientist Walter Woltosz gave him a device that helped him vocalize words that he typed. Associated Press

While studying at Cambridge, Hawking met Wilde, a fellow St. Albans native who was a student in modern languages at Westfield College in London at the time. Before the two started dating, Hawking collapsed while ice skating and couldn’t get up. His mother made him go to the doctor, who diagnosed him with ALS and estimated he had just over two years to live.

Years later, during a symposium at Cambridge on his 70th birthday, Hawking reflected on how much he struggled to stay motivated after his diagnosis. Why work so hard for a Ph.D. when you could be dead in two years?

“However difficult life may seem, there is always something you can do, and succeed at. It matters that you don't just give up.” - Stephen Hawking, as he celebrated his 70th birthday

“Remember to look up at the stars and not down at your feet,” he said. “Try to make sense of what you see and about what makes the universe exist. Be curious. And however difficult life may seem, there is always something you can do, and succeed at. It matters that you don’t just give up.”

Hawking’s motor control deteriorated rapidly; he was soon walking to class on crutches. Yet the disease spurred him to deepen his relationship with Wilde quickly. They married in 1965.

After receiving his doctorate in cosmology, Hawking stayed at Cambridge to continue studying some of the most essential questions about the structure of the universe. In 1968, a year after Jane gave birth their eldest son, Robert, Hawking took a post at the Institute of Astronomy at Cambridge and began the mature phase of his academic career.

Over the next decade, Hawking published a string of groundbreaking papers on cosmology and theoretical physics that made him a celebrity in the scientific community.

He and English mathematician Roger Penrose wrote key papers in the late 1960s that related the Big Bang ― the event that created the universe ― and black holes, proving that both were the result of singularities in the fabric of space-time. In the early 1970s, Hawking and several other physicists co-wrote a proof of the hypothesis that all black holes can be described in terms of just their mass, angular momentum and electric charge.

It was in 1974 that Hawking proposed what is widely considered his most significant theory: that black holes can emit subatomic particles, now known as Hawking radiation. Prior to his paper, physicists had been sure that nothing could escape the crushing gravity of a black hole. The existence of Hawking radiation also implies that black holes can eventually wither away and die, something that had previously been inconceivable to scientists.

Soon after publishing his paper, Hawking, just 32 years old, was named a fellow of the prestigious Royal Society. He briefly taught at the California Institute of Technology before assuming the position of Lucasian Professor of Mathematics at Cambridge, a post dating back more than 400 years that was once held by Isaac Newton.

Though Hawking’s family life flourished during this time ― he and Jane Hawking went on to have two more children ― his health did not. He reluctantly started using a wheelchair in 1969, and by the mid-70s, he could no longer feed or clothe himself.

Stephen Hawking on a trip to Cape Finisterre in Spain in 2008. The scientist married and divorced twice and had three children. MIGUEL RIOPA/Getty Images

In 1985, Hawking contracted pneumonia while on a trip to Switzerland. Doctors performed a tracheotomy that allowed him to breathe but rendered him unable to speak naturally. At first, he communicated using word cards, which was agonizingly slow. But in 1986, computer scientist Walter Woltosz gave him a device that would vocalize words he typed using a joystick. Hawking called this system, which has since been upgraded several times, “The Computer.” Its electronic voice was an integral part of the physicist’s public image.

Hawking first came up with the idea of writing a book about cosmology for a general audience in 1982. He said he conceived of the project to “earn money to pay [his] daughter’s school fees.” The first draft of A Brief History of Time was finished in 1984, but Hawking’s publisher felt it was too difficult for laypeople to understand, so he went back to work. The revision process became more complicated after Hawking lost his voice in 1985, but he managed to publish the book in 1988.

It was a massive hit: The book was on The New York Times’ best-seller list for three years and The Sunday Times’ U.K. best-seller list for nearly five. Its publication propelled Hawking to international fame that’s endured to this day. He published five additional general-audience books on science, plus one memoir and four children’s books. He also guest-starred on both “The Simpsons” and “Star Trek: The Next Generation.”

At age 74, Stephen Hawking sits onstage during an announcement of the Breakthrough Starshot initiative with investor Yuri Milner in New York on April 12, 2016. Lucas Jackson/Reuters

Stephen and Jane Hawking separated after several years of tension in 1990, which Jane said was exacerbated by her husband’s newfound “fame and fortune.” The physicist began a relationship with Elaine Mason, one of his nurses. After his divorce from Jane Hawking, he married Mason in 1995.

Hawking and his ex-wife did not speak for several years, but they started communicating again after he and Mason got divorced in 2007. Stephen and Jane Hawking later began living around the corner from one another in Cambridge.

In 2011, Hawking appeared on the Discovery Channel TV series “Curiosity,” in which he reflected on the origins of the universe and rejected the likelihood of both a God and an afterlife. (He once dismissed the latter as “a fairy story for people afraid of the dark.”) Only in confronting the finite nature of death, he said, do we appreciate the remarkable beauty of life in the present.

“There is probably no heaven, and no afterlife either,” Hawking said. “We have this one life to appreciate the grand design of the universe, and for that, I am extremely grateful.”

In addition to his two former wives, Hawking is survived by three children and three grandchildren.

CORRECTION: A previous version of this story indicated Hawking enrolled at Trinity College, Cambridge, in 1962. In fact, he enrolled at Trinity Hall, Cambridge. It also misidentified Hawking’s eldest son, Robert, as Roger.The parents of Seth Rich, a Democratic National Committee staffer who was killed in 2016, filed a lawsuit on Tuesday against Fox News, one of its reporters and a network guest over a retracted story that connected their son’s death to a “baseless” conspiracy theory.

“No parent should ever have to live through what we have been forced to endure,” Joel and Mary Rich said in a statement following the suit’s filing in the Southern District of New York. “The pain and anguish that comes from seeing your murdered son’s life and legacy treated as a mere political football is beyond comprehension.”

Family of slain DNC staffer Seth Rich, who was killed in 2016, sues Fox News over retracted story. https://t.co/AnT4sWLZ4q pic.twitter.com/ucp2LOjTyF — ABC News (@ABC) March 14, 2018

The suit, first reported by ABC News, claims Fox News, investigative reporter Malia Zimmerman and network regular Ed Butowsky “intentionally exploited” Rich’s death “through lies, misrepresentations and half-truths.”

The suit also accuses Fox News of contacting Rich’s parents “under false pretenses” for the purposes of developing their “sham story.”

Reacting to the suit, Butowsky told ABC News that it was “one of the dumbest” things he’d ever seen.

“Nobody’s benefited from anything,” Butowsky said. “To file a lawsuit to say that anybody has benefited just smells weird.”

Fox News declined to comment, citing pending litigation.

Rich, 27, was killed in his Washington, D.C., neighborhood in July 2016 in what police said was a botched robbery. The crime remains unsolved.

In the weeks after the killing, a conspiracy theory began spreading on social media and far-right websites that Rich had leaked thousands of DNC emails to WikiLeaks.

In May 2017, Fox News published an article, written by Zimmerman, that repeated this false theory. The story, which suggested that Rich’s murder was somehow linked to the “leak,” was robustly promoted on the network by Sean Hannity and “Fox & Friends” co-host Steve Doocy.

Congress, investigate Seth Rich Murder! @JulianAssange made comments u need to listen to! If Seth was wiki source, no Trump/Russia collusion https://t.co/QPHZwypU34 — Sean Hannity (@seanhannity) May 22, 2017

After public backlash, Fox News retracted the story about a week later, and said the article “was not initially subjected to the high degree of editorial scrutiny.” The network neither apologized for the bogus story nor explained how it came to be published.

In their lawsuit, Rich’s parents describe the turmoil and “severe emotional harm” the story caused them. Both now struggle with post-traumatic stress disorder and obsessive-compulsive disorder, the suit says, noting that for Rich’s mother, the experience of dealing with the false article was akin to “burying her son all over again.”

“Joel and Mary Rich have brought this case to hold [the defendants] accountable for their reprehensible actions,” the couple’s attorney Leonard Gail said in a statement. “Whether motivated by party politics, ratings, corporate profit or personal gain, we hope to help prevent this kind of malicious and reckless behavior in the future so that others can be spared the hell the Riches have had to endure.”

Rod Wheeler, a private investigator and Fox News contributor, sued Fox News in August, accusing the network of fabricating quotes attributed to him in the false leak story. Wheeler, who was approached by Butowsky and later hired by Rich’s parents to investigate their son’s slaying, also claimed that President Donald Trump had pressed for the article’s publication — a claim the White House denied.Harry Styles set tongues wagging this week when he performed a brand-new song during the European leg of his world tour.

The former One Direction member debuted “Medicine” at a concert in Basel, Switzerland. The tune ― which does not appear on the self-titled solo album Styles released last year ― generated instant buzz. Most of it was based on unprofessionally filmed clips of Styles’ performance, which popped up on various social media platforms this week.

“The boys and the girls are here, I mess around with them, and I’m OK with it,” Styles appears to sing. (The line starts around 2:08 in the clip above.)

Some users, meanwhile, believe Styles sings “him” or “a bit” instead of “them.”

“the boys and the girls are here, i mess around with him, and i’m okay with it”

this is the new bi anthem, thank you harry styles pic.twitter.com/xh76WhnxMd — ari the useless gay (@emptyskv) March 13, 2018

In any case, many fans have interpreted “Medicine” as a nod to bisexuality.

Harry fucking Styles really is out here screaming the lyrics “The boys and girls are here, I mess around a bit, and I’m okay with it.” Medicine is a bisexual anthem and we really out here loving a queer man pic.twitter.com/rwDpUvCByn — Trinity 🐷 (@yup_trinity) March 14, 2018

It's Pi Day but more importantly it's Harry Styles is Bi Day. — Marina Watanabe (@marinashutup) March 14, 2018

harry styles singing his bisexual anthem, oil on canvas, harry styles world tour, 2018 pic.twitter.com/J78ug098hF — 𝓈𝑜𝒻𝒾𝒶 (@cillianmrphy) March 13, 2018

A representative for Styles did not immediately respond to a request to confirm the song’s lyrics, or to a question about the pop star’s intention for the song.

The story has been picked up by Seventeen, People and Newsweek, while a number of LGBTQ celebrities, including Troye Sivan, gave “Medicine” a shout-out on social media.

The lyrics of Medicine by @Harry_Styles have me 🤪😵🤑 — troye sivan (@troyesivan) March 13, 2018

However, Olympic figure skater Adam Rippon seemed skeptical of the internet’s voracity in labeling Styles bisexual.

And just like that, my skin is clear, my my vision is corrected, and I’m suddenly bisexual https://t.co/mUTaMpKl04 — Adam Rippon (@Adaripp) March 14, 2018

Where were you the day a tweet from Z100 New York made you bisexual? — Adam Rippon (@Adaripp) March 14, 2018

Styles, who has been romantically linked to Taylor Swift and Kendall Jenner, has faced ample media speculation over his sexuality.

In 2013, he told British GQ, “Bisexual? Me? I don’t think so.”

The singer, who has been an outspoken advocate for LGBTQ rights, took a less rigid approach last year, however, telling The Sun’s Dan Wootton that he has “never felt the need” to use a label.With the epicenter of policymaking looming large in the background, activists on Tuesday placed 7,000 pairs of empty shoes across the Capitol lawn, an impossible-to-ignore symbol of the children lost to gun violence since the 2012 Sandy Hook massacre.

Families who have lost children to shootings were invited to contribute their kids’ shoes, said global advocacy group Avaaz, which organized the event.

“I’ll be traveling to D.C. literally wearing my son Daniel’s shoes, the ones he wore the day he died at Columbine,” said Tom Mauser, whose son was killed in the Columbine mass shooting. “I think this kind of event with shoes offers a very powerful metaphor both for how we miss the victims who once filled those shoes, and also for how we see ourselves wanting to walk in their place, seeking change, so that others don’t have to walk this painful journey.”

People across the country, including celebrities, donated shoes to the display, which Avaaz said covered more than 10,000 square feet of grounds outside the Capitol. Several Democratic lawmakers visited the site, taking the opportunity to call out congressional inaction on gun reform.

According to CNN, Avaaz took the 7,000 figure from a 2017 American Academy of Pediatrics report, which found that almost 1,300 children die from gunshot wounds in the U.S. every year.

Tom Mauser lost his son Daniel at Columbine. He’s at the Capitol today to say #NotOneMore pic.twitter.com/cBPWQpMU4L — Joseph Huff-Hannon (@JoeHuffHannon) March 13, 2018

Calls for gun reform have intensified in the wake of the mass shooting at Parkland, Florida’s. Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School last month, when a 19-year-old gunman killed 17 students and school staff.

The push for gun control has had mixed results. Florida Gov. Rick Scott last week signed into law a new gun control bill that enables some teachers who undergo proper training to carry concealed weapons, in addition to other restrictions like raising the minimum purchase age for guns from 18 to 21. The National Rifle Association sued the state in response.

President Donald Trump initially indicated that he supported some gun control efforts, including raising the national purchasing age, but backpedaled after meeting with the NRA.

....On 18 to 21 Age Limits, watching court cases and rulings before acting. States are making this decision. Things are moving rapidly on this, but not much political support (to put it mildly). — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) March 12, 2018

The White House instead unveiled a list of proposals including arming some teachers and enhanced background checks. He also established a Federal Commission on School Safety to provide further recommendations.“If you can’t hear the whole truth, you will never know true empathy,” Wood told the congressional committee as she sat alongside advocates from the anti-sexual violence organization RISE and the Rape Abuse Incest National Network (RAINN). “I believe in the saying ‘If we have to live through it, then you should have to hear it.’”

Wood will appear Friday before a different kind of audience ― and in a starkly different role. As the star of the new movie “Allure,” which opens March 16, she plays a former survivor turned abuser who becomes obsessed with, seduces and emotionally abuses a teenage girl.

Gabriela Landazuri/HuffPost Photos: Getty Images

Wood said she chose the darker role of Laura, initially written for a male actor, for “glaringly obvious” reasons. “I’m one of these artists where the movies that I choose reflect what I’m thinking about or what I’m going through or what I want to communicate,” Wood told HuffPost over the phone this week.

“I have not seen an abuse story told in this way or from this angle,” she added.

Wood speaks as “an artist, survivor, mother and advocate” who’s faced the aftermath of maltreatment herself: feelings of shame, depression, addiction, agoraphobia and even suicide attempts.

“I would be considered a lucky one,” she explained. “I had resources and the means when I needed it, and thank God I had the awareness to say, ‘I have to go get help.’ I was afraid to ask for it for a really long time, but eventually you get to a point where you’re like, I have to do this, otherwise the alternative is death.”

For Wood, playing an abuser on screen was a near-back-breaking experience ― but a fulfilling one, as well. Wood’s character, a housekeeper who’s experienced abuse herself, struggles to maintain mental stability throughout Carlos and Jason Sanchez’s thriller as she manipulates and comes to depend on young Eva, played by Julia Sarah Stone. The story is, as Wood describes it, a 360-degree view of trauma.

Below, Wood discusses “Allure,” her life as an activist and the importance of telling twisted stories.

Evan Rachel Wood in "Allure." Samuel Goldwyn Films

“Allure” explores the mental trauma that affects survivors of abuse. It’s a dark film to take on, so what made you want to do it?

I do believe in equal opportunities for women on film sets, on screen and behind the scenes. Character-wise, I think that also means not just being heroic but being flawed. Playing the not-likable ones, the darker, more complex ones. So I thought, you want equal opportunity for women? That also means in this way: looking at the dark side.

I was drawn to it because the role was originally written for a man, and I’ve been really curious about taking on a role that was gender-swapped — I think it’s an interesting concept. And then when I read [the script], it struck so close to home and was true. I have not seen an abuse story told in this way or from this angle. I think that’s what I loved about this movie is, usually, you only see the story from one side, and this was a 360-degree view of how this happens, how it’s perpetuated and how it gets passed on to other people. In that way, it was abuse sort of as I know it, which is as a virus that spreads.

Whether you become an abuser or you abuse yourself or your life is altered by abuse, it’s something that’s set in a seed that’s planted, and you never really know what it’s going to grow into. If not dealt with properly, then you have people like Laura, who are prisoners of their own trauma. She lived in poverty, there’s an impression that she’s been gaslit and controlled her whole life, and when she does the things she does, especially in the beginning, she doesn’t even think that what she’s doing is abuse. It’s the only version of love that she’s ever known, and that’s a tragedy in its own right. It’s not an excuse, because I do feel at some point adults are responsible for their own actions and you can make a choice, but it definitely gives us an understanding of the psychology behind an abuser.

Which we don’t often see on screen.

I think we’re not going to answer the problem until we ask why somebody is like that and not just go, “Oh, well, they’re mentally ill or they’re a monster.” But why? You know? I feel like this movie is more about the why, and it was a conversation I wanted us to be having. I knew it wasn’t going to be fun. It was going to be weird for me to play an abuser considering I’ve been abused, but I also thought that it would be therapeutic and that I would have a lot of truth to offer this film, so it seemed like a good fit.

There’s definitely something powerful about an artist doing something that reflects what they’re passionate about.

Absolutely. There’s a real basic view of these things sometimes, very black and white, if you will, which is why I think people don’t understand abuse and don’t understand how a woman could go back to somebody who abused them over and over and over again, or how you could have Stockholm syndrome or how you have no place to go or how manipulative people can be. There are people who don’t have your best interests at heart, who are damaged, who do want to manipulate you and know exactly what they’re doing. We just don’t want to believe that that exists. But more and more people are realizing that we can’t ignore it anymore, and now that we know it’s there, we have to start asking the hard questions — abusers are monsters, yes, but they were a kid once. What happened to the kid?

Do you find that now, with the Me Too and Time’s Up movements, these harder conversations are opening up and people are no longer afraid to address issues anymore?

Oh, yeah. I think the gloves are off for everyone right now. We tried it one way and it’s not working, and, not only that, I think it’s the last straw. Again, I can only speak from my experience, as a woman ― and what I’m gathering from other women is everybody has a limit. You can get to a point where all the things that scare you start to define you, and then after a while you’re just flipping into gear and not actually living your life. I feel like I’m at a point where its involuntary to be, safely, as honest and open and as vulnerable with people, whether it’s my work or my activism or my writing, because nowadays it’s this sea of information of black and white.

The thing that shocks people now is real vulnerability and honesty and someone willing to go, “Hey, I’m not perfect and I’m in pain.” It’s not popular opinions or opinions we’re all in denial of. It’s funny to me that all of us are still trying to walk around like we’re not imperfect and trying to be whoever you want to be instead of just connecting with each other about our imperfections and talking about it.

Actress Evan Rachel Wood testifies during a House Judiciary Committee hearing on sexual assault survivors' rights on Feb. 27. Bill Clark via Getty Images

It brings me back to seeing video of you testifying last month alongside other victims of abuse — using your platform to help others fight the same fight as you.

You only have five minutes to sum up your whole life trauma [laughs], and you’re watching the clock tick down as you’re doing it. On the day of my testimony, they were asking me, “Are you nervous or intimidated to do this?” Luckily, it’s my job to walk into really surreal, overwhelming, intense situations and bare my soul — that I’m not worried about. That’s why I feel like art and politics can meet. We need help making policies, but we also need artists to come in and put their hats in the ring once in a while because it’s their life work to show the core of humanity and figure out why people do the things they do, and we could bridge that gap more and have the conversation.

Your character Laura in “Allure” is bringing pain into someone else’s life while dealing with her own trauma. You play her beautifully, even though it’s not an easy role to take on. How did you mentally prepare?

First thing I do is usually make a playlist. Music is really where I kind of go to disappear into a world or a vibe. I’m also one of those people who can feel sound. I think that’s why I love music so much, because I can just feel it in my body — a violin can just make me cry, because it feels like it’s literally bowing at my heart. So it helps put me in a headspace. And then I was really a recluse during this film. I shut myself away. I wanted to be like Laura. I wanted to be alone and left with my own thoughts and my own darkness to explore that.

Luckily, I’ve done enough work on myself and with my trauma, which is still a work in progress and I’m still going through it a bit. I was at a point in my life that I felt strong enough that I could do this and go there but know that I could get back. It was like I had a little rope tied around me and I could go in deep and be able to pull myself back out. It was difficult but therapeutic, and it did take a second to shake. It was not easy.

Julia Sarah Stone and Evan Rachel Wood in "Allure." Samuel Goldwyn Films

Let’s talk about Julia Sarah Stone, who was wonderful as Eva. What kind of prep went into building that bond between the two of you?

We looked at so many [actresses], because it was really important that we got this right. As wrong as it was and is, if the relationship didn’t work, you couldn’t believe it or understand how it might happen or believe that there was some weird version of attraction or love in there. Then, it’s just “you’re my captive,” and it’s black and white again. But this was more complicated. This was psychological and talked about a lot of things we don’t talk about in abusive relationships, which is all this abuse is disguised as love. If you’re already vulnerable, if you’re already powerless, if you’re looking for belonging, if you’re looking for love, [it’s there]. Some people have never experienced unconditional love. It’s a foreign concept to most people who know love, but if you’ve never experienced it, how are you supposed to know?

Right, the same goes for Laura.

She doesn’t realize she’s abusing Eva in the beginning. She sees herself in that — she thinks she’s saving her. And because of her mental illnesses and her traumas, there’s that dichotomy of Laura. I think there are times that Laura is regretful and is not in control of herself and doesn’t know what she’s doing and is scared of herself, but ultimately can’t stop this because it’s bigger than her now and she needs real fucking help. If it goes unchecked, it can develop into that. Again, it was important to me that you empathize with her. In no way is what she’s doing OK nor is her past an excuse; it’s definitely a reason and an understanding. The goal is not to let her off the hook. It’s to paint a broader, more detailed, complex picture of abuse and abusers so that we can do something instead of just writing it off.

“Allure” is in theaters and on-demand Friday.