News that a dog died aboard a United Airlines flight on Monday has renewed interest in the airline’s track record of safely transporting animals.

According to data from the Department of Transportation, United Airlines had the highest number of animal deaths and injuries for any U.S. carrier in 2017. The data pertain only to pets that flew with the airline’s PetSafe cargo program, so it does not relate to the incident Monday in which a dog died after a passenger was reportedly forced to put her pet in its carrier in the overhead bin during a flight from Houston to New York. Pets that fly in-cabin are typically meant to be stowed underneath the seat in front of the owner.

The airline issued a statement Tuesday saying it took full responsibility for the “tragic accident” and said it was conducting a full investigation. But United spokesperson Charlie Hobart said medical experts indicate that an overwhelming number of deaths amid pets who flew in the cargo area last year were due to things beyond the airline’s control, such as preexisting medical conditions.

“Any time there’s a death or an incident, United does a thorough review,” Hobart said. “We reach out to the customer, offer our support and condolences, and we work to ensure that it doesn’t happen again.”

About a year ago, United was criticized after a giant bunny, which was expected to be named the world’s largest rabbit, died in its cargo area.

The Transportation Department numbers indicate how United shapes up with its competitors ― and the comparison doesn’t look good. The airline flew the most pets of any airline in 2017 through the PetSafe cargo program ― 138,178. Eighteen pets died and 13 suffered injuries. Clearly the vast majority of animals that flew reached their destinations without incident.

One might think that more pets flown would inevitably translate into a higher number of animal deaths. However, the rate of pet deaths on United Airlines was also more than double that of the airline with the second highest frequency of pet fatalities, American Airlines. The same report from years past indicated that United also had the highest number of pet deaths in 2016 and 2015.

Department of Transportation A page from the Department of Transportation's 2017 Air Travel Consumer Report.

Of airlines that experienced pet fatalities, Alaska Airlines had the best track record in 2017, with 114,947 pets flown, two deaths and one missing animal. A cat escaped from its kennel as it was being transported on the grounds of Honolulu International Airport. The feline was never found.

“While the number of pet deaths is low, oftentimes when it does happen it’s due to pet stress, such as the animals chewing out of their kennel,” a spokesperson for Alaska Airlines told HuffPost. The airline urged customers to work with their veterinarians to prepare pets for flying weeks before the actual flight.

Putting a pet in airline cargo is risky ― no matter the carrier. Over the years, top U.S. airlines have rotated having the highest number of pet deaths. From 2010 to 2012, Delta held the top spot.

In an interview with HuffPost last year, Inga Fricke, director of pet retention programs at The Humane Society of the United States, cautioned customers against putting their pets in cargo.

“Putting pets in cargo areas should be avoided whenever possible,” she said. “Once that animal is out of your control, there are so many risks it can be exposed to that it’s just not worth it.”I served for more than 20 years in the Marine Corps. I know that he doesn't read, but the fact that our Commander-in-Chief doesn't know the difference between a Corps and a "Core" is more than a spelling error. Wrap yourself in the flag all you like - actual veterans have had it. pic.twitter.com/1N2cO36bgTRemy Ma's song "Melanin Magic" celebrates praises dark-skinned black women, who aren't always represented in mainstream media. Gabriel Olsen via Getty Images

Remy Ma has been championing women’s empowerment through her music since the days of “Conceited,” and she has no plans on changing.

“However you are, that’s how you’re meant to be,” Remy said of the 2005 single while on the phone with HuffPost last month. “And that’s what I want people to hear when they listen to ‘Look at yourself in the mirror like what’s up.’ That’s what I’m giving them.”

Born Reminisce Smith, the Bronx native has been active in rap since her debut in 2003. Many regard her as a true game-changer in female rap. Over the course of her career, Remy has made women’s issues an integral part of her platform. After finishing a 6-year prison sentence in 2014, she’s been outspoken about her values: empowering women through her music, denouncing colorism and advocating for female reproductive health.

When HuffPost spoke with her, the rapper said this empowerment must start at home.

“It starts when women are young,” she said. “Depending on how she’s treated as a child and how she’s taught to view herself will affect how she thinks about herself and other women growing up.”

Remy credited her childhood for shaping her views today. She grew up as one girl in a legacy of women taking charge and working together. Her grandmother, mother and four aunts all had a hand in raising her and giving her a clear idea of what strong black women look like.

“I had a family that was mostly women,” she said. “I learned in order for us to progress and be progressives, we help each other.”

That lesson is something Remy consciously incorporates into her music.

“Melanin Magic,” which came out this January and features Chris Brown, praises dark-skinned black women for all of the traits they possess that are commonly dismissed in Eurocentric standards of beauty. Along with the song, Remy launched the #MyMelaninMagic photo series to highlight black women across New York City and share their definitions of melanin magic.

A post shared by Remy Ma (@remyma) on Feb 2, 2018 at 8:30am PST

A post shared by Remy Ma (@remyma) on Jan 29, 2018 at 1:01pm PST

“You always hear songs that are about, ‘I got this exotic girl. She half this and she half that’ or she’s yellowbone or redbone,” she said. “You never hear anybody glorifying the people or the women that are brown skin or that are dark skin.”

Colorism functions by devaluing darker-skinned people in favor of skin tones that more closely approximate whiteness and white aesthetics. As Remy pointed out, if black women are highlighted in videos or songs, they tend to be lighter-skinned with hair in loose curl patterns.

These messages are woven into her platform because very often terms like colorism are seen as exclusive to academia. It’s the divide between “ivory tower feminism” and “grassroots feminism.”

“I can’t preach to people the way I’m talking now. They’d be like ‘Aw, here goes Rem again on her rant,’” Remy said. “I have to trick them into it with a beat that they know that’s catchy to them with cutie pop or Chris Brown on the record.”

So while Remy’s outward celebration of dark skin in music is still uncommon, she says she’ll always use her music to fight against these very stereotypes and push for more representation for girls like her.

“[It’s] for those women who listen to my record like ‘Melanin Magic’ or a record like ‘Conceited’ that I made 10 years ago,” she said. “I want them to hear those songs and be like, ‘You know what? There is nothing wrong with me. I don’t need to change nothing.’”

In February, Remy hosted a women’s empowerment brunch, where she discussed how she wants this pride to foster more female collaborations within rap. The industry is notorious for alienating female rappers and simply not giving them the same credit as male artists.

Remy believes that women standing together is the answer to their collective success.

“I’m always gonna tell people stand up for yourself. That’s what women’s empowerment includes as well.”

While some point to her public feud with Nicki Minaj as contradictory to this message, Remy believes that it’s all a lesson in women speaking up for themselves.

“And sometimes people are like, oh, she’s just saying that. I don’t feel any woman should tolerate disrespect,” she said. “And that comes from my mom, my grandmother and my aunts. If you have a problem, then say something ... I’m always gonna tell people, stand up for yourself. That’s what women’s empowerment includes as well. ”

Remy has also been vocal about issues related to women’s health, publicly discussing in vitro fertilization (IVF) and her own challenges with infertility. After a tragic ectopic pregnancy in 2016, Remy found she could no longer give birth naturally. The process has made her very aware of the issues facing women trying to conceive.

Steven Ferdman via Getty Images

Not including the costs of medication and doctor’s appointments, a single IVF cycle can cost between $7,000 and $13,000 in the state of New York. The procedure isn’t covered by insurance in most states. At the 2017 Essence Fest, Remy announced she was going start her own foundation for women unable to afford fertility treatment costs.

“Where are these politicians for pro-life when there are women out here who want to have children?” she told HuffPost. “A lot of things that have to do with women always gets swept under the rug. We’re always secondary and that’s why I’m so adamant about the IVF situation.”

From women’s health to simply acknowledging how magical black girls are, Remy Ma views her platform as a chance to elevate women. She’s also basking in the proud moments when she acknowledges just how dope her identity is.

One of her favorite moments is when the box braids are finally taken out, and her hair is washed and standing alone in all its afro-puff glory. In these moments, so singular to black girlhood, she’s fully herself.The annual World Happiness Report is out, and it’s not great news for the U.S., which fell four places to 18th this year.

Finland inched out last year’s winner Norway to take the top spot. The tiny country of 5.5 million people tucked into a northern corner of Europe has long received accolades for its quality of life. The World Economic Forum judged it one of the best countries in the world for gender equality, and it made the top 10 of the world’s most environmentally friendly countries in Yale and Columbia universities’ Environmental Performance Index. Finland also has an estimated 2 million saunas and the densest forests in the world.

“The most important building blocks for a happy society are democracy, equality, good education and high quality child care, as well as taking care of each other,” Finnish Ambassador Päivi Luostarinen told HuffPost. “These values are very important for Finns. I also think our relationship with nature, and national character, play parts in our happiness.”

Finland placed well across all indicators – income, social support, healthy life expectancy, freedom, trust and generosity – in the United Nations report, which ranked 156 countries on happiness levels using data from Gallup World Poll Surveys from 2015 to 2017.

The top 10, as usual, was dominated by Nordic countries: Sweden, Denmark, Norway and Iceland. This strong showing demonstrates “Nordic happiness”, according to Michael Birkjær, an analyst at the Happiness Research Institute in Copenhagen. This, he said, comes from “healthy amounts of personal freedom, trust (both in other people and in the system) and social security, which outweighs residents having to pay some of the highest taxes in the world.”

For the first time since it began in 2012, the report made migration a big focus. “Human populations have always migrated,” Jan-Emmanuel De Neve, an Oxford professor who co-authored the report, told HuffPost. “But what has been lost in that account has been the focus on well-being. Are they becoming happier by moving to a new country? How does that relate to the well-being in the country of origin? The recipient country?”

The findings are striking, De Neve said. The report found an almost complete convergence between the happiness of the host nation and the happiness of the migrants. That means people who move from unhappier countries to happier ones see an upward shift in their well-being.

“What makes Finland very special,” he added, “is [that it] is both No. 1 in terms of self-reported life satisfaction across the board, but also No. 1 for migrant happiness.”

Well-being levels were much less positive in the U.S., however. The report points out a paradox about happiness in America. While income per capita has more than doubled in the U.S. since 1972, happiness and well-being has declined.

“It’s scary,” said De Neve, “The U.S. is at its lowest unemployment levels and seeing huge growth at the moment ― Trump obviously wants even more than that ― and yet in terms of well-being they’re actually decreasing.”

The report attributes this to factors that include weakening social support networks, perceptions of government corruption, and falling confidence in public institutions. But the factor the report dwells on most is public health.

Obesity, the opioid crisis, and depression are global problems, but “the prevalence of all three problems has been growing faster and further [in the U.S.] than in most other countries,” according to the report.

This can be ascribed to factors including rising income inequality, economist Jeffrey Sachs, another report co-author, wrote in the report, and the “persistent absolute and relative poverty” of a significant portion of the U.S. population, which shoulders a disproportionate share of these public health crises.

“Alarm bells should be ringing,” said De Neve. “We can’t just rely on economic growth and think everything will be fine. It’s not translating into more well-being for the general population.”

Top 10 happiest countries

Finland Norway Denmark Iceland Switzerland Netherlands Canada New Zealand Sweden Australia

Top 10 least-happy countries

Burundi Central African Republic South Sudan Tanzania Yemen Rwanda Syria Liberia Haiti Malawi

CORRECTION: A previous version of this story indicated that the United States was ranked 14th this year and 11th last year. In fact, it was ranked 18th this year and 14th last year.

For more content and to be part of the “This New World” community, join our Facebook Group.Someone automated dozens of accounts to amplify anti-Trump, anti-Sanders and pro-Democratic Party content. Kacper Pempel / Reuters

When Russians at the Internet Research Agency interfered in U.S. politics, they created false online personas and fake political groups to amplify divisive messages that already had a homegrown American audience. It’s not too far from what some U.S. political consultants are doing themselves.

Take Sally Albright, a Democratic Party communications consultant who backed presidential candidate Hillary Clinton in 2016. Unsurprisingly, Albright is vocally opposed to President Donald Trump and a big supporter of the resistance to his administration. She is also one of the loudest, most divisive voices attacking Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.), Clinton’s onetime Democratic primary opponent, and his left-wing supporters.

Well after the primary, Albright continues to claim that Sanders is a fraud, a liar, racist and corrupt, among many other things. In one instance she declared that the policy idea of free college, as promoted by Sanders, was racist. This provoked Sanders supporters to argue back.

Trevor, a Sanders supporter who declined to provide his last name for fear of being doxxed, but goes by @likingonline on Twitter, noticed a strange pattern of behavior when Albright responded to him. Her tweets addressing him were rapidly retweeted by the same series of accounts. This created a barrage of notifications making it look as though there was an avalanche of opposition to everything he said.

But as Trevor discovered, after an extensive amount of research that he posted online, these were not normal accounts. They appeared to be bots ― automated accounts masked as real people being used to amplify a particular political message. Who is really pulling the strings, however, remains a mystery.

Albright told HuffPost that the accounts were voluntarily handed over by their original users to an unnamed client of hers to be automated in “an analytics program.” She said she was bound by a non-disclosure agreement and could not disclose who was collecting and automating these accounts or for what purpose.

But like her, these accounts were all pro-Clinton, anti-Trump and anti-Sanders.

Does "free college" specifically benefit women and minorities? Does it benefit anyone who isn't already going to college and just doesn't want to pay? Reinforcing the status quo is racist. — Sally Albright (@SallyAlbright) January 17, 2018

Twitter allows users to automate their accounts, including setting up automatic retweeting and liking of other accounts. This increases activity on the platform, something Twitter obviously wants to do, and allows busy users to promote messages or businesses that they support. Presumably Twitter did not anticipate that users would simply hand their accounts over to another person or campaign to artificially spread the latter’s tweets.

The ability to swamp a debate with automated messages is a problem for political discourse around the world. Twitter is a vital platform for political debate. Automating Twitter accounts to retweet or otherwise promote specific messages thus becomes a tactic to silence political debate and squelch free speech.

In Mexico, allies of President Enrique Peña Nieto have deployed swarms of Twitter bots to overwhelm and effectively shut down online debates. Journalists in the U.S. experienced a similar flood during the 2016 election from pro-Trump, neo-Nazi sock-puppet accounts posting anti-Semitic death threats. Often instead of suppressing speech it doesn’t like, the Chinese government these days drowns it on local social media platforms with a flood of pro-government content. University of North Carolina scholar Zeynep Tufecki has labeled this tactic a new form of censorship.

What the automated accounts deployed by Albright’s unnamed client did was similar.

Over the course of the last year or so, Albright was their favorite account to retweet ― almost always as a group. The fake accounts also retweeted people who responded to Albright’s tweets ― again, usually as a group, and often while in a debate with other users.

The writers at Shareblue, a pro-Democratic Party news site that supported Clinton in the primary and general elections, were also frequently retweeted by the network of fake accounts, particularly when the Shareblue folks had something negative to say about Sanders. A spokeswoman for Shareblue told HuffPost that the company does not create sock-puppet accounts and has never worked with Albright.

These accounts also liked #resistance celebrities like liberal conspiracy theorist Eric Garland (“Time for some game theory”) and Harvard law professor Laurence Tribe. And they were often deployed in intra-Democratic Party battles.

When Albright led a Twitter campaign to attack a 2017 women’s conference for inviting Sanders to speak ― after Clinton, Sen. Elizabeth Warren (D-Mass.) and Sen. Kirsten Gillibrand (D-N.Y.) had turned them down ― the automated account network deployed to retweet her and any positive responses to her tweets.

Albright probably didn’t need those retweets, as there were actual people opposing the conference’s decision. Still, someone questioned her campaign to block Sanders from speaking, describing it as similar to “Russian division strategy.” She wrote back, “Nyet. I am not Russian.”

Then over a dozen fake accounts retweeted her.

The original image from skater Sara Hurtado's Instagram account (left) and the image used on the fake Twitter account named Iris Winter. Instagram/Twitter

Within this pro-Albright Twitter force, many of the accounts have taken on false personas with stolen photographs ― just like the Russian trolls that tried to interfere in the 2016 election.

The account of Gwen Barstow is temporarily restricted, probably because it used an image of Meaghan Delcourt, an Ottawa woman who was in the local news in 2015 after her apartment balcony collapsed underneath her.

Cheryl Montgomery’s account @cherry_mgm was suspended in February after Catherine Simpson, a public relations professional in Vancouver, Canada, alerted Twitter that it was using her picture. The theft of Simpson’s photo to create this fake account was previously reported by the Canadian Global News.

Albright admitted to HuffPost that she had handed over a number of accounts to that unnamed client that had been connected to previous projects of hers and that were no longer in use. She also said that she changed the pictures for some of them.

One of the Albright-linked accounts, @OvrTheBayBridge, appears to have a picture of an actual person named Kirby Manning. But the Manning photo has been taken from someone else and appropriated for this account. The real person is Brinkley Hutchings, a leadership coach and environmental activist in Alabama.

Other accounts that Albright said she provided to her client’s project included @PropagandaMnstr, @DruidCityMedia, @VotrProtection, @BucksPocket, @Sallying and @SocialCapitol. Each of these accounts was connected to a website domain that had been purchased by Albright.

A screenshot of Albright's Buffer account that she tweeted showed accounts under her control, including some of the automated accounts in question. Sally Albright/Twitter.com

The accounts that link directly to websites owned by Albright and those pretending to be people they are not exhibit similar patterns of behavior. They retweet Albright and other accounts with similar messages at an extremely high rate. Each account has made tens of thousands of tweets, almost all of which are retweets. And they all almost exclusively post using an application called Buffer.

Buffer, a social media management application with more than 2 million users, allows an individual to schedule tweets, retweets and likes; to schedule posts on other social media sites; and to control multiple accounts at once. It provides a limited free service for ordinary users and more extensive paid services for businesses and social media professionals.

In March 2017, Albright tweeted a complaint at Buffer about a problem she was having with a recent update. In one tweet in that conversation, she posted a screenshot of her Buffer account. That screenshot showed a number of profile pictures from Twitter accounts under her control through Buffer.

Among the pictures were those of @PropagandaMnstr, @CapWaterfront and @BucksPocket, all accounts known to be linked to her. There were also profile pictures for accounts that Trevor had listed in his original exposé of potentially fake accounts, including @FactoryofTruth, @_Stacey_Eff, @FordColvin, @GatsbyGirl, @PoliticalSavvy, @WTHisBill and @__SallyForth.

Albright told HuffPost that this screenshot was “really old” and that she no longer had access to the Buffer account controlling those accounts.

While it is still not known what organization was actually behind these automated accounts, most of them ceased operations after they were spotted by Trevor.

Meanwhile, Albright, who said she is no longer connected to the unknown project, concedes that this kind of automation may be problematic.A U.S. family’s cross-country move became a lot more stressful after United Airlines mistakenly flew their dog to Japan.

Kara and Joseph Swindle told KCTV-5 that they and their two children had landed in Kansas City, Missouri, on Tuesday expecting to be reunited with their German shepherd, Irgo. The dog had traveled in a kennel in the cargo hold of a different United flight.

Instead, the family was met with a Great Dane they had never seen before. Apparently, a United mix-up had sent Irgo all the way to Japan, which is where the Great Dane was meant to go.

A United spokesman confirmed the incident in a statement to HuffPost.

“An error occurred during connections in Denver for two pets sent to the wrong destinations,” he said. “We have notified our customers that their pets have arrived safely and will arrange to return the pets to them as soon as possible. We apologize for this mistake and are following up with the vendor kennel where they were kept overnight to understand what happened.”

Kara Swindle, whose family is in the process of moving from Oregon to Wichita, Kansas, told KCTV-5 that she just wants her beloved pet to be safe.

“I don’t know what else to do at this point,” she said. “I can’t cry anymore. I’ve cried too much.”

This is far from the most alarming dog-related incident on a United flight this week. On Monday, a 10-month-old puppy died in the cabin of a plane after passengers say a flight attendant made the dog’s owner stow the puppy in the overhead bin.

United had the highest number of animal deaths and injuries of any U.S. airline in 2017, based on Department of Transportation data. Out of the 24 pet deaths that occurred aboard U.S. carriers last year, 18 were on United flights. The airline had 2.24 “incidents” — meaning animal deaths or injuries ― per 10,000 animals transported. American Airlines had the next highest incident rate, with 0.87 incidents per 10,000 animals transported.

The vast majority of animals flown in cargo holds get to their destinations safely. But animal welfare experts typically recommend against it, suggesting you either take your pet in the cabin with you, if permitted, or choose another method of transportation if you have to travel with an animal.Katy Perry kissed an “American Idol” contestant ― and he didn’t like it.

Benjamin Glaze spoke to The New York Times about what he described as the “uncomfortable” kiss ― which happened to be his first kiss ever ― broadcast Sunday on the season premiere of the recently rebooted show. Glaze didn’t consent to the kiss and said he would’ve refused it if Perry had asked permission.

“I wanted to save it for my first relationship. I wanted it to be special,” Glaze, now 20, told the Times.

“Would I have done it if she said, ‘Would you kiss me?’ No, I would have said no,” he said. He added that he didn’t feel sexually harassed by Perry in the audition, which was recorded earlier.

“I know a lot of guys would be like, ‘Heck yeah!’ But for me, I was raised in a conservative family and I was uncomfortable immediately,” Glaze said. “I wanted my first kiss to be special.”

The kiss occurred during an audition interview with Glaze in which he said he liked meeting girls at his job as a cashier in an electronics store.

“Have you kissed a girl and liked it?” “American Idol” judge and country singer Luke Bryan asked, referencing Perry’s famous song from 2008.

“No, I’ve never been in a relationship. I can’t kiss a girl without being in a relationship,” Glaze answered, as Perry’s eyes widened and she exclaimed, “Really?”

“Come here,” Perry beckoned repeatedly as the other judges ― Bryan and singer Lionel Richie ― egged them on. Bryan got out his phone to take pictures, while Glaze, expressing disbelief, walked over to Perry.

“What, on the cheek?” Glaze said, glancing back at the cameras before he kissed the singer on her cheek.

“You didn’t even make the ‘smush’ sound,” she said, directing Glaze to give her a second kiss on the cheek. When he moved in to kiss her, Perry quickly turned her head and kissed him on the lips. Glaze, shocked and smiling, fell down.

The judges cheered and high-fived.

“Did you get him?” Bryan asked Perry.

“Yeah I got him,” she answered, smiling.

“Katy! You didn’t,” Glaze shouted with a grin on his face when he returned to his place to start the audition. “Well, that’s a first.”

After the pre-taped segment aired on Sunday, Perry faced backlash from many people, who argued the kiss was inappropriate, especially in the wake of the Me Too movement. As the Times pointed out, some people wondered what the reaction would’ve been if the genders of the contestant and judge had been reversed.

Imagine if a 33 year-old male artist tricked a 19 year-old female auditioner into a kiss like Katy Perry just did with that teenage guy. Would we all think it was cute? #AmericanIdol — Craig M. Tiede (@craigmtd) March 12, 2018

Ok, let’s be real for a minute: If Katy Perry was a man and that American Idol kiss happened to a woman, it would be sexual harassment, right? If we want people to listen to legit claims of harassment by women, we need to end the double standards. My 2 cents. — Anna Baglione (@AnnaBaglione) March 12, 2018

Anyone else watching Idol feel like Katy Perry pressured that poor kid into letting her kiss him on the cheek and violated him by planting one on his lips? Would not have been okay for a male celebrity to do to a young girl. #americanidol #katyperry #mencanbesexuallyharassedtoo — Heather Campbell (@Niblet81) March 12, 2018

The “American Idol” Twitter account shared this after the episode aired:

“This journey has just begun, Benjamin. A kiss for good luck from @katyperry and you’re on your way,” the tweet said.

This journey has just begun, Benjamin.



A kiss for good luck from @katyperry and you’re on your way. #AmericanIdol pic.twitter.com/k9YYLkLcXM — American Idol (@AmericanIdol) March 12, 2018

Glaze ended up not making the cut for the show, and Perry took some of the blame.

“I think you were a bit rushed and I think that’s because I sped up your BPM of the heartbeat,” the singer said.

For his part, Glaze told the Times he’s still waiting on his first kiss, because the one from Perry didn’t count.

“It was lip contact versus a romantic situation with someone you care about. That’s what a real first kiss is,” he said.

UPDATE: March 15 ― Glaze on Wednesday evening posted on Instagram a screenshot of his interview with The New York Times, and clarified some of his statements about the kiss.

“The way certain articles are worded is not done by me, and my true intentions are not accurately represented in every article you read about the situation,” he wrote. “I am not complaining about the kiss, I am very honored and thankful to have been apart of American Idol.”

He also repeated some of his comments in the Times article.

“I do not think I was sexually harassed by Katy Perry and I am thankful for the judges comments and critiques,” Glaze wrote. “I was uncomfortable in a sense of how I have never been kissed before and was not expecting it.”Students from Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School and Westglades Middle School gather to honor the 17 students and staff members killed at the high school in Parkland, Florida, last month. Joe Skipper/Reuters

A gunman entered Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School a month ago on Wednesday and opened fire with a semi-automatic AR-15-style rifle, killing 17 people and injuring 17 more. He shot nearly 150 rounds during the 10-minute attack, and reportedly would have continued if his weaponry had cooperated.

Instead, dumb luck brought an end to the rampage when the shooter’s rifle jammed as he attempted to reload it with a fresh magazine, law enforcement sources told Florida media outlets. Other sources suggested the perpetrator “fumbled” while trying to reload. Whether user error or a technical malfunction, this mishap appeared to save lives. With police closing in, the gunman discarded his firearm and fled the school with a bag full of ammunition, blending in with evacuating students.

In many ways, it’s a telling indictment of U.S. gun policy that 17 lives were cut short and we can feel lucky that it wasn’t worse. But if lawmakers are going to continue relying on luck alone to mitigate the carnage of mass shootings, the least they could do is work to stack the odds against murderers and in favor of their victims.

One way to do that would be to pass a federal restriction on high-capacity magazines. This would limit the number of rounds a mass shooter could fire uninterrupted, meaning they’d have to reload more often, and not be able to shoot as many people in between. More reloading would result in a higher probability of a malfunction or mistake, giving law enforcement more time to respond and bystanders more opportunity to flee or fight back.

“Even though it’s fairly easy to interchange magazines, any time you do is a point at which firing stops,” said Robert Spitzer, a professor at SUNY Cortland who’s written five books on gun policy. “People drop the magazines. They jam. In a real live fire situation, people are often nervous, even including those who are committing these crimes.”

A variety of high-capacity magazines. The two on the left are magazines for handguns, while the next three are for military-style rifles. Portland Press Herald via Getty Images

Most standard magazines for military-style rifles like AR-15s hold 30 rounds, though 10-round versions are also common. There are conflicting reports about whether the Parkland shooter used 10-round magazines or 30-round magazines, but regardless, the incident appears to demonstrate the value of forcing criminals to reload.

Sen. Marco Rubio (R-Fla.) hinted as much during a town hall with Stoneman Douglas students last month, when he said he’d consider a ban on high-capacity magazines after being told that several people were able to escape while the shooter was reloading. He later introduced legislation that ignored magazines entirely.

Magazine capacity restrictions have been hotly debated at both the state and federal levels. The 1994 federal assault weapons ban, which expired in 2004, included a 10-round cap on magazines. That limit would be reinstated under both House and Senate bills to renew the assault weapons ban.

Eight states and Washington, D.C., have also passed measures restricting magazines of various sizes, with most implementing a 10-round limit as part of broader assault weapons ban legislation. Many of those laws have faced legal challenges, though federal courts have generally upheld them and the Supreme Court has so far declined to hear a challenge.

“If the federal government enacted a high-capacity magazine ban, it would be constitutionally permissible,” said Adam Winkler, a professor of constitutional law at the UCLA School of Law who has written extensively on gun policy.

Gun advocates often argue that the purpose of the Second Amendment is to ensure that an armed citizenry would be capable of rising up against a tyrannical government, but the Supreme Court has established that the core Second Amendment right pertains to self-defense. As long as the court maintains that position, it would be hard to justify a change on this issue, said Adam Skaggs, chief counsel of the Giffords Law Center to Prevent Gun Violence.

“Having 10 rounds of ammunition to fire doesn’t materially infringe [on] the ability to use the gun for self-defense, especially when considered in light of the state’s interest to limit the ability of shooters to commit mass carnage,” he said.

But to probe the issue of civilian versus government firepower a bit deeper, it’s worth noting that many high-capacity magazines available to the public are larger than the 30-round magazines law enforcement and domestic military personnel typically use. The Las Vegas gunman last October was equipped with a number of 100-round magazines, for example.

“Having 10 rounds of ammunition to fire doesn’t materially infringe [on] the ability to use the gun for self-defense, especially when considered in light of the state’s interest to limit the ability of shooters to commit mass carnage.” - Adam Skaggs, chief counsel of the Giffords Law Center to Prevent Gun Violence.

While we’re weighing if civilians should have access to more than 10 rounds in a magazine, perhaps we should be asking the same of government agents. After all, if police or military officers can’t hit what they’re aiming for in 10 shots, maybe they shouldn’t be able to shoot another 20 rounds without reloading.

Although the federal assault weapons ban legislation includes an exception for law enforcement, making it a universal restriction might help reverse the vicious cycle of militarization of both civilians and the state, said Skaggs.

“The argument is that we make these products legal, giving criminals the ability to get these magazines, so we have to arm our law enforcement with more and more militaristic weapons because the civilian population has them,” Skaggs said. “It creates a one-way ratchet. Each side has to continually be more armed.”

High-capacity magazine bans have traditionally been considered in conjunction with more sweeping assault weapons ban legislation, but there may be a few reasons to introduce such proposals on their own.

Magazine capacity restrictions are slightly less politically polarizing than assault weapons bans, according to recent surveys, with some polls showing majority support even among Republicans. At the same time, many experts predict that restricting high-capacity magazines would be just as effective at reducing mass shooting deaths as banning assault weapons.

There are also legitimate questions about the scope of assault weapons bans. Although it’s clear that just one bullet from a military-style rifle can inflict horrific damage to a human body, the same can be said of most rifles, including non-military style rifles that fire higher caliber rounds more slowly. In mass shooting scenarios, the elevated threat of a rifle like an AR-15 is primarily a function of its high volume and rate of fire, not the cosmetic features and other attachments often associated with so-called assault weapons.

By focusing on how many rounds a weapon can shoot before it has to be reloaded, a high-capacity magazine ban more narrowly addresses the lethality of the firearm, said Winkler.

“It makes a lot more sense, public policy-wise, to ban high-capacity magazines than it does to ban military-style rifles,” he said.

“It makes a lot more sense, public policy-wise, to ban high-capacity magazines than it does to ban military-style rifles.” - Adam Winkler, professor of constitutional law at the UCLA School of Law

But such an effort would also pose significant challenges. High-capacity magazines have been standard issue on some of the most popular rifles sold in the U.S. in recent decades, meaning there are tens of millions of them already out there. States that have banned high-capacity magazines have generally outlawed the sale and manufacture of new devices, while grandfathering in the possession of items that were legal when the ban was enacted. The federal proposals include a similar clause.

When implemented on a state-by-state basis, these restrictions can be easily circumvented. Someone in a state where high-capacity magazines are banned can simply purchase them in a more gun-friendly state and bring them home. Although those magazines might technically be illegal under state law ― and transporting them across state lines certainly would be ― they don’t typically come stamped with a manufacture date, meaning law enforcement generally wouldn’t be able to tell the difference between a banned device and a legally possessed one.

These are inherent weaknesses with the system of federalism, especially when it comes to gun laws, and further evidence that regulating high-capacity magazines might be best addressed at the federal level. But the current proposal would likely raise enforceability issues as well, simply because it would be difficult to keep track of the devices that get grandfathered in.

Students from Washington, D.C.-area schools protest for stricter gun control during a walkout at the U.S. Capitol on March 14, 2018. Joshua Roberts/Reuters

Despite the complications, Spitzer maintains any move toward restricting high-capacity magazines is a step in the right direction.

“At least you’re not producing and selling more of them,” he said. “If your basement is filling with water because of a broken pipe, the first thing you do is turn off the water. It doesn’t eliminate the water in the basement, but at least it keeps more water from coming in.”

Still, it’s important to be realistic about the limitations of a high-capacity magazine ban. The current debate comes in response to increasingly frequent and deadly mass shootings, in which many of the perpetrators have used military-style rifles and high-capacity magazines. These incidents are deeply troubling and deserving of a policy response that can begin to reverse this bloody trend, even if it can’t prevent it altogether. But mass shootings are also a small problem of the overall gun violence picture, and they look markedly different than the overwhelming majority of incidents, which involve handguns outfitted with standard-capacity magazines.

“I don’t think anyone would argue with a straight face that if we limit people to magazines of 10 or 15 rounds we’d solve the entire gun violence problem, but what we can do is expect to have a real effect on how many people are injured and killed in mass shooting incidents,” said Skaggs.

And it might take patience to see results.

“When you have 350 million guns out there, any law you adopt is going to take a long time to work, if it works at all,” said Winkler. “It’s a reform that would take generations to work, rather than days or months.”

Of course, there are more cynical reasons to think a high-capacity magazine ban might not get much support at the federal level. With Republicans in control of all three branches of government and showing little interesting in opposing the National Rifle Association, even the soundest of reasoning might not make a difference.WASHINGTON ― The Senate on Wednesday passed a bill so friendly to banks that even a Republican worried it goes too far.

By a vote of 67-to-31, the Senate passed the Economic Growth, Regulatory Relief, and Consumer Protection Act, which is aimed at reducing the regulatory burden on struggling community banks ― even though most such banks are thriving. Supporters also argued that the bill would make it easier for Americans to buy a home by increasing their access to capital.

The measure would also exempt 25 of America’s biggest banks from regulations created in response to the financial crisis that contributed to the Great Recession a decade ago. The Congressional Budget Office warned that the risk of another financial crisis “would be slightly greater under the legislation.”

The prospect of helping Wall Street while increasing the likelihood of a bailout situation was unsavory enough to prompt one Republican on the Senate Banking Committee to try to make the bill less favorable to huge banks. The amendment from Sen. Bob Corker (R-Tenn.) never had much of a chance, however. While dozens of changes to the bill were proposed, party leaders were unable to reach an agreement to vote on any of them.

Part of the legislation could allow JPMorgan Chase and Citibank, two of the very biggest banks in the U.S., to hold less capital relative to their assets, undercutting one of the 2010 Dodd-Frank law’s safety measures. Corker wanted to strike that provision.

“Capital standards matter and leverage ratios matter a great deal to me,” Corker told HuffPost.

The bill sailed through the Senate thanks in large part to backing from a mix of centrist and red-state Democrats, who argued that small and regional banks had nothing to do with the excesses of Wall Street prior to the 2008 recession.

Those Democrats also touted several new “consumer protections” in the bill. While the legislation delivers favors to banks, it ostensibly cracks down on credit monitoring companies like Equifax, which exposed millions of consumers’ financial information to hackers last year. One provision would require such firms to give customers free credit freezes, although critics have complained that measure would also pre-empt more generous state laws and still allow employers and insurance companies to look at otherwise frozen credit reports. The bill also gives Equifax and other credit monitoring firms a leg up in the mortgage business.

It’s unclear whether the House would vote to pass the Senate bill as is or amend it with other items. Rep. Jeb Hensarling (R-Texas), chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, told reporters last week that the current Senate bill didn’t satisfy him and that he looked forward to attaching several other provisions.

“I’m really pleased with what the Senate accomplished, but I actually think our legislation is better,” Rep. Tom Cole (R-Okla.) said Wednesday.

Major changes to the bill, however, could threaten its support among Senate Democrats.

Democrats themselves had proposed a range of amendments, some to improve the bill and some that were more about messaging. One proposal from Sen. Tammy Baldwin (D-Wis.) would have reined in corporate stock buybacks, which have surged since Congress passed a huge corporate tax cut in December.

“The Senate functions best when people’s ideas can get a full debate,” Baldwin told HuffPost.

The provision that caught Corker’s attention would allow “custodial” banks, which hold assets on behalf of other institutions, to not count certain assets for purposes of calculating additional leverage requirements on banks with more than $250 billion in assets. Though they’re not custodial banks, the Congressional Budget Office has said that JPMorgan and Citibank could benefit from the provision depending on its regulatory interpretation. Corker’s amendment would have taken away that uncertainty by deleting the entire section.

Corker told HuffPost that he has talked about the issue with the Federal Reserve, which is one of the bank regulators that enforces the supplementary leverage ratio, as the Dodd-Frank provision is known. He suggested that simply having his proposed amendment in the Congressional Record would be a signal to bank regulators and also to the lawmakers whose job it will be to merge the different bills from the House and Senate.

“We’re just trying to create some legislative history here,” Corker said. “I want to make sure that we give the Fed plenty of room to do what they feel is appropriate in that regard.”

This article has been updated to reflect that the bill passed the Senate.Democratic fundraiser Tom Steyer wants to turn out millennial voters in 10 battleground states this November. Drew Angerer/Getty Images

STERLING, Va. ― Tom Steyer, a former hedge fund manager from California, wants to Make America Progressive Again.

And more than any other Democratic donor, he’s putting his money where his mouth is. The billionaire has sunk over $32 million into his political nonprofit NextGen America’s efforts to turn out millennial voters in 10 battleground states this year.

More controversially, Steyer has spent another $40 million on a “Need to Impeach” initiative, using television ads to drum up signatures for a petition to oust President Donald Trump.

In an interview with Steyer this week, HuffPost asked him about the effectiveness of a campaign centered on the president, rather than policy issues; his views on the violence in Gaza; whether he plans to run for president; and whether his extraordinary wealth undermines his credibility as a progressive leader.

Why are you trying to mobilize millennials?

It’s the biggest age cohort in America and it votes at half the overall rate of American citizens. It seems to me a critical thing for the country that people who are knowledgeable and passionate and feel like the system doesn’t respond to them participate in elections. They also happen to be the most diverse generation in American history, and they’re probably the most progressive Americans.

Millennial support for Democrats, according to a Reuters poll, has dropped off by 9 points since 2016. Is it possible that an effort to mobilize these voters could actually help Republicans?

Well, I can tell you that our experience of going and doing more grassroots organizing for people under the age of 35 doesn’t suggest that. And I saw that poll as well, so it’ll be whatever it is.

But we believe that the broadest democracy is the best democracy, and overlooked groups are not gonna have their interests and rights respected unless they participate.

Your Mother’s Day ad ― in which a regretful mom warned others to “talk to your child about the GOP” ― made some waves. Was it supposed to be satirical?

Of course, it was supposed to be funny. Did you laugh?

Yeah, I thought it was kind of funny. But isn’t the ad a case of preaching to the choir? The people who find it funny are probably already voting for Democrats.

OK, but then, I would ask you this: If you look at 2014 and 2016 and 2010, all the national elections in the last decade that have not included the words “Barack Obama,” how’s the Democratic turnout been?

Is this about the base then?

It’s about turnout, yes. If you look at why pollsters have blown every election for the last two years, it’s because they can’t model the electorate. They know how Daniel’s gonna vote; they just don’t know if he’s gonna vote.

There’s polling data that says your “Need to Impeach” campaign is a political loser. Won’t it just drive Republicans out to the polls?

First of all, you have to start with the point that we actually have a reckless, lawless and dangerous president, that we actually think he should be impeached, that in every single one of the instances that you’re talking about, he has more influence on it than anyone else in the United States of America ― in a malign way.

So whether they like it or not, this [midterm election] is largely a referendum on this administration.

What is your answer to the tactical argument against it? Because you don’t get to impeach Trump without a majority in the House. The last time impeachment was in the air in 1998, it was a midterm election for a second-term Democratic president and Democrats still ended up gaining seats in part because of public fatigue with the impeachment process.

I think this is really different from 1998, and I bet you do too. There you had a president who was being impeached for a lie about a personal affair. Here we have a president who really is degrading our Constitution on a daily basis and breaking the law on important things.

So what the Democrats are saying is, “We don’t want to talk about it because we’re worried that tactically, politically, in six months, our polls tell us it won’t work well”? It’s six months from now. You have no idea. The pollsters have missed every single election [in the past two years].

We think this is a maelstrom, so we’re gonna go to our go-to move. Our go-to move is: Tell the truth and put the American people first.

Anybody who thinks that they know what it’s gonna be like on Nov. 6, 2018, is kidding themselves. The world just changed today. We don’t know what’s gonna happen in the Gaza Strip. I don’t. Do you? Do I think it’s a big deal? I do actually.

Wasn’t the 2016 election already a referendum on Trump? Hillary Clinton banked on the idea that he was so repulsive, voters would reject him.

Well, that’s actually an interesting point. I would say that midterm elections are overwhelmingly referendums on a sitting administration. The energy Democrats are counting on is not a positive reflection of the great program they’re putting forward, but is a reflection of people’s distaste for this president.

I don’t know what you think the Women’s March was about. I sort of think it was about people who were really upset about this president. Every single one of these Indivisible groups is really a reaction to this election. I don’t think that they’re sitting here saying, “What we’re really organizing around is the Democratic platform.” Do you?

I do, to be honest with you.

Every single issue [Democratic voters care about goes back to Trump]. Is health care a gigantic issue in America? Absolutely. Is Trump on the wrong side of it? 100 percent. Is he on the wrong side of every issue as regards the American people? I think he is actually.

One issue you seem passionate about is the Israeli government’s killing of protesters in Gaza this week. Why do you think it was a pivotal moment?

Our foreign policy is changing from being a relationship-based partnership policy around the world to a military policy. Here’s a perfect example where we believe that the United States and its allies have the right to dictate what’s supposed to happen ― whether that’s our relationship with climate policy, NAFTA, Iran, China, the Trans-Pacific Partnership.

Does it surprise that now we’re in a proxy war in Syria and now in the Gaza Strip where we’re using force to insist that we’re right? It doesn’t surprise me. Because the implication of our foreign policy is: We will do what we want. And we will dictate outcomes to everybody else in the world.

What do you mean by proxy war?

When you look at what happened, we pulled out of the Iran [nuclear] treaty, and that causes an opening for missiles trading back and forth in Syria between Iran and Israel. And we moved our embassy to Jerusalem, and that caused protests in Gaza, which were put down with extreme force.

And so I think that if you look at all the different instances I gave you, America is stating that we represent only ourselves and we will use our might to ensure we get our way. That’s a real change in terms of what we said we are in the world, where we’d been trying to be an example of democracy and liberty.

Billions of people have a screen and they’re looking at what’s going on and they’re drawing their own conclusions about who we are.

What should we do about Israel? Leverage American aid to change their behavior?

People are always talking about what we should do. In most instances, in foreign economics, there’s not one thing you should do. The question is what role you’re gonna play and what are the principles under which you’re going to play it.

But one of the questions we need to ask is: Are we gonna be a country that is trying to live up to its ideals? Or are we a country that insists on its way and uses military might to make sure we get it?

Steyer rarely gets involved in Democratic primaries, but he has endorsed California state Sen. Kevin de Leon (left), who is challenging Sen. Dianne Feinstein (D-Calif.). Tommaso Boddi/Getty Images

With “Need to Impeach,” you’ve built an email list of over 5 million people. Are you going to run for president?

I have no idea what I’m gonna do after Nov. 6, and there’s no way to know.

The funny thing about this is, you’re asking me and people are always asking me, “What is your subtext? Because you couldn’t really think that this unfit president is unfit, that this lawless president is actually lawless.”

No, the subtext is: This guy’s dangerous.

There are bright candidates exciting the grassroots and they’re sometimes fighting to get a fair shake with Democratic Party leadership because they don’t have a dollar to their names. Why not back progressives in primary races?

We are going to be asked to do a thousand things this year. If we do a thousand things, we are going to do zero well.

We are the largest organizer of young people in the United States. We are knocking on millions of doors with the unions. We are trying to oppose this president as hard as we can with this impeachment campaign. And we are running up to three statewide [ballot initiatives] on clean energy.

So it’s not like we’re doing nothing. I challenge you to find somebody who is doing as much.

We have made the choice that if people are within the range of Democratic reason, we are going to give as much information to the voters and let them decide.

Having said that, we understand that there is an intellectual combat going on within the Democratic Party. To use a simplistic term that I don’t really agree with, it’s kind of Hillary vs. Bernie, mods and progressives.

That’s a fairly accurate framing.

It ain’t really though. The real way to think about it is: Are we talking about incremental thinking or visionary thinking?

And the second is about corruption. If you’re taking $385,000 for a one-hour speech to Goldman Sachs, really that didn’t change anything for you? Because I think most people in America thought, “If I got $385,000, it might change something for me.” If someone gave me $385,000 and said, “I’d like you to have a meeting,” I’d say, “OK!”

People get that. There’s a big question about the fact that our system is corrupt and rigged. And that’s something that Democrats are inchoately dealing with. Like, that just feels wrong!

My father was a lawyer, and one of the first things he told me about being a citizen was that “But everybody else does it, your honor,” is not a defense at law.

In that divide though, however you want to frame it, where do you place yourself?

Progressive.

Some people might say, “This guy is fabulously wealthy. How can he ever really get the depths of economic inequality and what it’s like to struggle?”

I’m sure people may think that. I do this for 100 percent of my time and try to make sure I speak to American voters as much as possible, and that’s the most fun I have.

So every single week, I am out talking to people who are not fabulously wealthy. In fact, I very rarely talk to people who are fabulously wealthy. What I try to do as much as possible is go and make sure that I’m talking to activists and regular citizens, so that I, in fact, do understand.

One of the real issues here is raising money and whether you have to spend all your time talking to people who are somewhere between rich and fabulously rich because they can afford to give thousands to your campaign.

And you don’t have to do that.

I don’t! I consider it a privilege and a luxury that I get to talk to normal people. I get to talk to normal Americans all the time and it is incredibly fun.

Goldman Sachs hasn’t offered me $385,000 and I don’t know what I’d do if they ever did. But I don’t need it. I can be as honest as I can be.Oprah Winfrey is so rich, she spends money on things we didn’t even know existed — like her custom bathtub, for example.

The media mogul revealed Monday on “The Late Late Show” that bathing is, without a doubt, her favorite hobby. So it only makes sense that she would invest in the best option on the market.

She revealed that the bathtub is carved out of marble and onyx, and that a “couple” of people could probably fit in there. And yet that wasn’t even close to the coolest thing about the tub.

“However, it was carved to the shape of my body,” the media mogul said, as Corden screamed, “Shut up!” and threw his interview notes to the side.

Witherspoon and Kaling clearly couldn’t believe what they’d heard, either.

“What ... what?” Witherspoon said, awestruck. Kaling shook her head and simply said, “We should go [to Winfrey’s house].”

“I told you, bathing is my hobby, I take it seriously,” Winfrey said. She wasn’t kidding.

The media icon explained the significance of having the tub to Vogue in August 2017.

“Honestly, it came from the fact that I was raised with my father in, like, an 1,100-square-foot house where we all shared the same tub,” she said. “And when I would go back home, after having been in hotels and seeing that there are nicer tubs in the world, and there’s that little tub with a ring around it, where Comet could no longer clean the ring around the tub — and it was my job to clean it — because it has been permatized, I vowed if I ever got my own place, I was going to get myself a good tub!”

AdvertisementMike Pompeo, President Donald Trump’s pick to replace sacked Secretary of State Rex Tillerson, threatens to bring a hard-line brand of climate change denialism to Foggy Bottom for the first time.

The current CIA director, named early Tuesday as the nominee to be the nation’s top diplomat, has long rejected the widely-accepted science behind man-made global warming, dashing hopes that the United States might reverse its decision to leave from the Paris climate accord before November 2020, when the deal allows the country to formally withdraw.

In a twist, Tillerson, the former chief executive of Exxon Mobil Corp., turned out to be one of the most moderate voices on climate change in the Trump administration, despite his previous employer’s role as an early and generous financier of the climate change denial movement.

Tillerson urged Trump against pulling out of the Paris Agreement last June, and suggested last September that the U.S. could remain in the deal. Still, the State Department rewrote its web page on climate change last March, abolished its climate change envoy position in August and left teams working on global warming issues in limbo, seemingly encouraging staff to leave. Coincidentally, a major environmental nonprofit sued the State Department on Tuesday for refusing to release a U.N. report on U.S. climate action that was due on Jan. 1.

If confirmed by the Senate, Pompeo seems poised to do more damage to efforts to combat climate change.

“It’s good news for us,” said Myron Ebell, a leading proponent of climate change denial and a director at the right wing Competitive Enterprise Institute. “I expect very good things from him at the State Department.”

Mike Pompeo testifies before the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence in January 2017. Anadolu Agency via Getty Images

Ebell, who led Trump’s transition at the Environmental Protection Agency, said he hopes Pompeo will convince the president to withdraw the U.S. from the U.N. Framework Convention on Climate Change, completely ending all U.S. participation in climate talks.

He also wants Pompeo to “bury” an international deal to phase out refrigerants, coolants and aerosols called hydrofluorocarbons, or HFCs, that contribute to climate change. The deal, signed by 197 countries in October 2016, is called the Kigali Amendment. Last November, the State Department quietly indicated its support for the agreement.

In his six years as a Republican congressman from Kansas, Pompeo voted so routinely against environmental policies that he received a 4 percent lifetime score on the League of Conservation Voters’ ranking. In 2011, he unsuccessfully pushed to end energy subsidies in a move Ebell said was meant to target tax credits for wind turbines.

Throughout his tenure in Congress, Pompeo received over $1 million in donations from the billionaire Koch brothers’ network, making him their top recipient in the Trump administration. He collected $71,100 from Koch Industries, the Republican megadonors’ fossil fuel conglomerate, catapulting Pompeo to the top of the company’s recipients in Congress in 2016 alone, according to data collated by the Center for Responsive Politics.

In January 2017, Pompeo skirted questions about his view on climate science during his Senate confirmation hearing to become CIA director.

“Frankly, as the director of CIA, I would prefer today not to get into the details of the climate debate and science,” he said. “It seems — my role is going to be so different and unique from that.”

In December 2015, Pompeo railed against the Obama administration for brokering the Paris climate agreement, the global deal to cut planet-warming emissions that virtually every nation on Earth has now signed.

“For President Obama to suggest that climate change is a bigger threat to the world than terrorism is ignorant, dangerous, and absolutely unbelievable,” he said at the time.

“I would prefer today not to get into the details of the climate debate and science.” - Mike Pompeo at his Senate confirmation hearing in January 2017.

Pompeo called the accord part of a “radical climate change agenda.” He even used the mass shooting in San Bernardino, California, that killed 14 people to inveigh against Obama, claiming he “continues this pursuit of misguided policies, including his radical climate change agenda,” according to a since-deleted statement cited by Climate Central.

In December 2013, Pompeo rejected the consensus among 97 percent of peer-reviewed climate researchers that the planet is warming and burning fossil fuels, industrial farms and deforestation are the main causes.

“Look, I think the science needs to continue to develop,” he said during a segment on C-SPAN. “I’m happy to continue to look at it. There are scientists who think lots of different things about climate change. There’s some who think we’re warming, there’s some who think we’re cooling, there’s some who think that the last 16 years have shown a pretty stable climate environment.”

Environmental groups swiftly condemned Trump’s decision to name Pompeo as secretary of state.

“Donald Trump has now somehow picked someone even worse than Rex Tillerson to run the State Department,” Naomi Ages, Greenpeace USA’s climate director, said in a statement. “In addition to being a climate denier, like his predecessor, Pompeo is Koch brothers’ shill who will denigrate the United States’ reputation abroad and make us vulnerable to threats at home.”