Matt Damon and Ben Affleck are taking steps to make their film production company more inclusive.

Fanshen Cox DiGiovanni, the head of strategic outreach at Pearl Street Films, which has helped produce recent Damon/Affleck movies like “Jason Bourne” and “Live By Night,” announced on Monday that the company will adopt an inclusion rider for all future projects.

The pledge arrives a week after Frances McDormand implored powerful Hollywood types in her Best Actress Oscar’s speech to use their sway to ensure racial and gender diversity on sets. An inclusion rider is a stipulation actors can demand in their contracts to require the powers that be make sure real life demographics are reflected in front of and behind the camera.

“Black Panther” star Michael B. Jordan was among the first after McDormand’s plea to reveal he would use the rider for all films under his Outlier Society production company.

″@michaelb4jordan Thank you for always supporting broader representation in the industry,” Cox DiGiovanni tweeted. “On behalf of Pearl Street Films, Matt Damon, @benaffleck, Jennifer Todd, Drew Vinton & I will be adopting the #InclusionRider for all of our projects moving forward.” Todd and Vinton are other executives at the company.

.@michaelb4jordan Thank you for always supporting broader representation in the industry. On behalf of Pearl Street Films, Matt Damon, @BenAffleck, Jennifer Todd, Drew Vinton & I will be adopting the #InclusionRider for all of our projects moving forward. https://t.co/ODit24D2Rb — Fanshen (@fanshen) March 13, 2018

The Annenberg Inclusion Initiative, the foremost think tank tackling diversity issues in Hollywood and that includes Cox DiGiovanni as a board member, congratulated Pearl Street Films on the announcement.

Thank YOU for providing us with data AND solutions that help us all work towards change. I'm so proud to be on this team. #InclusionRider — Fanshen (@fanshen) March 13, 2018

Affleck and Damon have been relatively quiet in recent conversations regarding diversity and women’s rights in the entertainment industry after they both found themselves at the center of their own separate controversies.

Disgraced producer Harvey Weinstein helped launch both of the Oscar-winners’ careers. Since his downfall, Affleck has been accused on multiple occasions of sexual misconduct, while Damon has repeatedly stuck his foot in his mouth in conversations about sexual harassment and assault.

Affleck has since apologized for “acting inappropriately” after actress Hilarie Burton said he sexually harassed her during a 2003 TRL interview. He’s remained silent, however, about accusations that he groped makeup artist Annamarie Tendler at a Golden Globes party in 2014.

After multiple interviews gone wrong, Damon finally admitted that he “should get in the back seat and close my mouth for a while.”

AdvertisementOskar Groening, former Nazi SS officer dubbed the "bookkeeper of Auschwitz," died last week at the age of 96. Reuters

Oskar Groening, a former Nazi SS guard known as the “Bookkeeper of Auschwitz,” has reportedly died at age 96 without serving a day of his four-year prison sentence for being an accessory to murder.

Groening, one of the last Nazi war criminals to face trial for the genocide of Europe’s Jews during World War II, died in a hospital last week, German media reported.

As an Auschwitz guard, Groening had been tasked with sorting through banknotes and other belongings taken from arriving prisoners. He was convicted in 2015 for being an accessory to the murders of 300,000 people. His jail term was delayed, however, by bouts of ill health and appeals.

Groening’s defense lawyers pleaded for clemency, given his advanced age, but prosecutors in Hanover last year deemed him “fit for prison.”

Oskar Gröning, the 'Bookkeeper of #Auschwitz', a former member of the SS garrison of the German Nazi concentration and extermination camp, dies before starting sentence https://t.co/iUtyGWjF0V — Auschwitz Memorial (@AuschwitzMuseum) March 12, 2018

Born in 1921 in Lower Saxony in Germany, Groening was raised by his ultranationalist father after his mother died when he was 4 years old. Groening joined the Waffen-SS at the age of 20 and arrived in Auschwitz in 1942. In court, he admitted to sharing “moral guilt” for crimes at the death camp, but maintained he never personally murdered prisoners.

“I ask for forgiveness,” Groening told the judge during his trial. “I share morally in the guilt but whether I am guilty under criminal law, you will have to decide.”

After WWII, Groening worked in a glass-making factory in Lower Saxony, reported BBC. Decades later, he decided to speak publicly about his experiences during the war — becoming one of a very small number of Nazi personnel to do so.

Groening said at the time that he had chosen to speak out to persuade Holocaust deniers of the truth. “I would like you to believe me. I saw the gas chambers. I saw the crematoria. I saw the open fires,” he told the BBC in 2005. “I would like you to believe that these atrocities happened because I was there.”

Legally and symbolically, Groening’s trial had profound significance in Germany, where most Nazi officers were never prosecuted for crimes related to the Holocaust. Of the 6,500 former SS members who served at Auschwitz and survived the war, fewer than 50 were convicted.

Groening’s trial, noted the Guardian in 2015, went “to the heart of the question of whether people who were small cogs in the Nazi machinery, but did not actively participate in the killing of 6 million Jews during the Holocaust, were guilty of crimes.”

Reacting to news of Groening’s death this week, Efraim Zuroff, chief Nazi hunter at the Simon Wiesenthal Center, said it was “unfortunate, at least on a symbolic level” that Groening never served prison time.

“Without at least symbolic justice, these trials ― as important as they are ― lose an important part of their significance,” Zuroff told the BBC. “Their victims never had any appeals, nor did their tormentors have any mercy. Consequently these perpetrators don’t deserve either.”

Utterly frustrated by death of Auschwitz bookkeeper Oskar Groening before he could serve a single day of his jail sentence. Groening died awaiting relay to his plea for mercy, but his victims had no such opportunity and their tormentors had no mercy on them. — Efraim Zuroff (@EZuroff) March 12, 2018

On Tuesday, Eva Mozes Kor, an Auschwitz survivor who made headlines in 2015 for publicly expressing forgiveness of Groening, shared a photograph on Twitter of her and the former SS guard taken during his trial.

“He testified about his experiences and validated my testimony,” she wrote of Groening. “He said that he was sorry that he was part of Nazi regime ― that was important to denounce it!”Students across the country are planning to walk out of their schools on Wednesday in a demonstration demanding action on gun violence.

The timing could not be better, because the renewed campaign for tougher gun laws now faces its biggest test ― whether, in the face of a major political setback, it can sustain the energy that has kept it going since February’s mass shooting in Parkland, Florida.

That setback happened on Monday, when President Donald Trump released his proposal for fighting gun violence.

Less than two weeks ago, Trump presided over a televised, bipartisan meeting at the White House, where he boasted of standing up to the National Rifle Association and vowed to pass the kind of ambitious, meaningful gun legislation that his predecessor could not.

But the agenda Trump released Monday is yet another example of big talk before tiny action.

It doesn’t include expanding background checks so that they include all sales. It doesn’t include a ban on some or all assault-style weapons. He’s not even endorsing more anodyne proposals, like a higher minimum age for the purchase of assault weapons.

“Trump's agenda is yet another example of big talk before tiny action.”

Instead, Trump is calling to arm teachers, tweak the current background check system, and launch a blue-ribbon commission that will “investigate” options for further action.

The commission’s leader will be Betsy DeVos, the secretary of education ― yes, the person who keeps getting confused about her own department’s policies during public appearances and, during her confirmation hearings, said she supported guns in schools in case of grizzly bear attacks in places like Wyoming.

Trump did endorse one potentially important policy idea: passing laws that would give law enforcement power to take guns from people who threaten public safety. But that was an exhortation for states, not Congress, to act.

The pattern, alas, is familiar. After the Sandy Hook massacre in December 2012, then-President Barack Obama made new gun legislation the first priority of his second term. Sen. Joe Manchin, a West Virginia Democrat, worked with Republican Sen. Pat Toomey of Pennsylvania to craft a bipartisan bill to expand background checks.

But every other Republican opposed it and a handful of Democrats did too. It was six votes short of the 60 it needed to clear the Senate.

The bill didn’t lack popular support. On the contrary, polls at the time showed that a large majority of Americans supported expanding background checks. But more rural, more conservative states have disproportionate power in the Senate, and their lawmakers tend to be more skeptical of gun legislation.

The ones who might have been wavering ― the ones who believe firmly in a right to bear arms but also consider background checks a reasonable way to manage ownership ― worried about political backlash.

They figured the polls didn’t capture the intensity gap on guns, which has historically favored the NRA and its allies. Come the next election, these lawmakers figured, the only voters who would care or remember about a background check bill would be the ones who oppose gun legislation.

The political landscape looks pretty similar right now. Universal background checks are extremely popular. So are bans on assault-style weapons. Support for these ideas has, if anything, grown since the Parkland shooting.

But Republicans are in charge of Congress, and many oppose new gun legislation on principle. The ones willing to consider aggressive gun legislation figure they have more to fear from angry supporters of gun rights than they do from angry supporters of gun control laws.

The student-led movement for new gun laws can change that.

Wednesday’s demonstrations are the first step. If students really walk out, all across the country, it will be a sign that the movement represents more than a fleeting reaction to the Parkland shooting.

“The election is still more than seven months away.”

Next comes the march on Washington, at the end of the month. If turnout looks anything like it did for the 2017 women’s march, it will capture national media attention and suggest that supporters can maintain their intensity, just as the NRA and its allies always have.

But the push for new gun laws can’t stop there, because the election is still more than seven months away. Advocates need to keep applying pressure in a visible way ― by, for example, showing up at public events for lawmakers who would oppose new gun laws.

That model worked pretty well for defenders of the Affordable Care Act in 2017. Although many Republican lawmakers responded by canceling their public, town hall-style events, that strategy won’t work this time, because the Republicans will have to be out campaigning.

Advocates for new gun laws will also need to hone their arguments about what they want and why they think it will work. This should be easier than it was after Sandy Hook, because organizations like the Giffords Law Center to Prevent Gun Violence, Everytown For Gun Safety and the Brady Campaign to Prevent Gun Violence have spent the intervening years gathering and analyzing research, and translating it for advocates who are trying to make arguments.

Choosing targets will also be a challenge. The primary focus of the campaign will inevitably be Republicans, because as long as the GOP is in charge of Congress, meaningful legislation has virtually no chance of passing. But there are Democrats who oppose gun legislation, and the new movement will have to single them out too.

That means pointing out Democrats like Conor Lamb, the candidate hoping to win Tuesday’s special election for a Republican House district in Pennsylvania. Lamb has said he opposes new gun laws.

Above all, though, the advocates for legislation have to keep calling b.s. when they see it. That very much includes Monday’s effort from the White House, which administration officials have tried desperately to portray as ambitious.

The Trump administration’s gambit here is clear. Officials want to make the vast majority of Americans who support meaningful gun laws believe the administration is on their side, while endorsing measures that either won’t make much difference or won’t pass anyway.

It’s easy to assume the gambit will succeed, because that’s how the gun debate has played out in the recent past. But there are reasons to think this time will be different.

One of them is the students leading the movement right now. They have the country’s sympathy, but they are also smart and savvy. They grasp intuitively how to make arguments and organize through social media. What they don’t know, they are learning quickly.

And they are not alone. They are part of a broader uprising against Trump, his allies and the policies they pursue. It started with the women’s march, carried on through the fight against Obamacare repeal, and has grown to include protests on behalf of Dreamers and West Virginia public school teachers.Chinese social media users are abuzz after a camera caught a reporter’s candid moment at a government event.

The footage captured reporter Liang Xiangyi ― who works for Yicai, China’s largest financial media conglomerate ― rolling her eyes as another reporter, Zhang Huijun, asks a question during a convening of the National People’s Congress.

While these press conferences are typically heavily scripted and choreographed, often peppered with questions meant to spotlight the government’s achievements, the eyeroll wasn’t.

The reporter in the blue seemingly not too impressed with this question at the #NPC #China #TwoSessions pic.twitter.com/lq7AzX9oTp — Bill Birtles (@billbirtles) March 13, 2018

Just moments after the eyeroll aired, Chinese netizens flooded social media platforms like Weibo and Sina to discuss it. Viewers said they appreciated Liang’s honesty during the press conference, which many described as a dry event, while others laughed at the reporter’s unfiltered facial expressions.

Social media users even came out with GIFs and parodies of the moment:

Amazing to see how these two ladies just exploded over Chinese social media in the span of a few hours. Fan art in the making #RedBlueCamps pic.twitter.com/s6frv2gEgW — Lulu Yilun Chen (@luluyilun) March 13, 2018

Zhang, the reporter who asked the question, works for American Multimedia Television USA, a California-based outlet that appears to have a relationship with Chinese state-run media outlet China Central Television. Her question was directed at government official Xiao Yaqing, and partly involved what his plans were for 2018 and what he would do to protect Chinese state-owned enterprises.

Netizens said the question was so long that it resembled a speech and likely prompted Liang’s eyeroll.David Chang said he hopes Majordomo Media will help teach people "how to find — and understand — new and different things themselves." Yuchen Liao/Getty Images

Weeks after the launch of his new Netflix series “Ugly Delicious,” restaurateur David Chang has announced a new venture.

The chef and his business partner, Christopher Chen, are launching a culture-focused entertainment and media company titled Majordomo Media, a Monday press release noted.

“Majordomo Media is a place for people to connect over the things I believe define culture: travel, food, music, sports, exploration,” Chang said in the release. “I don’t want to tell people what to do or show them the new cool thing. Plenty of places do that. I want to teach them how to find — and understand — new and different things themselves and let them bring their friends along for the ride.”

Mary Melton, the former editor-in-chief of Los Angeles magazine, will lead Majordomo’s new editorial team. The platform includes a podcast series and several television shows currently in development.

Super excited to announce that I’m teaming up with @GodfreyDadich to create @MajordomoMedia—a new way to listen, watch, read, and engage with travel, sports, music, food, and culture. Honest conversations and strong opinions. Sign up to stay in the loop: https://t.co/9JijpdXtFy pic.twitter.com/Vsw3wNwSHO — Dave Chang (@davidchang) March 12, 2018

Chang hopes to encourage open dialogue and create a platform “where people can consider culture and race and have strong opinions while exploring their passions,” he explained in the release.This whole country is going nuts, and the NRA is in our way

They’re responsible for this whole production

They hold the strings, they control the puppet

And they threaten to take donor bucks

So they know the government won’t do nothing and no one’s budging

Gun owners clutching their loaded weapons

They love their guns more than our children.Beyoncé and her husband Jay-Z announced Monday they’d be taking our money and edges again with “On The Run II,” their second joint world tour.

Bey’s Twitter stans noticed almost immediately that the tour’s promotion poster channels a classic ’70s Senegalese film.

“OTRII tour poster references ‘Touki Bouki,’ a 1973 Senegalese film about two lovers who steal money and clothing, then book passage to Paris to start new lives,” @Bey_Legion tweeted. “It’s considered an African cinema classic.”

#OTRII tour poster references "Touki Bouki," a 1973 Senegalese film about two lovers who steal money and clothing, then book passage to Paris to start new lives. It's considered an African cinema classic. pic.twitter.com/l64KjxzAw0 — BEYONCÉ LEGION (@Bey_Legion) March 12, 2018

Bey and Jay have aligned themselves with the infamous duo Bonnie and Clyde since the days of their aptly titled 2002 single ”’03 Bonnie and Clyde.” Bonnie and Clyde were even the theme for the first “On The Run Tour” in 2014.

But this tour poster appears to be the first time the couple has paid homage to an African couple in this way.

A post shared by Beyoncé (@beyonce) on Mar 12, 2018 at 6:55am PDT

Bey Hive fans have been on edge since Beyoncé was first photographed with her signature box braids and laptop combo — a signal some fans believe to mean that the queen is working on something new.

AdvertisementSeveral days after a former Russian spy and his daughter were found catatonic on a bench in Salisbury, England, British, Prime Minister Theresa May revealed that the pair had been poisoned by a rare and highly-deadly nerve agent known as Novichok.

The revelation prompted U.S. Secretary of State Rex Tillerson to say the poisoning “clearly came from Russia.” Novichok, he added, is a military-grade agent found “only in the hands of a very, very limited number of parties.”

Here’s what we know about the agent and why it’s been described as “definitely Russian”:

Novichok was developed in the Soviet Union in the 1980s

The name Novichok, which means “newcomer” in Russian, applies to a group of military-grade nerve agents that the Soviet Union developed in the 1980s.

At the time, the U.S. and the Soviet Union were making public pledges to dismantle their existing stockpiles of chemical weapons. Novichok, Mirzayanov said, was developed in secret and designed to be undetectable to inspectors.

According to NPR, Novichok is made with organophosphates, commercially available chemicals that are used in fertilizers and pesticides.

They possess a different chemical structure to some other nerve agents, though their effect on the human body is said to be the same.

Investigators in protective clothing remove a van from an address in Winterslow near Salisbury, as police and members of the armed forces continue to investigate the nerve agent attack on Russian double agent Sergei Skripa on March 12, 2018 in Wiltshire, England. Matt Cardy via Getty Images

Symptoms of Novichok poisoning can appear almost immediately

Novichok, like other nerve agents, work by blocking messages from the nervous system to the muscles.

“The reason you die from these [chemicals] is very simple,” Dr. Lewis Nelson, chairman of emergency medicine at Rutgers New Jersey Medical School, told LiveScience. “If your muscles don’t work you can’t breathe, and if you can’t breathe you eventually die.”

The effects of Novichok poisoning on the human body can be almost immediate with symptoms appearing as quickly as 30 seconds to 2 minutes following exposure.

Symptoms of Novichok poisoning include constricted pupils, convulsions, drooling and, in serious cases, coma, respiratory failure and possibly death.

What to do if you’re exposed

If a person is exposed to Novichok, their clothing should be removed, their eyes rinsed out and their skin washed with soap and water. Oxygen should also be administered.

British health authorities said on Sunday offered guidance to anyone who was in the area where Sergei Skripal, the 66-year-old former Russian spy, and his 33-year-old daughter, Yulia Skripal, were found incapacitated. Recommendations include washing one’s clothes and cleaning one’s phone using baby wipes.

“While there is no immediate health risk to anyone who may have been in either of these locations, it is possible, but unlikely, that any of the substance which has come into contact with clothing or belongings could still be present in minute amounts and therefore contaminate your skin,” officials said. “Over time, repeated skin contact with contaminated items may pose a small risk to health.”

A police car being taken away by military personnel from College Street Car Park in Salisbury, as police and members of the armed forces probe the nerve agent attack on Sergei Skripal. Andrew Matthews - PA Images via Getty Images

The agent can take on a variety of forms

Novichok can exist as both a liquid and also a powder. According to the BBC, a powdered version of the agent can take longer to act, with symptoms not appearing until as long as 18 hours after exposure.

Mirzayanov said some Novichok variants are “binary agents,” which means they can be stored as two less toxic chemicals that only become hazardous when mixed together.

“One of the main reasons these agents are developed is because their component parts are not on the banned list,” Gary Stephens, a pharmacology expert at the University of Reading, told the BBC. “It means the chemicals that are mixed to create it are much easier to deliver with no risk to the health of the courier.”

Novichok is more toxic ― and more difficult to identify ― than other nerve agents.

Novichok is believed to be much more toxic than other known nerve agents.

In his report, Mirzaryanov said that one variant, dubbed Novichok-5, was five to eight times as deadly as VX, the agent that North Korea allegedly used last year to murder Kim Jong Un’s half-brother.

“This is a more dangerous and sophisticated agent than sarin or VX and is harder to identify,” said Stephens.

Media reports suggest UK government is close to finalizing retaliatory measures, including diplomatic expulsions and sanctions, should a Russian link be formally established with attempted murder of ex-Russian double agent Sergei Skripal and his daughter https://t.co/4emaXElHZG pic.twitter.com/Ujrb1vqqfp — CNN (@CNN) March 12, 2018

It takes special expertise to make Novichok

Dan Kaszeta, a U.K.-based chemical weapons expert, told NPR this week that Novichok has long been a “deep-dark secret” that very few know how to create.

“As far as I know, I don’t know anybody who knows how to make it except these guys in Russia,” Kaszeta said, referring to the scientists who developed the weapon.

Though the ingredients found in the agent are relatively accessible, turning them into the chemical weapon requires the expertise and equipment typically only found in government-level laboratories, the Australian Broadcasting Corporation reported.

“With these kinds of substances, they are just so dangerous that no fly-by-night terrorist group is going to cook this up,” Andrea Sella, a professor of inorganic chemistry at University College London, told the news agency.Republican Sen. Dean Heller of Nevada Zach Gibson via Getty Images

Nevada GOP Sen. Dean Heller’s campaign has paid his son, a social media influencer, more than $50,000 since July 2016, according to Federal Election Commission records.

The payments to Harris Heller and his company, Heller Enterprises, were mostly for social media consulting, but they also include small reimbursements for travel and lodging. The Heller campaign said Harris Heller’s work for the campaign includes running their Instagram page – which has 1,337 followers – and making videos for Twitter, Facebook and YouTube.

The Nevada senator is considered the most vulnerable Republican running for re-election in 2018. A first-term Republican running in a state narrowly won by Democratic presidential nominee Hillary Clinton, he is expected to face Democratic Rep. Jacky Rosen in November.

Paying family members with campaign funds is legal, as long as they aren’t paid more than market rate for the work and the work is for bona fide campaign services. But ethics experts have flagged the practice as problematic. It’s ensnared members of Congress from both parties, including GOP Reps. Kevin Cramer (N.D.) and Stephen King (Iowa) and Democratic Rep. Bobby Rush (Ill.).

“A candidate or office-holder contracting with a family member raises questions about personal use of campaign money,” said Brendan Fischer, the director of federal and FEC reform at the Campaign Legal Center. “If a candidate can use donor money to fund the lifestyle of themselves or their family members, the risk of corruption goes up.”

Harris Heller isn’t a social media neophyte. He describes himself as “Musician/social media influencer” on his LinkedIn page, declaring: “If I’m not playing guitar, snapchatting or streaming on Twitch you should probably call the police.” He and his wife, the singer Kenzie Nimmo, have hundreds of thousands of followers on their YouTube accounts and were popular on Vine before Twitter shut down the latter service. They’ve appeared on The View and in ads for Gap, Coca-Cola and HP.

The Heller campaign defended the hire, saying the younger Heller produced most of the video content for the campaign’s social media accounts, shooting hundreds of hours of video. He has also started the campaign’s Instagram account and provides story-telling expertise that traditional campaign digital consultants lack.

“Harris Heller produces quality content at a cheap discount to the campaign. He creates social and digital media for Fortune 500 companies,” spokesman Keith Schipper said. “He is an important part of our team, and we are lucky to have him.”

The spokesperson said Harris Heller has produced 28 videos, including spots pushing the campaign’s tax reform message and showing his father’s extensive travels around the state.

The younger Heller has a YouTube page that went inactive in June 2017. Most of the videos on the page have between 1,000 and 3,000 views, although some have substantially more. One video, titled “I’m Doing a Nude Scene in Grey’s Anatomy,” has 16,000 views. Other popular videos include “Recording in Justin Bieber’s Studio” and “TOP 8 HIDDEN TRICKS IN POKEMON GO.”

The payments to Harris Heller began in July 2016 and have continued into 2018. On its most recent FEC report, the campaign said Harris Heller earned two payments totaling $10,000 in February and a $2,500 payment in March. (The campaign said Harris Heller is paid $2,500 a month, although those payments are sometimes delayed.)LONDON (Reuters) - U.S. President Donald Trump and British Prime Minister Theresa May agreed on Tuesday that Russia must provide“unambiguous answers” after London gave Moscow until midnight to explain how a Soviet-era nerve weapon was used against a former Russian double agent.

May, who said on Monday it was“highly likely” that Russia was behind the poisoning of Sergei Skripal and his daughter, also won support from Britain’s main European allies and the European Union, which denounced the attack as“shocking” and offered help to track down those responsible.

Jens Stoltenberg, Secretary-General of the U.S.-led NATO alliance, said the attack was “horrendous.”

Russia, however, signaled there was little likelihood that it would respond adequately to London’s call for a credible explanation by Wednesday.

Denying it had played any part in the attack, which left the 66-year-old Skripal and his 33-year-old daughter Yulia fighting for their lives, Russia said it would ignore the ultimatum until London handed over samples of the nerve agent used and complied with international obligations for joint investigations of such incidents.

“Any threats to take‘sanctions’ against Russia will not be left without a response,” the Russian foreign ministry said in a statement.“The British side should understand that.”

Russia holds a presidential election on Sunday in which Vladimir Putin, himself a former KGB spy, is expected to coast to a fourth term in the Kremlin.

Skripal, a former officer with Russian military intelligence, betrayed dozens of Russian agents to British intelligence before being arrested in Moscow and jailed in 2006.

He was released under a spy swap deal in 2010 and took refuge in Britain, where he had been living quietly in the cathedral city of Salisbury until he and his daughter were found unconscious on a public bench there on March 4.

A British policeman who was also affected by the nerve agent is now conscious in a serious but stable condition.

LETHAL NERVE AGENT

May said on Monday Britain had identified the substance as belonging to the lethal Novichok group of nerve agents developed by the Soviet military in the 1970s and 1980s.

She and her ministers say Britain will take further “robust” punitive action against Russian interests - beyond sanctions already in place - if Putin does not come up with a credible explanation of events.

Trump’s endorsement of Britain’s tough line, made during a phone call with May, came on the heels of messages of solidarity from France’s President Emmanuel Macron and German Chancellor Angela Merkel. They gave the British prime minister additional hope of marshaling Western backing for her government as it heads towards a showdown with Putin.

“President Trump agreed with Prime Minister May that the Government of the Russian Federation must provide unambiguous answers regarding how this chemical weapon, developed in Russia, came to be used in the United Kingdom,” the White House said in a statement about the two leaders’ phone call.

“The two leaders agreed on the need for consequences for those who use these heinous weapons in flagrant violation of international norms,” it said.

May’s spokesman said Trump had said the United States was “with the U.K. all the way.”

If no satisfactory Russian response is received by midnight London time May is likely to outline Britain’s response in parliament on Wednesday.

It remains to be seen how much of a rupture in relations with Russia May’s government is prepared to envisage.

While trade figures show Russia accounts for less than 1 percent of British imports, London is of major importance for Russian companies seeking to raise capital and since the 1991 collapse of the Soviet Union has become the Western capital of choice for many Russian business leaders.WASHINGTON (Reuters) - U.S. President Donald Trump is considering whether to fire his secretary of veterans affairs and replace him with Energy Secretary Rick Perry, a New York Times report said on Tuesday, citing two sources close to the White House.

David Shulkin, the veterans affairs secretary, has been investigated by his department’s inspector general, which last month said he improperly accepted tickets to the Wimbledon tennis tournament last summer during a government trip to Europe.

If Shulkin is fired it would be the latest major shakeup in the Trump administration. Early on Tuesday, Trump fired Secretary of State Rex Tillerson after a series of rifts over policy on North Korea, Russia and Iran.

Perry had lunch with Trump at the White House on Monday. Department of Energy spokeswoman Shaylyn Hynes said she would not comment on what the two talked about. The energy department did not immediately respond to a request for comment about the report, nor did the White House.

Trump did not make a formal offer to Perry when the two men met on Monday, the report said.

Perry was an Air Force pilot before becoming the longest serving governor of Texas. Shortly after becoming president last year Trump had considered Perry for the veterans affairs secretary job.

The VA inspector general had opened an investigation into leadership at the department after receiving an anonymous complaint accusing Shulkin of misusing travel funds because the trip to Europe, which cost at least $122,344, was more personal than business.Asked if Zinke is leaning toward an exemption for Oregon or Washington, Interior Department spokeswoman Heather Swift emailed HuffPost a detailed statement about the process for giving public comments on the proposed drilling plan.

“Creating a Five Year Program is a very open and public process, and Secretary Zinke looks forward to meeting with more Governors and other coastal representatives who want to discuss the draft program,” Swift said. “Aside from those important meetings, there is continued outreach by the Department. The Bureau of Ocean Energy Management (BOEM) has planned 23 public meetings, in our coastal states, to secure feedback directly from citizens, to ensure all viewpoints are taken into consideration as the Department moves forward. Those unable to attend the public meetings are invited to submit their comments to www.regulations.gov.”

Asked to clarify what that has to do with Oregon or Washington getting an exemption, Swift replied, “The statement sufficiently covers your request.”An HBO executive issued a public apology Tuesday after using an amazingly poor choice of words to describe the cast of “Big Little Lies” at an Israeli television conference.

The hit drama, based on the novel by Liane Moriarty, begins as (spoiler!) Shailene Woodley’s character, Jane, moves to the wealthy Monterey, California, area while recovering from a brutal rape.

During a panel at the conference, HBO senior VP Francesca Orsi used an ill-conceived metaphor to respond to a question about the rising costs of production in the age of premium TV.

“From a budget standpoint going into Season 2 of ‘Big Little Lies’ without any options in place we’ve been … sort of raped,” she said, according to The Hollywood Reporter.

The comment appeared to refer to the pay demands of the series’ stars, including Reese Witherspoon and Nicole Kidman, that skyrocketed following the first season’s success. Orsi has been involved with the drama from its start.

“Obviously, I am embarrassed by my poor choice of words,” Orsi said in a statement Tuesday. “We are extremely proud of ‘Big Little Lies’ and excited for the second season.”

AdvertisementOne of the academics that Kansas Secretary of State Kris Kobach (R) picked to back up his claims of widespread voter fraud said in sworn testimony on Tuesday that he could not support Kobach’s claim that illegal votes may have swung the popular vote during the 2016 presidential election.

That statement was just the latest in a series of remarks in various federal courts that undermine Kobach’s argument that noncitizen voter registration is a substantial problem in the U.S. and that requiring people to prove their citizenship when they register to vote isn’t really a burden.

Kobach is currently being sued in the U.S. district court in Kansas City, Kansas, by a group of state residents over a state law mandating that would-be voters prove their citizenship when they register. While the American Civil Liberties Union represents the residents, Kobach is leading his own defense.

Jesse Richman, a political scientist at Old Dominion University, had performed an expert analysis for Kobach that suggested that as many as 18,000 noncitizens could be on the voter rolls in Kansas ― a number the ACLU disputes. Richman is also the author of a study from which Kobach has extrapolated that 3 to 5 million people nationwide could have voted illegally in the 2016 election. President Donald Trump, who lost the popular vote by about 2.9 million votes to Hillary Clinton, has said he only lost it because of all those allegedly illegal votes.

Richman does not share Trump’s view of what happened. He wrote last year that he did not believe noncitizen votes swayed the popular vote. And pressed by an ACLU lawyer on Tuesday, the professor said on the stand that he was unable to support Kobach’s claim, according to the Topeka Capitol-Journal and KCUR.

ACLU: Do you know of any research that shows Trump lost the popular vote to Clinton because of illegal voting? #ACLUvKobach — Celia Llopis-Jepsen (@Celia_LJ) March 13, 2018

ACLU turns to his deposition, tells Richman that in his deposition he answered this question no. "Thank you Dr. Richman, I don't have any more questions for you." #ACLUvKobach https://t.co/YKSoFEkUpg — Celia Llopis-Jepsen (@Celia_LJ) March 13, 2018

Richman reiterates that even if you had several million illegal voters in national election, that wouldn’t necessarily translate into several million adding to one candidate #ACLUvKobach#ksleg — Sherman Smith (@sherman_news) March 13, 2018

In a November 2016 talk with reporters, Kobach explained why he believed noncitizens could have decided the popular vote. Relying on Richman’s data, he said 11.3 percent of noncitizens reported voting in 2008. He estimated there were approximately 28 million noncitizens in the U.S. at the time of the 2016 election. And from that, Kobach concluded that 3.2 million could have voted that year.

Over his objections, the ACLU played video of Kobach making those comments on Tuesday.

In a sworn deposition, the Kansas official said he’d discussed generally the idea of noncitizens registering to vote with President-elect Trump that same November.

Last year, the White House tapped Kobach to lead the Presidential Advisory Commission on Election Integrity, a panel created to investigate voter fraud in the United States. The commission was disbanded in January of this year after it managed to gather voter roll information from several states and little else.

Last Friday, an ACLU lawyer got another former member of that panel and proponent of stricter voting laws, Hans von Spakovsky, to concede that he was unaware of any instance in which an election was determined by noncitizens voting.President Donald Trump’s choice of Mike Pompeo as his new secretary of state has sparked anger among LGBTQ rights groups, in part because of the Kansan’s opposition to same-sex marriage.

A former U.S.House member allied with the Tea Party, Pompeo blasted the Supreme Court’s 2015 ruling legalizing marriage by LGBTQ people as “a shocking abuse of power” that “flew in the face of centuries of shared understanding of our Constitution.”

He offered similar anti-marriage equality sentiments at a Kansas State University appearance in 2014, saying, “I think as you look back at civilization, look back at history, you find the strength of these families having a father and a mother is the ideal condition for childbearing. If you’re asking for what is ideal, I think it’s being raised by a man and a woman.”

Rex Tillerson, fired by the president as America’s top diplomat, had been one of the few Trump officials to acknowledge LGBTQ Pride Month last June. Pompeo seems unlikely to do the same, given his history.

Mike Pompeo’s longstanding opposition to #LGBTQ equality makes him a reckless choice to lead our nation’s diplomatic efforts. https://t.co/SLFeOUzY5F — Human Rights Campaign (@HRC) March 13, 2018

Although legislation ending the “don’t ask, don’t tell” policy toward LGBTQ people serving in the armed forces had passed the year before he joined Congress in 2011, he nonetheless spoke out against the repeal.

“We cannot use military to promote social ideas that do not reflect the values of our nation,” he said.

As CIA director under Trump, he came under fire after the agency last year canceled an event at its headquarters where Judy and Dennis Shepard, parents of murdered gay student Matthew Shepard, had been scheduled to speak.

Mike Pompeo has a long anti-LGBTQ history which includes consulting with @tperkins, president of @FRCdc, an anti-LGBTQ hate group: https://t.co/T4eH8luqeu https://t.co/vGPLUrEGxu — GLAAD (@glaad) March 13, 2018

Among those to blast Pompeo’s nomination was Human Rights Campaign President Chad Griffin, who called him “a reckless choice to lead our nation’s diplomatic efforts.”

“The decision to nominate anti-LGBTQ Mike Pompeo could have serious consequences for the United States and LGBTQ people around the globe,” Griffin said in a statement on HRC’s website. “The State Department has a crucial role to play in advancing human rights — a role which was already rapidly declining under Tillerson. This decision has the potential to make a dire situation even worse.”

Under Tillerson, State Dept. shrank away from crucial role of advancing human rights. Replacing him with anti-LGBTQ Pompeo could make a dire situation worse. Pompeo does not deserve to be confirmed. https://t.co/cecqB22qg6 — Chad Griffin (@ChadHGriffin) March 13, 2018

GLAAD president and CEO Sarah Kate Ellis expressed similar criticisms. She said she was especially concerned that as CIA director, Pompeo had consulted with the Family Research Council, which the Southern Poverty Law Center has designated as an anti-LGBTQ hate group.

AdvertisementPresident Donald Trump ousted Secretary of State Rex Tillerson on Tuesday, marking Tillerson’s long-anticipated departure as America’s top diplomat. CIA Director Mike Pompeo will replace him.

Tillerson, 65, allegedly threatened to quit more than once, but had stayed in the job since Trump nominated him in December 2016. He reportedly found out he was fired the same way everyone else did ― via one of Trump’s tweets on Tuesday about Pompeo taking over the role.

Here’s a look back at Tillerson’s troubled time and legacy at the State Department:

Former Secretary of State Rex Tillerson spent less than a year on the job. Carlos Barria/Reuters

Tillerson ‘Didn’t Want This Job’

Tillerson’s short-lived political career was tarnished by controversy before it began.

Trump nominated him after a drawn-out public selection that featured foreign policy hawks like former New York Mayor Rudy Giuliani and U.N. Ambassador John Bolton, as well as former Republican presidential candidate Mitt Romney.

During the confirmation process, Tillerson’s ties to Russia sparked bipartisan concern. Tillerson’s former company, energy giant Exxon Mobil, conducted contentious business operations in Russia under his decade-long leadership as CEO.

As CEO of Exxon Mobil, Rex Tillerson met Russian President Vladimir Putin in 2011. His business ties to Russia raised concerns over his appointment. RIA Novosti/Reuters

Prior to being tapped by Trump, Tillerson had strongly opposed U.S. sanctions on Russia and had developed a relationship with Russian President Vladimir Putin, who awarded him Russia’s Order of Friendship medal in 2013.

Several members of Trump’s administration have been haunted by allegations of collusion with the Kremlin to influence America’s 2016 presidential election, making Tillerson’s previous links to Moscow particularly sensitive.

Tillerson was sworn in as the president’s chief foreign affairs adviser on Feb. 1, embarking on what would be a brief but chaotic tenure ― apparently one he had little interest in pursuing in the first place.

“I was supposed to retire ... I was going to go to the ranch to be with my grandkids.” - Rex Tillerson, former secretary of state, in March 2017

“I didn’t want this job. I didn’t seek this job,” Tillerson admitted to the Independent Journal Review last March, less than two months after starting the job.

He said his wife had convinced him to accept the position, noting he was “supposed to retire ... I was going to go to the ranch to be with my grandkids.”

Addressing rumors that had surfaced of his desire to resign, Tillerson told reporters in July that he would continue to serve “as long as the president lets me.”

“I’m not going anywhere,” he said.

Tillerson's relationship with President Donald Trump was showing signs of strain at a Cabinet meeting on Nov. 20. Kevin Lamarque/Reuters

Clashing With Trump

Perhaps the most memorable element of Tillerson’s time at the State Department was his relationship with Trump, which soured almost immediately.

Trump repeatedly and aggressively undermined Tillerson’s diplomatic efforts, rendering his credibility as America’s top foreign affairs representative essentially defunct in the eyes of the international community.

They publicly contradicted each other on issues including the denuclearization of North Korea and the fate of the multinational Iran nuclear deal, as well as on Washington’s commitment to NATO and its official view of Qatar.

Tillerson appeared to distance himself from the president in August, after Trump seemingly sympathized with participants of a violent white supremacist rally in Charlottesville, Virginia, that turned deadly. There were “very fine people” on both sides, Trump asserted, triggering bipartisan outrage and condemnation.

When confronted about his boss’s comments, Tillerson told Fox News simply: “The president speaks for himself.”

Tensions boiled over in October, when NBC claimed that Tillerson had previously referred to Trump as a “fucking moron.” Tillerson responded to the reports by saying the president was “smart,” but he did not deny calling him a moron.

Trump dismissed the alleged insult as “fake news,” then challenged Tillerson to an IQ test, saying: “I can tell you who is going to win.”

In November, The New York Times reported that the White House had a plan to oust Tillerson from his job amid the ongoing disagreements between him and Trump. As Tillerson neared his first anniversary as secretary of state, however, he remained in his position and continued to insist that he was staying put.

“I intend to be here for the whole year,” Tillerson told CNN in January.

Tillerson kept a fairly low profile in 2018, visiting Latin America and the Middle East but having little visible influence over policy outcomes in either region.

NBC reported in October that Tillerson once called the president a "moron." Carlos Barria/Reuters

State Department Exodus

Tillerson’s exit follows an all-too-familiar trend at the State Department (and, more broadly, across Trump’s administration).

Under his leadership, the agency has seen a stunning exodus of senior officials, including droves of lawyers and diplomats who have resigned or been forced out in the wake of Trump’s election.

Tillerson launched an ill-fated “redesign” campaign, which has dismantled the department at an alarming pace. Maliz Beams, the counselor he named to oversee the process, resigned Nov. 27 after just three months on the job.

The agency’s internal disarray comes at a time when the country faces extraordinary international challenges, including a massive foreign hacking operation and the looming threat of nuclear war ― underscoring the vital need for a unified, high-functioning State Department.

Democrats on the House Foreign Affairs Committee expressed such concerns in a letter to Tillerson in November, telling him they were dismayed by the departure of more than 100 foreign service officers since January.

“The number of minister counselors in the State Department has decreased by 15 percent, career ministers by 42 percent, and career ambassadors by an astounding 60 percent,” they wrote. “The amount of talent leaving the State Department endangers the institution and undermines American leadership, security and interests around the world.”

Now among the expansive ranks of former State Department staffers, Tillerson is finally free to pursue his long-postponed retirement plans.WASHINGTON ― When President Donald Trump floated pulling the United States out of the Iran nuclear deal last year, his Defense Secretary James Mattis and Secretary of State Rex Tillerson urged him to keep the agreement intact.

On Tuesday, Trump fired Tillerson, citing the ousted diplomat’s position on the Iran deal as a key point of friction. Trump said he plans to nominate CIA Director Mike Pompeo, an outspoken critic of the Iran nuclear accord, to head the State Department.

“Rex and I have been talking about this for a long time,” Trump told reporters at the White House before departing for California. “We got along, actually, quite well but we disagreed on things. When you look at the Iran deal; I think it’s terrible, I guess he thought it was OK. I wanted to either break it or do something and he felt a little bit differently.”

Against the recommendations of some of his top advisers, Trump has already moved toward withdrawing from the 2015 nuclear agreement between Iran, the U.S. and five world powers. Last October, Trump took the symbolic step of “decertifying” the Iran deal while still officially keeping the U.S a party to the accord. At the time, Trump urged Congress to pass legislation that would unilaterally alter U.S. commitments under the international agreement — a move that the Iranians would likely see as a breach of the deal. Sens. Bob Corker (R-Tenn.) and Tom Cotton (R-Ark.) drafted legislation in line with Trump’s request, but it failed to attract support from Democrats. Even so, Trump has continued to waive new sanctions against Iran, the key U.S. commitment under the agreement.

In an effort to convince Trump to stay in the nuclear accord, European allies who are party to the deal have scrambled to cobble together an additional agreement that would address some of the criticisms of the nuclear agreement, including tougher limits on Iranian missile tests.

Trump has threatened to refuse to sign the next round of sanctions waivers, due on May 12, unless the Europeans reach an agreement to “fix” the nuclear deal.

Tillerson never appeared to have much sway over Trump’s thinking — but supporters of the Iran deal fear that by pushing Tillerson aside and replacing him with Pompeo, the president is paving the way to pull out of the agreement altogether.

“Now with news of Pompeo replacing Tillerson, the writing seems even more clearly on the wall as to the fate of the Iran deal,” Robert Malley, a former Middle East adviser in the Obama administration, tweeted on Tuesday.

Pompeo, a Republican hawk and former Army officer, has long railed against Tehran and the Iran deal. A day before his nomination to the CIA was announced, he tweeted he was looking forward to “rolling back” what he called the “disastrous” agreement.

Nikki Haley, the U.S. ambassador to the United Nations, welcomed Pompeo’s nomination to the State Department on Tuesday. Haley also opposes the Iran deal, and she has tried to rally the international community behind the Trump administration’s stance on Iran. In December, she accused Tehran of violating U.N. Security Council resolution by providing missiles to Houthi rebels in Yemen.

Congratulations to my friend and soon to be Secretary of State Mike Pompeo! Great decision by the President. 🇺🇸 — Nikki Haley (@nikkihaley) March 13, 2018

If Trump pulls out of the nuclear accord altogether, it is possible that Iran and the other parties to the deal — China, France, Germany, Russia and the United Kingdom — would continue to uphold its terms. European diplomats have already signaled they are considering ways to insulate their companies from secondary U.S. sanctions if the U.S. walks away from the agreement and reimposes sanctions.

But Iran could also choose to declare the deal null, citing non-compliance by the U.S. In that case, Iran could ramp up its nuclear program and international inspectors would lose access to the country’s nuclear sites.

Sen. Bob Corker (R-Tenn.), the outgoing chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, expressed skepticism that Tillerson’s exit will result in the complete undoing of the nuclear agreement.

“I think the Iran deal is kind of baked. In that that the president has laid out what he wants from international actors … I don’t really think it affects the outcome,” Corker told reporters on Tuesday.Gigi Hadid and Zayn Malik have broken up, ending their relationship after more than two years together.

Both the supermodel and pop star made announcements on Twitter on Tuesday. Malik, who recently unfollowed his Hadid on Instagram, asked fans to respect their privacy during the rough time.

“Gigi and I had an incredibly meaningful, loving and fun relationship and I have a huge amount of respect and adoration for Gigi as a woman and a friend,” Malik wrote in his statement. “She has such an incredible soul.”

Hadid tweeted a similar statement, telling fans the announcement was difficult because there wasn’t a way to put into words “what two people experience together over a few years.”WAYNESBURG, Pa. ― Over 200 coal miners, family members and local activists crowded into a hall at the Greene County fairgrounds Sunday afternoon in Pennsylvania’s rural southwest corner.

The attendees, many of them retirees in their 60s and 70s clad in the United Mine Workers of America’s signature camouflage-patterned regalia, were there for one last get-out-the-vote rally for Democrat Conor Lamb.

But the raucous atmosphere at the rally felt more like a church revival service than a political gathering. And while everyone present was there to support Lamb, the main event was Cecil Roberts, the charismatic preacher and president of the UMWA labor union.

After ascending the stage to chants of “U-M-W-A,” Roberts delivered a nearly 30-minute sermon in which he managed to portray a vote for Lamb in Tuesday’s special election as a sacred and patriotic act in keeping with the godly social justice tradition of Moses, Gandhi, UMWA founder John Lewis, Martin Luther King Jr. and the recently victorious West Virginia teachers’ strike.

There’s energy...and then there’s UMWA Pres Cecil Roberts at a Conor Lamb rally. #PA18 pic.twitter.com/2LAw6STWxu — Vaughn Hillyard (@VaughnHillyard) March 11, 2018

“We’re God-fearing folks down here in these coal fields,” Roberts roared in his West Virginia twang. “I believe in God and so do you and we don’t apologize to anybody for that.”

“The bible tells us some day we’re all gonna be judged by how we treat the least of these, and the labor movement and the Democratic Party are about treating the least with respect and lifting them up,” he continued, to loud applause and affirmative shouts of “that’s right” from attendees.

To hear Roberts tell it, the struggles of organized labor reflect a deep spiritual and patriotic fervor ― a fervor that Lamb shares.

“It just excites me when people run up to me with a camera and say, well, ‘Tell me what kind of person Conor is.’ We don’t know each other personally, but let me tell ya, I know what he’s about,” he intoned in his breathy preacher’s cadence.

“Let me try to explains [sic] to ya what kind of folks we are and what kind of Democrat Conor is. He’s a God-fearing, union-supporting, gun-owning, job-protecting, pension-defending, Social Security-believing, health care-greeting and sending-drug-dealers-to-jail Democrat!” he bellowed in conclusion as the audience rose to their feet and broke out in chants of “CON-OR, CON-OR.”

United Mine Workers of America President Cecil Roberts, left, speaks at a rally for Democrat Conor Lamb on Sunday. Drew Angerer/Getty Images

Elements of the rally ― the religiosity, the pro-gun rhetoric and the romantic attachment to coal country ― would surely make more socially liberal Democrats squirm.

But for better or worse, Roberts’ speech was the rhetorical capstone of a campaign that has sought to bring rank-and-file union members who voted for Donald Trump or past Republican congressional candidates back into the Democratic fold.

And in union-heavy congressional districts like Pennsylvania’s 18th, if not in the country at large, organized labor remains a powerful tool in Democrats’ toolkit.

Suburban women played a key role in Democrats’ electoral sweep in Virginia in November. And black women got credit for helping put Democrat Doug Jones over the top in his surprise win in the Alabama Senate race in December.

Now it’s labor unions’ turn to bask in the spotlight: If Lamb wins Tuesday, he will owe much of his success to them.

Lamb has acknowledged as much, telling the audience at the UMWA rally that organized labor has “been the heart and soul of this campaign.”

A Lamb victory would not merely give organized labor an avowed policy champion, however. It would elevate the political capital of unions across the country by reminding both major political parties of their power to sway close contests ― particularly in the swing-voting industrial states along the Great Lakes.

“What this race shows already, regardless of the outcome, is that labor is still very relevant and still has a lot of clout and the ability to organize and affect elections,” said Mike Mikus, a Democratic political consultant based in western Pennsylvania.

“What this race shows already, regardless of the outcome, is that labor is still very relevant and still has a lot of clout and the ability to organize and affect elections.” - Mike Mikus, Democratic consultant

Organized labor has experienced a steady decline in the country in the past few decades, devastated by the hollowing out of manufacturing and employers’ increasingly aggressive union avoidance tactics. Just 10.7 percent of American workers belong to unions, down from 20.1 percent in 1983.

But in Pennsylvania’s 18th, with its high concentration of steelworkers, coal miners, carpenters and civil servants, about 23 percent of voters remain unionized.

Thanks to more conservative views on hot-button issues like guns, abortion and immigration, rank-and-file union members have increasingly lent their support to Republicans, often against the advice of their leaders.

President Trump, with his talk of reviving American manufacturing and coal mining, proved especially effective at picking off union members in this region. The UMWA, fretful about the effect of the Obama administration’s environmental regulations on the coal industry and Clinton’s promise to continue them, declined to endorse a presidential candidate in 2016.

Nationwide, Hillary Clinton received 10 percent fewer votes from union members than Barack Obama in 2012, according to an internal survey by the AFL-CIO, a national umbrella federation of labor unions.

Area Republicans have also proven adept at signaling that they are, at the very least, not enemies of unions. Former Rep. Tim Murphy, a Republican whose October resignation amid a sex scandal sparked Tuesday’s special election, actually secured the endorsement of the Pennsylvania AFL-CIO in 2016 when he ran unopposed. He supported several union policy priorities as well, voting in 2007 for the Democratic-sponsored Employee Free Choice Act, which would have made it easier to unionize.

“If Tim Murphy wouldn’t have gotten caught up in this scandal, I’d vote for him every time,” said Dwight Harris, a Republican union coal miner from the city of Washington, who plans to vote for Lamb.

This time, however, the choice for labor unions is stark. Lamb, who hails from a prominent, pro-labor Democratic family (his uncle, Michael Lamb, is Pittsburgh city controller), has pledged his full support for a host of union priorities, from an infrastructure bill to bipartisan legislation that would shore up coal miners’ underfunded pensions.

In the final week of his campaign, Lamb held at least three major rallies with labor unions, including a Tuesday assembly at the local chapter of the United Brotherhood of Carpenters where former Vice President Joe Biden spoke, and a Friday rally at the United Steel Workers’ headquarters where Pennsylvania Gov. Tom Wolf (D) and other elected officials addressed a crowd of at least 300.

Republican Rick Saccone speaks at a get-out-the-vote event in Pittsburgh on Friday. His opposition to labor union priorities has unified organized labor against him. Drew Angerer/Getty Images

At every event, Lamb speaks poignantly about the vital role of unions, noting that Philip Murray, the founder of the modern United Steel Workers, enjoys a saintly monument in a Catholic cemetery in the Pittsburgh suburb of Castle Shannon.

“In western Pennsylvania, it’s no surprise that we put a statue of one of our great labor leaders right there in the churchyard for everyone to see, forever,” he said in a January stump speech in Houston, Pennsylvania.

In contrast, Lamb’s opponent, Republican Rick Saccone, is as clear-cut an adversary as organized labor has had in the region in some time. Among other offenses, he supports right-to-work laws and has not been clear about his stance on federal legislation to aid the coal miners’ pensions.

As a state representative, Saccone has been a constant thorn in unions’ side. He infuriated building trades unions with his vote against a 2013 transportation infrastructure bill, and irked public-sector unions with his vote for a 2017 bill that would have made it harder to collect dues from their workers.

The district’s frequently divided labor unions have united against him, activating their sophisticated voter education and turnout machine to inform their members that Saccone is not the kind of Republican they can get behind. The phone calls, emails and in-person admonitions that organized labor makes to its members often carry more weight than contact made by unknown campaign canvassers.

Across the district, union members who happily voted for Murphy and either stayed home or backed Trump in 2016, said that they were choosing Lamb over Saccone thanks to appeals from their unions.

Scott Zeszutek, a 48-year-old union electrician, voted for Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.) in the 2016 presidential primary, then left the top of the ballot blank in November because of his personal disdain for Hillary Clinton. He also regularly voted for Murphy.

.@scottzeszutek and his younger brother Chris are union electricians with @IBEW Local 5. They both voted for Bernie in the primary but had a visceral disdain for Clinton. Scott didn’t vote in the general and Chris voted for Trump cus “he wasn’t a politician.” pic.twitter.com/b97fSbQywQ — Daniel Marans (@danielmarans) March 11, 2018

But in a Saturday conversation at the smoke-filled Cuddy Sports Club in Cuddy Hill, Zeszutek said he would vote for Lamb. A representative of his union, the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers Local 5, called him to say that Saccone supported right-to-work laws. That is a dealbreaker for Zeszutek, who believes that preventing unions from compelling dues payment from workers they represent is tantamount to theft.

“If they start taking money out of my pocket, what are they going to do for the rest of this country?” Zeszutek said.

Of course, labor unions’ efforts on Lamb’s behalf have not been without their hiccups. Lamb rankled some union officials during a February debate in which he disavowed the $15 minimum wage, which has become a leading progressive cause thanks to the organizing work of the Service Employees International Union.

Lamb’s remarks prompted rare public griping from some labor officials, which Republican groups have tried to capitalize on in campaign literature.

(For his part, Saccone said he opposes an increase in the minimum wage, which is $7.25 in Pennsylvania, and argued that the floor on pay should be “market-driven.”)

Darrin Kelly, a union firefighter who is now president of the Allegheny County Labor Council, said that organized labor was at least guaranteed an audience with Lamb when it disagrees with him.