A deleted scene from “Black Panther” that sheds some light on the relationship between Okoye and W’Kabi is making the rounds online.

The scene indicates that the characters, played by Danai Gurira and Daniel Kaluuya, respectively, are actually married. It would have come after King T’Challa aka Black Panther (Chadwick Boseman) was killed by Erik Killmonger (Michael B. Jordan).

“This is what you would have me leave the Dora for, to bring our children into this world where they become conquerors?” Okoye asks in the scene.

“Yes. Our children will be leaders of a truly free world, not just a tiny country where we have to hide everything that makes us great,” W’Kabi says. “There will be war and death but in the end, it will be beautiful. And Wakanda will stand tall.”

This just-released #BlackPanther deleted scene features a powerful performance by @DanaiGurira as Okoye and Daniel Kaluuya as W'Kabi: pic.twitter.com/hzwrkaaPGR — MCU News & Tweets (@MCU_Tweets) May 1, 2018

In an introduction to the scene, director Ryan Coogler says it was something he “was incredibly proud of as a director but didn’t work inside of the confines of our film.” He added that it would have shown the audience some of the history of the tension between Okoye and W’Kabi.A middle school student in Florida let her finger do the talking during a photo-op with Rep. Matt Gaetz (R-Fla.) on Monday.

Gaetz shared the image of him visiting with students at Shoal River Middle School in Crestview, Florida, on Facebook.

While many of the students are smiling, waving, dabbing and doing other creative poses, it’s a young lady in the foreground who is getting most of the attention:

Gaetz is an outspoken supporter of President Donald Trump with a history of controversial comments.

However, it’s not clear if the girl in the photo is making a statement about his politics or just engaging in an act of youthful rebellion.

Whatever the reason, she may be in hot water. A woman claiming to be her mother apologized on Facebook and said she would be “dealing with” the child at home.

“I have been dealing with her wanting to ‘fit in’ and I promise you, I am livid,” she wrote. “Political views aside, this is completely unacceptable.”

Gaetz appears to be taking it in stride.

“As a middle school student I’m sure I had plenty of lapses in judgment that were far more severe than this one,” he told Northwest Florida Daily News, adding that the photo could be a teaching moment for the student.Arkansas Gov. Asa Hutchinson (R) signed the state's latest voter ID law last year. Bloomberg via Getty Images

Arkansas can enforce a voter ID law in primary elections this month, the state’s Supreme Court ruled Wednesday.

The high court will allow the law to remain in effect while it hears the state’s full appeal of a lower court decision blocking the law. This means voters will have to show a photo ID in order to vote in Arkansas’ May 22 primary ― early voting begins May 7.

The law does allow voters without acceptable identification to cast provisional ballots. But in order to get a provisional ballot counted, a voter must bring identification to their local election office by the Monday following the election.

Chris Powell, a spokesman for the secretary of state’s office, praised the decision.

“The Supreme Court’s prompt attention to this matter, on an emergency basis, gives the County Clerks and County Boards of Election Commissioners reassurance that the year-long preparations for the election have not been wasted,” Powell said.

Wednesday’s decision pauses an injunction from Pulaski County Circuit Judge Alice Gray, who blocked the voter ID law on April 26 after it was challenged by Little Rock voter Barry Haas. She said it went beyond the specific provisions in the state constitution outlining the requirements to register to vote.

Jeff Priebe, a lawyer for Haas, said he and his client looked forward to arguing the case to the state Supreme Court when it hears the full appeal.

“We are disappointed for the voters in Arkansas that the Arkansas Secretary of State and the Attorney General continue to want to enforce an unconstitutional voter ID law,” Priebe wrote in an email.

Arkansas Gov. Asa Hutchinson (R) signed the voter ID requirement into law in 2017, even though the law closely resembles a measure that was struck down by the state Supreme Court in 2014.

Lawyers for Arkansas Secretary of State Mark Martin (R) and other state election officials immediately appealed to the state Supreme Court after Gray’s ruling, asking them to move quickly to block the injunction.

Four of the seven justices who voted to strike down the 2014 version of the state’s voter ID law are no longer on the Arkansas Supreme Court. The three justices who remain had found at the time that the law was invalid because it didn’t get the votes of two-thirds of the state Legislature, which is required to change voting qualifications in the state constitution.

The 2017 bill, meanwhile, passed the Arkansas House 74-21 and the state Senate 25-8.

A separate proposal to add a voter ID requirement to the state constitution will be on the ballot this fall.Ellen DeGeneres forgot to leave off “Tatum” when introducing newly single actress and dancer Jenna Dewan to her show on Wednesday, but the “World of Dance” judge and the talk show host handled it like pros.

Dewan recently split from her husband, Channing, after nearly nine years of marriage, and decided to drop the “Tatum” from her last name.

DeGeneres apologized for the little flub before the segment ended.

“I have to say, before we go to break, I’m so sorry,” she said. “I introduced you and it was just such a habit, and I have to say the way that you and Channing are handling everything is beautiful for your daughter and the statements have been great. And I apologize. I just have known both of you for so long, and I’m so used to saying...”

Dewan responded by assuring DeGeneres that she was fine and it was “all love.”

“I know, I know. Thank you,” the 37-year-old said, before addressing the audience. “Honestly, thank you and everybody for all the love and support. It’s truly, so moving. It’s all love.”

Dewan and Tatum announced they were splitting in April. The two, who have a 4-year-old daughter named Everly together, put out a joint statement on social media about their breakup.

“We have lovingly chosen to separate as a couple. We fell deeply in love so many years ago and have had a magical journey together,” they said.

“Absolutely nothing has changed about how much we love one another, but love is a beautiful adventure that is taking us on different paths for now. There are no secrets nor salacious events at the root of our decision — just two best-friends realizing it’s time to take some space and help each other live the most joyous, fulfilled lives as possible.”

According to People magazine, the two are still on “good terms” with each other.

AdvertisementAn associate professor of history responded Tuesday night to Kanye West’s argument that black people had chosen to be slaves, providing some context about the brutality of the slave trade.

“When you hear about slavery for 400 years ... for 400 years? That sounds like a choice,” the rapper had said earlier in the day during an appearance on TMZ Live.

Blair L. M. Kelley, who works at North Carolina State University and has taught numerous African-American studies courses, said she has heard “uninformed people” make similar claims.

“I’ve had young men in my courses say ‘they never would have enslaved me,’” she tweeted.

Haven’t watched the whole Kanye event today, working my way up to it. I will say, that a milder version of the “slavery is a choice” argument is made by uninformed people all the time. I’ve had young men in my courses say “they never would have enslaved me.” — Blair LM Kelley (@profblmkelley) May 2, 2018

So she decided to post a little history lesson.

“People aren’t aware of the alienation of people ripped from their homes, abused, walked hundreds of miles across Africa, sometimes so far they ceased understanding the language spoken around them,” she wrote.

People aren’t aware of the alienation of people ripped from their homes, abused, walked hundreds of miles across Africa, sometimes so far they ceased understanding the language spoken around them... — Blair LM Kelley (@profblmkelley) May 2, 2018

She then referred to the slave castles of Ghana, in which people were held in windowless dungeons, or “slave holes,” before being loaded onto British ships and sold in the Americas during the 18th century. Former President Barack Obama compared them to Nazi concentration camps in Germany.

People don’t know the brutality of the slave castles were people were held on the coasts, branded still holding out hope for escape, or reconnection with loved one.... — Blair LM Kelley (@profblmkelley) May 2, 2018

Kelley went on to describe the horrific conditions slaves faced, both while being transported across the ocean and after they left the ships.

Could they have survived the devastation of the middle passage, packed less humanely than animals below the deck of the ship, chained to people who were sick and dying? — Blair LM Kelley (@profblmkelley) May 2, 2018

Could they have survived being sold like a good at market by people in a foreign land speaking a foreign tongue? Could they have survived torturous work, in scraps of clothing eating the food that was unwanted? — Blair LM Kelley (@profblmkelley) May 2, 2018

She pointed out that survivors “managed to make a way to make a new culture, remake family and faith,” even after enduring abuse for generations.

Not only did my ancestors and Kanye’s ancestors survive, they managed to make a way to make a new culture, remake family and faith. And in the process, make a culture so formidable that it continues to change the world. — Blair LM Kelley (@profblmkelley) May 2, 2018

Kelley ended her thread by coming back to West’s comments.

Slavery wasn’t their choice at any step. We know that freedom was always their choice, resistance was their choice when they couldn’t escape. — Blair LM Kelley (@profblmkelley) May 2, 2018

Denigrating their lives at this point for attention and spare change is such an embarrassment. — Blair LM Kelley (@profblmkelley) May 2, 2018Can you *imagine* what the right’s reaction would be if it came out that Obama or Clinton had, during an election, dictated a letter about their health to their personal doctor who then released it knowing it was at best incomplete or, at worst, false. Can. you. imagine.Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein's former and current colleagues reject the notion that the longtime Republican law enforcement official is a closet liberal. Jonathan Ernst/Reuters

WASHINGTON ― If Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein is a closet liberal bent on taking down a Republican president, he’s been playing a long game.

A few days before the presidential election of 1984, the future deputy attorney general was upset over an editorial in The Daily Pennsylvanian that expressed dismay that then-President Ronald Reagan was polling better at Penn than the nation’s other premier universities. Rosenstein, in a letter to the editor, called the piece “disgraceful” and wrote that it was “illogical and immoral” to suggest the poll results reflected poorly on the university.

“Perhaps if you took a step back from the Ivy Tower in which you and perhaps students at the more ‘elite’ schools appear to be, you would recognize and respect the appeal Reagan has to the average American,” Rosenstein wrote. “I am proud to know that the opinions of students at our University are most representative of the nation as a whole.”

Rod Rosenstein's letter to The Daily Pennsylvanian just prior to the presidential election of 1984, which Ronald Reagan won. The Daily Pennsylvanian

Rosenstein ― the man President Donald Trump nominated to become the No. 2 official at the Justice Department ― is a Republican. He’s been honored by Harvard Law School’s Federalist Society. As a member of Kenneth Starr’s Whitewater team, he investigated the Clintons (and even sat in on an interview with Hillary Clinton). Former President George W. Bush tried to make him a federal appeals court judge.

But that’d be tough to know if you watched Fox News most nights, or scrolled through the president’s Twitter feed. A group of Republicans in the House of Representatives have even drafted articles of impeachment against Rosenstein. Trump, who previously implied Rosenstein was a Democrat, tweeted Wednesday that he might “have no choice but to use the powers granted to the Presidency and get involved!” ― implying that he could fire Rosenstein and perhaps shut down the special counsel investigation he oversees that has already taken down a number of Trump associates.

For those who have known Rosenstein well, the notion that the longtime Republican law enforcement official is a closet liberal bent on taking down the president is tough to digest.

“He’s not some sneaky Democrat,” says Megan Brown, a former official in the Justice Department during the George W. Bush administration who worked closely with Rosenstein. “We’re in sort of a silly season on this, but he’s not some sort of Democrat in Republican’s clothes with some agenda.”

“He’s not some sneaky Democrat. We’re in sort of a silly season on this, but he’s not some sort of Democrat in Republican’s clothes with some agenda.” - Megan Brown, former Justice Department official

The president’s favorite cable news channel’s continuous attacks on Rosenstein ― including the suggestion that Rosenstein committed crimes and should be jailed ― have made things pretty awkward for DOJ’s second-in-command. Until this week, his public comments were pretty much limited to making jokes about how much he hates D.C. or how he thought being deputy attorney general would be a relatively low-profile gig.

That changed after a group of House Republicans drafted potential articles of impeachment against Rosenstein. At an event on Tuesday, he suggested it was cowardly for the lawmakers not to put their names on a document they leaked, and said it illustrated the differences between how politicians and the Justice Department operate.

“I can tell you that there are people who have been making threats privately and publicly against me for quite some time, and I think they should understand by now that the Department of Justice is not going to be extorted,” Rosenstein said. “We’re going to do what’s required by the rule of law, and any kind of threats that anybody makes are not going to affect the way we do our job. We have a responsibility. We take an oath.”

Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein on @freedomcaucus members considering his impeachment: "They can't even resist leaking their own drafts." He also says, "The Department of Justice is not going to be extorted.”



Question from @lauraajarrett. pic.twitter.com/puEnP3thgA — CSPAN (@cspan) May 1, 2018

Rosenstein said that disputes with Congress over Justice Department documents ― the ostensible reason some Republicans are targeting Rosenstein ― needed to be worked out on a “case-by-case” basis. Republicans have requested sensitive documents, and DOJ said it would not provide one that laid out the scope of Robert Mueller’s special counsel investigation.

“Everybody always thinks that the current moment is an unprecedented moment, but it really isn’t. These incidents do flare up from time to time, and ultimately, they’re resolved,” Rosenstein said.

“If we were to just open our doors to allow Congress to come and rummage through the files, that would be a serious infringement on the separation of powers,” he added.

Although Rosenstein’s also come under direct criticism from Trump, he has had nothing but positive things to say about the Trump administration’s agenda. On Tuesday, he said that Trump had appointed a leadership team at the Department of Justice that “respects the rule of law” and praised him for signing a staff-written Law Day proclamation that noted the importance of the separation of powers and the rule of law.

By Wednesday morning, Trump was promoting a book by Fox News commentator Gregg Jarrett, who has called the FBI “America’s secret police” and the special counsel “illegitimate and corrupt.”

Trump praised Jarrett ― who has also made repeated assertions that Rosenstein violated the law and threatened members of Congress ― as “brilliant.” The president also declared Jarrett’s forthcoming book, titled The Russia Hoax - The Illicit Scheme to Clear Hillary Clinton and Frame Donald Trump, a “MUST READ.”Augustin Sajous, a 60-year-old legal permanent resident, has been in Immigration and Customs Enforcement detention since September. John Moore via Getty Images

A federal judge has issued a ruling in a single immigrant’s legal case that could foreshadow problems for the Trump administration’s policy of detaining unauthorized immigrants indefinitely without a hearing, charge or trial.

The government has 14 days to hold a bond hearing for Augustin Sajous, a 60-year-old originally from Haiti who has been held in immigration detention since September, Judge Alison J. Nathan ruled Wednesday in New York. Authorities must release him unless they can provide convincing evidence he is a flight risk or a danger to the community, the judge ordered.

Nathan’s ruling applies only to Sajous. But it’s a key part of a bigger fight over a question affecting millions of people: How long can the government detain immigrants without allowing them to go before an immigration judge to challenge their detention?

The answer to that question used to be “six months” — at least according to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the 9th Circuit, which ruled on the matter in 2013. Then, this February, the Supreme Court overturned the circuit court’s ruling, clearing the way for the government to continue detaining immigrants without hearings.

The Supreme Court ruling was limited: It said only that immigrants had no specific right under immigration law to a bond hearing every six months. It didn’t rule on whether holding immigrants indefinitely without a bond hearing was constitutional.

“It feels almost impossible to fight your immigration case from detention.” - Augustin Sajous

Nathan’s ruling offered an answer to that constitutional question — but only for Sajous. The continued detention of Sajous “without access to a bond hearing is unreasonable, and thus unconstitutional, as applied to him,” she wrote. His more than eight-month detention stemmed from two offenses that were each punishable by up to 30 days in jail, she noted, meaning he has already been detained “over four times longer than the maximum sentence he faced for his underlying offenses.”

The court did not create a definitive standard for when the government must provide a bond hearing.

Now Sajous’ case — or a similar one, if the Department of Justice doesn’t appeal — is likely to work its way up through the courts. That means the Supreme Court will likely be forced to weigh in on the question it avoided answering in February.

The Justice Department declined to comment on the ruling or whether it plans to appeal.

Sajous, who has lived in the U.S. on a green card since age 14 and has raised a family here, could be out of detention by early June. Although he is a legal permanent resident, Sajous, who has had depression and been homeless in recent years, is subject to deportation because of two misdemeanor convictions from 2015 for bending fare cards to use the New York subway without paying. Immigration and Customs Enforcement arrested him in September, and he has remained in detention since.

“It feels almost impossible to fight your immigration case from detention,” Sajous said in a statement released by the New York Civil Liberties Union, which represented him. “I just want the chance to explain to the judge that I’m not a flight risk. When you’re free, it’s a lot easier to fight your case. A bond hearing is my chance.”

Nathan’s ruling means he’ll get one. But the NYCLU estimates that unless courts intervene, in the next year about 200 people in New York state may be detained for longer than six months without a bond hearing.Special counsel Robert Mueller warned President Donald Trump’s lawyers that he had the power to issue a subpoena if the White House refused a request for a sit-down interview with the president, The Washington Post reported Tuesday.

Mueller met with Trump’s attorneys in March to negotiate the terms of an interview, which he has sought for months as part of the inquiry into Russian meddling in the 2016 election. The Post, citing four people familiar with the conversation, said the encounter quickly turned tense after the lawyers said Trump had no legal obligation to meet with the special counsel. Mueller then suggested he could issue a subpoena that would compel the president to appear before a grand jury.

“This isn’t some game,” John Dowd, Trump’s former lead attorney, replied. “You are screwing with the work of the president of the United States.”

Dowd later confirmed the encounter and his comments to Reuters.

The special counsel’s office has been negotiating the terms of any sit-down with Trump and his legal team amid the president’s own public assertions that he was “looking forward” to the interview. Dowd was among those urging Trump to reject the request, apparently over concerns that Trump has a tendency to go off-script, which could lead him to make false statements.

The New York Times on Monday published a list of questions Mueller hopes to ask Trump, a list that was compiled by Trump lawyer Jay Sekulow as part of those negotiations. Many of the open-ended queries focus on potential efforts to obstruct justice through the firings of FBI Director James Comey or attempts to fire the special counsel himself.

Dowd, upon hearing of Mueller’s line of inquiry, was further convinced that Trump should refuse an interview, the Times reported. He resigned from his role in March after the president appeared poised to reject his advice.

Dowd was replaced last month by former New York City Mayor Rudy Giuliani.

Trump on Tuesday condemned the release of the questions on Twitter and asserted that there were “no questions about collusion,” even though some do appear on the list.

“Oh, I see...you have a made up, phony crime, Collusion, that never existed, and an investigation begun with illegally leaked classified information. Nice!” he wrote.“We cannot in good conscience legalize without repairing the harms wrought by the failed drug war," Rodney Holcombe, staff attorney at the Drug Policy Alliance, said. Mathew Sumner / Reuters

LOS ANGELES ― Millions of Americans have marijuana-related convictions on their criminal records — marks that can impair their ability to obtain jobs, housing and loans. But most Americans now believe pot should be legal, and about a quarter of Americans live in jurisdictions where it is. In some legal-weed states, legislators are passing bold new laws to address those past pot crimes. And some prosecutors are finally taking notice — and are looking to roll back outdated convictions.

In California, prosecutors in San Francisco and San Diego counties announced earlier this year they will review, recall, resentence and potentially dismiss and seal thousands of misdemeanor and felony marijuana convictions.

The movement is spreading. On Friday, Seattle City Attorney Pete Holmes became the latest top prosecutor to join, asking a city court to vacate all convictions and dismiss all charges for misdemeanor marijuana possession that were prosecuted in the city before the state legalized marijuana for recreational purposes in 2012.

Now prosecutors in Denver and Burlington, Vt., are mulling similar measures, their representatives told HuffPost this week.

In Denver, where prosecution of low-level pot offenses has been a low priority for a decade, Ken Lane, a spokesman for newly elected DA Beth McCann, said that while McCann hasn’t retroactively applied Colorado’s laws for post-conviction relief, “she has asked staff to research the matter... in response to what DAs in California are doing.” And in Vermont, which recently became the first state in the nation to legalize marijuana via legislature rather than ballot measure, another prosecutor is making moves.

Justin Jiron, deputy state’s attorney in Chittenden County, Vermont, which contains Burlington, told HuffPost that his office is weeks away from announcing a new policy that will allow individuals to apply to have their past marijuana possession records expunged or sealed regardless of when the conviction took place. It’s not as immediate of a review as San Franciscans and San Diegans can expect, but it’s a meaningful step.

“I think the simplest way of looking at it for us is just that these people have convictions that if they were to commit them today they wouldn’t be a crime,” Jiron said. “So it seems unfair to basically saddle them with a conviction for something that is now legal.”

““Laws and public opinion are evolving, but past convictions for marijuana-related offenses can still haunt someone.”” - Mason Tvert, VS Strategies

Prosecutors in pot-friendly jurisdictions have enormous power to offer relief for people previously convicted of marijuana offenses in their jurisdiction, but many aren’t using it. California’s marijuana law requires individuals to apply for relief for previous marijuana-related crimes — a process that can be costly and time-consuming. Prosecutors there could greatly speed up the process by following San Francisco’s automatic process, which makes relief more immediate.

Prosecutors in other legal-weed jurisdictions could potentially follow Seattle prosecutor Holmes’ lead and leverage their own state’s laws to move for post-conviction relief for past marijuana offenses. Those state laws, however, are complex and vary tremendously by jurisdiction ― this includes expungement, which does not have a standard definition across jurisdictions, as well as sealing and dismissal. Some states don’t address retroactive relief for past criminal convictions. Some require a governor’s pardon to vacate a conviction. Others allow post-conviction relief but require years-long wait periods, or limit which kinds of convictions can be removed from a person’s record.

But few prosecutors are making moves like Holmes’ — either because they don’t want to, or because state legislatures haven’t passed laws that allow relief for now-legal acts. People convicted of state pot crimes in the past in Washington, Oregon, Nevada, Colorado, Alaska, Vermont, Massachusetts and Maine — all places where the drug is now legal for recreational purposes — may still have violations on their record. And even in California, where the legal marijuana industry is already valued at $7 billion, according to one estimate.

In Los Angeles County, California’s largest by population, District Attorney Jackie Lacey announced in February that individuals will have to continue to apply for relief themselves, “rather than wait for [her] office to go through tens of thousands of case files.” Lacey estimated there were 40,000 felony convictions involving marijuana since 1993 in Los Angeles County. When reached by HuffPost, her office did not have any updates on this decision.

Prosecutors’ and legislators’ failure to wipe now-legal pot crimes from Americans’ records has real consequences, especially for people of color. Drug convictions, even for a misdemeanor offense like possession of marijuana, can have devastating consequences long after the offense was committed. The nation’s war on drugs has disproportionately harmed low-income and communities of color — blacks are nearly 4 times more likely to be arrested for possession of marijuana than whites, despite similar rates of use of the drug, according to the American Civil Liberties Union.

“Laws and public opinion are evolving, but past convictions for marijuana-related offenses can still haunt someone,” said Mason Tvert, who works with VS Strategies, a Denver-based communications and government relations firm focused on marijuana policy.

“It is great to see officials in some of the states that have legalized marijuana are proactively working to clear people’s records,” said the activist who was instrumental in the passage of Colorado’s recreational marijuana ballot measure. “But it does beg the question of why it is only occurring in some jurisdictions. Hopefully, we will see more local officials following the examples that are being set by the leaders in San Francisco and Seattle.”

The exact extent to which prosecutors can retroactively apply their state marijuana laws or seek to vacate past convictions is a point of debate, and it depends on many complicated factors. This includes a prosecutors’ individual preferences, resources, a state’s laws regarding retroactivity and post-conviction relief, said Lauren-Brooke Eisen, a former prosecutor who is now a senior fellow at New York University School of Law’s Brennan Center for Justice.

“There’s no one right answer to this,” Eisen said. “But what’s happening with marijuana in states like California and Colorado, which have built in some of this retroactivity, it does open the door absolutely for a little bit more pushing the envelope by DAs.”

“We can only truly claim victory when we center our efforts on the persons most harmed by prohibition.” - Rodney Holcombe, staff attorney at the Drug Policy Alliance

Some prosecutors can be hesitant about retroactive relief over concerns that a marijuana conviction may be just one of many charges that were once filed against a defendant, Eisen said. That’s because more than 90 percent of felony convictions at both the state and federal level are the result of plea bargains. If a defendant is facing multiple charges, the plea process allows for them to plead guilty to a lesser crime, while not facing a trial, and possible conviction, for the more serious charges. But charges that weren’t brought shouldn’t necessarily be held against a defendant, Eisen said.

“There’s an argument to be made that a defendant should get the benefit of that doubt,” she said. “Today, many prosecutors are working to repair damage from the war on drugs ... But more can be done.”

Rodney Holcombe, staff attorney at the Drug Policy Alliance echoed this sentiment, saying it is not enough to simply legalize marijuana because prohibition ravaged many communities.President Donald Trump plans to replace White House lawyer Ty Cobb with Emmet T. Flood, a lawyer who represented former President Bill Clinton during his late-1990s impeachment hearings.

“For several weeks Ty Cobb has been discussing his retirement and last week he let Chief of Staff Kelly know he would retire at the end of the month,” White House press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders said in a statement confirming Cobb’s departure.

Flood’s decision to join the White House was confirmed by his law firm, the Washington-D.C.-based Williams & Connolly LLP.

“We are disappointed to lose him to the White House, but we fully appreciate Emmet’s strong commitment to public service,” said Williams & Connolly LLP Chairman Dane Butswinkas in a statement. “The White House will be fortunate to have his experienced counsel.”

Flood’s replacement of Cobb was first reported by the New York Times.

Trump has reportedly been discussing the shakeup with confidantes for weeks, although the president has denied doing so. Cobb was the lead White House lawyer dealing with requests from special counsel Robert Mueller’s Russia investigation.

“It has been an honor to serve the country in this capacity at the White House,” Cobb told the Times. “I wish everybody well moving forward.”

One White House official who spoke on condition of anonymity said Cobb’s departure did not indicate a crisis — or at least a crisis beyond the daily one. “A normal chaos day,” the official said.

Cobb has repeatedly said that Trump will eventually agree to meet with Mueller, who is investigating possible Russian interference in the 2016 election, even though Trump appears to have soured on the possibility of an interview. Cobb told ABC News Wednesday that a meeting between Trump and Mueller is “certainly not off the table and people are working hard to make decisions and work towards an interview.”

His departure, however, leaves the president’s legal team without a person holding a security clearance to deal with the sensitive information in the Russia investigation and negotiations with Mueller. Jay Sekulow, the lead lawyer on Trump’s personal legal team, is still waiting for his clearance, according to Bloomberg.

The White House did not return a request for comment about how long it might take Flood to receive one and whether a lack of clearances hurt the legal team’s ability to operate.

Before becoming a partner at the litigation firm Williams & Connolly LLP, which also represents Hillary Clinton, the high-profile Flood spent two years in the Bush administration’s White House Counsel’s office, representing former President George W. Bush in “executive privilege-related disputes,” according to a statement on his firm’s website. He also represented former Vice President Dick Cheney in a lawsuit brought by former CIA agent Valerie Plame.

The Times reported in mid-March that Trump was considering adding Flood to the White House team, saying that his main role would be assisting with the president’s Justice Department dealings. Flood reportedly passed on an opportunity to join the White House team last summer.

Trump blasted that Times story in a tweet at the time, claiming that he was “very happy” with his legal team, which then also included John Dowd before the lawyer’s subsequent resignation on March 22.The countdown is on for Prince Harry and Meghan Markle’s (likely) spectacular wedding. Hours after they say their vows, many people will still be intrigued with their big day and wonder where the couple will end up on their honeymoon.

We rounded up seven places the lovebirds have a connection to that might serve up some romance and relaxation. Check them out.

Botswana

Sharon Tshipa/SOPA Images/LightRocket via Getty Images The Moremi Game Reserve is a popular safari spot in Botswana.

Botswana is just one of the many places that has witnessed the couple’s love. As Reuters put it, their “love blossomed” there. It’s also been reported that Harry sourced the center diamond on Markle’s engagement ring from Botswana (the others are from Princess Diana’s personal jewelry collection). It would be cute if they revisited a place that clearly means a lot to their relationship after the wedding.

Namibia

Shivang Mehta/Barcroft Images/Barcroft Media via Getty Images Rumor has it the royal newlyweds might hit up Namibia, where the nights might be filled with sparkling stars.

If Africa is on Harry’s mind when it comes to honeymoons, another spot could be Namibia. In April, Travel + Leisure shared that “a source” confirmed the newlyweds will be traveling here after their big day. As the site pointed out, the country is far more remote than the couple’s recent royal duties closer to home (ideal for privacy, of course). In an interview with Town and Country in early 2017, Harry also said he feels an “intense sense of complete relaxation and normality” in Africa.

Amalfi Coast

Jose Fuste Raga/Corbis via Getty Images Based on her blog, Markle has a thing for Italy, including the Amalfi Coast, a popular (and beautiful) tourist destination.

Markle was not shy about her love for Italy while her lifestyle blog was intact. The name of her blog, “The Tig,” was inspired by Tignanello, a wine made by the Antinori family, one of the leaders in Italian wine. (“Tig” is actually rooted in a mispronunciation of the word “tignanello.”) Markle has been to various regions of the country, but, according to an archive of The Tig on Wayback Machine, she wrote, ”And perhaps at the top of the list for Italy’s bragging rights is The Amalfi Coast.”

Jamaica

DeAgostini via Getty Images Jamaica's beaches are nice (and that's putting it mildly), but Markle might not want to honeymoon on the island since it was reported she married her first husband, Trevor Engelson, here.

Last year, Harry brought Markle along as his date to a friend’s wedding in Jamaica. Some sites reported that the couple were the butt of jokes from their friends that they were next to walk down the aisle. (Boy, were they right.) This destination might actually be a no-go, though, since it was reported that Markle married her first husband, Trevor Engelson, in Jamaica. Maybe she’s ready to put it behind her?

New Zealand

DeAgostini via Getty Images Hahei Beach could be a lovely place for the newlyweds to hang.

According to Wayback Machine, Markle blogged about her experience exploring New Zealand while traveling in a camper van for a couple of weeks.

“With a landscape that ranges from stunning lakes, welcoming wine country, glaciers, forest, farmland and beaches, New Zealand is undoubtedly spectacular,” she wrote.

Harry has also visited while performing his royal duties, so he’ll probably have recommendations, too.

Mustique

Anwar Hussein via Getty Images Queen Elizabeth II and her sister, Princess Margaret, were no strangers to the Caribbean island of Mustique. Maybe the newlyweds will visit here, too?

The private island of Mustique in the Caribbean is a haven for royals and famous people alike. Both Princess Margaret (Queen Elizabeth’s sister, who died in 2002) and the Duke and Duchess of Cambridge have vacationed here to get away from the spotlight.

Somewhere in Mexico

C. SAPPA / DeAgostini via Getty Images Markle adores Mexico, and Tulum (above) is just one of the many places she and Harry might end up.

Markle loves (like, really loves) Mexico.

“I am often asked about my favorite places in the world, and nary a conversation occurs where I don’t mention my beloved Mexico,” she once wrote on her blog.CEO Mark Zuckerberg says Facebook will rank news organizations to determine the play they get in its News Feed. Bloomberg via Getty Images

MENLO PARK, Calif. ― Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg said in a meeting Tuesday with media executives that the company has begun implementing a system of ranking news organizations by trust, relying on user surveys to determine which news sources are “broadly trusted.”

News organizations that scored higher on the ranking would be promoted in Facebook’s News Feed, while those with lower trust scores would be suppressed, Zuckerberg said. The effort is part of Facebook’s pledge to “take a broader view of our responsibilities,” he said after a bruising year in which the platform has been criticized for being used to undermine elections, foment division and spread hate speech.

Zuckerberg’s remarks came after his keynote address at Facebook’s F8 developer conference, in which he unveiled a series of new features on the platform. He met with executives from The New York Times, BuzzFeed, Atlantic Media, CNN, News Corp., HuffPost and other news organizations at a conference of media leaders convened by The Information, a technology news site.

The usually reticent CEO has been on a charm offensive of sorts in the last month, testifying before Congress, granting extensive interviews to news organizations and speaking contritely and publicly about how the company he started in his Harvard dorm room has grown to have an unanticipated and highly negative impact on democracy across the globe.

Zuckerberg said that Facebook has a responsibility to help reduce polarization and help people find “common ground” and that a shared set of facts and a common understanding of truth is essential for democracy.

“It’s not useful if someone’s just kind of repeating the same thing and attempting to polarize or drive people to the extremes,” Zuckerberg said.

He said he hoped Facebook could help find sustainable business models for journalism and acknowledged the company’s responsibility to “support the institution of journalism.”

The rise of mammoth technology platforms like Facebook and Google has obliterated the balance sheets of news organizations across the globe as they suck up the vast majority of digital advertising dollars.

But Facebook has no plans to begin paying news companies for the journalism the media publish on Facebook.

“I’m not sure that makes sense,” Zuckerberg said. Cable companies pay news organizations like CNN, MSNBC and Fox News lucrative carriage fees in exchange for their content, and news executives like Rupert Murdoch and Jonah Peretti of BuzzFeed have begun agitating for Facebook to begin paying them as well.

“It’s not useful if someone’s just kind of repeating the same thing and attempting to polarize or drive people to the extremes.” - Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg

And while Facebook has made it easier for news organizations to sell subscriptions on its platforms, it has offered little to news outlets that rely on digital advertising to provide their news reports free to readers.

He said Facebook plans to spend “billions and billions of dollars” to combat fake news, misinformation and hate speech.

“We’re going to have tens of thousands of people doing content review,” Zuckerberg said. Facebook is developing artificial intelligence tools to combat these problems on its platforms, but Zuckerberg acknowledged that it would take “five to 10 years” for that technology to be effective.Rick Wilking / Reuters

Several male supervisors at a Verizon-contracted warehouse in Memphis, Tennessee, groped, sexually propositioned and harassed eight current and former female employees, according to charges the women filed last month at the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, the federal agency that handles civil rights employment cases.

One woman says her boss at the fulfillment center, where workers pack and ship Verizon products, came by to offer her a peppermint, dropped it in her hand, then reached down and grabbed her breast.

Another woman’s boss grabbed her buttocks while he was walking by with a colleague, according to her complaint. After she reported the incident to the human resources department, her boss treated her more “harshly,” and wrote her up for not working ― falsely, she says in the complaint. She quit in January.

Filed in two batches at the EEOC in early and late April, the charges show what pervasive, systemic sexual harassment looks like for low-wage workers of color ― the warehouse workers are primarily African American ― who are often an afterthought in the recent spate of Me Too stories, which tend to focus on high-profile men and more elite, typically white, women.

While the first batch of charges got some local press attention, the discrimination claims filed in late April have not been previously reported.

In this case, the discrimination charges were not filed against Verizon nor do they involve the company’s employees. Instead, workers have filed their claims against their direct employer, XPO Logistics, a multibillion-dollar global firm that owns the warehouse and contracts with Verizon.

“These eight women are just the tip of the iceberg. There are so many more. Everybody in there is being mistreated and overworked.” - Gloria Sweet-Love, president of the NAACP in Tennessee

On Wednesday, ahead of Verizon’s shareholder meeting, the National Women’s Law Center, a women’s economic rights nonprofit, and four other groups sent a letter to Verizon CEO and chairman Lowell McAdam, urging him to address complaints of sexual harassment at the Memphis facility.

Other signers include the women’s nonprofit A Better Balance, the Tennessee branch of the NAACP and SisterReach, a women’s rights nonprofit that is focused of women of color in the South. The president of SAG-AFTRA, a union that represents actors, singers and other entertainers, also signed on.

“The XPO warehouse reportedly exhibits a toxic culture that runs contrary to Verizon’s stated policies and practices,” says the letter, provided exclusively to HuffPost on Tuesday. The letter notes that McAdam has been a vocal supporter of women’s rights. The CEO recently proclaimed a zero tolerance policy for harassment at Makers, a women’s conference run by Verizon-owned Oath. (Oath is also HuffPost’s parent company.)

“As community leaders, and women’s rights advocates engaged in legal and policy work to fight against sexual harassment and active in the Times Up and MeToo campaigns and movements, we are deeply concerned with how Verizon ensures safe and dignified working conditions for the workers in its supply chain,” the letter says.

The writers ask for a meeting with Verizon to further discuss the situation.

HuffPost alerted Verizon to the letter on Tuesday night. The company said this was the first it heard about the situation in Memphis.

“We are undertaking an immediate investigation into the matter,” Verizon spokesman Bob Varettoni told HuffPost on Wednesday, after looking at the charges.

Later that day, lawyers from both companies met to discuss the allegations, according to a letter sent to XPO from Verizon, broadly outlining their discussion and next steps.

“These are very disturbing and serious allegations,” Verizon’s attorneys write. “Verizon expects XPO Logistics to utilize all measures available to fully investigate the charges and take prompt and decisive remedial action if the facts warrant it.”

Verizon also said that it expects frequent updates on the investigation and that it will monitor XPOs actions. The updates and investigation will “inform the basis of any decisions Verizon makes regarding the future of our contractual relationship with XPO.”

The letter was addressed to two XPO executives, including in-house lawyer Richard Valitutto. According to the harassment charges, Valitutto was also employed by the warehouse’s previous owners, New Breed Logistics, when it was sued for sexual harassment in 2010. The company lost that case, and a judge ordered the warehouse to closely monitor for sexual harassment issues.

It’s not clear what happened after that.

A spokesman for XPO declined to comment on the specifics of the claims but said that the company had only reviewed the charges filed in early April and had not yet seen the late April filings.

“Our culture promotes safety and respect. We have no tolerance for any form of harassment,” an XPO spokesman told HuffPost. “We promptly investigate all claims brought to our attention.”

The charges raise questions about the responsibilities big companies have in dealing with the behavior of their contractors. It’s a struggle that’s somewhat analogous to what happens in the retail industry, where big labels outsource manufacturing overseas.

Other tech firms, including Facebook, do hold their contractors to various standards ― including minimum wages and benefits requirements. Many, including Verizon, say they have zero tolerance for harassment at any firm they do business with.

Those kind of policies will increasingly be put to the test as the Me Too movement matures. It’s possible that the next phase will spread to these fairly common arrangements, where big-name companies outsource labor needs to U.S. companies with a far lower profile.

“Part of this moment demands greater accountability for preventing and addressing workplace harassment,” said Emily Martin, general counsel at the National Women’s Law Center, which has signed on to the letter.

Companies like Verizon should pay attention not only to the treatment of their own workers but also to those who fall under their corporate umbrella, she said. They have a lot of power to make change.

“Verizon has a really important voice around the conversation they should use that power to stand up for the workers who are trying to seek justice,” said Martin, who also oversees some legal work for Time’s Up, the anti-harassment initiative created by women in Hollywood in the wake of the Me Too movement.

The women who filed these claims are hourly workers who don’t earn a lot of money, and many are the sole breadwinners for their family, grateful for the hourly work and full-time benefits, despite the hazards of the job, said Gloria Sweet-Love, president of the NAACP in Tennessee, which signed the letter.

The racial aspects of the harassment allegations are hard to miss, as the female workers at the plant are mainly African American and their supervisors’ mostly white men, according to the letter from the groups.

One woman alleging discrimination said her supervisor regularly made sexual comments to the women who worked under him, calling one his “chocolate baby.”

“They’re getting the same kind of racist pathetic treatment that people in the South got for generations,” said Sweet-Love, who noted she’s met with many workers inside the XPO facility, where employees are often working long and inconsistent hours, desperate to hang on to the full-time work that comes with benefits ― a rarity for low-wage workers in Memphis.

“These eight women are just the tip of the iceberg. There are so many more. Everybody in there is being mistreated and overworked,” she said.

The facility’s previous owner, New Breed Logistics, was sued by the EEOC in 2010 for harassment and retaliation involving three female temp workers in Memphis. A jury found in favor of the victims, with a $1.5 million judgment. A federal judge ordered the company to monitor complaints and issues going forward. However, while the case was on appeal, XPO bought the facility. Verizon contracted with New Breed, as well.

According to the lawyer who filed the current crop of charges, XPO continues to employ executives who were there when the last suit was filed, including its human resources director and corporate counsel Valitutto.

This article has been updated with details of Verizon’s letter to XPO.But Trump had also ratcheted up tensions with North Korea. White House officials contemplated striking the country, and he and Kim traded insults.

At a rally in Michigan last weekend, supporters chanted “No-bel, No-bel, No-bel” when Trump mentioned North Korea.

The letter comes just days before Messer faces a big primary. On Tuesday, Indiana voters will decide whether they want him to be their GOP nominee for U.S. Senate. Much of the race has been about the candidates trying to prove how much they’re like Trump. Messer has pitched himself as a “conservative who supports the Trump/Pence agenda” and this Nobel Prize push gives him an additional talking point.

The winner of Tuesday’s primary will face Sen. Joe Donnelly (D) in November.A C-130 military cargo plane crashed Wednesday onto a Port Wentworth, Georgia, highway, killing all nine people on board just minutes after taking off.

The National Guard plane, which had been undergoing routine maintenance, was headed to Tucson, Arizona, to be decommissioned, Puerto Rico National Guard spokesman Maj. Paul Dahlen said at a news conference. It was in the air for about two miles before striking a highway median, sending clouds of black smoke into the air.

The cause hadn’t been determined, Dahlen said, though the aircraft was decades old.

“The planes that we have in Puerto Rico ― it’s not news today that they are the oldest planes on inventory” in the National Guard, Adjutant Gen. Isabelo Rivero said.

A spokeswoman for the Port Wentworth Fire Department said a call came out and “everyone scrambled” to the scene. She could see black smoke “pouring” into the sky from her location, she said.

President Donald Trump tweeted his condolences.

I have been briefed on the U.S. C-130 “Hercules” cargo plane from the Puerto Rico National Guard that crashed near Savannah Hilton Head International Airport. Please join me in thoughts and prayers for the victims, their families and the great men and women of the National Guard. — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) May 2, 2018

A C-130 coming from Puerto Rico has crashed in Georgia. ChathamEMA

Minh Phan, 25, was walking near an outlet mall in Pooler when he saw “a huge black plume.”

“I was pretty shocked,” Phan told HuffPost in an email. “I knew it couldn’t be good. We have a lot of passenger, private and military aircraft that fly in the area, and that was my biggest concern was that something just crashed.”

The aircraft and the crew members, Rivera added, played an integral role in hurricane recovery efforts last fall, following the storms in both the British Virgin Islands and Puerto Rico.

“This pains us,” Rivera said.

Nina Golgowski contributed reporting.There’s no denying it: Rarely a wedding or party goes by without Journey’s “Don’t Stop Believin’” being played.

Released in June 1981, the song appeared on the rock band’s seventh album, “Escape.” Although it never made it to No. 1 on the charts, “Don’t Stop Believin’” has seeped into our culture in countless ways. The “Sopranos” series finale. That memorable “Glee” pilot episode. Broadway’s “Rock of Ages” musical. Your karaoke night. You probably know the words by heart, but you may not know the details behind the making of the song.

In the 1970s, Cain ― then an aspiring musician ― left his hometown of Chicago for Los Angeles in hopes of landing his big break. When things didn’t go as planned, he phoned his father for some help. It turned out to be a fateful call.

“My dog got hit by a car, and I was in Hollywood, and I had to pay the vet bill. And luckily they saved her life,” Cain told HuffPost at Build Series. “I had called him for some money, for another loan. And I hated calling my dad for a loan. I said, ‘Dad, should I just give up on this thing and come home? It seems like I might be pushing it back to Chicago.’ ‘No, no, don’t come home. Stick to your guns. Don’t stop believin’. I went, ‘OK.’ Everything he would say to me somehow I would just doodle in my little notebook that I wrote songs in. That’s basically what happened. He had said to me, ‘Don’t stop believin’,’ and I took it to heart. He sent me the money, and great things started to happen.”

Jonathan Cain speaking at Build Studio in New York City on April 30. Mike Pont/Build

In 1980, Cain left his previous group, the Babys, to join Journey, replacing Gregg Rolie on keyboards. While writing songs for “Escape” with Journey singer Steve Perry and guitarist Neal Schon, Cain began to flip through his notebook.

“Steve Perry asked me, ‘Is there another idea around? We need one more song.’ And when I looked in the back of the spiral notebook, there was ‘Don’t stop believin’’ ... and I thought, ‘Well, Steve Perry would sing this if I can bring in a chorus of some kind,’” Cain said. “So I wrote this chorus, and I brought it in, and all of us together finished the song in a room. It was magical.”

Cain said they could feel the momentum of the song, particularly after recording it in the studio.

“Workin’ hard to get my fill. Everybody wants a thrill, payin’ anything to roll the dice just one more time.” - “Don’t Stop Believin’”

“I think when we finally heard the final mix, Neal looked at me, and he said, ‘There’s something special about this.’ And I said, ‘Let’s make it the first song on the album, because it sounds like it draws a listener in. Let’s make it Track 1.’ So that’s how we sequenced the album,” Cain said.

“Don’t Stop Believin’” reached No. 9 on the Billboard singles chart, but he said he doesn’t recall that it was “a huge hit.”

Steve Perry and Jonathan Cain at the 2017 Rock & Roll Hall of Fame induction ceremony in Brooklyn, New York. Theo Wargo via Getty Images

Years after the release of “Don’t Stop Believin,’” Perry ― the voice behind the song ― parted ways with Journey, leaving a big hole to fill. After a couple of other frontmen, the group secured a steady lead singer in Arnel Pineda, who joined in 2008.

Last year Journey was inducted into the Rock & Roll Hall of Fame. Although Perry attended the ceremony, he didn’t perform with the the band. Still, Cain thinks Perry enjoyed the moment.

“He seemed very, very vibrant and proud to be standing there with us,” Cain said. “He lives a very private life, and he chooses to keep it that way. Whenever I see him at these events, he seems very, very happy, content with his life. I know he’s gone through some troubles, like we all have. But he’s moved on.”

Arnel Pineda and Neal Schon at a Journey show in Los Angeles in 2017. Kevin Mazur via Getty Images

Cain has moved on too. He said he hopes to work on some new music with Journey soon. And you can count on the band performing “Don’t Stop Believin’” on tour this summer.

“I don’t ever get tired of it,” he said. “For me, it’s an honor to have a song that’s loved by three, four generations by now … Anyone who gets tired of a song is working off their own ego. When we’re in Journey, we check our egos at the door.”

And as for the future of “Don’t Stop Believin’”?Gary Hershorn via Getty Images

Following several high-profile pet deaths and mishaps, United Airlines has revealed a more stringent pet transportation policy.

The U.S. carrier said Tuesday that it will only accept dogs and cats ― and no other type of animal ― in its cargo holds beginning June 18. Dozens of snub-nosed and strong-jawed dog and cat breeds will also be banned from flying in the airline’s PetSafe program, which applies to animals traveling in the cargo compartment.

The banned breeds — which include mastiffs, Pekingese, shih-tzus, several bulldog breeds, as well as Burmese and Persian cats — were singled out because of “higher adverse health risks,” United said, adding that it had worked closely with the animal welfare group American Humane to improve its pet travel program. Snub-nosed, or brachycephalic, dog and cat breeds are known to be more vulnerable to flying-related health problems.

“We are doing this to further minimize risk and ensure the comfort of pets we fly,” United spokesman Charles Hobart told People magazine of the pet policy overhaul. “Prior to today, we flew all sorts of animals. Geese, foxes, leopards, you name it, we pretty much flew it. That will change moving forward.”

Victoria Jones/PA Images via Getty Images Snub-nosed dog breeds are known to be more vulnerable to flying-related health problems.

Hobart added that the airline previously prohibited only six dog breeds from flying in cargo compartments. Concerns about pet health and comfort prompted the more extensive ban, he said.

“We understand that [the new policies] can present challenges to folks who have traditionally flown their pets where they need to be, but our overwhelming concern is ensuring the comfort of those animals and this is how we have to do it,” Hobart said.

Among domestic carriers, United had been one of the most lax when it came to the transportation of higher-risk breeds. Other domestic carriers, like Delta and American Airlines, already have blanket bans on brachycephalic dogs in their cargo compartments.

Under the new guidelines, United also will limit the travel of pets to and from Las Vegas, Palm Springs, Phoenix and Tucson between May 1 and Sept. 30, due to concern about hot temperatures.

United’s policy overhaul follows the March death of a French bulldog on one of its flights. That dog had been traveling in an overhead luggage bin in the main cabin when it died. United temporarily suspended its PetSafe program for pets traveling in the cargo compartment after the animal’s death, and said it would conduct “a thorough and systematic review” of the program.

The airline has said also is reviewing its policy for cabin animal transport. For now, the carrier continues to allow “domesticated cats, dogs, rabbits and household birds (excluding cockatoos) to travel accompanied in the aircraft cabin on most flights within the U.S.” so long as the animal’s kennel can fit completely under the seat in front of the passenger.

AdvertisementTens of thousands of children from Central America are apprehended at the U.S.-Mexico border each year, straining the government system caring for minors traveling to the U.S. without their parents. Now Donald Trump’s administration is stretching the system even further.

Until recently, families that illegally crossed together generally faced deportation proceedings in civil court. But as of this month, the Trump administration is following a blanket policy of referring for prosecution all people who cross illegally. The change means that authorities send parents to jails run by the U.S. Marshals Services and their children wind up in the same agency as minors who came to the U.S. without their parents ― sometimes without their parents being able to locate them.

White House chief of staff John Kelly told NPR this month that once separated from their parents, children “will be taken care of — put into foster care or whatever.”

That “whatever” is the custody of the Office of Refugee Resettlement, part of the Department of Health and Human Services, which takes custody of unaccompanied children apprehended at the border, who by law may not be immediately deported. The ORR is charged with finding a sponsor for the children to live with ― ideally, a parent.

Even before Trump administration officials announced the new policy, the ORR was showing signs of strain.

While the number of children apprehended while traveling without their parents is lower than it was at its peak in 2014, border agents picked up more than 26,000 unaccompanied minors since October. The ORR recently lost track of nearly 1,500 children once in its custody and in 2014 released some minors to traffickers.

“They’re crippling an already overwhelmed system,” Michelle Brané, the director of migrant rights and justice at the Women’s Refugee Commission, said of the administration’s decision. “You take that situation in which children are released, and then there’s little to no follow-up, and add hundreds and hundreds of children ― thousands of children, eventually ― and you’re multiplying the level of the problem.”

Last month Steven Wagner, the acting assistant secretary of the Administration for Children and Families, which includes the ORR, told a Senate subcommittee that the federal government was unable to locate 1,475 children who had been released from its custody when it called to check in on them from October the end of 2017. An additional 28 had run away, and 52 were living with someone other than their initial sponsor, he said.

Once an unaccompanied minor is placed with a sponsor, “he or she ceases to be in the custody of the U.S. government, and all HHS-provided subsistence — food, shelter, clothing, health care and education — ends at that point, and the child becomes the responsibility of his or her parent, guardian or sponsor,” a spokesperson for the agency said in a statement.

The ORR typically calls to check in with sponsors 30 days after releasing a child, but that’s it. The children have little in the way of other help; the government does not provide immigrants with attorneys for removal proceedings, even if they’re children, leaving them to navigate a complicated legal process on their own.

“This is as horrific a policy as I’ve seen in 25-plus years doing civil rights work.” - Lee Gelerent, an attorney with the American Civil Liberties Union’s Immigrant Rights Project

The ORR has already come under scrutiny from some members of Congress, particularly after it was revealed that it released several minors in 2014 to sponsors who ended up being traffickers. HHS and the Department of Homeland Security were supposed to have a joint plan for dealing with unaccompanied minors by February 2017 but failed to meet their deadline. The agencies told the Senate’s permanent subcommittee on investigations last month that they would complete their plan by July 30, according to the office of Sen. Rob Portman (R-Ohio), who chairs the subcommittee and has pressed for quicker action.

Now the government could be facing an influx of children, many of them likely to be younger than the average age of minors who traveled without parents. Meanwhile, the Trump administration is taking steps that could deter some sponsors from coming forward to take in children. The ORR previously checked fingerprints of potential sponsors to conduct background checks, and now it has a memorandum of understanding to share that information with Immigration and Customs Enforcement, which could have a chilling effect for undocumented parents already in the U.S. whose children came to join them.

Parents in government custody are now in many cases unable to locate their children. After the parents serve time for the misdemeanor offense of illegal entry ― typically a sentence of only a few days and often no more than time served ― they’re then transferred to ICE for deportation. With limited access to phones and no right to a public defender, parents might not be able to find out where their children are.

The ORR worked with the DHS to locate parents in immigration custody in about 700 cases since October 2017, according to an ORR spokesperson.

Even before the Trump administration concretized the immigration changes this month, family separation at the border sparked legal challenges. In February the American Civil Liberties Union filed a lawsuit on behalf of a Congolese woman who crossed at a port of entry with her daughter. The two were separated despite crossing legally. The ACLU is asking a federal judge to issue a nationwide injunction barring the federal government from separating families at the border, arguing that it violates the Fifth Amendment’s due process clause.

“This is as horrific a policy as I’ve seen in 25-plus years doing civil rights work,” Lee Gelerent, an attorney with the ACLU’s Immigrant Rights Project, told HuffPost. “No child should be sent to these government facilities if they don’t have to be, especially with all these problems in the ORR system.”

Those cases are now becoming more common. At a recent immigration prosecution hearing in Tucson, Arizona, a 36-year-old Guatemalan woman named Alma Jacinto asked through her assigned lawyer when she could be reunited with her two children, who were separated from her when they crossed the border. Neither the magistrate judge nor the prosecutor knew the answer.

In another case, reported by the Houston Chronicle, Esteban Pastor was deported to Guatemala after U.S. authorities separated him from his 18-month-old child. He was unable to locate the child after he returned to Guatemala.