Parkland shooting survivors David Hoff (L) and Alfonso Calderon (R) speak with CNN on Monday. CNN

Two student survivors of last month’s deadly shooting at a Parkland, Florida, high school are urging President Donald Trump to break his ties with the National Rifle Association and live up to his pledge to push for stricter U.S. gun laws.

In a Monday interview with CNN, David Hogg and Alfonso Calderon expressed disappointment over the White House’s new gun and school safety proposals, which include arming teachers to help prevent future on-campus shootings. But dropped from the plan was Trump’s call to raise the legal age for buying certain firearms ― including semi-automatic rifles ― from 18 to 21 years old.

Trump endorsed changing the age requirement last month during a bipartisan meeting with lawmakers at the White House in the wake of the Florida shooting in which the suspected gunman used a semi-automatic rifle. The NRA, however, quickly came out against the age proposal.

“What President Trump showed when he said he wanted to raise the age to 21 is bipartisanship and he wanted to work together on this and save some lives,” Hogg told CNN. “But the other thing that he showed after that is he is no better than the other politicians because he called out other GOP members and said essentially that you’re owned by the NRA and that’s why you don’t want to take action.”

At the White House meeting, Trump had pointedly scolded lawmakers for not having previously acted on raising the minimum age for buying semi-automatic weapons, saying they were “afraid of the NRA” and he wasn’t.

But in a series of Monday morning tweets, he touted his proposal to arm some teachers and sought to justify his backpedaling on the age issue.

“Highly trained expert teachers will be allowed to conceal carry, subject to State Law. Armed guards OK, deterrent!” Trump tweeted, adding that there’s “not much political support (to put it mildly)” for raising the age requirement.

“I ask him why?” Hogg said in his interview. “Show us you’re better than the other politicians, that you aren’t owned by the NRA and that you want to take action. Those proposals were great, but proposals without action remain proposals.”

Calderon took on one of the main NRA arguments against raising the age requirement.

“They always talk about the narrative of good guys with guns stopping bad guys with guns. But to that I say, what if the bad guys couldn’t get the guns because we have comprehensive gun laws,” he said.

AdvertisementWASHINGTON, Pa. ― Dwight Harris, 40, is a registered Republican who enthusiastically voted for Donald Trump and is largely satisfied with the choice he made.

Harris, a second-generation coal miner tired of people who feel “entitled” to government handouts, is exactly the kind of voter that Republican congressional candidates need to count on in a difficult election year.

But when a canvassing team from the United Steel Workers labor union knocked on Harris’ door on Thursday afternoon, Harris let them know that he was already planning to vote for Democrat Conor Lamb in Tuesday’s special congressional election.

The reason was simple: His union, the United Mine Workers of America, had informed him that Lamb supports bipartisan congressional legislation to plug the hole in the union’s troubled pension fund.

Republican Rick Saccone, on the other hand, “won’t even talk to our union at all about the pensions or anything,” Harris said.

That left Harris no choice but to go with Lamb, with whom he disagrees on other issues. “I can’t cut my own throat,” he said.

Attrition from union members like Harris is part of a perfect political storm brewing for Republicans in Pennsylvania’s 18th Congressional District, where over 80,000 people ― from more than one-fifth of households ― belong to unions. Unions, many of which have endorsed the district’s Republican candidate in the past, have mobilized in full force against Saccone, whose anti-union record includes support for right-to-work laws.

President Donald Trump speaks at a rally for Republican Rick Saccone in Moon Township, Pennsylvania, on March 10, 2018. Joshua Roberts / Reuters

Along with union drop-off from the GOP, higher than normal Democratic enthusiasm, suburban moderate voters’ frustration with the president and an especially weak Republican candidate have converged to endanger the GOP hold on a favorably gerrymandered district that Trump won by nearly 20 percentage points in 2016.

The GOP-held seat, which stretches from the suburbs of Pittsburgh to rural coal country on the border with West Virginia, came up for grabs after eight-term Republican Rep. Tim Murphy resigned in October. (The anti-abortion rights congressman was caught urging a woman with whom he was having an extramarital affair to get an abortion.)

On paper, the special election will have a limited impact on the balance of power in Congress. Pennsylvania’s Supreme Court redrew the district boundaries in February, enabling Lamb to run again in November in the new 17th Congressional District, which went for Trump by just 3 points.

However, even a temporary victory in solid red territory would devastate Republican morale and turbocharge Democratic enthusiasm ahead of the midterm elections. It would signal that no district is safe from the political blowback to Trump’s presidency and diminish his political capital in Congress.

As a result, national Republican groups have gone all in to prop up Saccone’s campaign, spending millions of dollars on television advertisements, direct mail literature and field canvassers.

But in spite of outside spending that was at one point 17 times greater than that of Democratic groups, Saccone and Lamb are neck-and-neck in the few available public polls of the race.

Trump, recognizing he will get some of the blame if Saccone loses, has tried to engineer a last-minute turnaround for the flagging candidate. He held a packed rally for Saccone at the Pittsburgh airport on Saturday night where he nicknamed the Democratic contender “Lamb the Sham.” Trump has since been admonishing his followers on Twitter to turn out for Saccone, who will be “much better for steel and business.”

The Pittsburgh Post Gazette just endorsed Rick Saccone for Congress. He will be much better for steel and business. Very strong on experience and what our Country needs. Lamb will always vote for Pelosi and Dems....Will raise taxes, weak on Crime and Border. — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) March 12, 2018

The Republicans are 5-0 in recent Congressional races, a point which the Fake News Media continuously fails to mention. I backed and campaigned for all of the winners. They give me credit for one. Hopefully, Rick Saccone will be another big win on Tuesday. — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) March 11, 2018

Even Trump’s recently announced steel and aluminum tariffs were conveniently timed to coincide with an election in a region where the steel industry is embedded in the local DNA.

But on the eve of the election, it appeared that not even Trump’s visit was enough to give Saccone a boost. Lamb’s lead over Saccone grew to six percentage points in a new Monmouth University university poll released Monday. The poll assumes higher-than-normal Democratic turnout, which would be consistent with recent elections in Alabama and Virginia.

Republicans insist that Saccone’s struggles are not a reflection of the unpopularity of Trump or congressional Republicans and their policies. For the most part, GOP officials have instead laid the blame squarely on Saccone, a 60-year-old state lawmaker, political science professor and former military intelligence officer with a deeply conservative voting record and dry speaking style.

“Candidates and campaigns matter and that’s why it’s a race,” said a national Republican operative active in the race who asked not to be named. “You have one candidate that’s out of central casting, Conor Lamb, and then you have a candidate on the Republican side, who, it was expected, would be lackluster in fundraising.”

Indeed, as of Feb. 21, Saccone had raised just over $900,000, compared with Lamb’s $3.9 million haul.

But Super PACs and the national GOP have more than closed the gap for Saccone. The Congressional Leadership Fund, a super PAC aligned with House Speaker Paul Ryan (R-Wis.), has spent $3.5 million, as has the National Republican Congressional Committee, the party body that helps elect Republicans to the House. Three other Republican super PACs spent a combined $1.7 million on ads, and the Republican National Committee chipped in $1 million on field organizing and campaign literature.

But the outside groups’ dollars do not go as far on the airwaves. Media outlets are only required to give candidates themselves the lowest possible television and radio advertising rates, and outside spending often lacks the focus and coordination of a campaign’s efforts.

“When candidates don’t raise as much in hard dollars, it’s very difficult to run these things from afar,” said Mike DeVanney, a Pittsburgh-based Republican political consultant.

Other Republicans have noted the amateurish nature of Saccone’s media and field operations, including goofy Facebook Live broadcasts. White House adviser Kellyanne Conway’s visit with campaign volunteers last Thursday drew fewer than 20 people, according to The Associated Press. On another occasion, the AP reported, Saccone himself failed to arrive as promised for a canvassing event with supporters in Greensburg.

Saccone’s lavish use of his expense account at the state legislature has also become fodder for attack ads.

Lamb, a 33-year-old Marine veteran and former federal prosecutor from one of Democratic Pittsburgh’s most prominent families, was the perfect foil. His background, devout Catholic faith and more conservative positions on guns (he opposes new regulations), coal and fracking (he considers them part of the country’s “energy future”) made it harder to peg him as the kind of urbane liberal that instinctively repels the district’s considerable share of blue-collar voters.

“We’ll be able to look at the playbook and see if running against Nancy Pelosi and Barack Obama still works.” - Mike Devanney, GOP strategist

On the divisive issue of abortion rights, Lamb has said that he personally believes that “life begins at conception.” But he does not back additional restrictions on abortion, including a ban on the practice 20 weeks into a pregnancy.

Lamb courted moderate and independent voters with his opposition to a brief government shutdown in January, as well as pleas for bipartisan fixes to the Affordable Care Act and the nation’s infrastructure. And in a region ravaged by the opioid epidemic, he promised to continue prosecuting drug dealers, including “those in white lab coats,” as he put it in one piece of campaign literature.

It’s tempting to see in Lamb a kind of Pittsburgh-area version of Jon Ossoff, the young and clean-cut fiscal moderate whose failed special election bid for a suburban Georgia congressional district in June attracted astronomical national funds and attention.

But notwithstanding the endorsement of the economically centrist Blue Dog PAC, Lamb has run on what can best be described as a pro-union, liberal populist platform. At virtually every campaign event, Lamb expresses a reverence for union workers and their priorities that is matched only by his solemn respect for his fellow military veterans. And in keeping with the region’s mythic United Steel Workers union, Lamb immediately voiced qualified support for Trump’s tariffs on steel and aluminum.

Lamb has also run heavily on protecting Social Security and Medicare, a fact he touted in an ad denouncing those who call the social insurance programs “entitlements,” rather than earned benefits. In a questionnaire for the progressive advocacy group Social Security Works PAC, Lamb endorsed expanding the two social insurance programs. He also wants to empower Medicare to negotiate lower prescription drug prices.

“Lamb’s run a pretty good race,” said a western Pennsylvania GOP strategist who asked not to be named for professional reasons. “Had he been willing to be more moderate on abortion, it could have been really helpful for him.”

Dwight Harris, 40, is a Republican voting for Conor Lamb. Daniel Marans/HuffPost

Notwithstanding Lamb’s adroit political balancing act, Saccone and Republican groups have bent over backwards to portray him as an out-of-touch liberal, rather than focus much on the GOP candidate’s merits or policies.

If Lamb wins, said Devanney, “it’s an inflection point. It’s an opportunity for the party to examine what’s happened.

“We’ll be able to look at the playbook and see if running against Nancy Pelosi and Barack Obama still works,” he added.

In conversations with voters across the district, there were already signs that the negative playbook was backfiring.

“I’ve been getting some nasty stuff from Saccone about Lamb,” said Bonnie Schrader, a 54-year-old independent who voted for Murphy but is now backing the Democrat. “I’ve heard more bad stuff from him than any good stuff that he’s planning on doing.”Dream on, Steven Tyler.

The 70-year-old Aerosmith frontman confessed Thursday that he once hit on a movie star friend of his daughter Liv Tyler ― while she watched.

Tyler said he and Liv filed into a van leaving a party hosted by Stella McCartney in England.

“And who would be sitting to my right? Cameron Diaz,” Tyler told host James Corden on “The Late Late Show.” “So I look at this beautiful woman and I say, ’Cameron, should you ever need someone to take you to the movies or like if I was to ask you to show me around London’ ― and of course Liv went, ‘Daddy, you’re hitting on my best girlfriend!’ And I got ashamed for a moment.”

Tyler said he “got a lot of shit for it.”

His admission came by way of Corden’s “Spill Your Guts Or Fill Your Guts” game. Tyler either had to eat dried caterpillar or answer whether he had ever come on to one of his daughter’s friends.Same theme song, same kitchen, same laugh — even Laurie Metcalf looks the same!

But the opening sequence for the revival of ABC’s long-running sitcom “Roseanne” does offer something new — a sneak peek at the extended Conner family gathering around the table for a meal.

One of these new family members is Roseanne Conner’s grandson, Mark (Ames McNamara), who likes to dress in clothing traditionally worn by girls.

“I don’t want to pigeonhole him and say just because he dresses this way, that’s the only thing about him,” executive producer Sara Gilbert, who also plays Darlene Conner, told Entertainment Weekly in January. “He happens to dress that way, but he’s an amazing, creative, brilliant kid, which you will see, and so is the kid, Ames, who plays him.”

The character backs up the reboot’s promise to address issues affecting today’s working-class American families.A historic Academy Awards snafu ― “La La Land” was mistakenly named Best Picture ― meant the people behind last year’s legit winner, “Moonlight,” didn’t get their proper moment in the spotlight.

Director Barry Jenkins had an acceptance speech prepared in case his film won the big prize, but he wasn’t able to deliver it at the awards show. Its contents remained a mystery... until Sunday. Jenkins read it out loud at a South by Southwest event and reminded attendees why his film set a new standard for humanizing queer voices of color.

“Tarell [Alvin McCraney, whose play formed the basis for the film] and I are Chiron. We are that boy,” Jenkins said in the speech, which Deadline reprinted in full. “And when you watch ‘Moonlight,’ you don’t assume a boy who grew up how and where we did would grow up and make a piece of art that wins an Academy Award — certainly don’t think he would grow up to win Best Picture.”

“I’ve said that a lot and what I’ve had to admit is that I placed those limitations on myself,” he added. “I denied myself that dream — not you, not anyone else — me. And so, to anyone watching this who sees themselves in us, let this be a symbol, a reflection that leads you to love yourself. Because doing so may be the difference between dreaming at all and somehow, through the Academy’s grace, realizing dreams you never allowed yourself to have.”

It was a shining, if overdue, moment for Jenkins, who has said he had a hard time celebrating the success of “Moonlight,” given the way his film’s win played out at the Oscars ceremony.

“It’s bittersweet because when that switch happened, I didn’t enjoy it,” he told The Hollywood Reporter in February. “And it made 2017 a very long year.”I’ve read A Wrinkle in Time twice in my life ― and I’ll admit it’s been a while since the last time ― but I’m pretty sure the book failed to feature a very encouraging, five-story-tall Oprah.

Ava DuVernay’s new take on the classic, however, does. While DuVernay’s movie is largely faithful to the beats of Madeleine L’Engle, it also includes some notable changes ― actually, some giant ones. Among them:

In the novel, Oprah’s magical character, Mrs. Which, struggles to appear in a set form and speaks in a drawn-out voice. In the movie, Mrs. Which appears as a gigantic being, towering over everyone and everything. And we couldn’t help but wonder: Why?

Was it just to show off her big bedazzled eyebrows? Was it because she read The Secret? (I knew I should’ve read The Secret.) Is there even a reason?

Writer Jennifer Lee recently opened up to HuffPost about this inarguably important question, as well as a few other major diversions from the book moviegoers should know.

Why is Oprah a giant?

Disney

In the book, Mrs. Which is reluctant to take any form, Lee said. “I love the idea that there’s a character who was so evolved that even getting the mechanics of becoming human was problematic for her.”

The Mrs. W’s in the story all have their little (or colossal) quirks, Lee added. Mrs. Who (Mindy Kaling) is so evolved that she doesn’t need language, while Mrs. Whatsit (Reese Witherspoon) is the youngest, so she’s a bit naive.

“With Mrs. Which, [it’s] the idea of changing sizes, and that doesn’t seem to faze her,” Lee said. “It’s just this delicious thing to look at the absurdity of ourselves, and, yeah, she is the wisest, and sometimes you really need to just stop and listen, and it’s easy to do when she’s five stories tall.”

Oprah’s bizarre size is most apparent in a scene during which protagonist Meg’s (Storm Reid) younger brother Charles Wallace (Deric McCabe) reaches out and brushes his hand across Mrs. Which’s enormous face as he flies by her. (Stay tuned for that GIF to take over the internet.)

“Ava gets full credit for that moment visually, and when I saw it, I burst into tears,” Lee said, explaining that another departure from the book involved creating specific connections between the kid characters and the Mrs. W’s.

“Whenever we make connections ... something wonderful happens, sort of the most evolved with the most innocent. So Ava looks for these beautiful moments to draw that out, and I love that.”

Why is the Black Thing simply called IT?

The original book describes an entity called the Black Thing ― seen as the personification of evil. There’s also an evil brain called the IT.

But in the movie, everything is just called IT.

“In the script stage for me you had the darkness, the Black Thing, and then you had IT, the brain,” Lee said. “Really, you have all these different things, and it was too complicated. In a book you can handle it, but it’s too confusing in a film. I chose the IT over any of the others for two reasons: One is the singularity of IT ... there’s a singularity to it that is very big and you can’t argue with it, no pun intended.”

The goal was to simplify and realize the “fundamental thing we’re speaking about here,” Lee said. “Let’s make it one thing and ... not give it an identity that can be pulled one way or another. It’s pure evil.”

What happened to the Bunsen burner?

Culture Club via Getty Images

As I mentioned, it’s been a long time since I read the book. But one thing I never forgot was that Mrs. Murry once made stew over a Bunsen burner. And I’m not the only one:

(I have tickets for #WrinkleInTime for Saturday afternoon, and I'll be looking for Ms. Murry's Bunsen burner stew.) — Emily Lakdawalla (@elakdawalla) March 8, 2018

Mrs Murry, in A Wrinkle in Time, has a lab next to the kitchen and cooks stew on a bunsen burner when she has an experiment she needs to keep an eye on — Catriona Tippin (@ProofreadingTip) December 19, 2017

Watching the trailers for Wrinkle In Time come out has been fascinating, because I remember exactly 3 things from the book.

-Cooking stew on a bunsen burner

-The oppressive terror of children bouncing balls in unison

-Charles Wallace rearranging wall molecules like it's nbd — Jasmine Stairs (on hiatus) (@snazel) November 20, 2017

Like that time in your ninth-grade chemistry class when you first tried using a Bunsen burner, it pains me to say that people looking for this particular scene are gonna be burned.

Because the Bunsen burner was cut from the movie.

The burner was in an earlier draft, Lee said. But because the character was supposed to be a complex biophysicist, “we kept saying we need to ground it in truth, because we’re going to get so fantastical.”

″[People] always joke you have to kill your darlings, so the Bunsen burner had to go. But it didn’t go lightly,” she added.

Hmmm. The Bunsen burner scene was cut because the movie needed to be “grounded in truth”? Giant Oprah is cool, but making stew on a Bunsen burner? No way.

Lee did offer a more practical reason for the cut, saying, “I feel like [Mrs. Murry] is kind of writing all of the physics equations of the world. Does she have to make a stew? Can’t they get takeout? C’mon, let’s be honest.”

Fair. But if there happens to be a scene of Mrs. Murry’s Bunsen stew in the bonus features on DVD, I won’t be disappointed.After publicly stating earlier this month that the National Rifle Association had little power over him, the president tweeted Monday that the White House would support NRA-approved gun control measures, which include arming teachers and a limited expansion of background checks. Trump said there was not “much political support” for raising the age limit to purchase firearms from 18 to 21 years old.

Very strong improvement and strengthening of background checks will be fully backed by White House. Legislation moving forward. Bump Stocks will soon be out. Highly trained expert teachers will be allowed to conceal carry, subject to State Law. Armed guards OK, deterrent!....... — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) March 12, 2018

....On 18 to 21 Age Limits, watching court cases and rulings before acting. States are making this decision. Things are moving rapidly on this, but not much political support (to put it mildly). — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) March 12, 2018

“That’s not true,” Smith said. “It’s just not factually accurate. There is broad-based support for raising the gun age limit.”

The Fox News host is right. There’s overwhelming public support for the issue, plus Democrats in Congress have been calling for common-sense gun control measures for years. There’s not much political support within the Republican Party, and certainly not within the NRA.

The Fox News host suggested the president was pandering to the NRA instead of keeping his promise to students of Parkland, Florida, who survived a deadly mass shooting at their high school last month.

“The president told the kids at Parkland, ‘I’ll go strong on this, I’ll work on this age thing,’” Smith said. “He came up to the general public and said to the Congress, ‘Oh, the NRA has a lot of pressure on you, has a lot of effect on you, but not on me so much.’ And then he met with the NRA.”

AdvertisementKATHMANDU (Reuters) - A Bangladeshi airliner with 71 people on board crashed on Monday while coming in to land at the airport in the Nepali capital, Kathmandu, killing at least 50 people, officials said.

The plane, operated by US-Bangla Airlines, was on a flight from Dhaka when it hit an airport fence and burst into flames, said Raj Kumar Chettri, general manager of the hill-ringed airport, which is prone to bird strikes and other hazards.

“We have recovered 50 dead bodies so far,” said army spokesman Gokul Bhandari. Several people had been rescued from the burning wreckage of the Bombardier Q400 series aircraft but nine people were still unaccounted for, he said.

The aircraft burst into flames and came to rest in a field near the tarmac of Tribhuvan International Airport.

Many of the bodies that lay on the tarmac covered by cloth were charred, witnesses said. Thick plumes of smoke could be seen from the aircraft.

Later, photographs showed the fire had been put out, with army personnel and rescue workers at the scene.

Data from tracking website Flightradar24.com showed the aircraft was 17 years old. The aircraft descended to an airport altitude of 4,400 feet and then ascended up to 6,600 feet before crashing about two minutes later, the website said.

Mountainous Nepal has had a poor air safety record. Small aircraft ply an extensive domestic network and often run into trouble at remote airstrips.

A Thai Airways flight from Bangkok crashed while trying to land in Kathmandu in 1992 killing all on board.

The crashed aircraft was operated by US-Bangla Airlines as #BS211

from Dhaka to Kathmandu.



Due to limited MLAT coverage, last position was calculated at 11,825 feet.https://t.co/AO0DBEz2DC pic.twitter.com/i5w8hNiNCE — Flightradar24 (@flightradar24) March 12, 2018

US-Bangla Airlines is a unit of the US-Bangla Group, a U.S. Bangladeshi joint venture company. A spokesman for the airline in Dhaka had no immediate comment.

AdvertisementTell MAMA UK

Counterterrorism police in the United Kingdom are investigating reports that people across the country are receiving letters that encourage them to commit violence against Muslims.

The letters, which were reportedly mailed to residences in London, Yorkshire and the Midlands, call on people to participate in “Punish A Muslim Day” on April 3. They say participants can earn points for different violent acts: Pulling a Muslim woman’s headscarf is worth 25 points, for example, while throwing acid in a Muslim person’s face is worth 50 points; killing Muslims with a “gun, knife, vehicle” or other device is worth 500 points, and burning or bombing a mosque is worth 1,000.

The author of the letters encourages people not to allow the “white majority nations of Europe and North America” to become overrun by those who want to “turn our democracies into Sharia-led police states.”

“They have hurt you, they have made your loved ones suffer,” the letter reads. “They have caused you pain and heartache. What are you going to do about it?”

“Punish A Muslim Day” letters are being sent to families in East London. The letter details a point system for each action & a reward. For example pulling a Muslim women’s hijab is 25 points, throwing acid is 50 points and burning or bombing a mosque is a whole 1,000 points. pic.twitter.com/6kmCrDrXt0 — Rowaida Abdelaziz (@Rowaida_Abdel) March 9, 2018

The U.K.’s Counter Terrorism Policing North East, one of five counterterrorism units in the country, is taking the lead on the investigation. The group received reports from local police that letters were sent to people in the West Yorkshire, South Yorkshire, Leicestershire, Nottinghamshire and Metropolitan police force areas.

Detective Chief Superintendent Martin Snowden, head of the counterterrorism unit, called on anyone with information about the letter campaign to contact their local police.

Tell MAMA UK, an organization that tracks anti-Muslim hate crimes, said the number of reports it has received about these letters has reached the “double figures.”

Riaz Ahmed, a politician in West Yorkshire County, told The Mirror that he received one of the letters. He said it wasn’t addressed to anyone in particular.

“When I opened it and saw the content, I was horrified,” Ahmed said.

The Muslim Council of Britain, an umbrella organization representing Muslim groups across the country, said the letters have “caused deep distress and alarm.”

“Sadly it is reflective of hate against Muslims which continues to manifest itself alongside the rise of the far-right,” the group said Saturday in a statement.

A police officer stands outside the home of Darren Osborne, in Cardiff, Wales, on June 20, 2017. He was convicted of driving a rented van into Muslim worshippers outside a London mosque. Rebecca Naden / Reuters

British Muslims have seen a rise in Islamophobic hate crimes and threats in recent years. Tell MAMA UK’s annual report for 2016 documented a 47 percent rise in the number of street-based anti-Muslim incidents as compared to the previous calendar year. Fifty-six percent of the victims of those incidents were female, while 66 percent of the perpetrators were male.

A British man drove a van into a crowd of worshippers near a London mosque in June, killing one person and injuring 12 others. The driver, Darren Osborne, was sentenced to 43 years in prison on Feb. 2 after being convicted of murder and attempted murder.

Tell MAMA UK documented another letter campaign calling for violence against Muslim worship spaces last year. So far, no link has been established between the two campaigns.UNITED NATIONS (Reuters) - U.S. Ambassador to the United Nations Nikki Haley warned on Monday that if the U.N. Security Council fails to act on Syria, Washington “remains prepared to act if we must,” just as it did last year when it bombed a Syrian government air base over a deadly chemical weapons attack.

“It is not the path we prefer, but it is a path we have demonstrated we will take, and we are prepared to take again,” Haley told the 15-member Security Council. “When the international community consistently fails to act, there are times when states are compelled to take their own action.”

Haley’s warning came as the United States asked the Security Council to demand an immediate 30-day ceasefire in Damascus and rebel-held eastern Ghouta, where Syrian President Bashar al-Assad’s forces, backed by Russia and Iran, say they are targeting “terrorist” groups which are shelling the capital.

The Security Council demanded a 30-day ceasefire across Syria in a unanimously adopted Feb. 24 resolution. Russia had said the Security Council could not impose a ceasefire without a deal between the warring parties.

U.N. Secretary-General Antonio Guterres briefed the council on Monday on the implementation of the resolution.

“There has been no cessation of hostilities,” Guterres said. “Violence continues in eastern Ghouta and beyond - including in Afrin, parts of Idlib and into Damascus and its suburbs.”

“Despite some limited convoy deliveries, the provision of humanitarian aid and services has not been safe, unimpeded or sustained,” Guterres said. “No sieges have been lifted ... To our knowledge, not one critically sick or wounded person has yet been evacuated.”

Thousands of families are sleeping in the open in the streets of the biggest town of Syria’s rebel-held eastern Ghouta enclave, where there is no longer any room in packed cellars to shelter from government bombardment, local authorities said.U.S. lawmakers, Jewish groups and prominent Jewish figures bristled at Russian President Vladimir Putin’s suggestion that various minority groups, including Jews, could have been responsible for interference in the 2016 U.S. presidential election.

“It is deeply disturbing to see the Russian president giving new life to classic anti-Semitic stereotypes that have plagued his country for hundreds of years, with a comment that sounds as if it was ripped from the pages of the ‘Protocols of the Elders of Zion,’” Jonathan Greenblatt, Anti-Defamation League chief executive, said in a statement. “Protocols of the Elders of Zion” is an anti-Semitic pamphlet published in Russia in the early 20th century that warned against Jewish world domination.

The American Jewish Committee demanded that Putin clarify comments he made in an interview with NBC News that aired on Saturday in which he denied he had anything to do with election meddling. Others took issue with the silence from President Donald Trump and the White House:

Repulsive Putin remark deserves to be denounced, soundly and promptly, by world leaders. Why is Trump silent? Intolerance is intolerable. https://t.co/ZxQHvIWs5w — Richard Blumenthal (@SenBlumenthal) March 10, 2018

Every Jewish supporter of Donald Trump should be pressing the WH to see if the President agrees with his friend Putin on this statement. And every Jewish person resisting Trump just got another reason to fight even harder. https://t.co/7FZTXCzxeH — Ronald Klain (@RonaldKlain) March 10, 2018

ok, now its personal https://t.co/RfHWOCL9D3 — Norm Eisen (@NormEisen) March 11, 2018

Putin suggests Jews are to blame for Russian election interference. Why does our President still cover for this anti-Semitic dictator?https://t.co/5JMqfHOaP4 — Tim Kaine (@timkaine) March 11, 2018

Putin, in an interview with NBC News’ Megyn Kelly, denied personal involvement in attempts to influence the election. Special Counsel Robert Mueller indicted 13 Russians and three Russian companies last month for attempting to interfere.

Putin instead deflected blame onto minority groups.

“Maybe they’re not even Russians,” he told Kelly. “Maybe they’re Ukrainians, Tatars, Jews, just with Russian citizenship. Even that needs to be checked. Maybe they have dual citizenship. Or maybe a green card. Maybe it was the Americans who paid them for this work. How do you know? I don’t know.”

AdvertisementMedics and rescuers evacuate the body of a victim killed in a private plane crash in Iran, March 12, 2018. The crash killed 11 people, including a Turkish tycoon's daughter. Tasnim News Agency / Reuters

The plane was returning to Turkey from Dubai, where the group of women had traveled to celebrate a bachelorette party for the bride-to-be, Mina Basaran, 28. She was the daughter of business mogul Huseyin Basaran, who heads the Turkish conglomerate Basaran Holding, and reportedly was slated to wed in April. Three crew members also were killed.

Iranian officials said the plane collided into the Zagros Mountains in the province of Chaharmahal-Bakhtiari. Photos of the crash site showed black smoke billowing from the mountainside.

UPDATE — Private plane that crashed in southwestern Iran was carrying Başaran Holding's heir and bride-to-be Mina Başaran and 7 of her friends flying to Istanbul from a bachelorette party in Dubai https://t.co/CRnBGW1xX7 pic.twitter.com/ZZ77eWhyxV — DAILY SABAH (@DailySabah) March 11, 2018

The Bombardier CL604 jet belonged to Basaran Holding, a company involved in industries that include construction, finance and food, according to Reuters. The captain was Melike Kuvvet, who had been one of the first female pilots in the Turkish military before she joined the private sector, according to The New York Times.

Iranian authorities recovered the 11 bodies from the crash site on Monday, as well as the aircraft’s black box, reported Turkish news outlet Daily Sabah.

The cause wasn’t immediately determined. According to flight tracking data cited by The Associated Press, the plane “rapidly gained altitude and then dropped drastically within minutes” about 80 minutes after takeoff.

İran Kızılayından aldığımız son bilgiye göre;

Uçağın enkazına ve naaşlara ulaşıldı, sabah gün ağırdığında İran Kızılayının helikopteri ile naaşlar dağdan indirilecek.

Vefat eden vatandaşlarımızın yakınlarına başsağlığı diliyorum. pic.twitter.com/W9oFUIndt8 — Dr Kerem Kınık (@drkerem) March 11, 2018

Heart-wrenching photos by @ilnanews show the crash site of the Turkish private jet that was carrying a group of young women, including #minabasaran from Dubai to Istanbul. The daughter of #Turkish businessman Huseyin Basaran was in line to run the company. https://t.co/706BEsdHdM pic.twitter.com/RgBcQhmbnX — Hossein Aghaie (@Haghaie) March 12, 2018

Mina Basaran — a socialite and social media personality who appeared in Turkish fashion magazines like Vogue and Grazia — shared photographs on Instagram of her trip to Dubai in recent days.

The most recent image, which bore the hashtag #minasbachelorette, showed Basaran and her seven friends dressed in bathrobes at a Dubai hotel. Another picture showed Basaran holding a bouquet of flowers in front of an airplane.

Basaran was on the board of managers at Basaran Holding and was being groomed to run the business, AP reported.

Sunday’s crash comes just weeks after a passenger aircraft plunged into Iran’s Mount Dena, also part of the Zagros mountain range. All 66 people on board died in that disaster.States are considering toughening consumer data breach protection laws, as the result of last year’s huge Equifax breach that compromised the personal information of nearly 148 million Americans. Jaap Arriens/NurPhoto/Getty Images

By Jenni Bergal

When Pennsylvania sued Uber last week for waiting more than a year to alert drivers and customers that their personal information had been hacked, the state’s attorney general argued that the ride-hailing company had violated a state law mandating that companies notify people affected by a data breach “without unreasonable delay.”

“Uber hid the incident for over a year, and actually paid the hackers to delete the data and stay quiet,” Attorney General Josh Shapiro said in a statement.

The Pennsylvania lawsuit against Uber and others filed by Los Angeles and Chicago are drawing attention to the vague language in many state laws that defines how quickly consumers must be notified once a data breach is discovered. Pennsylvania’s phrase “without unreasonable delay” is typical of many states, as is “in the most expedient time possible.”

The problem is that state legislators, consumers and company officials have different ideas of what is “unreasonable.”

“This kind of language is too loose and subjective,” said Colorado Republican state Rep. Cole Wist, who is cosponsoring a bipartisan measure that would require that consumers be notified of a breach within 30 days if there is sufficient evidence personal information has been or is likely to be misused. Residents also would have to be given the date of the breach and a description of what was accessed.

“‘Reasonable’ time is not good enough,” said Wist, who has been an identity theft victim. “There’s a lot of harm that can be done in a short amount of time. The burden is now on consumers to right the ship. Once their data is compromised it can create years of heartache.”

“Most of the legislation has been prompted by last year’s huge Equifax breach, which exposed the personal data of nearly 148 million Americans.”

Wist and legislators in a number of other states are trying to beef up consumer protections by clearly defining how quickly residents must be notified of a data breach and broadening the category of “personal information” covered under such laws. Some also seek to bar credit reporting agencies from charging consumers to freeze their credit information.

But some industry groups are wary.

Craig Shearman, spokesman for the National Retail Federation, said in an email that setting a fixed number of days for notification can be a problem because law enforcement and cyber experts might need to work quietly behind the scenes to catch hackers without tipping them off.

And Eric J. Ellman, a senior vice president at the Consumer Data Industry Association, a trade group representing consumer reporting agencies, said it can be difficult for companies to comply with a “forced, narrow timetable” to notify consumers.

“By tightening the screws so heavily in security breach bills,” he said, “you have often tipped the scales to create a hammer with which to whack companies that didn’t meet a tight timetable, rather than focus on getting consumers the information in the right time.”

Uber Chief Legal Officer Tony West said the Pennsylvania lawsuit caught him by surprise. The data breach compromised the names, email addresses and cellphone numbers of 57 million Uber riders around the world, as well as the driver’s license numbers of about 600,000 drivers nationwide.

“We make no excuses for the previous failure to disclose the data breach,” West said in a statement. “I’ve been up front about the fact that Uber expects to be held accountable; our only ask is that Uber be treated fairly and that any penalty reasonably fit the facts.”

Prompted by Equifax Breach

Most of the legislation has been prompted by last year’s huge Equifax breach, which exposed the personal data of nearly 148 million Americans.

It took Equifax six weeks to reveal the breach, and it has twice revised upward its estimate of the number of people affected, most recently last week.

“There is great frustration in the aftermath of the Equifax breach, and that frustration is extending to data breaches in general,” said Paul Stephens, policy director for the Privacy Rights Clearinghouse, a San Diego-based nonprofit consumer advocacy group. “It’s something that really has gotten a lot of state legislators very upset. They are consumers, too, and they’ve been impacted as well as the people they represent.”

Last year, there were a record 1,579 data breaches in the United States, a nearly 45 percent hike over the previous year, according to the Identity Theft Resource Center, a nonprofit that helps victims of identity theft and promotes public awareness.

Forty-eight states and the District of Columbia have security breach notification laws, and most apply to the private sector and the government. But the laws vary considerably, from when affected victims must be notified to what is considered personal information.

Some states also bar credit reporting agencies from charging consumers to freeze or unfreeze their credit reports. But most allow it unless the consumer is an identity theft victim. A credit freeze lets people limit who can see their credit information, making it harder for identity thieves to open new accounts in their name. Credit agencies typically charge $5 or $10 each time consumers place or lift a freeze.

This year, at least 29 states are taking up consumer security breach notification bills, according to the National Conference of State Legislatures. In more than a dozen states, measures would require residents to be notified within a given time, from 48 hours up to 60 days. Many of the bills also say that notification can be delayed if law enforcement determines it will interfere with a criminal investigation.

States Take Action

Some states have already moved to toughen their data breach laws.

In Nebraska, Republican Gov. Pete Ricketts signed a bill two weeks ago that would prevent credit reporting agencies from charging fees for freezing and unfreezing credit reports. Legislators in Florida and Washington state also have approved no-fee freeze bills, which are headed to the governors’ desks.

In Oregon, a bill has been sent to the governor that would allow no-fee freezing and require that residents be notified within 45 days.

In Colorado, a House committee passed Wist’s breach notification bill last month and it has moved to another committee. As with many of the bills being considered across the country, the measure also would expand the definition of personal information to include passwords, medical information and data from biometrics such as facial recognition and fingerprints.

In North Carolina, Attorney General Josh Stein said he and state Rep. Jason Saine, a Republican, are working on a bill that would require data breach notification within 15 days and make credit freezes free for everyone.

“The Equifax breach affected 2 out of 3 adults in North Carolina last year,” Stein said. “That’s an outrageous impact on the lives of people. And the thieves don’t have to act today. They can simply bank the information and in the future, start making people’s lives hell.”

South Dakota and Alabama are the only states that don’t have data breach notification laws, but that, too, could be changing.

A South Dakota bill is headed to the governor that would require residents to be notified within 60 days.

And the Alabama Senate passed legislation this month that would require notification within 45 days. The measure is now in a House committee.Comedy Jimmy Kimmel Knows Why Iran's Supreme Leader Watches 'Tom And Jerry'

The host reimagined the cartoon after Ayatollah Ali Khamenei brought up the cat and mouse in defiance of U.S. threats.A Google street view of Novus Health Services in Frisco, Texas. Google Streetview

A former health care executive in Texas has admitted to playing a role in an alleged $60 million Medicare fraud scheme that included disturbing practices such as overdosing hospice patients to “hasten their deaths” and maximize company profits.

Melanie Murphey, a 36-year-old former executive for Novus Health Services in Frisco, pleaded guilty Thursday to conspiracy to commit health care fraud. She could face up to 10 years in prison for the crime.

Federal prosecutors allege that Murphey was one of 16 individuals involved in a hospice care conspiracy that took advantage of vulnerable people.

Murphey worked as director of operations for Novus in north Texas between 2012 and 2015. She reported directly to Bradley Harris, the company’s owner and a co-defendant in the case. Neither Murphey nor Harris was licensed medical professionals, but prosecutors say Harris made decisions about patients’ health care so he could bill Medicare and Medicaid for the cost of the procedures.

In court records obtained by HuffPost, Murphey admitted she knew Harris instructed nurses to intentionally overmedicate patients with medications such as morphine “with the intent to hasten their deaths.” She also acknowledged that she filled out false doctor’s orders for medical services and falsified Do Not Resuscitate orders so that the company didn’t have to pay for ambulance trips to the hospital.

Murphey said she admitted patients to hospice who were not eligible for hospice service, but billed Medicare and Medicaid for those stays and services. She also billed Medicare and Medicaid for hospice service that wasn’t provided to patients.

Murphey said she and Harris were also involved in fraudulent practices around continuous care, or CC, a service typically initiated by doctors so that patients can receive around-the-clock care from a licensed medical professional. Medicare pays a higher rate for continuous care than for routine hospice care.

“Bradley Harris wanted to place Novus hospice beneficiaries on CC as early as possible because Harris wanted to benefit from the higher billing rates,” alleges a legal brief signed by Murphey and a U.S. attorney. “If a beneficiary was on CC for three or four days without change, Bradley Harris instructed the CC nurses to give more medication to the beneficiary ... Harris ordered these increases in medication because he wanted the beneficiaries to die.”

Christopher Knox, an attorney for Harris, denied the allegations.

“We are aware of the allegations lodged by Mrs. Murphy in her factual resume and we wholeheartedly disagree with her opinions,” he said in an email to HuffPost. “Further, we are not aware of any evidence that shows that Mr. Harris caused, hastened or otherwise contributed to the death of the hospice patients being treated by Novus.”Myanmar’s government appears to be intensifying its campaign to oust the Rohingya Muslim minority by permanently destroying the area they’ve inhabited for generations and building new infrastructure in its place, according to an Amnesty International report released Monday.

Authorities have bulldozed villages long occupied by the Rohingya (before they were driven out by what the United Nations has determined amounts to ethnic cleansing), Amnesty said in the report, titled “Remaking Rakhine State.”

Analysis of satellite imagery enabled Amnesty to determine that these are some of the same villages in the Rakhine State that had been burned to the ground last fall when Myanmar first kicked its campaign of violence against the religious minority into high gear.

“In village after village, burnt structures ― at one time Rohingya homes, shops and businesses ― have been bulldozed and cleared,” the report said. “Even surrounding trees and vegetation have been removed, rendering much of the landscape unrecognizable.”

Amnesty International

Since January, Myanmar’s military has started to build new military bases on this land, Amnesty said, as well as helipads, roads and new villages it believes are destined for populations other than the Rohingya. It’s also carrying out small-scale arson and looting on villages newly abandoned by Rohingya refugees.

In areas that are still occupied, some villagers have also been asked to leave their homes to make way for new construction.

“What we are seeing in Rakhine State is a land grab by the military on a dramatic scale. New bases are being erected to house the very same security forces that have committed crimes against humanity against Rohingya,” Tirana Hassan, Amnesty International’s crisis response director, said in a statement.

Myanmar’s government claims the work they’re doing is to prepare for the return of Rohingya refugees from Bangladesh ― where almost 700,000 have fled since last August. The two countries agreed on a repatriation deal in January, in which Myanmar promised to facilitate the safe return of refugees by housing them temporarily in a transit center before allowing them to return either to their homes or somewhere nearby. The deal was postponed that same month.

Rohingya refugees stand in a queue to collect aid supplies in Kutupalong refugee camp in Cox's Bazar, Bangladesh, January 21, 2018. Mohammad Ponir Hossain/Reuters

“We are going to build new villages and new homes and resettle people there according to the village planning,” government spokesman Zaw Htay told The Associated Press.

Yet the satellite imagery obtained by Amnesty shows that the government has begun construction on the transit center atop land once occupied by a Rohingya village, casting doubt on the government’s commitment to creating dignified conditions for the minority.

AdvertisementStephen Lam / Reuters

Every day, as part of her job, Johanna Wild delves deeply into the nastiest reaches of Facebook.

For her Munich-based startup Crowdalyzer, she analyzes the misinformation and hate-based news that Facebook users read, comment on and share. Wanting to understand how the followers of different parties tick, Wild spent a week living in their world. To do this, she sequestered herself in Facebook groups where fake news is known to spread.

One of those pages is “Freie Medien” (in English, Free Media), where Facebook fans of Germany’s liberal-conservative political party, the Christian Democratic Union (CDU), are known to share conspiracy theories. There you’ll find posts claiming shampoo ingredients are “Trojan horses with dangerous invaders,” or that the United Nations allows food products to slowly be poisoned.

“I was living in a parallel world that filled me with hate and made me feel like there’s one simple solution to all of the big problems in this world,” she said.

And, when the experiment was over, Wild realized, “That’s a world that takes a lot of effort to get back out of.”

How we got here: Facebook’s algorithm changes

Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg, who has frequently downplayed concerns about fake news, in January promised to give the site’s more than two billion users “more meaningful interactions” with a revamped newsfeed.

The customized newsfeed that all users now see when they open up Facebook works in a radically different way. Users are seeing more personal information from friends and family members, as well as the news they find important enough to comment on and share.

It is one of the most fundamental changes to the world’s largest social networking site since it was founded in 2004, and one that Zuckerberg said he hopes will better people’s lives.

“The research shows that when we use social media to connect with people we care about, it can be good for our well-being,” he said. “We can feel more connected and less lonely, and that correlates with long-term measures of happiness and health. On the other hand, passively reading articles or watching videos ― even if they’re entertaining or informative ― may not be as good.”

Meanwhile, Facebook is selling the measure to brands ― many of whom have seen a dramatic decrease in engagement since the changes began to roll out ― as a major quality initiative.

“We want to define what quality news looks like and give it a boost,” Facebook manager Campbell Brown promised at a mid-February publisher conference.

But if Facebook prioritizes posts from friends and relatives ― and if those people regularly share misinformed or racist views ― the new algorithm would only bolster a dangerous echo chamber.

And by giving preference to the posts that get the most reactions from users, Facebook could amplify fear and hate, a reality that contradicts comments that Zuckerberg made last year.

“It’s important that Facebook is a place where people with different views can share their ideas,” he said. “Debate is part of a healthy society. But when someone tries to silence others or attacks them based on who they are or what they believe, that hurts us all and is unacceptable. There is no place for hate in our community.”

HuffPost’s research shows how Facebook’s plan to boost quality backfired

A HuffPost Germany analysis shows that, despite Zuckerberg’s comments, content that triggers emotions like hate, anger, and fear are gaining in significance in Germany. The finding is the result of extensive research by HuffPost using data from the website “10000 Flies”.

The company measures interactions triggered by articles on social media and lists the most successful articles every day. “Interactions” refers to likes, reactions, shares and comments on Facebook, as well as tweets, retweets and likes on Twitter, although they make up a comparatively low part of the interactions.

The analysis focused on the 20 most successful posts of each respective day. January 2018 and July and January 2017 were compared in order to trace the development of the posts on a random basis for a year.

A total of 1860 posts were included in the analysis. That’s 620 posts for each month. The central question for the analysis: What proportion of the 20 most successful articles has content that plays on and amplifies emotions such as hate, anger, indignation, and fear?

One thing is certain: The posts that trigger negative emotions vary from user to user. Nevertheless, when looking at the comments below the articles, it can be said that articles covering the topics of refugees and crimes in particular trigger strong negative emotions among readers.

Emotional posts are gaining in significance

Articles that stir emotions like hate and fear played a more important role in January 2018 than in July and January 2017. The number of interactions with such posts was higher in this past January than in the two other months that were compared. They are more often among the most successful articles on social media and also make it into the top 20 more often.

Dubious niche media outlets were also increasingly able to compete with major public media by means of highly polarizing topics and are seeing high growth rates for the interactions.

For example, articles about German refugee policies and stories about crimes by suspects with migrant backgrounds dominated.

“Far from bringing enlightenment, social media have been spreading poison,” “The Economist” wrote in a November 2017 cover story about Facebook as a “threat to democracy”.

Tristan Harris, formerly a Design Ethicist at Google, is also coming down hard on social media, especially Facebook: “Social media can amplify people’s worst traits,” he said in a February Wired article.

Fear-based articles generate an especially large amount of interaction

The research also showed that fear-based articles on social media are gaining in significance.

Not only has the proportion of these articles in the top 20 increased, but so have users’ interactions with these articles. While the number of interactions in January 2017 was 3.3 million, it was already 3.7 million a year later.

After Donald Trump won the U.S. presidency in the fall of 2016, media researchers at Columbia University discovered that the posts by six platforms that supported his election with misinformation alone were shared more than 340 million times on Facebook.

“The number of fear-based articles has increased bit by bit among the articles with the most interactions,” said Jens Schröder, founder and co-operator of “10000 Flies.”

Many of these articles are being generated from niche media sites that have greatly benefited from the new algorithm. Almost all of the ones we studied grew significantly in January 2018 in terms of both reach and popularity, surpassing more prominent mainstream publications like Der Spiegel or Bild.

For example, the social media reach of the right-wing news site “Epoch Times” rose by almost 15 percent, even though the site does not even rank among the top 50 most-read news sites in Germany. The conspiracy theory site “Journalistenwatch” recorded a gain of almost 90 percent in the same period. The right-wing conservative newspaper “Junge Freiheit” climbed 56 percent.

Without social media, sites such as the “Epoch Times” would not be able to compete with well-established news sites, but different rules apply on Facebook.

“Due to the extreme activity of the right-wing filter bubble, this ‘alternative media’ looks much bigger and more popular than it actually is when you look at overall media consumption and not just at interactions on social networks,” Schröder said. “That’s probably one of the reasons why right-wingers tend to overestimate the size of their social circles. After all, they only make up 15 percent of the German population and don’t represent ‘das Volk’ [the German people].”

Fear-based articles are increasingly making it to the top of the ranking

With the outsized influence of right-wing media came an increase in the visibility of fear-based news. In January alone, fear-based and often misleading stories held the top place in the “10000 Flies” ranking, including many stories about refugee crimes, a favorite topic of right-wing sites.

On Jan. 9, social media was running hot because of a film about refugees which had aired on the German children’s public television channel KiKa. KiKa first showed the documentary in November 2017, but it gained steam in January after posts from right-wing blogs attacking the film went viral on Facebook.

Three articles about the alleged KiKa scandal made it into the top 20 of the “10000 Flies” ranking that day, including two in the top three.

Furthermore, reports about allegedly criminal refugees and the news that German federal ministries were preparing for the arrival of 300,000 refugees following their relatives to Germany made it into the ranking.

The Kika story was far from an outlier. In January 2017, 36 percent of the articles in the top 20 of the “10000 Flies” ranking were fear-based articles. This figure rose to 38 percent in July and jumped to an astounding 50 percent in January 2018.

On Jan. 27, 2018, an article titled, ”Government Pays Harem 7500 Euros per Month,” was the month’s most successful post, according to “10000 Flies.”

In the article by the right-wing populist conspiracy site “Anonymous.ru,” the case of a single mother with nine children who, according to a district office decision, allegedly receives 7500 euros per month, is misrepresented.

After doing some research, the websites “Mimikama” and “Tag24” revealed that the family receives significantly less, actually about 3,000 euros. However, the correction received a lot less attention on social media than the original story.

It’s important to note that January 2018 was actually a relatively weak news month in Germany. With the exception of the formation of the grand coalition, there was no dominating topic.

Refugees bear the brunt of Facebook vitriol

Murder, manslaughter, disasters. These are the topics that were extremely successful on social media in January 2018. In January, a total of 109 articles in the top 20 of the “10000 Flies” ranking were about crimes, and a refugee was involved in every other crime. Compared to other months, this ratio has changed only marginally.

Articles such as “Regensburg: Two 17-year-old Afghans brutally beat police officers” from the the Epoch Times headed the “10000 Flies” ranking on Jan 14. Another article from Die Welt, “Refugee said to have abused 4-year-old daughter of his foster family,” topped the ranking on Jan. 21.

This results in a distortion that does not reflect reality. In Germany, the proportion of immigrants involved in criminal offenses in 2016 was 14.5 percent.

Figures for 2017 will not be released until spring. However, it should not be assumed that the proportion will be significantly higher than in the previous year.

A parallel world?

Facebook seems to have become a place that no longer reflects the reality of life of the majority of its users and of the general public. Extreme, xenophobic, and racist content multiplies there, while other types of content usually founder.

While it may seem like Facebook is creating a parallel world, Schröder notes that it’s actually made up of a small but very active number of people.

“It remains to be seen whether the ‘parallel world’ will continue to exist forever,” Schröder said, noting that extremist content always has its “constant ups and downs.”