France’s far-right National Front held a much-anticipated “refoundation congress” over the weekend to tout a new party name intended to downplay its anti-Semitic history and present a fresh start after months of internal chaos.

Instead, the divisive name offered by National Front leader Marine Le Pen is almost identical to a French Nazi-collaborationist party from World War II.

Le Pen proposed on Sunday the party should rename itself “Rassemblement National,” which translates to “National Rally.” Almost immediately after the big reveal, French media and experts on far-right groups noted the similarity to a party founded in 1941 to work with with the Nazis ― “Rassemblement National Populaire.”

As HuffPost France notes, Rassemblement National Populaire was an avowedly racist, fascist party with a symbol that closely resembles the Nazi’s swastika flag. Party founder Marcel Deat fled France as Allied forces liberated the country in 1944, and died as a fugitive hiding in Italy in 1955.

It’s unclear how Le Pen settled on the name, which bears some similarity to a political organization she started in 2012 called “Rassemblement Bleu Marine.”

Marine Le Pen's choice of a new name for the party she leads now goes to a vote of its members. Pascal Rossignol / Reuters

Not Exactly New

Another issue with “Rassemblement National” is that a smaller French right-wing party already has that name, and its leaders accused Le Pen of “astonishing amateurism” for trying to steal its banner. An official from the Rassemblement National trademarked the name in 2013 with The National Institute for Intellectual Property, according to HuffPost France.

Le Pen, in turn, claimed that the National Front will sue Rassemblement National for copying her party’s red-and-blue flame logo in its materials. She tweeted Monday that the media should apologize for broadcasting Rassemblement National’s statements, and called the allegations ”#FakeNews.”

The Rassemblement National name was also previously used for a far-right party in the 1960s.

Le Pen’s ‘De-Demonization’ Effort

Going into the congress, Le Pen argued that French voters had a mental block against voting for the 45-year-old National Front because the name was so closely associated with its past leadership under her openly anti-Semitic father, Jean-Marie Le Pen.

Since Marine Le Pen took over the party presidency in 2011, she has pursued a policy of “de-demonization” to mainstream the National Front. While still espousing anti-immigrant, anti-Islam views, Le Pen has sought to present a less abrasive facade for the party and has ostracized her father.

The refoundation congress was meant to be a culmination of these efforts, stripping Jean-Marie Le Pen of his honorary presidency and any negative connotations associated with the party name.

But Marine Le Pen’s plans haven’t gone as smoothly as she hoped, and the National Front was divided over whether to rename itself even before she announced her choice of Rassemblement National.

In a party poll on the name change, only 52 percent of members supported ditching the National Front title in favor of something new. They now will vote on whether to confirm Rassemblement National as the party name.

Le Pen was elected over the weekend to a third term as leader of the party whose name remains in flux. Sylvain Lefevre via Getty Images

The National Front Struggles

The uproar over Le Pen’s proposed new name is yet another controversy for the party and underscores what experts describe as its debilitating lack of professionalism.

Despite being firmly entrenched in France’s politics and reaching record high levels of support in the 2017 presidential election, the National Front still struggles with building internal institutions, operating with an efficient bureaucracy and avoiding embarrassing blunders.

Since losing to centrist Emmanuel Macron in the final round of last year’s vote, Le Pen has failed to get the party back on track and capitalize on the over 10 million votes she gained. Key members of the party quit, including chief strategist Florian Philippot, and it performed poorly in parliamentary elections.Hubert de Givenchy, the French fashion designer famous for his iconic, haute couture outfits that were worn by actress Audrey Hepburn and Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis, has died at the age of 91.

Givenchy’s partner, former haute couture designer Philippe Venet, announced his death through the Givenchy fashion house. He said Givenchy died in his sleep on Saturday, The Local reported.

French fashion designer Hubert de Givenchy, seen last year, died on Saturday. PHILIPPE HUGUEN via Getty Images

Givenchy came to Paris from his hometown of Beauvais at age 17 to start his career. He crafted the little black dress worn by Hepburn in the opening scene of 1961′s “Breakfast at Tiffany’s,” well as other fashion-forward designs that equated his name to Parisian chic.

He opened his design house in 1952 and, after striking what would become a longtime friendship with Hepburn, designed her wardrobes for several of her films. His first perfume ― L’Interdit, released in 1957 ― was dedicated to Hepburn as well as promoted by her.

Actress Audrey Hepburn wears the black cocktail dress designed by French couturier Hubert de Givenchy in a promotional portrait for "Breakfast at Tiffany's." Hulton Archive via Getty Images

“Everyone wants to look beautiful and at least I feel beautiful when I’m in his clothes and they give me great confidence,” Hepburn, who died in 1993, said of his work. “Which is very helpful, when you’re making a movie or have a difficult scene, at least you know you look right.”

Givenchy retired from his fashion house in 1995. In March 2017, the house named its first female artistic director, Clare Weight Keller.

Keller shared a tribute to Givenchy on her Instagram page on Monday, praising his talent and lauding him as “the definition of a true gentleman.”

A post shared by Clare Waight Keller (@clarewaightkeller) on Mar 12, 2018 at 6:17am PDTA new Taylor Swift music video imagines the impossible: The pop star not only goes unrecognized, but unseen.

Swift unveiled the video for the song “Delicate” (watch below) after she won Female Artist of the Year at Sunday’s iHeartRadio Music Awards.

In the clip, already viewed millions of times, Swift becomes invisible, enabling her to dance uninhibited through an ornate room, in a subway and in the rain.

The song was reportedly inspired by her boyfriend, actor Joe Alwyn, but the visuals appear to ponder the tradeoffs of fame and anonymity.The Church of Scientology will debut its TV network on Monday, the organization announced on Twitter.

“HELLO WORLD, and greetings from Scientology Media Productions in Hollywood, CA!” the message reads. “It’s TIME for us to tell OUR story.”

A promotional video accompanying the message says the network will showcase “a new voice.” The e-meter is also featured in the clip, a device described in the video as “the cutting edge of spiritual technology.”

three, two, one...HELLO WORLD, and greetings from Scientology Media Productions in Hollywood, CA!



It's TIME for us to tell OUR story...



WELCOME to the SCIENTOLOGY NETWORK countdown to launch! pic.twitter.com/PCPaaW9M7c — Scientology Network (@ScientologyTV) March 11, 2018

The Scientology Network is counting down to LAUNCH! Watch March 12, 5pm PT, on DIRECTV, https://t.co/3khWHQYDyU , AppleTV, Roku, fireTV, iTunes & Google Play! https://t.co/PA9ujshGoT — Scientology (@Scientology) March 11, 2018

The organization’s reference to telling their side of the story is likely in response to the documentaries and programs focused on the controversial inner-workings of the church reported by ex-members ― including Alex Gibney’s HBO documentary “Going Clear: Scientology & The Prison Of Belief” and Leah Remini’s A&E show, “Scientology and the Aftermath.”

HuffPost’s Yashar Ali previously reported in November that at least three of the women accusing actor Danny Masterson of rape are Scientologists. Despite evidence, sources told HuffPost that investigations into the matters stalled. Masterson is a longtime member of the church, which has been accused of covering up allegations of misconduct against the organization and its members.

Reports on the organization launching a media network have been around since 2016, according to the Hollywood Reporter.

AdvertisementWASHINGTON ― Democrats cheered. Republicans looked on disapprovingly. Yet in the end, President Donald Trump backed down from his public embrace of comprehensive gun control.

If you didn’t see it coming, you weren’t paying attention.

Following last month’s Parkland school massacre in Florida, Trump held a remarkable meeting with a bipartisan group of senators at the White House, where he talked up proposals aimed at curbing gun violence. The president expressed support for ideas backed by Democrats, like universal background checks and raising the minimum age to purchase an assault-style weapon.

At one point, Trump even taunted members of his party for being too afraid of National Rifle Association, the nation’s largest gun lobby. He assured Republicans he would take any heat and expected backlash from pushing forward with gun control proposals in the days to follow.

It was a remarkable moment, one that seemed to come straight out of television or the movies. A bipartisan-minded president who has the courage to take on his party for the greater good. It was pure Trump, a wheeling-and-dealing boardroom executive who gives everyone a lesson in negotiating tactics featured in his popular book, “The Art of the Deal.”

Yet just two weeks later, the only solutions the White House has put forward are ones the NRA supports ― arming teachers and taking modest steps to improve background checks conducted through the National Instant Criminal Background Check System. Trump has also said he plans to ban bump stocks, the gun accessory used to simulate automatic fire in the Las Vegas shooting, by taking administrative action rather than pushing a new law. Doing so via a regulation will likely a draw legal challenge.

President Donald Trump's retreat on gun control wasn't a surprise. Bloomberg via Getty Images

Trump acknowledged his changed position on increasing the age at which one can purchase a semi-automatic rifle in a pair of tweets on Monday. The president, who wields the power of the bully pulpit, conceded raising the age limit did not have “much” political support.

Very strong improvement and strengthening of background checks will be fully backed by White House. Legislation moving forward. Bump Stocks will soon be out. Highly trained expert teachers will be allowed to conceal carry, subject to State Law. Armed guards OK, deterrent!....... — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) March 12, 2018

....On 18 to 21 Age Limits, watching court cases and rulings before acting. States are making this decision. Things are moving rapidly on this, but not much political support (to put it mildly). — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) March 12, 2018

While the proposal may not have sufficient backing among Republicans in Congress, it is supported by a large majority of the electorate. Seventy-eight percent of Americans favor banning the sale of AR-15 style weapons to people under the age of 21, according to a recent SurveyMonkey poll.

Florida Gov. Rick Scott (R) signed a bill last week ― the first gun control legislation the state enacted since the Feb. 14 Parkland school shooting ― raising the minimum age to purchase a firearm to 21 from 18. The 19-year-old accused Parkland shooter used an AR-15 style semi-automatic rifle in the massacre.

Trump’s retreat on gun control mirrors that of another Florida politician, Sen. Marco Rubio (R-Fla.).

In the wake of the shooting, Rubio appeared with Parkland survivors at a televised town hall, where he surprised observers by expressing support for several gun control measures. He broke with Trump over arming teachers and said he would favor raising the minimum age to purchase an assault rifle from 18 to 21. He said he would consider restricting the size of ammunition magazines as well.

Since then, however, Rubio has focused on more modest steps aiming to boost “school safety,” including a proposal to give schools grants to add more security and train teachers to identify threats. He also reiterated his support for gun-violence restraining orders, which would give law enforcement and family members the ability to get a court order to keep someone who could pose a threat from buying a gun.

“These are ideas I outlined not just because they work, but because I believe we can get the votes to pass them,” Rubio said, arguing the Senate ought to focus on the achievable first.

It’s unclear whether any of these proposals will receive a vote or pass in the Senate, much less the House. Republicans set the agenda, and this week senators are considering a bill deregulating banks, not gun control. Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.) is unlikely to devote another week to a contentious issue after last month’s fruitless immigration debate.

Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer (D-N.Y.) suggested last week he will not push for attaching gun control legislation to a must-pass government funding bill later this month ― a move that could risk another government shutdown ― leaving Democrats with few options but calling for a “debate” on gun control measures.The latest episode of an LGBTQ educational YouTube series for kids tackles the timely, but essential, issue of school safety.

Lindsay Amer’s “Queer Kid Stuff” breaks down LGBTQ themes, experiences and ideas in ways that are accessible and fun for children. Previous installments have explored coming out, gender expression and drag culture.

“With scary things happening in the news, your grown-ups might have talked to you at home, or your teachers might’ve talked to you at school. You must have had to do new safety drills at school,” Amer tells her co-host, Teddy, in the video. “It’s OK to feel scared. Your grown-ups and teachers are scared, too. You’re not alone in feeling scared.”

Amer told HuffPost that she wanted to address school safety in response to the Feb. 14 school shooting in Parkland, Florida, that left 17 dead.

“Terrible news like this directly affects kids and their schools, and I wanted to make something for the adults who don’t have the words to talk to their kids about all of it,” she said. “It’s not easy to have these conversations, so I hope we can help.”

Check out Amer’s latest video above and head here for past episodes of “Queer Kid Stuff.”Beyoncé and Jay-Z don’t just run the world, they’re going to tour it together again.

The first couple of hip-hop announced on Monday they are set to hit the road on their second massive joint tour, OTR II, aka On The Run 2, that will make stops in 15 cities across Europe and 21 cities in North America. The tour kicks off on June 6 in Cardiff, U.K.

The pair’s last joint tour in 2014 raked in $109 million and became the subject of an HBO concert special. They since have released separate albums ― “Lemonade” and “4:44″ ― that delve heavily into the highs and lows of their decades-long relationship.

The “Formation” singer was the first to break the news (and the internet), sharing a stunning black-and-white photo of herself and Jay-Z perched atop a motorcycle outfitted with a cattle skull.

A post shared by Beyoncé (@beyonce) on Mar 12, 2018 at 6:55am PDT

A post shared by Beyoncé (@beyonce) on Mar 12, 2018 at 6:55am PDT

A post shared by Beyoncé (@beyonce) on Mar 12, 2018 at 6:57am PDT

Tickets for “OTR II” will go on sale beginning March 19 on Live Nation, with Tidal subscribers and official BeyHive members getting access five days earlier. The tour is presented by Live Nation Global Touring in association with Parkwood Entertainment and Roc Nation.

Rumors of a joint tour have been rampant in the weeks since eagle-eyed fans discovered landing pages for various Bey and Jay tour dates on Ticketmaster. The evidence was quickly deleted, but not before the BeyHive broke into full-on social media pandemonium about the possibility of seeing their queen in concert in the near future.

Beyonce, who recently welcomed twins with the rapper, has been prepping for her comeback show at next month’s two-weekend Coachella festival.

She’ll likely perform the couple’s new song,“Top Off,” from DJ Khaled’s upcoming album, in which she raps about breaking the internet like it’s no big deal.

Watch the full tour trailer, and check out the complete list of tour dates below.

U.K./European tour dates:

June 06 — Cardiff, U.K. — Principality Stadium

June 09 — Glasgow, U.K.— Hampden Park

June 13 — Manchester, U.K. — Etihad Stadium

June 15 — London — London Stadium

June 19 — Amsterdam — Amsterdam Arena

June 23 — Copenhagen — Parken Stadium

June 25 — Stockholm — Friends Arena

June 28 — Berlin — Olympiastadion

June 30 — Warsaw — Stadion Narodowy

July 03 — Cologne, Germany — RheinEnergieStadion

July 06 — Milan, Italy — San Siro

July 08 — Rome — Stadio Olimpico

July 11 — Barcelona — Olympic Stadium

July 14 — Paris — Stade de France

July 17 — Nice, France — Allianz Riviera

North American tour dates:Javon Davies, a sixth grader from Alabama, wrote a will to his best friend “just in case” he dies in a school shooting.

“I could not believe it,” Davies’ mother, Mariama, told CBS News. “My child, he’s in the sixth grade, like, this is not something he should be thinking about.”

Javon and his best friend, Cameron, wrote letters to one another, each listing what they would leave the other if they died at school. Javon’s will to his friend included his PlayStation 4, all the games that go with it and his cat.

He said he wrote the letter “just in case something happened to one of us because some kids get rowdy up and might end up getting somebody shot or something.”

According to CBS News, Javon’s middle school recently received a threat, which his mother believes is what prompted her son to write his will.

At the end of his letter, Javon wrote a heartfelt thank you to his family: “Dear family, I love you all. You gave me the clothes on my back and you stuck with me all the time. Love, Javon.”

The sixth grader did not seem rattled when he talked with CBS.

“I know it’s gonna be OK because God got me in his hands,” he said.Jimmy Kimmel drew big cheers from his audience on Thursday night by offering a surprise ending to one of President Donald Trump’s latest tweets.

Earlier in the day, Trump had issued a sarcastic message “congratulating” the nation on the one-year anniversary of special counsel Robert Mueller’s investigation into the 2016 election.

“Well congrats to you too, old pal,” the “Jimmy Kimmel Live” host said in response. “We’ve come a long way.”

Trump’s tweet went on to call the investigation a “witch hunt” and offered a defense against allegations of collusion and obstruction.

But Kimmel said he thought the tweet was going in a different direction.Country music star Tim McGraw collapsed on stage Sunday night during a performance in Ireland, Rolling Stone reported.

Faith Hill, one of the most successful country artists of all time and McGraw’s wife, was also performing at the event. She later reassured worried fans about McGraw’s condition.

“He’s been super dehydrated,” Hill said in a clip posted on an Instagram fan page. “I apologize, but I made the decision that he cannot come back out on stage.”

Fans cheered and chanted, “Get well, Tim!

Country music star Tim McGraw collapsed on stage Sunday in Ireland after apparently suffering from dehydration. Kevin Winter via Getty Images

In clips from earlier in the show, McGraw, 50, showed no hint of the trouble to come. Reports on social media said he fell to his knees at the end of the song “Humble & Kind,” and had to be helped off stage.

Medical staff on site treated McGraw for dehydration, Dublin’s Sunday World newspaper reported.

Hill also told the crowd that the whole band had been suffering from dehydration as a result of their hectic travel schedule.

McGraw and Hill were participating in Country to Country (C2C), a three-night country music festival in London, Glasgow and Dublin, where the main acts play all three cities, each headlining on different nights.

McGraw, who has sold more than 80 million records worldwide and is best known for the hits “Just To See You Smile” and “Live Like You Were Dying,” has won three Grammys and a host of other accolades, including 11 CMA Awards. He and Hill have also recorded a number of duets, including the chart-topper “It’s Your Love.”

In addition, McGraw works as an actor, appearing in films such as “The Blind Side,” “Friday Night Lights” and “Tomorrowland.”

AdvertisementThe start of the 2018 college basketball bracket is officially in stone.

On Sunday, the NCAA announced the 68 teams chosen to compete in college basketball’s most celebrated contest, the NCAA Championship tournament. This year’s tournament will be hosted in various cities across the country, from Pittsburgh to San Diego to Boise, Idaho, culminating in a final four matchup in San Antonio, Texas.

The 32 automatic qualifiers ― teams that clinched a spot by winning their regional conference tournament ― can be seen below.

The NCAA Men’s Division I Basketball Committee selects the remaining 36 teams. This is a group of 10 collegiate athletic commissioners and directors from various schools across the country.

One notable automatic qualifier is the Lipscomb Bisons out of Nashville, who appear in the tournament for the first time in their history.

The Bisons are a number 15 seed in the West and will start the tournament with the daunting task of playing the defending champion North Carolina Tar Heels, a number 2 seed.

This year’s number 1 seeds are the Virginia Cavaliers, the Villanova Wildcats, the Xavier Musketeers and the Kansas Jayhawks.

Here are the complete brackets by region courtesy of @MarchMadness. (For the complete list, see the bottom of this post.)

Now that we have our teams, it’s bracket time!

Fill out yours using the Yahoo Sports Tourney Pick’em. Your odds of a picking a perfect bracket are a robust 1 in 9,223,372,036,854,775,808. But that’s never stopped you before.

Full list of teams by region and seed:

EAST

1 Villanova

16 LIU Brooklyn/Radford*

8 Virginia Tech

9 Alabama

5 West Virginia

12 Murray St.

4 Wichita St.

13 Marshall

6 Florida

11 St. Bonaventure/UCLA*

3 Texas Tech

14 S.F. Austin

7 Arkansas

10 Butler

2 Purdue

15 CSU Fullerton

MIDWEST

1 Kansas

16 Penn

8 Seton Hall

9 NC. St.

5 Clemson

12 New Mexico St.

4 Auburn

13 Charleston

6 TCU

11 Arizona St./Syracuse*

3 Michigan St.

14 Bucknell

7 Rhode Island

10 Oklahoma

2 Duke

15 Iona

SOUTH

1 Virginia

16 UMBC

8 Creighton

9 Kansas St.

5 Kentucky

12 Davidson

4 Arizona

13 Buffalo

6 Miami

11 Loyola-Chicago

3 Tennessee

14 Wright St.

7 Nevada

10 Texas

2 Cincinnati

15 Georgia St.

WEST

1 Xavier

16 NC Central/Texas So.*

8 Missouri

9 Florida St.

5 Ohio St.

12 S. Dakota St.

4 Gonzaga

13 UNCG

6 Houston

11 San Diego St.

3 Michigan

14 Montana

7 Texas A&M

10 Providence

2 North Carolina

15 Lipscomb

*Teams play for the bracket spot prior to the first official round of the tournament.Turns out there was a Simpson missing from one of the all-time great “Simpsons” episodes: O.J. Simpson.

On Sunday, Fox broadcast a previously unaired 2006 interview with Simpson called “O.J. Simpson: The Lost Confession?” At the time, Simpson was promoting his book If I Did It, in which he pushes a “hypothetical” scenario of how he would have killed Nicole Brown Simpson and Ron Goldman. Simpson was famously acquitted of both murders, though found “responsible” in a later civil trial.

Longtime “Simpsons” producer Al Jean remarked on Twitter that Sunday also marked 25 years to the day that “Last Exit To Springfield” aired, a 1993 episode that Simpson was asked to be in.

.@TheSimpsons Ironically OJ simpson airs on fox 25 years to the day after the episode we asked him to be in (pre-murders) and he turned down — Al Jean (@AlJean) March 11, 2018

“Last Exit To Springfield” is chock full of some of the most memorable “Simpsons” moments and quotes ever. (Seriously, you might have forgotten how much is packed in there.)

Dr. Joyce Brothers starred in the episode in place of Simpson. This was probably for the best, as Jean suggests in a follow-up tweet identifying the specific episode. Otherwise, the episode could have been memorable for a completely different reason.Photo: Amrik Singh via Facebook

A law student was told to remove his turban at a bar by staff claiming the establishment has a “no headwear policy.”

Amrik Singh, 22, said he was enjoying a night out with friends in Mansfield, Nottinghamshire, a town in the United Kingdom, when a bouncer approached him telling him to remove his turban if he wanted to stay, BBC reports.

In an audio recording, Singh is heard calmly explaining to Rush Bar’s bouncer that he is a Sikh and that the turban is not headwear but part of his religion’s requirements.

Shocking audio from student who was devastated to be told he has to remove turban to go into a club in Mansfield. @BBC EMT @BBCNottingham @bbradleymp pic.twitter.com/mAF52StuV6 — Tony Roe (@tonyroe) March 10, 2018

The Nottingham Trent University student said that he was initially allowed into the establishment but was asked to leave about half an hour later because of his turban.

“I explained that a turban isn’t just headgear, but part of my religion and that I was allowed to wear a turban in public. The bouncer ignored this and said I needed to take it off,” said Singh. “I refused and was subsequently dragged away from my friends.”

He asked to speak to a manager, and that’s when he began the voice recording. He explained the meaning of his turban, and he was allowed to come back in for the night but was told that evening that he was barred from future visits.

“This experience ruined my night. It broke my heart,” he said. “I’m very fortunate that I’m well-spoken and I am able to stand up for myself. What if it was someone who wasn’t confident was told to leave? I am disgusted.”

The bar’s management apologized, calling it “absolutely unacceptable.” The staff member has also been suspended.

Singh did not report the incident to police, but he is looking into legal options. However, he said he wants to share this experience as a teachable moment to spread awareness in his community about religious rights.

Read more from Yahoo LifestyleInvestigators have concluded that it’s “highly likely” Russia is responsible for poisoning the former Russian spy and his daughter who were found in Salisbury, England, last week, U.K. Prime Minister Theresa May said Monday.

Sergei Skripal, 66, a former colonel in the Russian military intelligence, and his daughter Yulia, 33, have been hospitalized in critical condition since last week after they were found unconscious near a park bench in Salisbury and tested positive for contamination by a nerve agent.

May announced in Parliament on Monday that investigators identified the nerve agent used as Novichok, a military-grade poison developed in Russia.

“We must now stand ready to take extensive measures,” May said.

“Should there be no credible response [from Russia], we shall conclude that this action amounts to an unlawful use of force by the Russian state against the United Kingdom,” she continued, noting that the British government will not be able to continue “business as usual” with the Kremlin.

The Kremlin’s alleged “record of state-sponsored assassinations” adds to the likelihood that Russia either deliberately carried out the attack or let the poison get into the hands of others, May said. Russia has denied any involvement in the poisoning incident.

U.S. Secretary of State Rex Tillerson said late Monday that the poisoning “clearly came from Russia” and added that the attack “will trigger a response,” according to The Associated Press.

Members of emergency services in green biohazard encapsulated suits fix a tent over the bench where Sergei Skripal and his daughter were found on March 4 in critical condition in Salisbury, England. BEN STANSALL via Getty Images

A law enforcement officer who responded at the scene is also still being treated for exposure to the nerve agent.

Skripal was given refuge in the U.K. in 2010 as part of a high-profile “spy swap” after Russia convicted him in 2006 of spying for Britain.

A week after the attack, public health officials said they also found trace amounts of the nerve agent at Salisbury’s Zizzi restaurant and the Mill pub. They urged hundreds of people who had been to either restaurant to wash their clothes and clean other personal belongings, though the risk of contamination was low.

AdvertisementSen. Elizabeth Warren, D-Mass., holds a news conference in the Capitol on March 6, 2018. Photo: Bill Clark/CQ Roll Call

Sen. Elizabeth Warren, D-Mass., argued that her family’s claim to Native American ancestry is an indelible part of who she is — something that can never be taken away.

Warren defended herself on NBC’s “Meet the Press with Chuck Todd” Sunday morning when asked what she thought about taking an easily accessible DNA test, such as those offered by 23andMe or Ancestry, to settle the ongoing controversy over her heritage.

Rather than address that question specifically, Warren told a story about how her mother and father, born and raised in Oklahoma, met as teenagers and fell head-over-heels in love. Her father’s family was bitterly opposed to their relationship, she said, because her mother was part Native American, but the couple eloped and persevered.

“That’s the story that my brothers and I all learned from our Mom and our Dad, from our grandparents and all of our aunts and uncles. It’s a part of me, and nobody is going to take that part of me away — not ever,” Warren said.

After hearing this story, Todd returned to his initial concern: Why not do genealogical research or take a DNA test to find out her actual heritage? What’s wrong with knowing whether her family’s story was the truth?

“I do know. I know who I am. And never used it for anything, never got any benefit out of it anywhere,” she said.

Warren has many liberal admirers who wish to see her pursue the Democratic presidential nomination for the 2020 election. But she’s also been dogged by the allegation that she has claimed Native American ancestry to advance her academic career. The claim emerged as a controversy in 2012 when she successfully challenged Scott Brown’s Senate seat. But it took on new life when President Trump incorporated “Pocahontas” into his list of insults for political opponents.

On March 6, the Berkshire Eagle, a daily newspaper published in Pittsfield, Mass., published an editorial calling upon Warren to take one of the many commercially available DNA tests to settle the controversy. If the test showed Native American DNA, her claims would be vindicated, and it might even shut down Trump. If it did not, she could offer an apology to Native American tribes and anyone else offended by her claim.

“By facing the truth and taking responsibility for it, she would disarm her enemies and show potential voters that she was human and capable of mistakes, just like them,” the editorial reads. “Handled properly, it could become a testimonial to her integrity and truthfulness at a time when that quality is in short supply among the nation’s leadership.”

Read more from Yahoo News:When Broadway performer Donell James Foreman began planning his New York solo concert debut, he wanted to honor two of his biggest artistic influences, Whitney Houston and Prince.

Foreman, who currently stars in “The Book of Mormon,” and his musical director Eric Fotre Leach gave HuffPost a sneak peek at their show with a soulful mashup of Houston’s “Why Does It Hurt So Bad” and Prince’s “How Come U Don’t Call Me Anymore?”

The concert, which Foreman has titled “The Dirty Thirty Tour, or Play-List: A Pop Music Memoir,” will use those songs as well as music made famous by Janet Jackson, Stevie Wonder and Madonna to trace the actor-singer’s offstage personal journey. Foreman began working on the show earlier this year after returning to his native New York from Melbourne, Australia, where he was performing in the Aussie production of “The Book of Mormon,” to care for his ailing father.

“During that time, there was this passion that ignited in me to do all of the things that you really, really want to do,” Foreman, whose credits include “Hairspray” and “Mamma Mia,” said. “When you’re looking at mortality in the face, you realize you don’t have all the time [in the world].”

On a brighter note, “The Dirty Thirty Tour” is a personal milestone for Foreman as a black gay man, too, given its diva-centric set list.

Broadway's Donell James Foreman will perform “The Dirty Thirty Tour, or Play-List: A Pop Music Memoir” on March 19 at Feinstein's/54 Below in New York. Donell James Foreman

“I’m drawn to these strong, fierce women because they showed their vulnerable sides and cried over boys,” he said. “Men don’t necessarily display that kind of sensitivity and vulnerability.”

Meanwhile, the current political climate, he said, has made him “much more specific” about life.

“I think it’s freeing. It’s liberating. It’s necessary.”

Though Foreman would love to tackle Broadway’s “Hamilton” or “Once on this Island,” he believes his ultimate dream role hasn’t been written ― or, at least, produced commercially ― yet. Meanwhile, he’s “thrilled” to have joined the Broadway production of “The Book of Mormon” after returning from Australia. He’s also hopeful that he’ll get the chance to perform “The Dirty Thirty Tour, or Play-List” at other venues around New York once a month for a year after his Feinstein’s/54 Below bow.

As for a message he’d like to impart on his “Dirty Thirty” audience, he said, “Don’t be afraid to really look inside and figure out who you are and what’s important to you. When all of those things are developed, the outside is easier.”

AdvertisementRiding the success of “The Disaster Artist” and the resurgence of his 2003 cult film, “The Room,” actor Tommy Wiseau is looking to get into new roles, specifically a starring role in your nightmares.

Wiseau visited the good folks at Nerdist and auditioned to be the new Joker, with full makeup, props and even a familiar co-star. Listen, no amount of explaining is going to do this video justice, so you should just watch.Education Secretary Betsy DeVos, who has said she’s rolling back campus sexual assault guidelines to protect the rights of the accused, wouldn’t say whether she thought false accusations outnumber actual sex crimes in a “60 Minutes” interview broadcast Sunday.

“Are you ... suggesting that the number of false accusations are as high as the number of actual rapes or assaults?” host Lesley Stahl asked during the 13-minute interview.

DeVos first attempted to dodge the question, telling Stahl that “one sexual assault is one too many, and one falsely accused individual is one too many.” When Stahl repeated the question, DeVos became flustered.

“I don’t know. I don’t know,” DeVos answered. “But I’m committed to a process that’s fair for everyone involved.”

The Education Department did not immediately return HuffPost’s request for comment.

"Are you…suggesting that the number of false accusations are as high as the number of actual rapes or assaults?" Lesley Stahl asks Secretary DeVos about her controversial changes to Title IX guidelines on campus sexual assault. pic.twitter.com/enegEWhKBy — 60 Minutes (@60Minutes) March 11, 2018

DeVos has been widely criticized for rescinding an Obama-era Title IX guideline called “The Dear Colleague Letter.” The 2011 letter was a comprehensive set of guidelines that clarifies schools’ responsibilities under the gender-equality law. It also serves as a tool for victims and those accused throughout the reporting process.

The education secretary came under fire last summer when she met people “wrongly accused” of sex crimes in group discussions of campus sexual assault. One group she met with mainly consisted of members of the National Coalition for Men, which a survivor advocate described as “viciously and very intentionally harass[ing] rape survivors.”

During a September 2017 speech at George Mason University Law School, DeVos called the current campus reporting process a “failed system” that is “increasingly elaborate and confusing.” She dedicated nearly half of her 20-minute speech to anecdotes about people wrongfully accused of assault.

In January, several civil rights and sexual assault survivor advocacy groups sued the Education Department and DeVos over her actions to roll back the Title IX guidelines.

Watch the full “60 Minutes” interview below.Houston Astros second baseman José Altuve watches President Donald Trump during a celebration of his team's World Series victory in the East Room of the White House on Monday. Chip Somodevilla via Getty Images

Traditionally, when a U.S. professional sports team wins a championship, the president invites the team to the White House for a meet-and-greet.

Some athletes have opted out of invitations to President Donald Trump’s White House because of his divisive politics. Many Philadelphia Eagles players have already said they would not be attending should the invitation be offered to the Super Bowl champs.

On Monday, the World Series champion Houston Astros got their turn to meet the president. While we don’t specifically know American League MVP José Altuve’s politics, the second baseman made it clear he was not there for Trump.

For the majority of the event, Altuve stood stone-faced, hands at his side, most notably when Trump went down the line shaking hands.

I'm okay with Altuve going for the sake of this moment: pic.twitter.com/gDl5q8wxeJ — Hannah Keyser (@HannahRKeyser) March 12, 2018

Oof, that’s cold.

Altuve did shake the president’s hand when being singled out, and he appeared gracious when the president complimented him, but there was a tinge of awkward hesitation in the air.

Awkward moment between Donald Trump and José Altuve. #Astros pic.twitter.com/BQHgclZEYa — Richard W. (@IceManNYR) March 12, 2018

Trump tweeted about the meeting Monday evening. Altuve is smiling with everyone in the official group photo, but the rest of the time Altuve looks more business than pleasure.

It was my great honor to welcome the 2017 World Series Champion Houston @Astros to the @WhiteHouse! #HoustonStrong pic.twitter.com/IO6B42jixA — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) March 12, 2018

Chip Somodevilla via Getty ImagesA former pro wrestler was brutally beaten and kicked by a group of young men in California earlier this week, police said.

The victim has been identified as Tom Magee, a retired strongman competitor and contender in the World Wrestling Federation. Magee, who’s more than 6 feet tall, was a force to be reckoned with in his heyday, having once set a world record with a 1,180-pound deadlift.

Despite his impressive past, police say Magee, who will turn 60 in July, didn’t stand a chance against an onslaught of fists and feet delivered by six young men Tuesday morning.

The beating, which occurred outside Magee’s Mar Vista home, was so severe, according to police, that it left him with a broken jaw, broken eye socket and concussion.

Officer Christopher No with the Los Angeles Police Department told HuffPost a “neighborhood dispute” led to the incident.

“There was an altercation and Magee got assaulted and beaten,” No said.

Witnesses told local news outlets that the dispute began over the use of a parking space. It is still unclear who started the dispute.

“They were literally kicking him, punching him in the face and in the head,” a neighbor, who did not wish to be identified, told CBS Los Angeles.

The men reportedly ran off when neighbors rushed to Magee’s aid.

As of Friday, two arrests have been made in the case. Officer No identified them as Justin Lee, 20, and Degrate Bryant, also 20. Both face charges of causing great bodily injury.

Former pro wrestler Tom Magee was badly beaten, by as many as six young men, outside his Mar Vista home Tuesday evening. Neighbors said it all began over a parking dispute https://t.co/9seDDHVAcJ pic.twitter.com/971x45qpMk — CBS Los Angeles (@CBSLA) May 18, 2018

Magee’s neighbor told CBS Los Angeles the suspects should face severe penalties.

“If we wouldn’t have come out here I don’t know if he would be alive,” she said. “To look at his face ― if you saw his face right now and saw what they were doing to him, he’s really lucky to be alive.”

Police said Magee was left lying on the ground semi-conscious and was hospitalized for his injuries. By Thursday he was back home recovering, according to local news.

The investigation is ongoing, and police say additional arrests are possible. Anyone with information on the alleged assault is asked to contact the Los Angeles Police Department at 877-275-5273.Cardi B would like to thank her haters.

The rapper took home the award for Best New Artist at the iHeartRadio awards Sunday night and made special mention of all her haters during her very Cardi B acceptance speech.

“They be downloading my stuff so they can hear it and talk crap about it but it benefits me!” she said, overjoyed and laughing.

3 things.



1. @iamcardib is the best.

2. she revealed her albums coming out in April

3. she just won #BestNewArtist#iHeartAwards2018 pic.twitter.com/LbUFXfggEp — iHeartRadio (@iHeartRadio) March 12, 2018

Before leaving the stage, Cardi B said her debut album will drop in April.In “Harry Potter,” there’s a prophecy that states, “neither can live while the other survives,” referring to the protagonist and antagonist of the J.K. Rowling series. Well, “Walking Dead” producers are apparently fans of the Boy Who Lived, because it seems that they’ve been secretly employing this augury, too.

In the latest episode of the series, “Dead or Alive Or,” Father Gabriel (Seth Gilliam) and Dr. Harlan Carson (R. Keith Harris) are on the run, attempting to evade the antagonizing Saviors after an escape from the Sanctuary earlier in the season. Father Gabriel has convinced himself his purpose in life is to get the good doctor to the Hilltop colony to attend to a pregnant Maggie (Lauren Cohan), who has been carrying Glenn’s (Steven Yeun) baby for what seems like my whole life.

Bad move, Gabriel.

As per usual on “Walking Dead,” tragedy strikes when the Saviors catch up to the escapees. Dr. Carson attempts once again to get away, but alas, a Savior kills him. Father Gabriel is devastated, but we probably could’ve told him this was going to happen.

You see, “Walking Dead” has secretly been employing the “Harry Potter” rule, “neither can live while the other survives,” this whole time. Only it’s been doing so in terms of doctors: When one doctor lives, another is a goner.

It’s true. Just check out the evidence. Redditor MasterOfNoMercy made the call after the episode “Honor,” in which newcomer Siddiq (Avi Nash) says he used to be a resident and has medical experience:

The instant Siddiq mentioned that he was a doctor, the first thing I thought was Dr. Carson is not long for this world, similar to how Denise was doomed when Dr. Carson was introduced to the show.

Two episodes later, Dr. Carson is dead.

Like MasterOfNoMercy said, the show already pulled a similar move with Denise Cloyd’s death in Season 6. Denise had been the doctor at Alexandria. But after Dr. Carson was introduced in Season 6, “Knots Untie,” Denise was dead a few episodes later.

Dr. Carson’s brother Emmett (Tim Parati), who was the Saviors’ doctor, also briefly made an appearance in a few episodes of Season 7 before being killed off. He was basically just a plot device that enabled the Saviors to take Harlan as their new doctor/prisoner instead.

Now that you know the pattern, watch for anyone who becomes relevant with medical experience, and don’t get too attached. Doctor’s orders.

Later in the episode, another prediction came true.

In the final moments of “Dead or Alive Or,” Negan (Jeffrey Dean Morgan) is shown covering his baseball bat, named Lucille, in zombie blood and telling his troops they’re going to use tainted weapons against Rick (Andrew Lincoln) and his group. Any knick from those weapons could leave victims infected with the zombie virus

This is a scene pulled straight out of the comics, and a predicament we were long expecting.

It all makes me a bit nervous for Rick. Remember, the show gave us that cryptic future scene in the midseason premiere, which featured Rick injured under a tree. If that injury came from an infected Savior weapon, he could be in trouble.Olympic figure skater Adam Rippon told MSNBC’s Kasie Hunt on Sunday that if the Team USA were invited to the White House, he’d probably decline.

“I don’t think that I would go,” Rippon said. “If I or any of my mom’s sons spoke to women or treated people the way that Donald Trump has, my mom would kill me and I would be dead.”

“This would be a profile of my life,” he added, “not me giving an interview because I would be dead.”

Rippon, one of the first openly gay U.S. athletes to compete in the Winter Olympics, is an outspoken critic of this administration — specifically Vice President Mike Pence, who led the U.S. delegation in Pyeongchang, South Korea.

“You mean Mike Pence, the same Mike Pence that funded gay conversion therapy?” Rippon told USA Today shortly after Pence was announced as delegation leader in January. The paper reported Rippon declined a meeting that the vice president tried to set up, presumably because of Pence’s history of anti-LGBTQ stances.

Earlier this week, Rippon reconsidered a possible meeting. “You don’t get to make any sort of change if you don’t try to at least reach across and have the opportunity to speak,” he told CNN. “I still have that Olympics platform and I’d like to use it.”

AdvertisementHowever, in the very same interview, the billionaire advocate for school choice, which allows taxpayer funds for public education to be channeled to other schools, including private religious-based institutions, struggled to provide data backing up her signature issue.

DeVos claimed that when kids opt to go to private or charter schools, public schools also improve. Then, DeVos admitted she didn’t know if that happened in her home state of Michigan, where she has long advocated for such programs.

Here’s the exchange:

Sec. of Education Betsy DeVos struggles to answer fairly basic questions on school performance on 60 Minutes pic.twitter.com/lFVq3USwUW — Axios (@axios) March 12, 2018

“Have you seen the really bad schools? Maybe try to figure out what they’re doing?” Stahl asked.

“I have not,” DeVos confessed. “I have not. I have not intentionally visited schools that are underperforming.”

Advertisement“Last Week Tonight” host John Oliver is here to help with a funny-but-thorough explanation of all the terms being thrown around and the absolutely crazy amounts of money some people are making just by owning them.Cross another actor off Woody Allen’s list of casting prospects.

Michael Caine, who won a Best Supporting Actor Oscar for Allen’s 1986 film “Hannah and Her Sisters,” said he would not work with the director again after hearing that Dylan Farrow, his adopted daughter, had accused him of sexually abusing her as a child.

Caine was “stunned” by the accusation, he told The Guardian. He also said he had introduced Allen to Mia Farrow, the director’s longtime companion until 1992. Farrow adopted in Dylan in 1985, and Allen formally adopted her in 1991.

“I am a patron of the NSPCC (National Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Children) and have very strong views about pedophilia,” Cain said. “I can’t come to terms with it, because I loved Woody and had a wonderful time with him. I even introduced him to Mia. I don’t regret working with him, which I did in complete innocence; but I wouldn’t work with him again, no.”

Michael Caine says he doesn't regret working with Woody Allen but wouldn't again. Jeff Spicer via Getty Images

Caine’s response should perhaps come as no surprise. According to Variety, the film veteran once told the Daily Telegraph about pedophiles: “If you want to bring back hanging for them, then I’m your man. I’ll pull the lever.”Since giving birth in early February, Kylie Jenner has been relatively open about sharing details of her pregnancy with fans and posting pictures of her daughter, Stormi Webster.

On Sunday, the 20-year-old beauty mogul finally revealed more news about her months out of the public eye (and mostly away from social media), during an informal Twitter Q&A.

Jenner told her followers that mom Kris Jenner was “sooo supportive” when she initially told her she was pregnant. And the first sister she revealed the big news to was either Khloe or Kourtney (Kylie couldn’t remember).

And although there wasn’t one “worst part” about being pregnant, according to Kylie, she said that she had a really hard time “not being able to eat sushi.” The “Keeping Up With the Kardashians” star also said she craved Eggos, In-N-Out and donuts.

there really was no worst part! probably not being able to eat sushi lol 😂 I had such a perfect experience. she moved a lot 😊 https://t.co/4IPq9Wv2yh — Kylie Jenner (@KylieJenner) March 12, 2018

Eggos!!! I never liked them before i was pregnant & haven’t had one since i had her. so strange! Lol https://t.co/uCeljtsMP0 — Kylie Jenner (@KylieJenner) March 12, 2018

The 20-year-old said that her boyfriend, rapper Travis Scott (real name Jacques Webster) is “the best” with Stormi. According to Jenner, the two were sure they were having a boy before their gender reveal.

She also revealed that Stormi and Chicago, Kim Kardashian and Kanye’s West’s newborn daughter, are already besties. And if she had to pick a “favorite feature” of her daughter, it’s her “little toes.”

Jenner offered some advice to a fan who asked if the reality star was afraid to give birth.

“I wasn’t afraid! & you shouldn’t be either,” she tweeted. “We were made for this.”

Kylie also teased that she has a ton of maternity photos that she might release one day.

A post shared by Kylie (@kyliejenner) on Mar 1, 2018 at 2:50pm PST

Jenner and Scott welcomed little Stormi into the world on Feb.1 and publicly announced her birth a few days later.

“Pregnancy has been the most beautiful, empowering, and life-changing experience I’ve had in my entire life and I’m actually going to miss it,” Jenner said in her announcement about Stormi. “I’ve never felt love and happiness like this I could burst!”

A post shared by Kylie (@kyliejenner) on Mar 11, 2018 at 10:20pm PDTThe White House on Sunday announced support for firearms training for some teachers to protect schools, and has backed off an earlier call by President Donald Trump to raise the age individuals can purchase assault-style weapons from 18 to 21.

The series of proposals generally fall in line with what the National Rifle Association supports in the wake of the massacre last month at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School that killed 17 people.

Trump reiterated his proposals in a series of tweets Monday morning. He defended his plan to allow “highly trained expert teachers” in schools, and said “armed guards [are] OK” and a “deterrent!”

Very strong improvement and strengthening of background checks will be fully backed by White House. Legislation moving forward. Bump Stocks will soon be out. Highly trained expert teachers will be allowed to conceal carry, subject to State Law. Armed guards OK, deterrent!....... — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) March 12, 2018

He punted the issue of raising the minimum gun purchase age to 21 to state lawmakers, claiming there is “not much political support (to put it mildly).” The NRA opposes raising the purchase age.

....On 18 to 21 Age Limits, watching court cases and rulings before acting. States are making this decision. Things are moving rapidly on this, but not much political support (to put it mildly). — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) March 12, 2018

If schools are mandated to be gun free zones, violence and danger are given an open invitation to enter. Almost all school shootings are in gun free zones. Cowards will only go where there is no deterrent! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) March 12, 2018

The nation’s largest teachers lobby, the National Education Association, is adamantly opposed to Trump and the NRA’s controversial initiative to arm teachers. An armed teacher in Georgia last month fired his handgun after he barricaded himself in a high school classroom, where he was eventually arrested by police. NRA CEO Wayne LaPierre touted arming teachers in a speech last month to the Conservative Political Action Conference. The White House plan would involve funding to provide weapons training for teachers.

Trump’s apparent reversal from proposing to raise the age young people can buy military assault-style weapons like the AR-15 that was used in the Parkland school shooting is a startling turnaround. It comes just weeks after he taunted legislators, saying that they were “afraid of the NRA,” while he was not. Trump specifically asked Sen. Pat Toomey (R-Pa.) if the senator had left raising the minimum age for gun purchases out of his bill strengthening background checks because senators “are afraid of the NRA.”

Last month, Trump said in a meeting with legislators: “Now, this is not a popular thing to say, in terms of the NRA. But I’m saying it anyway. You can’t buy [a handgun until] until you’re 21. But you can buy the kind of weapon used in the school shooting at 18. I think it’s something you have to think about.”

Asked by reporters to explain the reversal on Monday, White House press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders struggled to say if there was anything in Trump’s plan that the NRA opposes. She only suggested that changing the minimum age “will be reviewed,” and later insisted that “the president still supports this.”

On Friday, Florida Gov. Rick Scott (R)— a longtime NRA member — signed a bill into law raising the minimum age for all gun purchase from 18 to 21. But the NRA almost immediately sued to block the law and protect the “constitutional rights” of would-be gun buyers under the age of 21. The state’s controversial “guardian program” — opposed by the Florida Education Association — will allow some school employees and teachers to carry handguns with law enforcement training if a school district agrees to participate in the program.

The White House guns plan also includes support for a bill, known as the “Fix NICS” measure, designed to improve background checks for gun purchases. But it does not contain universal background checks, which would be far more effective.

“Fix NICS” is a bill sponsored by Sens. John Cornyn (R-Texas) and Chris Murphy (D-Conn.) to bolster the National Instant Criminal Background Check System (NICS) by improving the flow of information into it from states and various federal agencies. But the measure is far less ambitious than universal background checks, which would include private sales, such as those that often occur at gun shows.

The White House announced that the president is establishing a federal commission on school safety, to be chaired by Education Secretary Betsy DeVos, that will explore possible solutions to school shootings. It may consider the age young people can purchase guns, the Washington Post reported Sunday. But nothing in the current White House proposals address raising the minimum age for buyers.

DeVos called the proposals a “pragmatic plan” to increase school safety, the Post reported.

Several Democrats slammed the proposals. “This plan is weak on security and an insult to the victims of gun violence,” Sen. Bob Casey (D-Pa.) said in a statement. “When it comes to keeping our families safe, it’s clear that President Trump and Congressional Republicans are all talk and no action.”

This article has been updated to include Trump’s tweets and comments from Sanders.In a silent, moving tribute, Manuel Oliver, the father of Parkland school shooting victim Joaquin Oliver, painted a mural on Saturday honoring his son and the 16 other people killed in the Florida massacre last month.

The event was captured on a viral video as part of an art exhibit created by artist Evan Pestaina located in an art space in Miami. It was organized by Miami Heat NBA star Dwyane Wade. Oliver, 17, was a team fan who wore Wade’s basketball jersey when he was buried last month.

Miami: if you’re out for ArtWalk tonight - stop by our 17 hour commerative exhibition honoring the 17 lives lost...going on today until midnight and tmr from 12-5pm. Time to pick up the phone and make some calls!! #NeverAgain pic.twitter.com/SuaPxIwFh4 — DWade (@DwyaneWade) March 10, 2018

The mural in Joaquin’s honor, painted by his dad featured an image of the student with the words: “We demand a change.” Joaquin’s classmate, Lex Michael, recorded the video that shows the emotional father swiping angrily with a brush as he creates his message.

Students from Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School signed the mural, and Oliver added the words: “Guac’s Dad: Love you forever.” Guac was Joaquin’s nickname.

The finished project, with all our names signed on it, including his (which made me cry lol) pic.twitter.com/YvrSaIU5dn — Lex Michael (@lexforchange) March 11, 2018

In the wake of the Parkland shooting Oliver founded an organization called Change the Ref to empower youth to press for gun control and other issues.

Young people are not the light at the end of the tunnel, they are “lighting the tunnel right now,” Oliver says in a videotaped message about the organization. “We need to support them. They will choose the right refs [referees] for a fair game so we can have a great nation again.”

The “Parkland 17” weekend installation also included a phone booth where visitors could “Ring Your Rep” to let their legislators know how they feel about gun control, reported CBS Miami.

The weekend art exhibit was also held to promote the upcoming March 24 “March For Life” to demand gun control. The main rally will be in Washington, D.C., and hundreds of affiliate marches will be held throughout the U.S. and abroad.

By Sunday evening Lex’s video had been seen on social media nearly one million times in the U.S. and abroad, and people responded with emotional messages.

You can feel his pain and anger with every stroke. This is heartbreakingly powerful. #NeverAgain — Aly 🌹 (@oopsitsaly) March 11, 2018

That's what a broken heart looks like, right there. — Rhonda Harbison (@rhonda_harbison) March 11, 2018

Guys, I am not even American ( I am from Greece), and watching this I cried. Keep fighting for gun control, for common sense, compassion, safety, a better tomorrow. — Nikos (@nikostheater) March 11, 2018

Guac’s dad won’t rest until there’s change. And neither will the rest of us. — Jeff Edelman (@jse_tweet) March 11, 2018Tucked inconspicuously in the corner of a dimly lit Atlanta underpass, Paper Boi is sitting in the backseat of his weed plug’s Chevy Impala. For some reason, the rising rapper is out on his own buying drugs without his homies or his common sense. His latest single is getting a lot of play in the city’s underground rap scene, his plug notes more than once. Paper Boi humbly nods, brushes off the references to his burgeoning fame and tries to lighten the awkwardness with a few jokes. It’s all fun and games until the regular, mundane weed deal goes bad, and his plug ends up robbing him.

Once again, an opening scene from the latest installment of Donald Glover’s “Atlanta” shows us that the name of the game is go get it or get got. Earn and Paper Boi (Al’s rap persona) were definitely victims of the latter in Episode 2 of the FX series’ second season, called “Robbin’ Season.” It is the first of many L’s incurred in the episode by Paper Boi, who fails to find a reliable connect, one who isn’t trying to take advantage of his newfound fame. And in truth, Paper Boi’s music career isn’t taking off quite like those of other rappers who don’t mind being exploited by white people. You know whose work probably is taking off though? Amber, a white girl who turned Paper Boi’s trap song into an acoustic cover for YouTube.

On this week’s segment of “Run That Back,” Julia Craven and Taryn Finley talk shit about shuckin’ and jivin’, institutions that hold black folks back and Earn’s dumb ass.

Guy DAlema/FX

After being robbed, Paper Boi goes on the prowl for another dealer. He ends up finding a nigga who posts a picture of him holding several ounces of weed on Instagram before encountering a dealer whose girlfriend, Amber, is a stan. All of this leads to Paper Boi throwing his phone out the car window and driving off without it ― an ode to grandmas everywhere who complained you be on that damn phone too much.

Taryn: So. Episode 2. Let’s get it. *Birdman hand rubs*

Julia: So Paper Boi got got by his weed plug and I don’t know how I feel about this. It plays really beautifully into the “Robbin’ Season” theme but still ... damn.

Taryn: I knew what was about to go down as soon as his plug started overly complimenting his one hot track. “You doin’ ya thing man, respect” translates to “You ’bout to run me ya shit and you a celeb so you’ll be aight.” Paper Boi should’ve saw it coming too tbh.

Julia: He should have. He was way too trusting of his plug and he didn’t understand how people would perceive his come up.

Taryn: That’s really how it is sometimes, though, and it lowkey hit home. People you grew up around/grew familiar with see you got something good going on and kinda blow it up in their heads to “oh, they hot shit now” when it’s really “I still really ain’t shit, tbh.” That’s why Al was more over it than mad lmao. And the fact that the plug had the child lock on TOOK ME OUT.

And Paper Boi a fool for thinking he could find another plug just like that. He got a little clout now, he gotta vet drug dealers properly now.

Julia: Right! And he going around trying to find plugs with Darius’ ole lackadaisical ass like he vets dealers. Every dealer was his “mans,” and you can’t allow that kinda energy into your vetting process when you’re gaining fame.

Taryn: He should’ve known something was up when ol’ boy was sneaking pictures. Now his ass got caught slippin’ and ended up on the connect’s IG. Where they do that at?

Julia: Not only is he on dude’s IG, he is HOLDING OUNCES OF WEED! HE JUST GOT OFF HOUSE ARREST!!

Taryn: Smh. If he don’t start moving smarter, the feds surely will yank his ass back to county. Idk if it’s the lemon-lime kush he was smoking or what but this nigga got caught up way too many times in one 30-min episode. How you end up in a group chat with a potential connect and his girlfriend LMAO.



Julia: Oh, Amber. The unsung hero of this episode. If anything, this drama, which ends with Paper Boi dumping his phone and keeping his integrity, shows us how fame distorts every single aspect of your life ― and how frustrating that is. Bruh really did just wanna smoke.

And, you know, I’ve never met a white girl named Amber in real life. This is unrelated but it just dawned on me.



Taryn: Hell, I wanted to throw my phone after listening to Amber destroy a perfectly good trap anthem. Also, I wanna know how a rapper/drug dealer with no plug or supplies who’s making no money off his one hot song is paying for a new phone. 🤔

Julia: asdfghjkl WHO THOUGH? … But if anyone can get a phone with no money, it’s a hood nigga. That’s a proven fact noted in the Blacksonian.



Taryn: Damn. See, you got a point there.

Al, aka Paper Boi, and Earn. Guy DAlema/FX

Next up, we see Earn and Paper Boi at a streaming music company called Fresh, which hasn’t been seriously used to denote heightened levels of swag since the ’90s. The team is trying to get Paper Boi from the underground music scene and in front of a more mainstream audience. But since Paper Boi is a real street rapper, it doesn’t go too well.

Julia: This episode’s focus on Paper Boi was amazing. I loved the first scenes where we see Paper Boi and Earn at the radio station. And I love how intricately Glover shows that Paper Boi’s black ass will never fully fit into an industry overseen by white people.

When the producer didn’t have a disc drive and they had CDs, which: HOW HOOD IS THAT?! When Earn’s phone wasn’t updated enough to connect to their speaker system. When they saw the black rapper dancing on top of a table and surrounded by white people as if he were shuckin’ and jivin’ for them. And then when Paper Boi is put into the same kind of space when he has to perform and he hands the mic back to the white dude HOLDING A BANANA!!! It makes clear that he’s nobody’s monkey and he never will be.

Taryn: Yes! One thing I loved about the scene in the office was how it underscored how true Paper Boi is to his values and morals. He may be a drug dealer but he has integrity, dammit! Even with his interaction with Clark County (the one black rapper they talk to at the office) and his white manager, he wasn’t about to sit there and kiki with some white folks who use black slang to pander to and capitalize off of black culture.

And the scene where we see Paper Boi on the stage in the middle of the office and he says “where my real niggas at,” and we see a wide shot of all these white millennials behind MacBooks was everything. It was a direct metaphor of who the gatekeepers of mainstream hip-hop today are today and which black artists get the big deals and which don’t. And let’s talk about Earn’s dumb ass falling for the okey-doke with the gift card scam lmao.

Clark County (right) is an up-and-coming rapper. Guy DAlema/FX

Earn and Darius finally get paid for the dogs they sold in Season 1. Earn, who is very, very broke, decides to let Tracy flip the $4,000 to $8,000 and put it on a mall gift card (we know, we know). The scammed card shuts off about 10 minutes after Earn buys a pair of shoes and bruh loses all his money. Earn trudges into the mall parking lot only to discover that Tracy has left him stranded in order to go to his job interview, which, same.

Julia: Oh, Earn. Bless his heart. I don’t understand how someone can get stupider as the series moves forward but Earn does it! You let a nigga flip YOUR WHOLE CHECK?! YOU DIDN’T THINK YOU SHOULD ― IDK ― FIND A PLACE TO LIVE?! I’m pissed.

Taryn: I was irate at his ass. Earn is always looking for the come up in all the wrong places. But I won’t lie, I know a few niggas who’ve fallen for gift card scams. Earn just needs to acknowledge that he ain’t bout that life. I hope he flipped all that shit he bought after Tracy, the gift card scammer, gave him that 10-minute warning on the card shutting off.

Julia: You know he didn’t, sis. Earn isn’t built for this. And I wonder when Earn will truly come to grasp with how much he isn’t built for it.

Taryn: Speaking of Tracy, he may have been a scammer but he was a quiet MVP of Episode 2. He took his durag off ― which he NEVER takes off, because his waves are that fucking immaculate ― for a job interview. After not only taking off his durag, he has a great interview only for this white man to tell him he has “potential” but they don’t have a job for him because they’re fully staffed. WHEN I TELL YOU I WAS PISSED!

Julia: I WAS SO MAD. GIVE TRACY A JOB 2018.

Taryn: Tracy thought about keeping it cute but hit that white man with a smooth, “Fuck y’all! Y’all racist as hell!”

Julia: When he knocked all that shit off the desk I cried.

Taryn: It’s like, if you didn’t have a job for me WHY ARE YOU WASTING MY TIME?!

Julia: Exactly, and this scene really demonstrates the need for banning the box. Tracy is trying to do this right. He wants a legit job and he can’t get one. That’s so fucked up, and I love how Glover is showing us these small run-ins with institutions once you have a charge on you. You do the right thing? No job. You gotta pay to go to anti-drug classes? Oh. It’s all a jig, and I love how Glover is unraveling it.

Taryn: The jig been up. I say this all the time, but “Atlanta” is so damn good.

Julia: It’s the best fucking show on TV right now and I’m willing to swing over that.

Taryn: I’d take off my wig and square up on sight. Idc.

Julia: dfghjkljhgfsdfghjkl

Taryn: So there are two systems this episode tackles, right? Tracy’s an ex-con who can’t get a job and Paper Boi’s a rapper who can’t get a break in the music industry. Both of them are unapologetically black af, hood af and that ain’t changing (and it shouldn’t). But the (white) world they’re trying to navigate to get ahead doesn’t want them because they aren’t “packaged” in a certain way. A big reason why Al has to trap in the first place. Paper Boi ain’t making money, so Al has to find a new plug and get back to the streets.

You know who probably is making money, though? Amber.

Julia: And then you have Earn, who’s trying to get Paper Boi into these spaces, and I think this is why Earn won’t be his manager come the end of the season (just my prediction). Earn is more willing to appease whiteness. Paper Boi isn’t.

Taryn: Earn also knows (or thinks he knows) how to navigate those spaces, which is alluded to when Tracy is asking him how to “talk to these white folks” before his job interview.

Julia: And that’s a great point. I wonder if we’ll explore why Earn correlates these spaces with money so deeply. I get it ― to a degree, you have to assimilate to come up. You either appease whiteness or you dance for them and entertain. But I wonder what Earn’s personal thoughts on that are.

Taryn: Yea, so many people associate wealth and success with whiteness and playing the game gets tiring, which is probably why Earn didn’t last at Princeton. (I really wanna know how he got kicked out, btw.)

Julia: As do I! I think we should really know more about Earn because the show thus far hasn’t dug that deeply into him.

Taryn: Also, I just realized that this nigga’s name is also his motivation: Earn. God, Donald Glover is such a fucking genius.