In a chilling speech on Saturday, former White House chief strategist Steve Bannon urged a conference of France’s far-right National Front party to wear charges of racism as a “badge of honor.”

Footage of Bannon’s remarks shows him predicting “victory after victory” for the far right over the “globalists.” The term is one extreme-right groups often use as an anti-Semitic slur, referring to what they see as Jewish control of financial institutions and media around the world. U.S. Donald Trump referred to his outgoing chief economic adviser, Gary Cohn, who is Jewish, as “seriously a globalist” this week.

Bannon roused National Front members in Lille, France, to their feet, telling them: “History is on our side. And the biggest reason: The globalists have no answers to freedom. Let them call you racist. Let them call you xenophobes. Let them call you nativist. Wear it as a badge of honor. Because every day, we get stronger, and they get weaker.”

He said party members are “part of a worldwide movement that is bigger than France, bigger than Italy, bigger than Hungary — bigger than all of it ... The tide of history is with us, and it will compel us to victory after victory after victory,” France 24 reported.

Bannon said he was there as an “observer,” not a “teacher,” because of the deep far-right roots in Europe. “Our populist nationalist movement in the United States is maybe 10 or 15 years old,” Bannon said. “We are here to learn from you.”

He predictably disparaged the media and “the central governments, the central banks, the central crony capitalist technology companies that control you.”

Steve Bannon with French politician Marine Le Pen at France's National Front conference in Lille, France. Reuters/Pascal Rossignol

French leaders condemned Bannon’s appearance at the conference.

“The king of fake news and of white supremacists at a National Front summit — why am I not surprised?” asked Christophe Castaner, head of French President Emmanuel Macron’s Republic on the Move party.

Bannon is currently on tour in Europe to help promote a “global” populist movement, according to an interview published Friday in The New York Times. He said he had a “fascinating” meeting earlier in the week with leaders of Germany’s far-right Alternative for Germany party.This weekend marks the first time when two movies directed by black filmmakers, with budgets over $100 million, hold the number one and two spots at the box office.

The Ryan Coogler-helmed “Black Panther” continues its fourth week of domination, bringing in another $41.1 million. So far, that puts its domestic total at $562 million and its global take at a whopping $1.08 billion. It’s the second highest-grossing Marvel film behind 2012′s “The Avengers.”

“A Wrinkle In Time” opens this weekend in second place with $33.3 million. The Ava DuVernay-directed film is based on Madeleine L’Engle’s 1962 science fantasy and stars Oprah Winfrey, Mindy Kaling and Reese Witherspoon.

While “A Wrinkle In Time” has not enjoyed the same critical praise like that of “Black Panther,” this box office success is being hailed for its significant achievement for diversity in the film industry.MOON TOWNSHIP, Pa. (Reuters) - President Donald Trump on Saturday that his controversial tariffs will bring back the U.S. steel industry, as he campaigned in Pennsylvania steel country for a Republican congressional candidate in a tight race.

Trump’s appearance was aimed at helping Republican Rick Saccone in a district Trump won overwhelmingly in 2016 as part of a narrow win in Pennsylvania.

Trump spent a lot of time talking about his own fortunes in a “Make America Great Again” rally for Saccone in an airport hangar at the Pittsburgh International Airport.

A day after getting news that the U.S. economy produced 313,000 jobs last month, Trump said his policies are paying off. He said 25 percent tariffs on steel imports will help boost Pennsylvania’s economy.

Critics say the tariffs could trigger retaliatory trade measures and damage the U.S. economy. There are also doubts about how far Trump’s policies will go toward resuscitating the battered American steel industry.

“Your steel is coming back. It’s all coming back,” Trump told several thousand cheering supporters.

Trump vowed to fight any retaliatory trade measures by, for example, slapping taxes on imported European cars.

Trump also said he hoped to run against Democrat Oprah Winfrey, although the entertainer has ruled out a run despite pressure on her to seek the presidency.

“I’d love to beat Oprah. I know her weakness,” said Trump, without giving details.

Trump also said his planned-for talks with North Korea could end in failure or result in “the greatest deal for the world” that would de-escalate nuclear tensions.

“I may leave fast or we may sit down and make the greatest deal for the world,” Trump said.

Saccone is trying to win an election on Tuesday in Pennsylvania’s 18th District to replace Republican Tim Murphy, who resigned last fall while enmeshed in a sex scandal.

Saccone is competing against Democrat Conor Lamb and polls show a close race. Trump senior adviser Kellyanne Conway campaigned for Saccone on Thursday at a Lincoln Day dinner in Allegheny County.

A Saccone loss would be a blow to Trump, the first loss by Republicans of a seat in the House of Representatives since he took office in January 2017. The results will not affect Republican control of the chamber.

The race could signal how much help Trump can provide Republican congressional candidates trying to keep control of both the House of Representatives and the Senate in midterm elections next November.

Typically the party that controls the White House loses seats in the U.S. Congress in the first election after a new president takes office. But Trump hopes a strong economy and tax cuts he pushed through Congress in December will help him beat the odds.Jeff Flake, the retiring Republican senator from Arizona and frequent critic of President Donald Trump, said somebody should challenge Trump for the GOP presidential nomination in 2020.

Flake, whom many speculate has his own presidential ambitions, did not indicate whether he intended to be that challenger.

Flake, during an appearance Sunday on NBC’s “Meet the Press,” criticized the president both for his constant attacks on the press and for his decisions to apply new tariffs on steel and aluminum imports.

“The risk is that this becomes normalized and we take as normal what is abnormal,” Flake said of Trump’s criticisms of the media.

On the tariffs, Flake said Trump had introduced “dual poisons” for the economy, by erecting new trade barriers and then introducing uncertainty by suggesting he might make some exceptions for certain countries.

Toward the end of the interview, Flake bemoaned the state of his party, expressing dismay at how it has evolved in the last few years.

“As a Republican who believes in free trade, limited government, economic freedom, I couldn’t be re-elected in my party right now,” said Flake, he won his Senate seat in 2012 after serving six terms in the U.S. House. “Somebody who voices, you know, reservations about where the president is or criticizes his behavior ... it’s tough to be re-elected in a Republican primary.”

Host Chuck Todd then asked Flake whether a Republican should challenge Trump, assuming he seeks the presidential nomination again.

“Yes, I do ― I do,” Flake said. “I mean, it would be a tough go in a Republican primary. The Republican Party is the Trump party right now. But that’s not to say it will stay that way.”Pope Francis speaks out against "fear" in politics during Sunday's event. FILIPPO MONTEFORTE via Getty Images

Fear of the other is driving global politics, said Pope Francis, the Roman Catholic leader who’s long spoken out compassionately for immigrants’ rights.

Speaking at the 50th anniversary celebration of the founding of the Rome-based peace and refugee support organization, Sant’Egidio Community, Francis said on Sunday that “The world today is often inhabited by fear.”

“The fears often focus on who is a stranger, different from us, the poor, as if he were an enemy,” he said at Rome’s Basilica of Santa Maria. “National development plans are also made under the leadership of the struggle against these people. And then we defend ourselves from these people, believing to preserve what we have or what we are.”

Sunday’s anniversary, he continued, is a reminder “to create a society in which no one is more foreign.”

Though Francis did not single out any countries or name individuals, his comments come a week after a general election in Italy that resulted in big wins for anti-immigrant candidates. The League, Italy’s far-right, anti-immigrant party, was one of the election’s big winners and likely gained more votes than the center-right Forza Italia party of former Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi.After a series of unhinged interviews on national TV earlier this week, former Trump campaign aide Sam Nunberg testified before a grand jury Friday and later declared the investigation by special counsel Robert Mueller is “not a witch hunt.”

The probe by Mueller into whether Russia interfered in the U.S. presidential election and possible collusion by the Trump campaign is “warranted,” Nunberg told ABC News. He made the comments after testifying for close to six hours before a grand jury on the Mueller probe. He said he was questioned about whether he ever heard Russian spoken in the office, and why President Donald Trump supported Putin in Syria.

“I don’t think it’s a witch hunt,” Nunberg said. “It’s warranted because there’s a lot ’there’ there, and that’s the sad truth.”

He said he doesn’t “believe” the probe will “lead to the president.” But he thinks others in Trump’s inner circle could be in trouble, particularly Roger Stone.

“I’m very worried about him,” Nunberg told ABC. “He’s certainly at least the subject of this investigation, in the very least he’s a subject.”

He also said he believes Russian President Vladimir Putin is “really taking advantage of the president,” though he didn’t elaborate. Nunberg did say: “I think we all could agree [Putin] wanted Donald Trump to win.”

Nunberg struck a defiant attitude in a series of bizarre TV interviews on Monday. He vowed he would ignore the subpoena calling him to testify and called Mueller a “moron.” CNN’s Erin Burnett told him she smelled alcohol on his breath. He denied having a drink that day, adding that he had taken his “meds, anti-depressants.”

“People say I had a meltdown on TV. I melted TV down that day,” Nunberg said on ABC after his testimony. “I wanted to show what this independent counsel, this independent investigation, does to people like me. I was going to always comply ... I’m an attorney, that’s the first thing, and this is my duty as an American to do this, whether I like it or not.”

Nunberg was fired as a Trump campaign adviser in 2015 after racially charged social media posts he allegedly wrote surfaced. He denied writing them.Florida may soon have one of the country’s strictest child marriage laws after state lawmakers overwhelmingly approved a bill barring marriage for those under the age of 17.

The bill passed the House on a 109-1 vote on Friday. Republican Rep. George Moraitis was the sole representative to vote no. He’d said previously that it was “very reasonable” for children aged 16 or older to marry with parental consent.

The bill now heads to the desk of Republican Gov. Rick Scott, who’s expected to sign it into law.

Activists hailed the new legislation as an important milestone in the fight to end child marriage in the U.S. “My heart is happy,” rape survivor Sherry Johnson, who was 11 when she was forced to marry her 20-year-old assailant, told The Associated Press. “My goal was to protect our children and I feel like my mission has been accomplished.”

Johnson, who was in the visitor’s gallery during the House vote, has campaigned for years to get child marriage banned in Florida. According to the AP, lawmakers repeatedly cited her story as an example of why the state needed to take a more rigid stance on the issue. The activist was reportedly applauded by lawmakers after the bill’s passing.

Sherry Johnson, who was 11 when she was forced to marry her rapist, has worked for six years to ban child marriages in Florida; on Friday, the state legislature passed a bill preventing marriage of anyone under 17 https://t.co/OKhPBuTOgH pic.twitter.com/fraLTuBhwt — CBS News (@CBSNews) March 9, 2018

The measure that passed was a weakened version of an earlier bill that sought to establish 18 as the minimum marriage age in Florida. Under the measure sent to Scott, 17-year-olds can get married so long as their partners are no more than two years older than they are and parental consent is obtained.

Florida’s current law allows 16- and 17-year-olds to marry with parental consent ― and in cases of pregnancy, a judge can approve the marriage of a younger child. Since 2012, at least one 13-year-old and several 14-year-olds have wed in Florida, reported the AP.

“I’m very happy, even though it’s not at the top line of 18,” Johnson said of the revised bill. “I can deal with the line of 17 with all of the requirements.”

Other activists were more muted in their celebration.

“It’s not what we wanted, but it’s much, much better,” Amanda Parker of the AHA Foundation, a women’s rights organization, told PBS Frontline. “We really wanted to see a bright line minimum marriage at 18. We know that 17-year-olds are the most likely to be married out of all minors, so we’re still leaving a big chunk of the population at risk of child marriage in Florida.”

More than 16,000 minors were married in Florida between 2000 and 2015, according to a Frontline analysis of child marriage in the U.S. Of those minors, more than 60 percent were 17 at the time of marriage.

A bill that would limit child marriage's in Florida to 17yr-olds and above has passed the Senate and House. It now just requires the Governor to sign. #EndChildMarriage https://t.co/Pf4l1HeWhQ pic.twitter.com/eb6qLM5WUJ — Human Rights Watch (@hrw) March 6, 2018

Child marriage remains legal in the U.S., where “every state has legal loopholes or exceptions” permitting those under the age of 18 to marry, according to Reuters.BEIJING, March 11 (Reuters) - Any trade war with the United States will only bring disaster to the world economy, Chinese Commerce Minister Zhong Shan said on Sunday, as Beijing stepped up its criticism on proposed metals tariffs by Washington amid fears it could shatter global growth

After pressure from allies, the United States has opened the way for more exemptions from tariffs of 25 percent on steel imports and 10 percent on aluminum that U.S. President Donald Trump set last week.

On Saturday, the European Union and Japan urged the United States to grant them exemptions from metal import tariffs, with Tokyo calling for “calm-headed behavior.”

But the target of Trump’s ire is China, whose capacity expansions have helped add to global surpluses of steel. China has repeatedly vowed to defend its “legitimate rights and interests” if targeted by U.S. trade actions.

Zhong, speaking on the sidelines of China’s annual session of parliament, said China does not want a trade war and will not initiate one.

“There are no winners in a trade war,” Zhong said. “It will only bring disaster to China and the United States and the world.”

China can handle any challenges and will resolutely protect its interests, but the two countries will continue to talk, he said.

“Nobody wants to fight a trade war, and everyone knows fighting one harms others and does not benefit oneself.”

Trump’s announcement on tariffs underlined concerns about rising U.S. protectionism, which has sparked bouts of turmoil in global financial markets over the past year as investors feared a damaging trade spat will shatter a synchronized uptick in world growth.

China’s metals industry issued the country’s most explicit threat yet in the row, urging on Friday for the government to retaliate by targeting U.S. coal - a sector that is central to Trump’s political base and his election pledge to restore American industries and blue-collar jobs.

The U.S. is the world’s biggest importer of steel, purchasing 35 million tonnes of raw material in 2017. Of those imports, South Korea, Japan, China and India accounted for 6.6 million tonnes.

Trade tensions between China and United States have risen since Trump took office. China accounts for only a small fraction of U.S. steel imports, but its massive industrial expansion has helped create a global glut of steel that has driven down prices.

The dispute has fueled concerns that soybeans, the United States’ most valuable export to the world’s second largest economy, might be caught up in the trade actions after Beijing launched a probe into imports of U.S. sorghum, a grain used in animal feed and liquor.

Chinese Commerce Minister Zhong Shan attends a news conference on the sidelines of the National People's Congress (NPC) in Beijing, China March 11, 2018. China Stringer Network / Reuters

PROTECTING AMERICAN JOBS

Zhong said U.S. official trade deficit figures had been over-estimated by about 20 percent, and in any case would be a lot lower if the United States relaxed export restrictions on some high-tech goods.

He also reiterated a previous pledge that China would lower import tariffs on consumer goods including automobiles, as part of an effort to boost domestic consumption.

Trump believes the tariffs will safeguard American jobs, though many economists say the impact of price increases for users of steel and aluminum, such as the auto and oil industries, will destroy more jobs than curbs on imports create.

Nonetheless, there is growing bipartisan consensus in Washington, and support within some segments of the U.S. business community, for the U.S. government to counter what are seen as Beijing’s predatory industrial policies and market restrictions on foreign firms.

Trump’s administration has said the United States mistakenly supported China’s membership in the World Trade Organization in 2001 on terms that have failed to force Beijing to open its economy.

Diplomatic and U.S. business sources say the United States has frozen a formal mechanism for talks on commercial disputes with China because it is not satisfied Beijing has met its promises to ease market restrictions.

AdvertisementChinese President Xi Jinping applauds after the Chinese parliament passed a constitutional amendment lifting presidential term limit, at the third plenary session of the National People's Congress at the Great Hall of the People in Beijing, China on March 11, 2018. Jason Lee / Reuters

By Ben Blanchard and Christian Shepherd

BEIJING (Reuters) - China removed presidential term limits from its constitution on Sunday, giving President Xi Jinping the right to remain in office indefinitely, and confirming his status as the country’s most powerful leader since Mao Zedong died more than 40 years ago.

China’s ruling Communist Party announced the proposed amendment only last month and there was never any doubt it would pass as parliament is packed with loyal party members who would not have opposed the proposal.

The amendments also include inserting Xi’s political theory into the constitution, something that was already added to the party charter in October at the end of a party congress, a feat no other leader since Mao had managed while in office. Additionally, clauses were included to give a legal framework to a new super anti-corruption department.

Only two “no” votes were cast, with three abstentions, from almost 3,000 delegates.

Reporters were briefly ushered from the main hall in the Great Hall of the People as delegates filled in their ballot papers, but allowed in to see them placing the papers, one by one, into large red ballot boxes around the room.

Xi cast his vote first, on the podium at the front of the hall, followed in turn by the other six members of the party’s elite Standing Committee, which runs China.

The room erupted into loud applause when the result of the vote was passed, though Xi did not address parliament.

The limit of two five-year presidential terms was written into China’s constitution in 1982 after Mao’s death six years earlier by Deng Xiaoping, who recognized the dangers of one-man rule and the cult of personality after the chaos of the Cultural Revolution and instead espoused collective leadership.

Speaking later to reporters, Shen Chunyao, chairman of the Legislative Affairs Commission of parliament’s standing committee, dismissed concerns the move could risk a return to strongman rule or lead to political turmoil or infighting.

“As for the assumptions, conjecture and stretched situations in your question, I think that does not exist,” Shen said.

In the past nine decades of the party’s history it has overcome hardships and resolved major problems, including orderly leadership transitions and keeping the party and country’s vitality and long-term stability, he added.

“In the nearly 40 years of reform and opening up, we have successfully established, upheld and expanded the political development road of socialism with Chinese characteristics,” Shen said.

“So, going forward the road we are on will definitely be longer and wider, and the future brighter and brighter.”

CULT OF PERSONALITY

Xi, 64, swiftly consolidated power after taking over as party chief in late 2012, and the move to lift the presidential term limits is not unexpected.

In the run up to the vote, critics on Chinese social media attacked the move and drew parallels to North Korea or suggested a Mao-type cult of personality was forming. But the government quickly mounted a propaganda push, blocking some comments and publishing pieces praising the proposal.

The party loyalists who attend the annual session of parliament have said the decision is popular with ordinary Chinese people and asserted that China was lucky to have a leader of Xi’s caliber.

“Protecting the country’s long-term stability is an extremely good thing,” Cheng Bingqiang from Sichuan province told Reuters shortly ahead of the vote, when asked if he worried about Xi being in office forever.

He Guangliang from the southwestern province of Guizhou said it wasn’t fair to draw comparisons with North Korea.

“China has it’s own national characteristics,” He said. “There’s no one system that suits all countries.”

However the question was too sensitive for several legislators, who scurried away when asked about Xi being in office forever.

“You can’t ask me that,” said one lady, laughing nervously and declining to give her name.

In a further measure of Xi’s strength, a key Xi ally, former top graft-buster Wang Qishan, could be elected vice president on Saturday, having stepped down from the Standing Committee in October.

He cast his vote right after the seven members of the Standing Committee. The amendment also lifts term limits for the vice presidency.

“We’ve not got around to discussing that yet,” Chen Yunying, a senior defector from self-ruled Taiwan who is married to Justin Yifu Lin, the World Bank’s former chief economist.

“We’ll get it in the next few days,” she told Reuters, referring to the candidate list for vice president, and adding “everyone has been saying” it will be Wang for the position.

CONSOLIDATING POWER

Xi began his second five-year term as party chief in October and at the end of the week will be formally appointed by parliament to his second term as president.

The government has said lifting the term limits is about protecting the authority of the party with Xi at its center. The party’s official People’s Daily has said this does not mean life-long terms.

The party gave Xi the title of “core” leader in 2016, a significant strengthening of his position at the time.

While the presidency is important, Xi’s positions as head of the party and head of the military are considered more important, and these titles are always given first by state media. With the passage of the amendment, now none of the posts have formal term limits.Eva Hill

Sophie Trapani knew something was wrong when she started getting sick before class her freshman year of college.

She’d signed up for a course that required her to stand in front of her peers and deliver speeches. Public speaking can be daunting for most people, so she tried to bury her fears and push forward. But her anxiety seemed far worse than what her classmates were going through.

“It felt like my body was shutting down every time I had to give a speech,” she recalled.

At the time, Trapani was in therapy for depression and general anxiety, which her doctor suspected were at the root of her pre-class illness. But Trapani began researching her symptoms and realized they might be connected to other feelings of terror she felt during everyday life.

For years she’d struggled to carry out daily activities. She’d skip appointments or cancel plans with friends after agonizing about them for hours, the pressure mounting till she broke. She’d feel blind panic strike on the bus, at a bar or in the grocery checkout.

Her symptoms are typical of social anxiety disorder, which affects 15 million American adults and causes intense fears of being judged or rejected in social situations. Despite its prevalence, it’s a misunderstood mental illness, and people who should be receiving care often fall through the cracks.

More than a third of people with social anxiety disorder experience symptoms for 10 years or more before getting help. Why?

Part of the problem is that the calling cards of social anxiety can overlap with other ailments, such as obsessive-compulsive disorder, depression or panic disorders. Even professionals have a hard time identifying it in patients.

“Therapists may miss the diagnosis when the observable symptoms are actually reflective of another disorder,” said Melissa Weinberg, a therapist with the Anxiety and Stress Disorders Institute of Maryland.

Trapani, who is now 24 and works as an account manager for a communications firm in Hoboken, New Jersey, said her therapy sessions completely changed after she raised the possibility that she was suffering from social anxiety.

“Essentially, I had to be an advocate for myself,” she said.

Laypeople often mistake social anxiety for introversion or brush it off as extreme shyness. But it’s more complex than that.

“It is rather easy for those who do not understand or experience the condition to ignore or marginalize the disorder,” said Dr. Carla Marie Manly, a clinical psychologist in San Francisco.

And in today’s high-tech world, it’s all too easy for people affected by social anxiety to hide behind computer screens instead of confronting their fears. What’s more, the stigma surrounding social phobias discourages people from seeking help.

Society thrives on extroversion, Manly says. “As a result, those who suffer from social anxiety often feel as if they are outcasts ― as if they do not measure up.”

People who live with social phobia tend to retreat and disappear, making their condition even less visible to others.

But one of the best treatments for anxiety is simply to seek out fear-inducing situations in a controlled way, according to Dr. Patti Johnson, a psychologist in Los Angeles.

“We gain confidence through gradual exposure and are more willing to face anxiety-provoking situations,” she said.

Social media offers an opportunity to interact with people in a relatively low-risk setting. But spending too much time online brings “no exposure, no learning, and no relief ― just more avoidance,” Johnson said.

Trapani makes it a point to leave her house and socialize in ways that are comfortable to her.

“I have a dog,” she said, “so when I take her around town, I make an effort to talk to people who stop to pet her, even if it’s just a few words.”

But people with social anxiety can often come across as standoffish or even rude. It’s “their fear of being judged that prevents them from authentically engaging with others and, ironically, can make others feel judged,” said Melissa Weinberg, owner of Baltimore’s Open Lines Counseling.

Trapani says her friends don’t always understand her needs. “If I cancel plans, I’m seen as antisocial or flaky,” she said. “When I prefer to stay home for a quiet night or need to leave somewhere early if I get overwhelmed, I can be perceived as lazy or a buzzkill.”

“It felt like my body was shutting down every time I had to give a speech.” - Sophie Trapani

There’s a common misconception that anxiety and other mental disorders are something people can get through on their own if they try hard enough. “This makes people feel like it is a weakness to seek help,” said Laura Chackes, owner of the Center for Mindfulness & CBT in St. Louis.

And the mistaken belief that people who experience mental illnesses are dangerous can also discourage people from seeking help.

“The depictions we see in movies and on the news about people with mental illness are for the most part exaggerated, making people think that their symptoms are not severe enough to warrant treatment,” Chackes said.

As a result of such stigmas, the socially anxious are prone to self-medicating in an attempt to face their fears, says Johnson. But seeking professional help from a qualified therapist who is familiar with the current research-based treatments can go a long way in alleviating the symptoms. Such therapies include cognitive behavior therapy, commitment therapy and exposure therapy. In-person support groups and online forums, like the Anxiety Tribe Group, can be beneficial.

There are also apps that can help people who aren’t quite ready to confront their anxiety in the presence of a therapist.

Meanwhile, experts are advocating for improved screening at doctors’ offices and more comprehensive training about social anxiety for mental health professionals. And many are pushing for preventative mental health care to become the norm.

“If everyone were to routinely see a mental health professional as part of their yearly checkup, the stigmas would break down,” Chackes said.

Trapani says social anxiety is still a big part of her life. But she’s learning how to manage it. She works at a small, tight-knit agency, as opposed to a large corporation. And she surrounds herself with a close group of friends who will gladly serve as her wingmen for tackling social gatherings.

Most importantly, Trapani has learned to be gentle with herself.

“It’s been a long road to get there, but I’ve worked to move away from guilt and self-blame for the symptoms that come with social anxiety and the impact it can have on my life,” she said.

She encourages other socially anxious people to follow suit ― and to seek professional help when they feel overwhelmed.SALISBURY, England (Reuters) - Hundreds of people who visited the Zizzi restaurant or the Mill pub in the English city of Salisbury were told on Sunday to wash their clothes after traces of nerve agent used to attack a former Russian spy last week were found at both sites.

Public Health England said there was no immediate health risk to anyone who may have been in either the restaurant or the pub, but there was a small chance that any of the agent that had come into contact with clothing or belongings could still be present in minute amounts and contaminate skin.

Former double agent Sergei Skripal, 66, and his daughter Yulia, 33, have been in hospital in a critical condition since March 4, when they were found unconscious on a bench in the southern English cathedral city of Salisbury.

“We have now learned there has been some trace contamination by the nerve agent in both the Mill pub and Zizzi restaurant in Salisbury,” chief medical offer Sally Davies said on Sunday.

She said she was confident that no one who was in the restaurant or the pub on March 4 or 5 had been harmed, but their clothing should be washed and personal items like phones wiped as a precaution against any long-term exposure to any substance.

Skripal and his daughter remained in a “critical but stable condition in intensive care,” the chief executive of the local hospital said at a news conference.

A police officer who initially responded was “conscious and in a serious but stable condition,” she added.

British police have said a nerve agent was used against Skripal and his daughter, but have not made public which one.

SMALL RISK

Public Health England said it had weighed new evidence before issuing its advice on Sunday, and it said the general public had not been at risk in the days since the attack.

“This is about a very, very small risk of repetitive contact for any traces of contamination that people may have taken out,” Public Health England’s deputy medical director Jenny Harries said at the same press conference.

Henry Nicholls / Reuters

“In risk terms, one or two days is not what we are concerned about, what we are worrying about is whether there could be an ongoing risk that could build over the future.”

Cordons were still around the restaurant and the pub on Sunday, and police could not say how long they would remain.

A number of police cars and other vehicles were removed from a local car park by soldiers wearing protective clothing and gas masks on Sunday, a Reuters eyewitness said.

Items from the Zizzi restaurant, including a table, had been removed and destroyed, the BBC said.

Local residents said they were concerned by the warnings about contamination issued to the people who had visited the venues.

“It’s worried a lot of people,” dog walker Phil Burt said. “This town is usually packed on a Sunday, but I think a lot of people are just staying away.”

Many in British media and politics have speculated that Russia could have played a part in the attack on Skripal, but interior minister Amber Rudd said on Saturday it was too early to say who was responsible.

Skripal betrayed dozens of Russian agents to British intelligence before his arrest in Moscow in 2004. He was sentenced to 13 years in prison in 2006, and in 2010 was given refuge in Britain after being exchanged for Russian spies.

Finance minister Philip Hammond said Britain would respond “appropriately” if a foreign state is found to have been involved in the poisoning.

“This is a police investigation and it will be evidence-led and we must go where the evidence takes us,” Hammond told BBC television on Sunday.Russian President Vladimir Putin denied any accusations that he meddled in the 2016 U.S. presidential election during an interview with NBC News’ Megyn Kelly.

During the tense interview, Putin appeared defensive and even suggested Jewish people were to blame for the United States’ election breach.

When asked about his involvement in the election, Putin told Kelly: “Why have you decided the Russian authorities, myself included, gave anybody permission to do this?”

Last month, a federal jury enlisted by Special Counsel Robert Mueller indicted 13 Russians and three Russian companies, accusing them of launching campaigns to interfere in the 2016 election.

Putin responded to those accusations by telling Kelly he didn’t care about the charges presented against his country.

“So what if they’re Russians?” he said during the NBC interview. “There are 146 million Russians. ... I couldn’t care less. ... They do not represent the interests of the Russian state.”

Putin suggested those responsible for the meddling could be Ukrainian or Jewish people with Russian citizenship, or Americans who funded the interference.

“Maybe they’re not even Russians,” he told Kelly.

“Maybe they’re Ukrainians, Tatars, Jews, just with Russian citizenship. Even that needs to be checked,” he added. “Maybe they have dual citizenship. Or maybe a green card. Maybe it was the Americans who paid them for this work. How do you know? I don’t know.”

In a tweet on Saturday, Ronald Klain, who served as chief of staff for vice presidents Al Gore and Joe Biden, said Jewish supporters of President Donald Trump should be concerned.

“Every Jewish supporter of Donald Trump should be pressing the WH to see if the President agrees with his friend Putin on this statement,” Klain wrote. “And every Jewish person resisting Trump just got another reason to fight even harder.”“Saturday Night Live” reimagined special counsel “Robert Mueller” in the painful finale of “The Bachelor” as a man who “can’t commit” to proving election collusion by President Donald Trump with the Russians. And it’s so sad.

The cold open parodied Arie Luyendyk Jr.’s yanked proposal on the final episode of the ABC reality show. Kate McKinnon’s Mueller tells contestant (Cecily Strong) that he can’t give her everything she wants, adding: “And I think you sense that.”

“So what, you don’t have Trump on collusion?” asks a stunned Strong.

“I’m trying to be honest with you, and tell you that can’t I commit to collusion right now,” says a crestfallen “Mueller.”

“So that’s it? He’s just going to be president? Oh my God, I have to wait two more years for him to be out of office?”

“Honestly, probably six,” says McKinnon.

Strong asks Mueller if he has “any good news” for her.

“Do you own American Steel?” he asks, then throws Strong a bone: At least “the Kush is cooked!”Students at a Missouri prep school say they’ll respond to a planned Westboro Baptist Church protest by rallying in support of an openly gay athlete and classmate.

Members of the church, which is known for its vehement opposition to LGBTQ rights, have announced plans to picket John Burroughs School in Ladue, Missouri, on Monday, March 12. A Feb. 24 press release on the church’s website pointed to a “smirking, proud fag child” attending the private, non-sectarian prep school as the impetus for their protest.

“This beast is vaunted as the best thing that has happened to football since Knute Rockne,” the press release reads. “In fact, in the wake of this football playing fag phenomenon, Knute is just a proverbial water boy.”

One of John Burroughs’ star football players, Jake Bain, made headlines in October when he came out as gay in a speech delivered at a school assembly. Since then, the senior has announced plans to attend Indiana State University next fall on a football scholarship. (Watch a January NBC report on Bain above.)

“My main reason for coming out was not necessarily for me,” he told local NBC affiliate KSDK in December. “For me, it was to try and reach out to people who aren’t comfortable coming out. I feel like, especially within athletics, there’s a stigma. I don’t think being an athlete and gay really collide.”

The school’s headmaster, Andy Abbott, told Fox 2 Now that more than 200 John Burroughs students expressed an interest last week in staging a counterprotest of their own in response to Westboro’s targeting of their classmate. They’ve since planned to gather for an on-campus, 40-minute “display of support” for the LGBTQ community at the same time Westboro members make their appearance, which will be followed by a “unity walk” and a celebratory, “music-filled” assembly.

Abbott explained students’ plans for a counterprotest in a March 8 letter sent home to parents.

“In our society, there is always room for respectful differences of opinion. But WBC is nothing more than a hate group,” he wrote in the letter, which can be viewed on Fox 2 Now St. Louis’ website. “It maintains that God is punishing America because of its tolerance of the LGBTQ+ community ... their modus operandi is to carry inflammatory signs to incite reactions from those they picket.”

“What we will remember is that our students responded with unity and care and courage,” Abbott continued.

Meanwhile, members of the local LGBTQ advocacy group Pride St. Louis have said they will be present at John Burroughs School during Monday’s counterprotest. They’ve launched a social media campaign using the hashtag #StandWithJake in support of their classmate.

Some people want to move our city and country forward. Others cling to hate and have godless hearts. I choose to #StandWithJake @Jakebain10 — Derrick Neuner (@drock89) March 8, 2018

“The dangerous and divisive rhetoric from Westboro Baptist Church cannot go unchallenged,” Pride St. Louis’ Vice President Marty Zuniga wrote on Facebook. “We must show them that this is a community of inclusion and diversity.”

Though Bain was initially bothered to learn about Westboro’s planned protest, he said he realized, “If this international hate group is coming after me and my community, then we must be doing something right.”President Donald Trump lashed out at NBC News’ Chuck Todd Saturday evening during a campaign-style rally in western Pennsylvania.

Trump was in the midst of criticizing past administrations for their failure to denuclearize North Korea while complimenting his intention to meet with that country’s leader, Kim Jong Un. He referred to a 1999 appearance he made on “Meet the Press,” which he told the crowd is now hosted by “sleepy eyes Chuck Todd.”

“He’s a sleeping son of a bitch, I’ll tell you,” Trump added.

The president has attacked the NBC host as a purveyor of “fake news” and with the same “sleepy eyes” insult multiple times in the past. “Late Night” host Seth Meyers last year came to Todd’s defense, accusing Trump of looking like he “drank a bottle of NyQuil in the sauna.”

Todd light-heartedly referenced the president’s insult in a Saturday night tweet, encouraging viewers to tune into the program.

Don’t miss @MeetThePress tomorrow! I know folks may be tired in the morning due to springing forward, so set those clocks and DVRs now before your eyes get too sleepy. — Chuck Todd (@chucktodd) March 11, 2018

Sunday morning, he put Treasury Secretary Steve Mnuchin on the spot about Trump’s comments.

“Many people, including myself, raise their kids to respect the office of the presidency and the president of the United States,” Todd told his guest. “When he uses vulgarity to talk about individuals, what are they supposed to tell their kids?”

Todd was not only referring to himself ― the president also went after Rep. Maxine Waters (D-Calif), attacking the prominent lawmaker as a “low-IQ individual.”

Mnuchin dismissed Trump’s personal attacks, instead telling Todd that the press should focus on covering the administration’s policies.Kathy Griffin is staging a comeback.

The comedian announced her first U.S. tour dates since she faced an intense backlash after a photo of her posing with President Donald Trump’s fake bloodied, severed head went viral in May of last year.

During an appearance on “Real Time With Bill Maher” on Friday, Griffin said she booked shows at New York City’s Carnegie Hall and at Washington, D.C.’s Kennedy Center, which she described as “Trump’s backyard.”

“I’m not decimated,” Griffin told Maher with her two middle fingers in the air, referencing the president’s eldest son saying on “Good Morning America” that he wanted to “decimate” her career.

On Sunday, Griffin tweeted ticket sale links for shows in San Francisco, Seattle, and Boston. Griffin said tickets to her Carnegie Hall show will go on sale next week.

A) Tickets are on sale now for my new shows in the US and Canada!!! To see if I'm coming to your city scroll down this thread! Tickets for my Carnegie Hall show are going on sale this week...fans who sign up for my email list get first dibs..sign up here: https://t.co/2ABuYJyTUt — Kathy Griffin (@kathygriffin) March 11, 2018

The comedian also announced shows in Canada, in cities including Toronto and Kitchener in Ontario; as well as Vancouver, British Columbia, and Calgary, Alberta.

After the photo of Griffin whipped its way around the internet amid public outrage, the comedian had to cancel her tour due to death threats. CNN fired her from co-hosting its annual New Year’s Eve coverage, and she says she lost many relationships during that time, including her longtime friendship with Anderson Cooper.Anthony Scaramucci felt the heat Sunday when several of his fellow CNN panelists pounced on him for calling President Donald Trump “obviously very presidential.”

“You guys don’t like his style, but he’s making a very big point out there,” Scaramucci said, referring to reports that Trump will meet with North Korean leader Kim Jong Un to discuss the denuclearization of the East Asian nation. “You underestimate the guy.”

“You guys don’t like his style, but he’s making a very big point out there,” Anthony Scaramucci said. CNN

But Scaramucci’s assertion instantly drew rebuttals from his co-panelists, including CNN political commentator Bakari Sellers.

“If Barack Obama paid off a porn star $130,000, if he cheated on three wives ... if he had a handful of advisers that were either indicted or pled guilty, then there would be pitchforks in front of the White House,” said Sellers, a former Democratic state representative for South Carolina. “Presidential is not something that is associated with Donald Trump. ... Paying off a porn star is presidential?”

Scaramucci denied that Trump paid off a porn star. He acknowledged that Trump’s personal lawyer Michael Cohen did pay Stephanie Clifford, a former adult film star who says she and Trump had sex just months after now-first lady Melania Trump gave birth to their son Barron in 2006.

Clifford, whose stage name is Stormy Daniels, filed a lawsuit against Trump last week, claiming he never signed a nondisclosure agreement that would have prevented her from talking about their alleged affair.

“You gotta ask Michael Cohen why the payment was paid,” Scaramucci said, before attempting to direct the conversation away from the Clifford story. “You guys are all over the map. Let’s bring it back in. The guy is presidential because he is the president.”

Watch the exchange around the 6:20 mark below.

Scaramucci’s interpretation of Trump’s behavior appears to differ from the president’s opinion of himself. During a speech Saturday at a campaign rally for Republican congressional candidate Rick Saccone in Pennsylvania, Trump said people would be “so bored” if he acted presidential.

“Don’t forget: This got us elected,“Trump said. “If I came like a stiff, you guys wouldn’t be here tonight.”

After his CNN spot Sunday, Scaramucci tweeted that Trump was “redefining” what it means to be presidential.President Donald Trump is in talks to add a high-profile Washington lawyer to the White House legal team to help respond to the special counsel’s Russia probe, reported The New York Times and Reuters.

Emmet T. Flood, who represented President Bill Clinton during his impeachment hearings in the late 1990s, met with Trump in the Oval Office last week to discuss the possibility of representing him, the Times first reported Saturday.

It’s unclear if Flood expressed interest in joining the White House after last week’s reported meeting. He passed on an opportunity last summer to represent Trump, according to the Times.

Flood is a partner at the D.C.-based litigation firm Williams & Connolly LLP, which represents Hillary Clinton. He previously served in the White House Counsel’s office under President George W. Bush and represented Vice President Dick Cheney in a civil suit brought by former CIA employee Valerie Plame.

White House lawyer Ty Cobb, as well as John Dowd and Jay Sekulow of Trump’s personal legal team, round out the team of attorneys assigned to deal with special counsel Robert Mueller’s investigation into whether Trump’s 2016 presidential campaign colluded with the Russian government.

If added to the White House legal team, Flood would be tasked with helping Trump handle Justice Department inquiries. Flood reportedly spoke with Trump about potential White House positions, as well as the possibility of being associate attorney general, Washington Post reporter Robert Costa tweeted Sunday.

Dowd told Reuters on Saturday that he did not know anything about Flood possibly joining the White House legal team. A representative for the White House did not immediately respond to HuffPost’s request for comment. Flood declined to comment.

In response to the report, Trump tweeted Sunday that he wasn’t adding another lawyer to “help out” and accused the Times of intentionally writing a “false story.”

Trump claimed the report’s author, Maggie Haberman, knows “nothing” about him. Haberman is a renowned White House correspondent who has interviewed Trump several times.

The Failing New York Times purposely wrote a false story stating that I am unhappy with my legal team on the Russia case and am going to add another lawyer to help out. Wrong. I am VERY happy with my lawyers, John Dowd, Ty Cobb and Jay Sekulow. They are doing a great job and..... — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) March 11, 2018

...have shown conclusively that there was no Collusion with Russia..just excuse for losing. The only Collusion was that done by the DNC, the Democrats and Crooked Hillary. The writer of the story, Maggie Haberman, a Hillary flunky, knows nothing about me and is not given access. — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) March 11, 2018

Haberman fired back minutes later in a series of tweets, noting that “several people close to Trump” confirmed Saturday’s report. She suggested Flood may have rejected an offer from Trump to join his legal team.

Several people close to Trump confirmed our story. Trump also met with Emmet Flood in the Oval last week for purpose of potentially hiring him. Our story was confirmed by other outlets. https://t.co/UmnZMLogAf — Maggie Haberman (@maggieNYT) March 11, 2018

....which raises possibility Flood has turned him down https://t.co/UmnZMLogAf — Maggie Haberman (@maggieNYT) March 11, 2018President Donald Trump suggested drug dealers in the United States should face harsher punishments, such as the death penalty or life in prison, during a campaign rally for congressional candidate Rick Saccone in Pennsylvania on Saturday.

“I think it’s a discussion we have to start thinking about,” Trump said during the rally in Moon Township. “I don’t know if we’re ready. I don’t know if this country’s ready for it.”

Trump praised Singapore and China for their “zero tolerance policy” when it comes to drugs, and floated the idea for the U.S.

“That means if we catch a drug dealer, death penalty,” Trump said of Singapore, recalling a conversation he had with the country’s president. “And they don’t have a problem.”

The president may have also pulled inspiration from the Filipino President Rodrigo Duterte, whose bloody war against drugs has led to the deaths of thousands of people ― including small-time drug users and innocent people whom he has called “collateral damage.”

Last year, Trump congratulated Duterte for his efforts in eradicating drugs from the country, according to a leaked transcript of their phone call.

“I just wanted to congratulate you because I am hearing of the unbelievable job on the drug problem,” Trump reportedly said. “Many countries have the problem, we have a problem, but what a great job you are doing and I just wanted to call and tell you that.”

President Trump discusses the death penalty for drug dealers: "I don't think we should play games ... These people are killing our kids and they're killing our families and we have to do something" https://t.co/1xGAt31yBz — CNN (@CNN) March 11, 2018

Speaking at Saccone’s campaign rally Saturday, Trump said drug dealers need to be handled in the same way the U.S. handles those convicted of murder, adding that people who “kill some person, knife one person” may get the death penalty or life in prison.

“You kill 5,000 people with drugs because you’re smuggling them in and you’re making a lot of money and people are dying and they don’t even put you in jail,” Trump said.

“That’s why we have a problem, folks,” he added. “I don’t think we should play games.”

Trump’s remarks this weekend mirror a speech he made at the White House Opioids Summit last week, when he suggested again that drug dealers should have to face the death penalty.

“Some countries have a very, very tough penalty — the ultimate penalty,” Trump said during last week’s summit. “And, by the way, they have much less of a drug problem than we do.”

Trump’s self-congratulating speech on Saturday covered a wide variety of topics. During the rally, Trump claimed his controversial tariffs would revive the steel industry, took credit for the reduced tensions with North Korea and discussed competing against Oprah Winfrey if she decides to run in the 2020 presidential elections.Supreme Court Justice Neil Gorsuch (left) is the demographic epitome of the Trump judge. Carlos Barria / Reuters

WASHINGTON ― More than a year into his presidency, Donald Trump is making the nation’s courts look a lot more like him: white, male and straight.

To date, Trump has nominated 87 people to be judges with lifetime tenure on U.S. district courts, circuit courts or the Supreme Court. Eighty of them are white, or nearly 92 percent. One is black, one is Latino and five are Asian or Pacific American. He hasn’t nominated any Native American judges.

Put another way:

That's a lot of bland pie. Jennifer Bendery/HuffPost

The president also keeps nominating men. Sixty-seven of his court picks are male, compared to 20 who are female.

That translates to about 77 percent being men:

In this chart, Pac-Man is men and the empty space is women. Jennifer Bendery/HuffPost

Trump hasn’t nominated any openly LGBTQ people to the federal courts.

It’s even more apparent how homogenous Trump’s picks are when compared to his recent predecessors. A Congressional Research Service analysis looked at the first 26 district and circuit court nominees from the last four presidents: Bill Clinton’s were 73 percent white, George W. Bush’s were 81 percent white, Barack Obama’s were 46 percent white, and Trump’s were 96 percent white.

Advocates for a more diverse federal bench say it’s crucial that the nation’s courts reflect the demographics of the populations they serve.

“People of color, LGBT individuals and women can supply effective, nuanced ‘outsider’ perspectives and insights about critical questions regarding abortion, criminal law, employment discrimination and related complicated issues,” said Carl Tobias, a University of Richmond law professor and expert on the federal judicial nomination process.

Brad Berry, general counsel for the NAACP, called Trump’s court picks “troubling.”

“The varied life experiences that judges bring to the bench quite often inform their views on the questions presented to them for decision,” Berry said. “It is for that reason that diversity on the bench ― racial, ethnic and gender ― is so critically important to the fair operation of our judicial system and, equally important, to the perception of fairness in that system.”

In addition to being overwhelmingly white, male and straight, Trump’s court picks are very conservative. Some have records of being hostile to the voting rights of black people. Others have records of being incredibly anti-LGBTQ. A number of them have argued against women’s reproductive rights.

Members of the Congressional Black Caucus have been criticizing the president for months over his judicial nominees. Not only has he selected just one black person to be a judge ― Terry Moorer, a nominee to the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Alabama ― but he has infuriated civil rights leaders with another nominee, Thomas Farr, who defended North Carolina’s voter suppression law and racially discriminatory gerrymandering.

“Because African-Americans have always been disproportionately affected by federal court decisions, the Congressional Black Caucus is virtually obligated to investigate the fairness of the federal judiciary, no matter who is president,” Del. Eleanor Holmes Norton (D-D.C.) said during a caucus forum in January on judicial diversity.

“These lifetime appointments will have monumental impacts on the future of the nation and on all Americans, none more so than on African-Americans and others seeking an equal place in our country,” she said.

HuffPost reached out to the White House to ask why Trump keeps nominating white men to be judges, and if he plans to nominate more diverse people going forward.

Spokesman Hogan Gidley said their nominees have all been wonderful.“Deadpool 2” wasn’t even in wide release before it broke a box office record. The Marvel Studios film took in $18.6 million during its Thursday night preview release, setting an all-time record for money made by an R-rated film, according to Box Office Mojo. The film is also debuting in the most theaters ever for an R-rated film.President Donald Trump speaks to supporters in Moon Township, Pennsylvania, on Saturday. Jeff Swensen via Getty Images

President Donald Trump inaccurately bragged that he won the majority of women’s votes in the 2016 presidential election at a political rally on Saturday.

“‘Women won’t like Donald Trump,’” he portrayed critics as having said during his campaign.

“I said, have I really had that kind of a problem? I don’t think so. But, ‘Women won’t like Donald Trump. It will be a rough night for Donald Trump because the women won’t come out.’ We got 52 percent, right? 52. And I’m running against a woman. You know, it’s not that easy,” he said, referring to his presidential political rival, Hillary Clinton.

Trump: "Women, we love you. We love you. Didn't we surprise them with women during the election?" pic.twitter.com/RDi75uJxXc — Washington Examiner (@dcexaminer) March 11, 2018

As for where that 52 percent came from, that figure was actually the percentage of white women who voted for him. When it came to minority women, only 4 percent of black women voted for him and only 25 percent of Hispanic women.

(Overall, among both male and female minority groups, a past analysis by Reuters found that Trump won the presidency with the lowest minority support seen in at least 40 years.)

In contrast, Clinton received 54 percent of women’s votes.Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin made light of Donald Trump insulting the intelligence of a prominent African-American member of Congress, saying “the president likes making funny names.”

Mnuchin made his comments on NBC’s “Meet the Press” Sunday in response to questions about the disparaging remarks Trump made about Rep. Maxine Waters (D-Calif.) at a political rally in western Pennsylvania Saturday evening.

“We have to defeat [House Minority Leader] Nancy Pelosi and Maxine Waters ― a very low I.Q. individual,” Trump said.

As the crowd booed the targets of his derision, Trump continued to attack Waters, mimicking her calls for his impeachment.

“You ever see her? You ever seen her? You ever see her?” Trump asked. ”‘We will impeach him! We will impeach the president!’ But he hasn’t done anything wrong. It doesn’t matter, we will impeach him! She’s a low I.Q. individual. You can’t help it. She really is.”

Trump has previously ridiculed Waters. In his remarks at the annual Gridiron Club on March 3 in Washington, he said of her, “And I say — and I get in trouble for this — ‘she has to immediately take an IQ test,’ and people go crazy.”

Trump’s mocking of Waters has drawn charges of racism.

“It was a racist dog whistle last week, and it was a racist dog whistle last night,” Randy Bryce, a Democrat campaigning for the seat of House Speaker Paul Ryan (R-Wis.), tweeted on Sunday. “I stand with Maxine.”

“Meet the Press” host Chuck Todd asked Mnuchin whether he would fire a subordinate who made the type of comments Trump has about Waters.

“You know he likes to put names on people,” Mnuchin said. ”He did that through the entire presidential election, including all the Republicans that he beat. These are campaign rally issues.”

Todd pressed Mnuchin again ― would he allow a member of his staff who made such comments to stay on the job?

“This is something that is [said] at a campaign rally and the president likes making funny names,” Mnuchin said.

WATCH: Treasury Sec. Steve Mnuchin tells @chucktodd that President Trump's vulgarities and attacks on the press are less important than policy, and should be seen in the context of a "campaign rally" pic.twitter.com/uoHp8SWWUH — Meet the Press (@MeetThePress) March 11, 2018

Todd also noted that Trump, as usual, attacked “bad people” in the “fake media” ― pointing out to the press area at the back of the rally and encouraging his supporters to boo them.

Todd was the subject of one of those attacks, with Trump referring to him as a “sleeping son of a bitch.”

Did Mnuchin support such attacks, Todd asked.

“He’s using these vulgarities in the context of a campaign and obviously there were a lot of funny moments in that rally,” Mnuchin said.

“Yeah, they were hilarious,” Todd replied sarcastically.