Ji Sub Jeong/HuffPost

In the weeks since the Parkland, Florida, shooting, we have seen more movement on gun control than we’ve had in years. The only problem ― if you think fewer guns is a good thing ― is that it has all come from the private sector.

Walmart, Dick’s Sporting Goods and Kroger announced they would no longer sell firearms to kids under 21. REI cut one of its suppliers for failing to produce a “clear plan of action” on guns. BlackRock, the world’s largest asset manager, said it was considering “gun-free investment funds.”

Takes on corporate America’s newfound social conscience have ranged from optimistic (“Let’s hope this creates the tipping point”) to cynical (“corporatist elites trying to get free marketing by virtue signaling”) to galactic (“Serious gun owners would never buy a weapon from a retail clerk in a Dick’s”). But they’re all missing the point.

I worked in corporate accountability for a decade. I know how these companies work. I know what they respond to. And the reality is that this latest wave of progress on gun control says less about these companies’ feelings about AR-15s and more about what public pressure can ― and cannot ― achieve.

Companies are taking a stand because they think it’s good business

The cynics are right about one thing: Companies are taking a position on gun control because it’s easy. From Nike sweatshops to Walmart wages to Exxon Mobil land grabs, most of our campaigns against companies demand that they change fundamental aspects of their business model: Inspect your factories. Unionize your workers. Stop buying diamonds from dictatorships.

The campaigns of the last few weeks, though, have mostly asked companies to do things that only require a few keystrokes and a press release: Revoke discounts from NRA members. End prominent partnerships with the gun lobby. Even for retailers like Dick’s and L.L. Bean, guns accounted for a small portion of their profits, and the amount of money coming from guns sold to teens was even smaller.

Sure, private sector actions, from Nike pledging to ban sweatshops in the 1990s to 68 corporations publicly slamming North Carolina for passing an anti-trans bathroom bill, can be a part of huge policy and cultural shifts. But “woke corporation” is an oxymoron. Companies exist to make money, and the ones changing their minds now have decided they will make more of it by supporting gun control.

The progress of the past few weeks doesn’t mean these companies have become enlightened — it means they sense a shift in consumers and are rushing to capitalize on it. Three-quarters of Americans say they want stricter gun laws, a percent that has increased by 7 points in just the past few weeks. Selling firearms to teenagers, just like discriminating against queer people, operating sweatshops and a million other issues before it, has moved from the edges of the bell curve to the middle.

“I don’t care if it’s the money that’s moving the corporations,” says Rolf Skar, the forest campaign director for Greenpeace USA. “I’m OK if Walmart is doing the right thing to help their bottom line because it means they won’t backtrack. And it reflects an underlying cultural shift.”

Companies are also worried about negative media coverage and angry employees — which would make it harder for them to make money

The second thing to know about the post-Parkland corporate calculation is that boycotts aren’t about sales — they’re about generating media coverage. It’s rare for consumers to change their behavior, and even rarer to do it long or deep enough for a company to notice.

Most of our purchasing decisions take place in private and are more dependent on our impulses than our values. No one’s going to notice if I keep using FedEx after direct-messaging the company that I won’t anymore. I, like everyone else in 2012, “boycotted” Chick-fil-A over its anti-gay donations, even though it doesn’t operate anywhere near me and I haven’t eaten fast food in a decade.

Boycotts that create a storm of controversy and generate headlines where a brand name appears next to words like “embattled” have a real effect. The companies most likely to respond to public pressure are the ones whose reputations are already declining, according to research by Brayden King, a professor at the Kellogg School of Management who specializes in corporate activism.

“One of the reasons Amazon is less likely to respond,” King says, “is that its reputation is robust. Everyone knows who Amazon is.”

Another point of vulnerability is a company’s own employees. Corporations that are embroiled in scandals or repeatedly associated with dead schoolchildren will find it hard to recruit and retain talent. This is one reason so many companies have embraced LGBTQ rights in recent years: Supporting gay people leads to angry emails from customers. Not supporting them leads to angrier letters from employees.

But boycotts and reputational damage can’t change everything

Although reputational damage is the reason private sector pressure campaigns work, it is also the reason they don’t: Not every company cares what the public thinks. As I reported for Highline in 2015, the vast majority of corporations in the world do not have names you’ve heard or products you recognize. Boycotting Apple is relatively easy. Boycotting Foxconn is almost impossible.

A telling example of this is United Airlines, whose sales barely budged in spring 2017 after footage emerged of police officers beating and dragging 69-year-old David Dao off one of the company’s flights. Many of its routes are monopolies ― if you’re flying Charlottesville, Virginia, to LaGuardia Airport you couldn’t boycott United if you tried ― and most of us book flights based on costs and times, not the reputation of the company operating them. Dozens of sectors are similarly insulated: No corporate campaign or amount of bad press is going to give, say, Smith & Wesson a good enough reason to stop making guns.

Plus, media coverage, like the people reading it, is fickle. Auret van Heerden, the former president of the workers’ rights group Fair Labor Association, points out that dozens of reports have documented child labor in the supply chain for cocoa beans, yet no major boycott campaign has gained traction. The narrative ― “Conflict Chocolate” ― is one consumers have simply heard too many times.

What corporate activism can achieve

Corporate activism can and does achieve social change. H&M has hundreds of employees stationed in Bangladesh, making sure local working conditions don’t cross a line where Western consumers would hear about them. It’s not a perfect system, but all those employees, all that effort, are the legacy of two decades of consumer pressure.

“It’s not a replacement for democracy, but it’s a part of it,” Skar says. “The misconception is that corporate actions are temporary or not as permanent as legislation. But in some places, they can be more resilient and more robust.”

After years of Greenpeace campaigns against deforestation in the Amazon, he says, McDonald’s and Cargill and other corporations committed to the Soy Moratorium, an agreement to stop buying soybeans grown on formerly forested land.

“It resulted in large drops in deforestation and it’s been around for 10 years,” he says. “Meanwhile, if you look at Brazil politically we’ve had a coup and the gutting of environmental regulations.”

It’s a useful way to think about consumer pressure: Not as pointless or perfect, visionary or futile, but simply as a form of regulation. Government efforts to stop companies from being terrible ― what the academics call public regulation ― is binding, but it’s also painfully slow, intermittently enforced and, as we keep seeing with gun control, susceptible to capture by lobbyists and the weaknesses of our electoral system.

Private regulation ― boycotts, shareholder advocacy, shouting on Twitter ― is more responsive, but it’s inconsistent, unpredictable and only works when it fits a narrative that resonates with the media and the public.“Black Panther” has surpassed $1 billion at the worldwide box office, challenging industry norms about films with black casts.

The film is now the United States’ ninth domestically highest-grossing film of all time, and had the second-largest four-day domestic opening weekend. “Black Panther” brought in $242 million in the U.S. over Presidents Day weekend, behind the $288 million “Star Wars: The Force Awakens” made when it opened in 2015.

The international success of “Black Panther” has challenged the myth that films with predominantly black casts don’t sell ― and it helps unravel “unwritten Hollywood rules,” Jeff Bock, a senior analyst at entertainment research firm Exhibitor Relations, told The New York Times.

“I think about it like a wall crumbling,” Bock said. “In terms of ‘Black Panther,’ no studio can say again, ’Oh, black movies don’t travel, overseas interest will be minimal.’”

Stars of the film, including Chadwick Boseman, Lupita Nyong’o and Danai Gurira, have spoken out about the importance of representation in the movie. “Black Panther,” which is set in the fictional country of Wakanda, shows the possibilities of an African society untouched by colonialism and gender inequity.

“I think there’s a thirst for these images,” Boseman told NBC. “There’s a real thirst for black superheroes.”A nun involved in a legal battle over Katy Perry’s bid to buy a Los Angeles convent collapsed and died during a Friday court appearance related to the dispute.

Sister Catherine Rose Holzman, of the Sisters of the Most Holy And Immaculate Heart of the Blessed Virgin Mary, was 89, according to ABC 7. Her cause of death was not immediately clear.

Holzman was among the nuns fighting for the ability to sell their former hilltop convent in Los Feliz to local businesswoman Dana Hollister — a desire in direct opposition to the Archdiocese of Los Angeles’ wish to sell the property to superstar Katy Perry.

The nuns, who haven’t lived in the property since 2011, sold the convent to Hollister in 2015. The L.A. archdiocese subsequently sued her, saying the sisters didn’t have the authority to sell the convent. Perry spent more than $2 million in legal fees fighting the small group of elderly nuns, according to Curbed LA.

The convent boasts gorgeous views of the San Gabriel Mountains and downtown Los Angeles. Hollister had plans to turn the convent into a hotel, while Perry reportedly wants to live there.

Pop star Katy Perry spent more than $2 million fighting a group of elderly nuns for the ability to purchase their former convent. Danny Moloshok / Reuters

In 2016, a judge sided with the archdiocese and Perry and invalidated the sale to Hollister, clearing a path for Perry to buy the convent. In November of last year, a jury found that Hollister had intentionally interfered with the sale to Perry and a judge ordered her to pay millions to the archdiocese and the singer.

The nuns fear that because Perry’s $14.5 million offer was made to the archdiocese — without the nuns being involved — they would never receive any money from the sale, Billboard reported in 2015. They also have issues with the singer herself.

“Katy Perry represents everything we don’t believe in,” Holzman told Billboard. “It would be a sin to sell to her.”

At the time of Holzman’s death on Friday, she was in court for a post-judgment hearing on the case, TMZ reports.The city of Miami Beach shut down a nightclub on Friday after video surfaced showing a woman in a bikini riding a spooked horse into a crowd of people.

The incident happened at the Mokai Lounge sometime between Wednesday evening and the early morning hours of Thursday, according to a city document obtained by HuffPost.

Attendees at the event recorded the commotion and posted footage to social media. One video showed a man trying to pull the seemingly resistant horse into the club as a man and woman ride on top of the animal. A second video shows the woman on the horse amid a tightly packed crowd of people. The horse throws the woman off before slowly walking through the crowd as people cheer.

City Manager Jimmy Morales revoked the club’s business license on Friday, The Miami Herald reports. A city press release cites the incident as being a hazard to public safety and possible animal cruelty.

The woman seen in the video “appeared to be an employee from the club, but that’s still under investigation,” Miami Beach spokeswoman Melissa Berthier told HuffPost.

The Miami Beach Police tweeted on Friday that authorities had found the horse seen in the video and that the it was “deemed to be healthy and safe.”

UPDATE: Miami Beach PD detectives along with @MiamiDadePD ’s animal experts have located the horse that was at Mokai. The horse has been inspected and deemed to be healthy and safe by Miami Dade PD.



Our investigation continues. https://t.co/pCI5TZ9sww — Miami Beach Police (@MiamiBeachPD) March 10, 2018Illustration: Damon Dahlen/HuffPost Photos: Getty

Brian Dunkleman is, if nothing else, a name recognizable enough for you to have clicked on this article.

He’s also a comedian and former “American Idol” co-host whose IMDb page boasts appearances on shows like “Two Guys, a Girl and a Pizza Place,” “3rd Rock from the Sun” and “That ’70s Show.” And he’s back in our cultural sightline this month just in time for the very premature return of a reality singing competition series that maybe, possibly ruined his career trajectory.

Yeah, “Idol.”

Since his days on the Simon Cowell-humiliation vehicle, Dunkleman has watched as his former sidekick, Ryan Seacrest, climbed the ranks of the entertainment industry, ultimately finding a gold-plated throne on the front lines of live TV.

Meanwhile, Dunkleman sadly faded from the pop culture stage, save for a couple media and network appearances. Until, that is, recent sexual misconduct allegations surfaced against his ubiquitous ex-counterpart, and Dunkleman decided to comment on the drama unprovoked.

Even sadder than pushing someones head in your crotch while they tie your shoes is anyone over the age of 5 having someone tie their shoes — Brian Dunkleman (@briandunkleman) March 4, 2018

With that tweet, at least 6,712 Twitter followers were made aware of what could be interpreted as Dunkleman’s stance on Seacrest’s alleged misdoings. Soon after the tweet, a Care2 petition popped up on the internet like a gift from God, campaigning to “Ditch Seacrest And Bring Back Dunkleman!” for the “Idol” reboot.

Was Dunkleman aware of the fanfare? Was he harboring ill will against this more famous friend? Would he consent to an interview to determine the answers to our every gnawing question? In short: Yes, no and maybe.

Ladies and gentlemen, a candid conversation with Brian Dunkleman:

Ryan Seacrest and Brian Dunkleman onstage during Fox's "American Idol" finale on April 7, 2016. Kevork Djansezian via Getty Images

There’s been some interesting revelations in the “Idol” world as of late …

Really? I haven’t heard! What’s going on?

Well, we’ll get to all that. But first things first: “American Idol” is returning on Sunday. Thoughts?

I just hope they air a clip of me, because then I get a check, so I’m excited for that. But I guess I’m really happy for the people who work on the show. That was one of the most fun things when they asked me back for the finale on Fox — I got to see all those people who are still on the show, who were there Season 1, and they’re working again. Having a gig is great.

You mentioned in a piece for Variety ahead of the finale: “Did I quit? Did I get fired? All these years later, I still don’t know for sure.” Are you still unsure?

No, I’m sure now! I found out, after the finale. I talked to three of my old bosses, and they informed me that they had decided that the show would be better served with just one host. And that I was not that host. But I announced I was quitting before they could tell me. So, I didn’t know that [at the time]. I felt a million pounds come off of my shoulders [when I quit]. It’s really been quite life-changing. I can’t tell you the difference in my joy level since that moment. It was a really, really cathartic experience for me. So I don’t have anything to regret.

You know what? I can regret that I didn’t make it undeniable that I should be the one that they kept, but I didn’t, and that’s just the way it went down. One of [the bosses who spoke to me] was [“Idol” creator] Simon Fuller. I talked to him after the show and he couldn’t have been kinder and more gracious. He said, “Brian, we realize that we kind of threw you to the wolves back then, because we knew you didn’t have any hosting experience. But we just thought that you were really funny. It really wasn’t fair to you.” He thanked me for coming back for the finale and told me I did a great job and he’d love to work with me in the future on something. It was really a great experience for me.

That must have been a great relief, since people sort of slammed you for leaving the show on your own.

Here’s the thing: I called my best friend immediately after finding out, and he said, “See! You’re not an idiot, you’re just a failure!” And I can live with that.

Are you bitter at all that you weren’t the host who was chosen? Or have you moved on?

Not anymore; that bag got too heavy to carry. I haven’t been [bitter]. You know, going back for the finale was really the final opportunity for me to get complete closure, and I really thank God that I did it, because I wouldn’t have found this out. I wouldn’t have found out that I didn’t make a mistake. The first thing someone said to me was, “It was just a decision of whether to go with one or two.”

And they went with Ryan Seacrest, who’s since had quite a career. But as of late, there have been sexual misconduct allegations against him and the fanfare has died down. Some people have even started a petition for “Idol” to dump him and bring you back. Have you seen it?

I did see that, and I say that’s so kind and I appreciate it so much. Maybe we can add a couple of zeros to the end of that number. I haven’t checked it lately, though. As far as those allegations go, all I know is not once did he ever push my head into his crotch while I was tying his shoes.

But you did tie his shoes… ?

Well, you know, he never learned. He was one of those kids who grew up with Velcro. Some people don’t know how to tie their shoes and I was just there to help.

Listen, seriously, I don’t have any knowledge of what happened with that woman. But if anyone is falsely accused of such reprehensible behavior, then that’s terrible and it’s wrong. And if that’s what happened to him, then it’s really awful that he’s going through this. But if it’s true? Well, there’s been a pretty established precedent of the consequences. And that’s really all I feel about it, and I don’t know why anybody cares what I think about it.

“My tweets are for my 6,712 followers, not for anybody else. So if people don’t like it, they shouldn’t read it.” - Brian Dunkleman

I understand that I sent out a tweet in my underwear, sitting in my living room, and if somebody wants to take a screenshot of my tweet and put a headline that I’m “calling somebody out” because they want to get some clicks and make some dough, that’s fine. Everybody needs to make a living.

But if you look at my Twitter feed, I think it’s pretty consistent in tone toward everybody and everything. It’s my point of view, it’s my sarcastic sense of humor, and my tweets are for my 6,712 followers, not for anybody else. So if people don’t like it, they shouldn’t read it. When I have a funny thought or something I think is entertaining, I’m going to puke it out on my Twitter.

I saw the tweets, but I also saw how people were using them to say you maybe had some stories to share on Seacrest. So I reached out to learn the truth.

“He’s ‘throwing shade,’” [they said.] Can we stop using that term? Not a fan.

But you did tweet out stuff about his red carpet appearance on E!. Did you feel he shouldn’t have been there?

That is so none of my concern ― anything that he does career-wise. I worry about myself. I worry about raising my son and being the best dad that I can, and that’s really my singular focus in life right now. It’s not up to me to judge who works. I’d like to work.

So you weren’t “throwing shade” at Seacrest on Twitter? Even the Taraji P. Henson GIF you retweeted?

You know what, sometimes you retweet things and you’re like, “Oh, I probably shouldn’t have retweeted that.” But, like I said, it’s for the 6,712 people that are interested in what I’m feeling and thinking, and that’s it. It’s all in fun. My other tweet about his shoes, listen, if you don’t find something inherently funny about a grown man having somebody else tie his shoes, then we got nothing to talk about. It’s just a funny thought. It wasn’t meant as shade. And if he’s falsely accused, well, that’s awful. There’s due process, and that’s important.

Ryan Seacrest, Brian Dunkleman and "American Idol" winner Kelly Clarkson. Jeffrey Mayer via Getty Images

Well E! isn’t his only platform. Seacrest works on a lot. He’s got “Live,” he’s got “Idol”…

I’m familiar with his resume. [Laughs] He’s got a couple gigs.

But what was it like working with him? You did say that after the finale you apologized to him for the way you acted when you guys were hosts together. Do you regret that apology now, knowing he may not be the person you thought he was?

It was before the finale, and I apologized to him for how we didn’t get along back then. That’s what I apologized for. I didn’t apologize for my behavior. I said, “I’m really sorry that you and I didn’t get along like we could’ve back then. I wish things were different, but they’re not, and I wish you nothing but the best.” So I think that’s a lot different than apologizing for my behavior.

Well, what were those reasons you didn’t get along?

The fact that he was a trained host and I was more of a comedian was definitely at the core of it. That’s really the core of it. He was more of a straight host, I’m a comic, just different styles. It was a long time ago. I’m a different person; I’m sure he’s a different person. We were two guys thrown together, and literally the next day we were working. And I think it’s kind of normal for co-workers to have their problems, but it was a long time ago and it’s just not worth talking about to me.

That first season of “Idol” took the world by storm. It must be nice to at least look back and say you were a part of it.

I’m a kid from a town with one street light. And I moved out to Los Angeles with everything I could pack in my two-door Chevy Cavalier, and I just thought maybe I’d get on TV. Maybe. Just a couple times. And you know what? I hosted the first season of the biggest show probably in the history of modern television, so it’s an accomplishment that I’m going to be proud of. It didn’t turn out the way that I hoped, but we’re all on our own path. I don’t know what my life would be like if I stayed and was still on the show. I have no idea.

Do you think it’s right of ABC to bring the show back not even two years after the finale?

I don’t know, maybe they’ll have me back for the next finale. Like I said, I wish them well. ABC has been kind to me over the years, I’m sure they remember my exemplary performance on “Two Guys, a Girl and a Pizza Place” and “Dharma and Greg.”

Well, the petition speaks for itself. There’s an 8,000-signature goal and they’re almost there.

Can you text that to ABC? Hey guys, 8,000 viewers!

But say they did really consider getting a new host and they called you back. What would you say?

I’m available. The same thing I’ve been telling people for 17 years: I’m available.

“I hosted the first season of the biggest show probably in the history of modern television, so it’s an accomplishment that I’m going to be proud of. It didn’t turn out the way that I hoped, but we’re all on our own path.” - Brian Dunkleman

If anyone did replace Seacrest, do you think it should be you or someone else?

Oprah.

Well, she’s No. 1 on everyone’s list.

Absolutely.

Does she have a solid relationship with ABC?

I don’t know how those ties were severed. [Laughs.] Hopefully they parted on good terms. I can’t imagine Oprah being on bad terms with anyone.

You seem like you keep your relationships pretty solid, too.

Can you spread that around?

But really, what is going on in the life of Brian Dunkleman these days?

Well, I just bought a new driver yesterday, so I’m pretty excited, because I think my golf game is finally going to come together. Been saying that since I was five. But my little boy just turned five years old, so he’s been the focus of my life right now, just raising this kid. He starts golf academy next Wednesday, and I’m so excited for him. He really seems to enjoy it, and I told him he could do anything in this world that he wants to, right after he wins his first Masters.

You don’t want him to be a host of a television reality series?

No, God forbid. I did ask him recently if he was going to take care of me when he got older, and he said absolutely. So, I got that for me. Just put me in the basement with a TV and an Xbox and I’ll be fine.

Does he know that you were a host of “American Idol”?

No, I don’t think he really knows any of that. I’m going to keep it [secret] for as long as I can. [Laughs.]

There are people who are fans of you, Brian. Do you find there are those who still support you?

Well those 8,000 signatures speak volumes. You know, every time the show is on, there’s feedback that comes my way, and let me tell you, it’s different this year. It’s been overwhelmingly positive, of people saying really kind things on Twitter and online, and I really appreciate it. It’s not been like that for 16 years.

You’ve even had some love from Kelly Clarkson.

Don’t you love the fact that she’s on “The Voice” right now as “American Idol” is starting up? That’s very ironic.

That’s where you should head to! Go to “The Voice,” you’d really send a message.

Yeah, but they have Carson Daly on. Has he been accused of anything?

No. No, he hasn’t.

Like I said, NBC probably remembers my fine work on “3rd Rock from the Sun.”

Man, you were on all these shows?

I’m sorry, have you not been to my IMDb page? It’s very long and impressive.

Seriously, give Kelly Clarkson a call or tweet her or something and be a mentor on “The Voice.”

I love it. That’s a fantastic idea. You have her number?

I wish, Brian. I figured you had her number.

Nooo.

Anything else you have on your chest that you want to get out into the world?Friday, March 9

Hi there! Eliot Nelson here filling in for Lauren Weber while she’s on vacation. Lauren will be back Monday!

PEACE IN OUR TIME? TRUMP, KIM JONG UN TO MEET After months of antagonistic posturing, President Donald Trump and North Korean leader Kim Jong Un will meet in May, South Korea’s national security adviser announced Thursday. [HuffPost] [Tweet | Share on Facebook]

KOREA OBSERVERS STUNNED BY NEWS OF MEETING “Honestly, it was stunning. I don’t think you’d be able to find anyone who follows this issue closely that would’ve predicted that announcement tonight,” said one observer. “I would say that my feelings on the issues are guarded optimism.” [HuffPost]

JEFF SESSIONS’ FIVE-YEAR PLAN FOR THE DOJ A draft memo obtained by HuffPost finds the attorney general aiming to shift the law enforcement’s agency’s focus to “cracking down on undocumented immigrants, aggressively prosecuting national security leaks, zeroing in on campus speech issues, targeting the MS-13 gang and restoring the “rule of law” throughout the country.” [HuffPost]

WIDESPREAD OPPOSITION TO TRUMP’S TARIFFS ON CAPITOL HILL Seven Republican senators on Thursday wrote the president, saying his new fees on foreign steel and aluminum could alienate “key international partners that contribute to our ability to defend our nation and maintain international stability.” [HuffPost]

BEN CARSON WALKS BACK HUD MISSION SHIFT In an email to Housing and Urban Development staffers, secretary Ben Carson wrote that his agency would continue to focus on ensuring equal access to housing. An internal HUD email obtained by HuffPost suggested the agency was shifting away from that mission. [HuffPost]North Korea policy analysts reacted with a mixture of cautious optimism and outright disbelief after South Korean officials announced Thursday that U.S. President Donald Trump would meet with North Korean dictator Kim Jong Un sometime over the next few months.

The move ― whenever and wherever it takes place ― would be an unexpected moment in history between two leaders who have taken political posturing to new heights through a string of bombastic statements and missile launches. It would also be the first meeting ever between a sitting U.S. president and the Kim regime.

As the news broke on Thursday evening, some foreign policy experts reacted with stunned missives posted to social media and immediately began contemplating just what the North Koreans hoped to gain from the meeting, and why now.

“Honestly, it was stunning. I don’t think you’d be able to find anyone who follows this issue closely that would’ve predicted that announcement tonight,” said Alexandra Bell, the senior policy director at The Center for Arms Control and Non-Proliferation. “I would say that my feelings on the issues are guarded optimism.”

Trump has long pledged to wage a campaign of maximum pressure on North Korea in an effort to convince the regime to abandon its rapidly developing nuclear weapon program. American officials recently said they’d be open to a dialogue with North Korea if the country agreed to give up its weapons beforehand, and just last month Trump said he’d be willing to talk, but “only under the right conditions.”

South Korea's national security adviser, Chung Eui-Yong, center, said Thursday that the North Korean leader Kim Jong Un had extended an invitation to meet with U.S. President Donald Trump. Leah Millis / Reuters

But Thursday’s announcement holds no such prerequisites. Kim recently told envoys from South Korea of his “willingness to denuclearize” but has made no promises to do so just yet. Chung Eui-Yong, South Korea’s national security adviser, told reporters gathered outside the White House on Thursday that he gave Kim’s message to Trump along with an invitation for the two leaders to meet face-to-face and that the U.S. president accepted.

“It’s a big deal, but it’s also a little bit of a strange deal,” Melissa Hanham, an analyst at the James Martin Center for Nonproliferation Studies, said. “It’s a break from the U.S.′ traditional process of trying to extract some kind of an agreement from the North Koreans before meeting, and in some ways the Trump administration is putting the cart before the horse.”

She also noted that it was “really weird” that Thursday’s announcement was made by South Korean officials outside the White House with no American counterparts present.

The White House said that, even though Trump had accepted Kim’s invitation, “in the meantime, all sanctions and maximum pressure must remain.”

Some analysts say the meeting plays directly into something the Kim family has wanted for decades: legitimacy on the world stage.

“North Korea has been seeking a summit with an American president for more than twenty years,” Jeffrey Lewis, the director of the East Asia nonproliferation program at the Middlebury Institute, said on Twitter. “To be clear ― we need to talk to North Korea. But Kim is not inviting Trump so that he can surrender North Korea’s weapons. Kim is inviting Trump to demonstrate that his investment in nuclear and missile capabilities has forced the United States to treat him as an equal.”

“They should have an ambassador in Seoul yesterday. There’s really no excuse for not having one already.” - Alexandra Bell, The Center for Arms Control and Non-Proliferation

Bell noted that, whatever happens between the U.S. and North Korea, the Trump administration would be well advised to staff up its diplomatic corps. The U.S. is still without an ambassador in South Korea, more than a year into Trump’s presidency.

“It’s going to be a complex and difficult and frustrating road ahead,” Bell noted. “The nature of these negotiations ... there’s probably going to be a lot more bad days than there are good. They should have an ambassador in Seoul yesterday. There’s really no excuse for not having one already.”

For now, experts say time will tell just how well the White House is able to navigate the complicated waters surrounding diplomacy with the North, something that has flustered administrations for decades.

“The problem is that South Korea is doing all the talking this week. After Monday’s readout of their visit to Pyongyang, the North was completely silent. And today, Chung delivered the remarks from the curb with no U.S. official present. Why?” Vipin Narang, a professor of international relations at MIT, told HuffPost in an email.Susan Boyce and her husband, Kevin Stone, of Rumson, New Jersey. Boyce is suffering from an incurable disease that destroys healthy lung tissue. She supports a bill before the New Jersey Legislature that would allow physicians to prescribe lethal medications to terminally ill patients who want to end their lives. Courtesy of Kevin Stone

By Michael Ollove

Susan Boyce, married and the mother of four, doesn’t know when she will die, but she knows how. One day, her diseased-decimated lungs will no longer be able to pump oxygen through her bloodstream.

“What happens with us is that we can’t get enough oxygen,” said Boyce, 54, of Rumson, New Jersey, who must take oxygen through a machine most of the day in order to breathe. “We die by suffocation. I don’t want to die by suffocation. It’s a slow, awful death.”

Which is why Boyce, whose condition causes her immune system to destroy healthy lung tissue, wants New Jersey to join the handful of states that allow physicians to prescribe lethal medications to dying patients.

New Jersey is one of at least 25 states considering aid-in-dying bills this year according to the Denver-based advocacy group Compassion and Choices, and advocates think momentum is on their side.

Support for aid-in-dying is increasing — a recent Gallup poll found two-thirds in favor, up from half four years earlier. Major medical groups have dropped or softened their opposition. And increasing life spans, while generally a positive development, mean that more Americans are watching their parents die drawn-out, agonizing deaths.

Oregon voters legalized aid-in-dying — sometimes referred to as “death-with-dignity” or “assisted suicide” — by approving a ballot measure in 1994 (a court injunction delayed implementation until 1997). Washington state voters followed suit in 2008 (it took effect in 2009), and a court ruling made it legal in Montana in 2009. Since 2013, Colorado, California, Vermont and the District of Columbia have legalized it, either through ballot initiative or legislation.

Advocates are particularly optimistic about a breakthrough in Hawaii where just this week the House sent an aid-in-dying bill to the state Senate on a 39-12 vote. They also expect success in New Jersey and perhaps in New York and Massachusetts as well, thanks to recent changes in the composition of the legislatures and, in the case of New Jersey, the governor’s office.

David Grube, an Oregon doctor in palliative care, which works to ease both physical and psychological pain of seriously ill or injured patients, once opposed aid-in-dying. But he said that as more states have legalized aid-in-dying and no evidence has emerged that patients are being pressured into the process, more people are becoming comfortable with the idea.

“It’s like same-sex marriage,” said Grube, who is the medical director of Compassion and Choices. “Forty or 50 years ago, I didn’t even know what a homosexual was. Now I see people in loving relationships, and that’s great.”

Even some critics of aid-in-dying acknowledge the momentum.

“Many of my colleagues have softened,” said Ira Byock, a Torrance, California, palliative care doctor who is chief medical officer for the Institute for Human Caring. The institute provides medical, spiritual and emotional support to seriously ill patients and their families as part of the Providence St. Joseph Health system.

Medical Groups Differ

Advocates point to several encouraging developments. The powerful American Medical Association remains firmly against aid-in-dying. “Physician-assisted suicide is fundamentally incompatible with the physician’s role as healer, would be difficult or impossible to control, and would pose serious societal risks,” the group says. Yet, 10 of its state chapters have dropped their opposition. For example, the Massachusetts Medical Society in December changed its position from opposed to neutral.

At the end of 2016, an online survey of 7,500 physicians from 27 specialties by Medscape, a news site on medicine, found that 57 percent were in favor of aid-in-dying.

Officially, organizations such as the National Hospice and Palliative Care Organization maintain their opposition to aid-in-dying measures. But many individual practitioners have become more comfortable with the idea.

Many supporters credit as a turning point the extensive media coverage of the 2014 death of 29-year-old Brittany Maynard, who had an aggressive form of brain cancer and who promoted aid-in-dying before taking lethal medications prescribed by her doctor in Oregon.

“I really did believe that good palliative care could address the needs of people who were dying,” said Ann Jackson, the CEO of the Oregon Hospice Association from 1988 to 2008. But Jackson came to change her mind.

“The main thing I’ve learned is that that is not true,” said Jackson, who now consults on end-of-life issues. “We may be able to address pain and symptoms, but we cannot address the futility some people feel at the end of life, the suffering they feel over their loss of autonomy. Hospice care cannot allow people to control their lives if they are going to deny them the right to die at a time of their own choosing.”

The Catholic Church remains firmly opposed to aid-in-dying, as do many organizations that represent people with disabilities.

“Mistakes by health care professionals, widespread misinformation, coercion and abuse limit the opportunity for people with disabilities to make informed and independent decisions,” the American Association of People with Disabilities says in its statement about aid-in-dying.

“The legalization of assisted suicide devalues the lives of people with disabilities,” the group says. It argues that some of the disabled could be coerced into agreeing to assisted suicide.

Even if there is institutional opposition, polling in 2014 by the public opinion company Purple Strategies has indicated majority support for aid-in-dying among Catholics and people with disabilities in Massachusetts and New Jersey.

One study of physician-assisted dying in Oregon and the Netherlands found no evidence that the practice was used more frequently on people with disabilities or those in other “vulnerable” groups, such as the poor and racial and ethnic minorities.

John Baudanza and his wife, Amanda, in 2011 along the Charles River in Cambridge, Massachusetts, three days after John was diagnosed with stage 4 colon cancer. Baudanza supported medical aid-in-dying, which the Massachusetts Legislature is debating now. He died in physical agony, Amanda said, in his parents’ home on Cape Cod in 2015. Courtesy of Amanda Baudanza

Oregon the Model

Nearly 18 percent of Americans live in places where aid-in-dying is legal. (Washington, D.C.’s law is in jeopardy. The U.S. House Appropriations Committee last summer passed an amendment from Republican Rep. Andy Harris of Maryland that would nullify the D.C. law. If the House incorporates the amendment in its 2018 federal spending bill, it would doom the D.C. law.)

Most state measures are modeled on Oregon’s law, which outlines steps for patients who want assistance in death: The patient must be a state resident, at least 18, still able to communicate, and diagnosed with a terminal illness with a prognosis of six months or less.

Patients must make two separate oral and one written request to their physician. The prescribing physician and a consulting physician must confirm the diagnosis and prognosis and determine whether the patient is capable of making a decision and isn’t impaired by a mental disorder. And the prescribing physician must inform the patient of feasible alternatives to medical aid-in-dying, including hospice care and pain control.

Oregon closely tracks how the law is used. Since the law’s enactment, 1,967 people received legal prescriptions under the law, and 1,275 ingested the medication. Oregon data shows the median age for people who took this option in 2017 was 74.

Byock said he believes doctors who provide aid-in-dying are violating the most sacred stricture in medicine. He also believes that in most cases, it is possible to provide pain relief to dying patients, and that the real problem is that quality palliative care is not universally available or embraced by the medical profession. He believes training in palliative care should be mandatory at medical schools.

Byock also points out that the biggest concern of Oregon patients who used the law was not escape from pain, but their decreasing ability to enjoy their lives, loss of autonomy and loss of dignity, according to an Oregon report on its use. “Plenty of other people face those same conditions,” said Byock, including those with severe arthritis, depression or failing eyesight. “Once we go down this road, it’s a slippery slope.”

In Oregon, however, it was not because they couldn’t get end-of-life services that patients turned to aid-in-dying. About 90 percent were enrolled in hospice at the time of death, according to the most recent state data, published last month.

Byock acknowledges palliative care can’t always take away pain. It didn’t for T.J. Baudanza Jr., a onetime marketing manager who in 2015 died of colon cancer at age 32 in New Seabury, Massachusetts. “T.J. died the way he feared he would,” said Amanda Baudanza, his widow, in an interview. “He suffered a prolonged, painful death because Massachusetts denied him the option of medical aid-in-dying.” He was in hospice in the last portion of his life.

T.J. had been a big supporter of an aid-in-dying referendum that narrowly missed passage in Massachusetts in 2012, not long after his diagnosis. Now Amanda is championing aid-in-dying in the state Legislature.

“I’m Catholic and so was T.J.,” Amanda said, “but he and I both believed that God wouldn’t want anyone to suffer needlessly.”

In New Jersey, Susan Boyce says her lungs are doing well enough that she believes her death is still off in the distance. She hopes to travel from her home in Rumson to Trenton to testify on behalf of the bill later this month.(Reuters) - Ryan Bundy, who was at the forefront of two armed confrontations between right-wing militia activists and the U.S. government over the past four years, said on Thursday he planned to run for Nevada governor on a states’ rights platform.

Bundy, 45, said in a telephone interview he would mount a petition drive to qualify for the November ballot as an independent candidate, and canvass the state to gather support in “face-to-face conversations” with voters.

“I intend to secure the sovereignty of the state of Nevada and its land and resources for the people of Nevada,” he said.

He did not elaborate. But his rhetoric echoed a conservative political movement known as the “sagebrush rebellion” that has called for the U.S. government to relinquish control of vast federal land holdings within several Western states.

Nevada’s Republican governor, Brian Sandoval, is barred under state law from seeking a third term.

Bundy’s father, Nevada rancher Cliven Bundy, became a hero of Western states’ rights advocates in 2014 after his refusal to pay grazing fees he owed the federal government, prompting the court-ordered confiscation of Bundy’s cattle.

Hundreds of supporters rallied to his cause, leading to an armed standoff near Bunkerville, Nevada, about 75 miles northeast of Las Vegas. Government agents and police, vastly outgunned, ultimately retreated rather than risk bloodshed.

Cliven Bundy, his sons Ryan and Ammon, and militia member Ryan Payne were all criminally charged as conspirators in the case, but a mistrial was declared in December 2017. The judge later dismissed the charges, citing prosecutorial misconduct.

In 2016, Ryan and Ammon Bundy were acquitted by a federal court jury in a separate case stemming from their roles in an armed takeover earlier that year of a federal wildlife refuge in Oregon.

Ryan Bundy, who lives in the town of Mesquite, Nevada, near the Arizona border, where he ranches and works in construction, said he would file his campaign petition next week.

Under Nevada law, a candidate unaffiliated with either major party must gather 250 signatures of registered voters by June 1 to qualify for the ballot.

Bundy said he was aware he may draw votes way from the Republican nominee, possibly boosting the chances of a liberal Democrat getting elected.

“I can’t be concerned about that, this is about principles,” he said, adding that both major parties had failed to uphold the rights of Nevada’s citizens.In her complaint, Diana Falzone said she was abruptly taken off air by Fox News after writing an article about her struggle with endometriosis. Mark Sagliocco via Getty Images

(Reuters) - Journalist Diana Falzone has settled a gender discrimination lawsuit she filed against Fox News and left the company, her lawyer said on Thursday.

“Confirmed,” her lawyer, Nancy Smith, tweeted to Reuters when asked if Falzone had reached a settlement and no longer worked at the television channel.

Fox News officials did not immediately respond to a request for comment on Smith’s announcement, which was first reported by CNN. Fox denied Falzone’s allegations after she filed her lawsuit in May, 2017.

In her complaint in New York state court, Falzone said she was abruptly taken off air by Fox News after writing an article in January 2017 about her struggle with endometriosis, a medical condition that would likely leave her infertile.

She said Fox, a unit of Twenty-First Century Fox Inc, discriminated against her on the basis of sex and disability in violation of New York City law.

Fox executives decided she did not conform to their image of on-air women as “physically perfect” once she disclosed her condition, Smith said in a statement at the time.

In its June 23 response to Falzone’s complaint, Fox said it maintained an equal employment, a harassment-free work environment where personnel decisions were made on the basis of merit, and retaliation was prohibited against anyone who reported a discrimination claim.

Fox News has faced a number of legal claims that it ignored employees’ complaints of sexual harassment and gender and race discrimination.

Bill O’Reilly, the network’s most popular anchor, and former Fox News chief Roger Ailes both have been ousted over harassment claims by several women, which they deny.At least two people have been injured in a school shooting in Indiana.

Local and state police responded to reports of an active shooter at Noblesville West Middle School just after 9 a.m. Friday, Chief of Police Kevin Jowitt told reporters at a news conference. Jowitt confirmed that two people were injured with gunshot wounds: one teacher and one student.

A student and adult embrace outside Noblesville West Middle School after a shooting at the Indiana school on Friday. Kevin Moloney via Getty Images

One adult victim was transferred to Methodist Hospital, and one child victim was transferred to Riley Children’s Hospital, Danielle Sirilla, a spokesperson for Indiana University Health, confirmed to HuffPost Friday morning.

Their families have been notified, and the school is now clear and “contained,” Jowitt said.

One male student at the school, believed to be the suspect, has been detained.

The suspect was “apprehended in the classroom or in that area,” police public information officer Bruce Barnes said.

According to police, the suspect asked to be excused from class before the shooting occurred. He returned with two handguns. The situation was “resolved very quickly,” but police are still investigating.

Police would not identify either the injured victims or the suspect.

Local news outlets identified the injured teacher as Jason Seaman, a science teacher and football coach, according to his LinkedIn profile. Parents said that he intervened to try to stop the suspect. He underwent surgery for three gunshot wounds, his mother, Kristi Seaman, wrote in a Facebook post.

Jowitt said that the school employs a full-time school resource officer, but does not know if he was involved in the shooting. Police provided few other details, citing the ongoing investigation.

Instructional Assistant Paige Rose reacts outside Noblesville West Middle School after the shooting. Kevin Moloney/Getty Images

On Friday morning, officers also responded to another “communicated threat” at Noblesville High School, but Jowitt said police believed that’s nothing beyond a threat.

The high school was placed on lockdown while a SWAT team searched the school, according to Richard Passey, a parent of a high school student. Passey added the threat was believed to be a “hoax.”

Parents had been instructed to pick up the middle school students at the high school. Middle school and high school students at the high school were being released to their parents shortly before noon, according to local news reports.

Vice President Mike Pence, who previously served as governor of Indiana, offered prayers for the victims.

Karen and I are praying for the victims of the terrible shooting in Indiana. To everyone in the Noblesville community – you are on our hearts and in our prayers. Thanks for the swift response by Hoosier law enforcement and first responders. — Vice President Mike Pence (@VP) May 25, 2018

Noblesville West Middle School, located about 30 miles northeast of Indianapolis, serves about 1,300 students, according to statistics reported to the Department of Education.

Indiana is widely known as a “gun-friendly state” for having some of the least restrictive gun laws in the country.

See more images from the scene below:

Kevin Moloney/Getty Images Staff and students comfort each other outside Noblesville West Middle School after a shooting at the school. Kevin Moloney/Getty Images Evacuated middle school students wait on a bus outside Noblesville High School. Kevin Moloney/Getty Images Evacuated students and staff march to buses to be carried offsite outside Noblesville West Middle School. Kevin Moloney/Getty Images Police assess the scene outside Noblesville High. Kevin Moloney/Getty Images Parents comfort each other as they wait outside Noblesville West Middle School. Kevin Moloney/Getty Images A police officer interviews a student and adult. Kevin Moloney/Getty Images Parents wait while a SWAT officer passes outside Noblesville High School.

Sara Boboltz contributed reporting. This story has been updated.NEW YORK (Reuters) - The former son-in-law of Paul Manafort, the one-time chairman of President Donald Trump’s campaign, has cut a plea deal with the Justice Department that requires him to cooperate with other criminal probes, two people with knowledge of the matter said.

The guilty plea agreement, which is under seal and has not been previously reported, could add to the legal pressure on Manafort, who is facing two indictments brought by Special Counsel Robert Mueller in his probe of alleged Russian meddling in the 2016 presidential election.

Manafort has been indicted in federal courts in Washington and Virginia with charges ranging from tax evasion to bank fraud and has pleaded not guilty to the charges.

Jeffrey Yohai, a former business partner of Manafort, was divorced from Manafort’s daughter last August.

Yohai has not been specifically told how he will be called on to cooperate as part of his plea agreement, but the two people familiar with the matter say they consider it a possibility that he will be asked to assist with Mueller’s prosecution of Manafort.

Legal experts have said that Mueller wants to keep applying pressure on Manafort to plead guilty and assist prosecutors with their probe. Manafort chaired the Trump campaign for three months before resigning in August 2016.

Both Trump and Russia have denied allegations they colluded to help Republican Trump win the election.

Hilary Potashner, a public defender who is representing Yohai, did not immediately respond to a request for comment.

Manafort’s spokesman, Jason Maloni, declined to comment.

Andrew Brown, a federal prosecutor in Los Angeles, had been overseeing an investigation into Yohai’s real estate and bank dealings in California and New York several months before Mueller was appointed to his post in May 2017.

Yohai’s agreement, which was concluded early this year, included him pleading guilty to misusing construction loan funds and to a count related to a bank account overdraft.

While the deal was cut with Brown’s office, the federal government “can ask for help at any time,” said one of the people familiar with the matter.

A spokesman for Brown did not respond to a request for comment and a spokesman for Mueller declined to comment.

MANAFORT TRIAL PENDING

Manafort is to go on trial later this year to fight the two indictments. The charges against him range from failing to disclose lobbying work for a pro-Russian Ukrainian political party to bank fraud.

As a close business partner, Yohai was privy to many of Manafort’s financial dealings, according to the two people familiar with the matter and court filings in the bankruptcies of four Los Angeles properties in 2016. In addition to co-investing in California real estate, the two cooperated in getting loans for property deals in New York, Manafort’s indictments show.

Mueller sent a team of prosecutors to interview Yohai last June, asking him about Manafort’s relationship with Trump, his ties to Russian oligarchs, and his borrowing of tens of millions of dollars against properties in New York, Reuters reported in February, citing people with knowledge of the matter.THIS JUST IN: Trump gets an offer from North Korea that he can't refuse. #LSSC pic.twitter.com/MS9KLAtdqD — The Late Show (@colbertlateshow) March 9, 2018

News of an upcoming meeting between President Donald Trump and North Korean dictator Kim Jong Un broke as Stephen Colbert was taping “The Late Show” on Thursday night.

And the host predicted that this meeting could lead to only one thing in a late-breaking joke.“Here’s the thing: There have been hundreds of studies on this issue, and they have shown that there isn’t any connection between violent video games and violent activities. Now, that doesn’t mean that video games have no influence on you, because let’s be honest, everything we consume as human beings affects us somehow. Sex and the City might make you want to go to brunch, Karate Kid might have made people join the local dojo.”Alex and Maia Shibutani with their bronze medals from the Winter Games in Pyeongchang, South Korea. Gabriela Landazuri Saltos HuffPost

In an ice dancing routine, a pair is often separated by no more than two arms’ length for much of the routine. Luckily, Alex and Maia Shibutani get along.

The brother-and-sister Olympic pair, known as the “Shib Sibs,” talked with HuffPost Asian Voices about skating together for the past 14 years and winning two ice dancing bronze medals in Pyeongchang. In between a few conventional, good-natured sibling squabbles, 23-year-old Maia and 26-year-old Alex also talked about facing stereotypes and becoming role models.

The Shibutanis, who are Japanese-American and grew up training in Colorado and Michigan, are aware of being put into various boxes: the sibling skaters, the Asian role models. But they’re decidedly laid back about it. In fact, they embrace it.

HuffPost: You two were a lot of fun to watch at the Olympics ― for everyone but especially for Asian-Americans. Asians don’t have enough representation, so if you’re in the public eye, you kind of automatically become a role model. How do you feel about that?

Alex: What’s a role model? Just kidding ― I think I know. I think that even before we won two medals at the Olympics, though, we carried ourselves with the understanding that people were looking up to us, even though we didn’t have two Olympic medals at the time. We were still running into young skaters and young people all over the place that looked up to us.

And we are the first team of Asian descent to win a medal in our discipline of figure skating in ice dance, and we’ve never really had role models to look up to that looked like us in our sport. So we’ve realized the importance of trailblazers.

Would you rather be thought of as a team? Do you feel there is almost too much attention on the fact that you’re the brother-and-sister skaters, as opposed to the fact that you’re this medal-winning team? Do you think that’s fair?

Maia: During the Olympics, I think there was a lot of attention put on the fact that Alex and I are siblings. And since we were the only sibling team competing in ice dance or pairs, that’s just kind of inevitable. We wouldn’t have been able to get those two Olympic medals if it weren’t for the relationship that we had.

Alex: I couldn’t do it without her. You need me, too, supposedly.

Maia: Yes, yes.

Alex: We’ve got this nickname, the “Shib Sibs,” and it’s gotten a lot of attention over the past few weeks, after the Games and during the Games, just because it’s an interesting dynamic. Not everyone has the opportunity to work with family or with a sibling. I don’t feel like anyone’s disregarding our accomplishments or taking away what we’ve done as athletes. It’s just interesting.

Maia: There’s something extra that’s interesting.

Alex: Yeah, we’re extra. (laughs)

The media likes to stereotype Asian skaters as being good at the sport because of having a “Tiger mom,” because of being lightweight and other reasons. Do you think those stereotypes take away from your own hard work and achievement?

Alex: I believe that stereotypes are a load of crap. Uh, supposedly I’m supposed to be good at math and science.

Maia: He isn’t.

Alex: I was terrible at math and science. I think that if you are a human being on this planet, you can be good at whatever you want to do. And for us, that was ice dancing, that was figure skating. And we’re passionate about it, and so we worked really hard, and it takes hard work. But you can do whatever you want.

Maia: We don’t really pay attention to what the media says. I mean, we’ve been working so hard, and at this Olympics, I know we did everything that we could do that was under our control.

Alex: It’s unfortunate that there are people that are ignorant out there, but we make sure to surround ourselves with people who support us and believe in our dreams. Our parents have been absolutely incredible throughout our entire career and our entire lives, and the great thing about what we do is that we’re able to support each other out on the ice and off the ice. We’re each other’s best friend, hopefully.

Alex: Right? Am I your best friend?

Maia: Yeah, yeah.

Alex: We back each other up, and that’s all that really matters to us.

Have you personally ever faced stereotypes as brother and sister ice dancing together or as Asian-Americans?

Alex: Throughout our career, I’ve never really felt blatantly stereotyped, but seeing the people that we compete against, I see that we are different. I’ve noticed that. It would be silly for me not to. But I feel like being different is a really great thing. It’s a gift. It’s an opportunity to be unique.

Maia: We’ve been different for a few different reasons, right?

Alex: Yeah, more than just being Asian-American.

Maia: We’re also siblings. There aren’t other sibling teams.

Alex: Yeah, it’s probably ― maybe it’s harder being siblings in ice dance, just because everyone has a preconceived notion, and there are stereotypes for every type of thing. And so, we’ve always had to believe in ourselves.

Maia: That’s served us really well, just trusting what we want to do.

If you remember, 20 years ago, MSNBC had a headline: “American Beats Out Kwan.” The American was Tara Lipinski, and the other skater was Michelle Kwan ― also an American. Does this point to the fact we sometimes have a problem seeing Asian-Americans as American?

Alex: Maia and I try to make sure that we are not overly sensitive to anything. Of course, there will be occasional headlines and things that can be seen as offensive. But we really stay focused. It’s always a challenge, when you see people who are judged for reasons that they can’t control, but we put ourselves out there in our sport.

Important wrap-up question: Do you two have any feelings you want to share about your love of K-pop? We wrote about your tweets about BTS, and the “BTSArmy” went pretty nuts.

Alex: BTS, the K-pop group that has been making waves all around the world, started off in Korea, obviously, but is now making waves in the U.S., too. We are very inspired by what they’ve accomplished. I think it’s a sign that talent will rise to the top.

Maia: So much respect for what they’re doing.

Alex: They are so appreciated because they demonstrate awesome choreography, they have great personalities, they stand up for what they believe in. Music is one of those things, like sports, that doesn’t have a language. And so people are really appreciating what they do with their music. And I think we connect to that, because with our skating, even though we’ve always been different, we always try to make sure that we’re as good as we possibly can be. So, yeah, lots of respect for BTS, especially growing up as an Asian-American, there aren’t a lot of people that I was able to look up to or see in movies in leading roles. And obviously BTS does music, but to see them experiencing so much success right now is inspiring for us. And we’re really proud of them.