A woman and her children pay respects at a makeshift memorial at Santa Fe High School in Santa Fe, Texas, May 23, 2018. Survivors of school shootings are encouraged to apply for special internships with House Democrats. Loren Elliott / Reuters

House Democrats are giving young gun safety advocates an opportunity to spend the summer in Washington exploring whether their activism could lead to a career.

House Democratic leaders on Thursday announced a new gun safety internship program designed for students from Florida’s Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School, where a teen gunman killed 17 people in February, and other schools that have been affected by gun violence.

Democratic caucus chairman Joe Crowley (D-N.Y.) and vice chair Linda Sánchez (D-Calif.), as well as Rep. Mike Thompson (D-Calif.), who chairs a House task force on gun violence prevention, and Rep. Ted Deutch (D-Fla.) sent a letter to fellow Democratic lawmakers encouraging them to offer summer internships to students who have been advocating for gun safety measures.

“We have all been impressed with the leadership and passion shown by students around the country on the issue of gun violence prevention,” the lawmakers wrote. “Through efforts like the March for Our Lives, students have been speaking up and demanding action on this issue like never before, and they are an inspiration to many of us.”

The internship announcement comes less than a week after 10 people were killed in a shooting at a high school in Santa Fe, Texas.

The Feb. 14 Parkland shooting sparked a nationwide conversation on gun violence and prompted survivors, as well as thousands of other students across the country, to embrace gun control activism. The students created the March for Our Lives and #NeverAgain movements to continue public discourse on gun violence well after news coverage of the shootings petered out.

Crowley said the idea for the internship program arose after the Parkland shooting, but things “kicked into gear” after the Santa Fe massacre.

“These students have been through something none of us would ever want to experience,” Crowley told HuffPost. “It’s important that we learn from their experience.”

An internship, he said, “is an opportunity for us to learn from them and for them to learn from us.”

Applicants will be matched with representatives’ offices based on regional and policy interests, said Lauren French, the Democratic caucus communications director.West Virginia Republican Senate candidate Don Blankenship on Tuesday said he saw nothing wrong with his use of a racial slur to describe the father-in-law of Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.).

“This idea that calling somebody a ‘Chinaperson,’ I mean, I’m an American person. I don’t see this insinuation by the press that there’s something racist about saying a ‘Chinaperson,’” Blankenship said during a primary debate hosted by Fox News. “Some people are Korean persons, and some of them are African persons. That’s not any slander there.”

Blankenship, a former coal CEO who served a year in prison for involvement in the deadly 2010 Upper Big Branch mine explosion, attacked McConnell’s ties to China last week by targeting the family of McConnell’s wife, Transportation Secretary Elaine Chao.

“I have an issue when the father-in-law is a wealthy Chinaperson and there’s a lot of connections to some of the brass, if you will, in China,” Blankenship said on a radio show.

During Tuesday night’s debate, Blankenship repeated his claim that McConnell had “conflicts of interest with China.” The candidate has made attacking the Senate majority leader a centerpiece of his GOP Senate primary campaign.

Blankenship called McConnell “Cocaine Mitch” in a campaign ad earlier this week, alluding to a 2014 drug bust on a shipping vessel owned by the company founded by Chao’s father.

When debate moderator Bret Baier asked how Blankenship would work with McConnell if elected, given his penchant for “slinging insults,” he insisted it would not be a problem.

“I’m not going to D.C. to get along,” Blankenship said.Several cheerleaders for the Washington NFL team revealed to The New York Times on Wednesday that their jobs often take them off the field and into sexually charged situations with men who sponsor the team.

The report adds to the growing pile of evidence that NFL cheerleaders across the league are forced to work under unfair conditions, and, as suggested by the women who spoke to the Times, often beyond the confines of their jobs on the football field.

During a 2013 calendar photo shoot trip to Costa Rica, the cheerleaders said, the team invited a group of all-male sponsors and FedExField suite holders to watch the squad members pose topless or in nothing but body paint for their photos.

After one 14-hour working day on the trip, the cheerleading director told nine of the women that some male sponsors had “picked them to be personal escorts at a nightclub” that night. The director’s request did not appear optional, they said.

“So get back to your room and get ready,” the director told them. Several of them began to cry. “They weren’t putting a gun to our heads, but it was mandatory for us to go,” one of the cheerleaders said. “We weren’t asked, we were told. Other girls were devastated because we knew exactly what she was doing.”

The cheerleaders noted that their escorting duties did not require them to have sex with the men.

Stephanie Jojokian, the squad’s longtime director and choreographer, dismissed the suggestion that the club night was mandatory. The team issued a statement stating that the cheerleaders are “contractually protected to ensure a safe and constructive environment.”

The team confirmed to the Times that the cheerleaders were paid nothing for the weeklong trip, though their transportation costs, meals and lodging were covered.

Washington cheerleaders perform at a game in 2011. Jonathan Ernst / Reuters

The cheerleaders also said they felt alarmed when, upon arrival at the resort where the photo shoot was taking place, team officials collected all their passports from them ― a safety precaution, they said.

They also recounted mandatory “bonding” parties that took place on the yacht of longtime team suite holder William R. Teel Jr. with several of his friends.

One of the cheerleaders who spoke to the Times described a similar pressure to participate in the events on the yacht.

One cheerleader a few years later was told what to expect at the annual affair. “I’d been given a heads-up that we were going on this particular man’s yacht and that he had a lot of money — and that you could make a lot of money there if you wanted,” one cheerleader said, referring to the prize money in the dance contests. “But that was not for me, and lots of us felt the same way. But we were too scared to complain. We felt that our place on the team would be compromised if we did.”

Wednesday’s report comes on the heels of several other scandals plaguing the NFL’s cheerleading programs.

In March, a New Orleans Saints cheerleader filed a lawsuit against the NFL citing an unfair double standard over the rules for the team’s female and male employees after she was fired for violating a cheerleader-specific social media policy.

The following month, a Miami Dolphins cheerleader filed a suit against the league after she said she became “a target of discipline, ridicule, harassment and abuse” from the team’s cheerleading director after she posted a photo on social media of her recent baptism.CNN’s Don Lemon reprimanded rapper Kanye West on Tuesday night for making “what may be his most shocking claim of all.”

Earlier in the day, West told TMZ’s newsroom staff that “slavery for 400 years” sounded “like a choice.” He also doubled down on his support for President Donald Trump.

Lemon responded:

“So, to be clear, and I can’t believe that I actually need to say this, black and brown people who were enslaved for centuries had absolutely no choice. They weren’t just mentally enslaved, this wasn’t some kind of mind game. They were in real chains.”

Check out the clip here:

.@DonLemon on Kanye West's slavery was a choice remarks: "This wasn't some kind of mind game. They were in very real chains." https://t.co/Z9KsrSV2bL https://t.co/uKkYWd4nE8 — CNN Tonight (@CNNTonight) May 2, 2018

Lemon later said West was “embarrassing himself” with his comments. “Because he doesn’t know history.”

AdvertisementNate Berkus (left) says his show's aim is to "break down barriers" and "normalize the way our family looks [and] the way our family loves." Stefanie Keenan via Getty Images

Nate Berkus inadvertently found himself the subject of a heated social media debate last week after reality TV star Derick Dillard assailed him and his family in a shocking tweet.

Dillard, who appears on TLC’s “Counting On” and is married to Jill Duggar Dillard of “19 Kids and Counting” fame, retweeted a link last Friday to Berkus’s show, “Nate & Jeremiah By Design,” which airs on the same network. The interior design series is a collaboration between Berkus and his husband, Jeremiah Brent.

Dillard, however, blasted the show for “highlighting and celebrating a lifestyle so degrading to children.” He seemed particularly offended that Berkus and Brent’s daughter, Poppy Brent-Berkus, is featured in promotional images for the show’s second season, which debuted April 7 on TLC.

What a travesty of family. It’s sad how blatant the liberal agenda is, such that it both highlights and celebrates a lifestyle so degrading to children on public television as if it should be normal. https://t.co/xicRm1nsW7 — Derick Dillard (@derickmdillard) April 27, 2018

The tweet had drawn more than 1,600 responses as of Wednesday afternoon, many of them negative.

“Your definition of ‘wrong’ is your own, and you don’t have the right to tell others how to live. Judge not lest ye be judged,” one person wrote. Added another: “Maybe he should read his bible again before making more horrible statements in a public forum.”

When a person asked how Berkus’ sexuality impacted him personally, Dillard replied:

They affect this poor child, as well as what perversions are celebrated. If it were adultery, I doubt a network would be so quick to focus on the reality of it as if it were ok. — Derick Dillard (@derickmdillard) April 27, 2018

Berkus, however, didn’t seem too vexed. He responded indirectly to Dillard’s remarks with a tweet featuring a photo of him and Brent posing with Poppy, now 3, and their new son, Oskar Michael.

My hope with having a show like #NandJByDesign on @TLC, where we go into people’s homes and welcome viewers into ours, is that we can start to break down barriers & normalize the way our family looks & the way our family loves. @JeremiahBrent pic.twitter.com/NsCAeh1nxb — Nate Berkus (@NateBerkus) April 27, 2018

The Duggars, who have been outspoken opponents of LGBTQ rights, are known for their conservative Christian faith.

It isn’t the first time that Dillard, 29, has expressed anti-LGBTQ views on social media. Last year, he took aim at transgender teen activist Jazz Jennings, claiming in an Aug. 2 tweet that her gender identity was a “non-reality.”

Like Berkus, Jennings didn’t seem fazed.

AdvertisementKanye West’s shock tour continued Tuesday with an extremely candid interview at TMZ.

The rapper revealed to the newsroom that he was addicted to opioids and underwent liposuction in 2016 just before his mental breakdown.

“Two days before going to the hospital, I was on opioids. I was addicted to opioids,” he said in a video clip provided of the interview.

“I had plastic surgery because I was trying to look good for y’all,” West said, speaking to the TMZ staffers.

“I got liposuction because I didn’t want y’all to call me fat like y’all called Rob [Kardashian] at the wedding and made him fly home before me and Kim got married. I didn’t want y’all to call me fat so I got liposuction, right?” the rapper said.

West’s liposuction admission is somewhat startling because his mother, Donda West, died shortly after undergoing a tummy tuck, breast reduction and liposuction in 2007.

After getting his procedure done, West said, he began taking opioids ― two of them a day ― and started driving to work while on them. He also said he used them on tour.

“And then my boy … and I’d always ask my boy, you know, ‘We on tour give me some weed blah, blah, blah,’ so he had to go get me the opioids,” the rapper said. “And there was talks amongst my camp like Ye’s popping pills, so when he handed them to me he said, ’You know this is used to kill genius,’ so I didn’t take it. Two days later, I’m in the hospital.”

West continued talking to the staffers, saying, “I was taking two pills a day at the time. When I left the hospital, how many pills do you think I was given? Seven!” the rapper said, raising his voice. “I went from taking two pills to taking seven. So the reason that I dropped those tweets and everything is because I was drugged the fuck out.”

In the same interview, West also told TMZ about his love for President Donald Trump and said that slavery was a “choice,” before sportswriter and podcast host Van Lathan shut the rapper down.

“When you hear about slavery for 400 years ... for 400 years? That sounds like a choice,” West said.

“Like, you was there for 400 years and it’s all of y’all? It’s like we’re mentally in prison. I like the word ‘prison’ because slavery goes too direct to the idea of blacks. It’s like slavery, Holocaust. Holocaust, Jews. Slavery is blacks. So, prison is something that unites us as one race. Blacks and whites being one race. We’re the human race,” he added.

Kanye with the worst take yet



"You hear about slavery for 400 years. 400 years?! That sounds like a choice." pic.twitter.com/jJwtByDuyH — Alazar Moges (@zarzarbinkss) May 1, 2018

West later tweeted about his TMZ interview Tuesday evening and appeared to clarify some of his comments. Below are just a few of the tweets:

the universe has a plan. I knew that TMZ would be awesome. — KANYE WEST (@kanyewest) May 1, 2018

the reason why I brought up the 400 years point is because we can't be mentally imprisoned for another 400 years. We need free thought now. Even the statement was an example of free thought It was just an idea — KANYE WEST (@kanyewest) May 1, 2018

once again I am being attacked for presenting new ideas — KANYE WEST (@kanyewest) May 1, 2018Rich Maynard holds his son, Alden, 3, after Alden’s adoption at the Superior Court in Portland, Maine. Alden was adopted as a foster child. A new federal law completely overhauls the nation’s foster care system. Brianna Soukup/Portland Press Herald via Getty Images

By Teresa Wiltz

A new federal law, propelled by the belief that children in difficult homes nearly always fare best with their parents, effectively blows up the nation’s troubled foster care system.

Few outside child welfare circles paid any mind to the law, which was tucked inside a massive spending bill President Donald Trump signed in February. But it will force states to overhaul their foster care systems by changing the rules for how they can spend their annual $8 billion in federal funds for child abuse prevention.

The law, called the Family First Prevention Services Act, prioritizes keeping families together and puts more money toward at-home parenting classes, mental health counseling and substance abuse treatment — and puts limits on placing children in institutional settings such as group homes. It’s the most extensive overhaul of foster care in nearly four decades.

“It’s a really significant reform for families,” said Hope Cooper, founding partner of True North Group, a Washington, D.C.-based public policy consultancy that advised child welfare agencies on the new law. “The emphasis is really on helping kids stay safe with families, and helping vulnerable families get help earlier.”

Most child welfare advocates have hailed the changes, but some states that rely heavily on group homes fear that now they won’t have enough money to pay for them.

The federal government won’t release compliance guidelines until October, so states are still figuring out how the changes might affect their often-beleaguered systems. Most expect the impact will be dramatic, particularly states such as Colorado that have a lot of group foster homes.

For the first time, the Family First Act caps federal funding for group homes, also known as “congregate care.” Previously, there were no limits, Cooper said. The federal government won’t pay for a child to stay in a group home longer than two weeks, with some exceptions, such as teens who are pregnant or parenting.

But even in states that are moving in the direction envisioned by the federal law, officials are worried about certain aspects of it.

In New York, state officials are concerned that the limits on group homes will cost counties too much. Under the new caps, New York counties will have to chip in as much as 50 percent more for certain children, said Sheila Poole, acting commissioner for New York’s Office of Children and Family Services. That would be a significant hit for smaller counties with scant resources, she said.

In California, city, county and state officials and child welfare advocates worry the law will place a burden on extended family members who are raising grandchildren, nieces and nephews outside of foster care. That’s because “kinship caregivers” won’t be eligible for foster care payments under the new law.

This practice isn’t new, but it is likely to expand under Family First, said Sean Hughes, a California-based child welfare consultant and former Democratic congressional staffer who opposes parts of the law.

The new law, Hughes said, “closes the front door to a lot of safety nets that we’ve developed for kids in foster care.”

Focus on Prevention

Child protective services investigates alleged abuse or neglect in as many as 37 percent of all children under 18 in the United States, according to a 2017 report in the American Journal of Public Health. African-American children are almost twice as likely as white children to have their well-being investigated by child protective services. (The report only looked at reports of child abuse and neglect, not placement in foster care.)

A March report by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services found the foster care population increased by more than 10 percent between 2012 and 2016, the last year for which data is available. The agency linked the increase in child welfare caseloads to the nation’s opioid epidemic, which is ravaging families.

In six states — Alaska, Georgia, Minnesota, Indiana, Montana and New Hampshire — the foster care population increased by more than half.

To help reverse the trend, the new law places a greater emphasis on prevention.

The federal government underfunded prevention services for years, said Karen Howard, vice president of early childhood policy for First Focus, a Washington, D.C.-based child advocacy group that worked on the legislation. Before the enactment of Family First, states got reimbursed for foster care through funding provided by Title IV-E of the Social Security Act — and that money could be used only for foster care, adoption or family reunification. The money could not routinely be used for prevention that might keep families from sending their children to foster care in the first place.

Now, for the first time, evidence-based prevention services will be funded as an entitlement, like Medicaid.

That means that prevention services will be guaranteed by the federal government for the families of children who are deemed “foster care candidates”: usually kids determined to be victims of abuse or neglect who haven’t been removed from their home.

Under the new law, states may use matching federal funding to provide at-risk families with up to 12 months of mental health services, substance abuse treatment and in-home parenting training to families. Eligible beneficiaries are the families of children identified as safe staying at home; teen parents in foster care; and other parents who need preventive help so their kids don’t end up in the system. States must also come up with a plan to keep the child safe while remaining with parents.

Some child welfare advocates, such as Hughes, worry that 12 months of preventive care isn’t enough for parents struggling with opioid addiction. People with opioid addictions often relapse multiple times on the road to recovery.

Many preventive services, such as home visiting, clinical services, transportation assistance and job training aren’t eligible for Family First funding, Poole said.

The law provides competitive grants for states to recruit foster families; establishes licensing requirements for foster families who are related to the child; and requires states to come up with a plan to prevent children dying from abuse and neglect.

In another first, the law also removes the requirement that states only use prevention services for extremely poor families. Because the income standards hadn’t been adjusted in 20 years, fewer and fewer families qualified for the services, advocates say. Now, states don’t have to prove that an at-risk family meets those circa 1996 income standards.

“That’s significant,” said Howard of First Focus. “Because abuse happens in rich homes, middle-class homes, poor homes. This is a game-changer, because states can really go to town” to provide innovative prevention services to troubled families, Howard said.

Redefining Group Homes

Under the new law, the federal government will cap the amount of time a child can spend in group homes. It will do so by reimbursing states for only two weeks of a child’s stay in congregate care — with some exceptions, such as for children in residential treatment programs offering round-the-clock nursing care.

The new restrictions begin in 2019. States can ask for a two-year delay to implement the group home provisions of the law, but if they do, they can’t get any federal funding for preventive services.

The group home provision comes after the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services issued a 2015 report showing that 40 percent of teens in foster care group homes had no clinical reason, such as a mental health diagnosis, for being there rather than in a family setting. Child welfare experts saw this as more evidence that group homes were being overused. Children’s average stay in a group home is eight months, the report found.

Some states rely more on group homes than others, with the amount of children in congregate care ranging from 4 to 35 percent of foster care children, according to a 2015 report by the Casey Foundation. Colorado, Rhode Island, West Virginia and Wyoming have the greatest percentage of children living in group homes, though the report also found that over the previous 10 years, the group home population had decreased by about a third.

Those who oppose the group home restrictions say they are too narrow in scope.

The law’s additional requirements for congregate care “reduce a state’s flexibility to determine the most appropriate placement for a child and would negatively impact the likelihood of receiving sufficient federal funding,” said Poole, the acting child welfare commissioner in New York. She said the state is weighing whether it will ask for a two-year delay.

It makes sense to not place foster youth in group homes unless absolutely necessary, said Hughes, the California consultant. But sometimes it is necessary. The vast majority of foster youth in group homes are there because staying in a foster home or with a relative didn’t work out, Hughes said. For kids who’ve been through trauma, particularly older kids, a traditional foster home isn’t equipped to give them the care they need, he said.Now we know the story behind the “not-sorry.”

The singer on Monday posted a 2008 New York Post front page about the magazine cover photo, which showed the then-15-year-old “Hannah Montana” star posing nude as she clutched a satin sheet. The newspaper headline screamed “Miley’s Shame.” She rescinded her regrets a decade later in a most colorful way.

IM NOT SORRY



Fuck YOU #10yearsago pic.twitter.com/YTJmPHKwLX — Miley Ray Cyrus (@MileyCyrus) April 29, 2018

Cyrus continued to take a wrecking ball to the past on “Kimmel,” saying her little sister, Noah, was at the Annie Leibowitz photo shoot and that there was “nothing sexualized about this on-set. It was everybody else’s poisonous thoughts.”

In retrospect, she said, “I shouldn’t be ashamed.”

As for her apologizing at the time, Cyrus said to the host: “I’m sure someone told me to. But you know that’s why I don’t do what people tell me to anymore because that idea sucked.”

AdvertisementPremise: A very dysfunctional family tries to stay together.

More about this: Series creator Mitch Hurwitz announced that he has re-edited Season 4 of the show. This re-edit will presumably make that infamously polarizing season look more like the beloved originals.

Personally, I loved Season 4 as it was, but I understand why fans were disappointed. Season 4 “AD” was a very different “AD” than the rest of the series. I’m beyond excited to see how this turns out.

Here’s Hurwitz’s announcement from May 1:Kanye West tweeted a fake Harriet Tubman quote on Tuesday night, just hours after he told TMZ that slavery was “a choice.”

The quote appeared just after West compared himself to both Tubman and Nat Turner, two Americans born into slavery who were pivotal in the fight for abolition in the 19th century.

I freed a thousand slaves I could have freed a thousand more if only they knew they were slaves. - Harriet Tubman — KANYE WEST (@kanyewest) May 2, 2018

There’s no hard evidence that Tubman actually said this quote. The fact-checking site Snopes has pretty much debunked it.

As Milton Sernett, professor emeritus of history at the Maxwell School and author of Harriet Tubman: Myth, Memory, and History told Ralph Luker of the History News Network: “My impression is that this is a late 20th-century quote from a fictionalized account of Tubman’s life. Whoever wishes to use the dubious quote as a political zinger ought to cite a reliable source.”

The fake Tubman quote obviously had Twitter up in arms:

IT'S NOT A REAL QUOTE https://t.co/SOaMKGnP9Z — hua hsu (@huahsu) May 2, 2018

so I guess instead of apologizing, Kanye is backing up “slavery is a choice” by using a fake quote invented by white supremacists and attributed to Harriet Tubman to justify slavery



aka the most conservative response humanly possible https://t.co/WYYPwr7eKp — Jules Suzdaltsev (@jules_su) May 2, 2018

I'm pretty sure Harriet Tubman would knock him out if she were alive https://t.co/tM0fa43tEe — rabia O'chaudry (@rabiasquared) May 2, 2018

Oh no, Kanye is sharing fake quotes now https://t.co/lYvuYweDwY — Parker Molloy (@ParkerMolloy) May 2, 2018

Someone really needs to stop Kanye from tweeting these fake quotes that never existed. Very Trumpish and it is dangerous because dumb people believe and racist people don't care if it is true or false. Quote has been used by racist people for decades it is entirely made up. https://t.co/0gMEi7YXC0 — Robert Littal (@BSO) May 2, 2018

1. Harriet Tubman never said that. 2. This fake quote is actually pro-slavery since it implies that slaves deserved their condition because of ignorance or inherent servility. 3. Stop this. https://t.co/ZESC7JiYBi — Jeet Heer (@HeerJeet) May 2, 2018

West’s tweet comes during a series of incendiary comments from the rapper, both online and in person.

“When you hear about slavery for 400 years ... for 400 years? That sounds like a choice,” said West during his Tuesday interview with TMZ Live.

“Like, you was there for 400 years and it’s all of y’all? It’s like we’re mentally in prison. I like the word ‘prison’ because slavery goes too direct to the idea of blacks. It’s like slavery, Holocaust. Holocaust, Jews. Slavery is blacks. So, prison is something that unites us as one race. Blacks and whites being one race. We’re the human race,” he continued.

the Nat Turner movie never made it anywhere because it showed slaves revolting. I understand why my god brother Puff calls his network revolt. — KANYE WEST (@kanyewest) May 1, 2018

if this was 148 years ago I would have been more like Harriet or Nat — KANYE WEST (@kanyewest) May 1, 2018

His comments about slavery have since been widely debunked and criticized.Professor Stephen Hawking addressing The Cambridge Union on Nov. 21, 2017 in Cambridge, Cambridgeshire. Chris Williamson via Getty Images

British physicist Stephen Hawking may have died in March, but his legacy is still unfolding.

The prominent theoretical physicist and cosmologist co-authored a research paper about the existence of parallel universes similar to our own, which the Journal of High-Energy Physics posthumously published on Friday.

According to the BBC, the study was submitted to the open-access journal shortly before Hawking’s death.

Thomas Hertog, a co-author of the study, told the BBC that he and Hawking were wrestling with the idea that the Big Bang actually resulted in the creation of multiple “pocket universes” that exist throughout space. It was unclear to them whether the laws of physics that apply in our universe would also apply in these alternate universes.

“In the old theory there were all sorts of universes: some were empty, others were full of matter, some expanded too fast, others were too short-lived. There was huge variation,” said Hertog, a physics professor at the Catholic University of Leuven (KU Leuven) in Belgium. “The mystery was why do we live in this special universe where everything is nicely balanced in order for complexity and life to emerge?”

Hertog and Hawking’s paper uses new mathematical techniques to restore order to previously chaotic views of the multiverse, suggesting that these different universes are subject to the same laws of physics as our own.

Pallbearers carry the coffin out of Great St Marys Church at the end of the funeral of theoretical physicist Stephen Hawking, in Cambridge, Britain, March 31, 2018. Henry Nicholls / Reuters

“It reduces the multiverse down to a more manageable set of universes which all look alike,” said Hertog, whose paper with Hawkings drew on 20 years of work.

The physicists also gave other researchers a pathway to potentially detect the presence of other universes by searching for cosmic microwave radiation that is left over from the Big Bang.

Hertog said that communication became more difficult near the end of Hawking’s life ― although the physicist apparently never showed signs of wanting to quit.

Along with his recently published study, Hawking has at least two other papers that are being prepared for publication, according to the Guardian.

Hawking died at the age of 76 on March 14, due to complications from amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, a progressive neurodegenerative disease. He rose to global fame in 1988, after publishing a general audience book on science, A Brief History of Time. In the world of astrophysics, he’s best known for his theories on black holes.Tig Notaro dropped by “The Ellen DeGeneres Show” Thursday, revealing twin sons Max and Finn’s unique interest in... trash.

“They are obsessed with garbage trucks,” the comedian and writer told Ellen. “Their second birthday is coming up, and I think we’re going to have a garbage-themed party. I want to see if I can get a trash can piñata made.”

If that doesn’t work out, Notaro said she and her wife, Stephanie Allynne, have a few other ideas in mind.

“We’re friends with all the garbagemen in the neighborhood. I was thinking of paying one to just come in the back fence and toss some garbage in the backyard. Max and Finn would lose their mind!”

For now, Notaro ― who is promoting her new Netflix special, “Happy To Be Here” ― is just pleased that her kids “have a passion, no matter what it is.”

“Some people don’t have interests,” she quipped.

Notaro also said she “cannot wait” for “First Ladies,” in which she’ll play the wife of the first female U.S. president (Jennifer Aniston).Thrill-seekers at the Universal Studios Japan theme park got some unexpected adventure on Tuesday when their roller coaster came to a sudden stop.

The Flying Dinosaur holds riders in a prone position, to simulate being hauled off by a pteranodon. As a result, dozens of riders were suspended in the air, facing the ground at heights of up to nearly 100 feet ― for as long as two hours.

Japan’s Kyodo news agency said the ride’s built-in safety system detected an “abnormality,” and automatically halted the ride. It did not specify what the problem was.

No one was injured in the incident, and riders lined up to give it a go when the coaster reopened later in the day.Sweden’s famed meatballs aren’t Swedish after all.

The nation’s official Twitter account made the startling confession on Tuesday, saying the tasty treat ― great for a snack, a meal or a shopping break in Ikea ― is actually from 1,600 miles away:

Swedish meatballs are actually based on a recipe King Charles XII brought home from Turkey in the early 18th century. Let's stick to the facts! pic.twitter.com/JuTDEjq9MM — Sweden.se (@swedense) April 28, 2018

The tweet was met with a mixture of surprise and outright disbelief, but one Internet sleuth found evidence from an old cookbook that backed the claim:

Looked closer at Sw. cookbooks and found "A Turkish Meat-Dish" in the 1737 Swedish ed. of Susanna Eger(in)'s "Leipziger Kochbuch". It's finely chopped veal with onions, salt and pepper, grilled on skewers. Served with a sweet-sour wine-based sauce.https://t.co/jPu7z8vXIB — Peter Isotalo (@PeterIsotalo) May 1, 2018Actress Cate Blanchett has revealed that she too was sexually harassed by Harvey Weinstein and said that she hopes the disgraced Hollywood producer and other accused sexual predators, including Woody Allen, face justice “through the judicial system.”

“I’m interested in those people being prosecuted. We have to set a legal precedent,” she said in a Variety interview published Wednesday.

When asked if Weinstein ever sexually harassed her, she said yes but declined to lay out the details, noting only that she “wouldn’t do what he was asking me to do.”

“I think he really primarily preyed, like most predators, on the vulnerable,” the two-time Oscar winner said of Weinstein. “I mean, I got a bad feeling from him. … He would often say to me, ‘We’re not friends.’”

In the extensive interview ahead of next week’s Cannes Film Festival, where she will serve as president of the jury, Blanchett also spoke up for Dylan Farrow, who has accused Allen of molesting herwhen she was 7 years old.

“Obviously, Dylan Farrow has been living in a world of pain, and if the case has not been properly tried, then it needs to be reopened and go back into court because that’s a place where those things get solved,” Blanchett said.

Both Weinstein and Allen have denied all sexual assault allegations.

However, Blanchett hesitated when asked if she would no longer work with Allen, who wrote and directed “Blue Jasmine,” for which she won the Best Actress Oscar. She said that when she took the role, she did not know of Farrow’s allegations against the writer and director.

“Far more important than me adding to yet another headline … and finger-pointing is, if that issue has not been dealt with … I am absolutely for it to go back into the courts because there lies the solution,” Blanchett said.

“There are many male directors who I have heard about and have not necessarily had positive experiences with whom I would not work with again who didn’t lay a finger on me at all,” she continued. “There are many reasons why one doesn’t want to work with people again.”

Blanchett also responded to criticism that rich actresses should not discuss pay disparities, revealing that she recently turned down a role because she would have been paid less than her male co-star.A Catholic high school in Dearborn, Michigan, has come under fire for its plan to pass out “modesty ponchos” to female students if their dresses are deemed inappropriate at their upcoming prom dance.

The colorful modesty ponchos appeared on mannequins in the halls of Divine Child High School on Monday morning. The ponchos look similar to rain ponchos and, according to a note left on a mannequin, are available in “short and long styles.”

“If your dress does not meet our formal dance dress requirements ― no problem! We’ve got you covered ― literally. This is our Modesty Poncho, which you’ll be given at the door,” a note attached to another mannequin reads.

The modesty ponchos came under swift criticism from students and parents alike, forcing the school to backtrack in a letter sent to the school community Tuesday.

High school principal Eric Haley wrote in the letter that the ponchos were not meant to make students feel uncomfortable and were meant “to remind all students and parents of our formal Prom dress policy.”

“To be clear: The poncho will not be passed out at Prom. It was on display to proactively remind students of our dress code policies and eliminate any confusion prior to this special event,” Haley wrote to students and parents. “We recognize that it has done the opposite for some members of our community and draws away from our goal of having students adhere to the dress code policy.”

Students at a high school in Dearborn will be evaluated by teachers before prom. If their dresses aren't appropriate, they'll be given a Modesty Poncho:https://t.co/N0TGp5KJom pic.twitter.com/CuTW57M4ya — FOX 2 Detroit (@FOX2News) April 30, 2018

According to the school’s dress code, obtained by local news outlet Fox 2, female students cannot wear low necklines or “cutouts below the traditional bra line” to the May 12 prom dance.

The modesty ponchos were created by theology teacher Mary Pat O’Malley, who said she hoped the poncho would help people see “inner beauty.”

“We are trying to focus on the inner beauty of people and not draw attention to something that doesn’t really need to have attention drawn to it,” she said. “It’s really intended as a deterrent — and a lighthearted one at that.”

An anonymous Divine Child student told Fox 2 on Monday that she thought the school had “gone very far” with the ponchos and was not comfortable attending her own prom.

A parent added that the poncho would body-shame young girls.

“It’s a method of shaming, a method of building and degrading to females and its interpretation what’s modest and what isn’t,” the anonymous parent told Fox 2.Cardinal George Pell will stand trial for charges of sexual abuse, a Melbourne magistrate said Tuesday. Remo Casilli/Reuters

SYDNEY ― Cardinal George Pell, the Vatican’s treasurer and third-highest-ranking official, will stand trial for charges of sexual abuse, a magistrate in Melbourne, Australia, said on Tuesday.

Pell, a 76-year-old cardinal who has served in the Vatican since 2014, is the most senior Catholic leader to face such accusations. He has been charged with “historical sexual offenses” relating to his time as a priest in Australia’s Victoria state decades ago. Prior to his appointment to the Vatican, he was the archbishop of Sydney for more than 10 years.

Belinda Wallington, the magistrate, said there was enough evidence to bring the case to court after a month-long pre-trial hearing in which several witnesses spoke about the abuse allegations. Some of the more serious charges leveled against Pell were thrown out, however.

Cardinal George Pell leaves @MagCourtVic committed to stand trial on charges of historical sex offences. He will return to the County Court tomorrow for a directions hearing @9NewsAUS pic.twitter.com/B6TPCzbmgO — Jayde Vincent (@JaydeVincent) May 1, 2018

Charges were filed last June, and the case has been slowly moving through the Australian court system. But many details of the accusations against Pell have not been made public. Legal cases in Australia are subject to strict contempt laws that bar journalists from reporting on aspects of criminal allegations to protect the integrity of a case.

As The New York Times notes, journalists are often given suppression orders mandating that certain material presented in court be off-limits for reporting. Even noting the existence of a suppression order itself can be restricted.

Pell very clearly stated he will plead “not guilty” to those charges he will stand trial on. Half of the charges have been thrown out including the most serious charges (the nature of which I can not report for legal reasons). — Melissa Davey (@MelissaLDavey) May 1, 2018

In court on Tuesday, Pell pleaded not guilty to the charges that were filed. His lawyer, Robert Richter, said last year he had evidence that would prove that “what was alleged is impossible.”

Pell has vehemently defended himself against the allegations.

“The whole idea of sexual abuse is abhorrent to me,” he said during a press conference last year.

Pell has been criticized for his actions as a leader of the Catholic Church in Australia, and in 2016 was accused of being lenient toward priests accused of misconduct during his tenure as the Archbishop of Melbourne and Sydney.

The date of Pell’s full trial has not been set, but it will likely take months to complete. The court has told the cardinal to remain in the country, according to The Guardian.

Pope Francis has said he would not comment on the case until it has concluded.SAO PAULO ― A 26-story abandoned office building occupied by about 150 squatters was engulfed in flames and collapsed in the center of Sao Paulo early Tuesday, shooting a massive black cloud of smoke into the sky and red-hot chunks of debris into nearby structures.

At least one person died and three others were missing, authorities said.

Live television images showed a firefighter on an adjacent rooftop talking to a man clinging to a rescue rope and trying to escape from the upper part of the burning building.

Firefighters try to extinguish a fire at a building in downtown Sao Paulo, Brazil, on May 1. Stringer . / Reuters

Suddenly, the structure collapsed and the man disappeared into the rubble. Authorities said he likely died, but were searching for him. Firefighters continued trying to fully extinguish the flames amid the debris of concrete chunks and twisted metal pipes.

An adjacent building caught fire, but was evacuated and no one was injured. That blaze was brought under control relatively quickly, Sao Paulo Fire Brigade Lieutenant André Elias told Globo TV.

The cause of the fire was unknown and there could be more victims, Elias said. Three people were unaccounted for, he said.

Firefighters stand by outside a site of building collapsed in downtown Sao Paulo, Brazil, May 1. Stringer . / Reuters

The abandoned former office building had been occupied irregularly seven years ago and some 150 people lived in the lower 10 floors, Globo reported.

Sao Paulo state Governor Marcio Franca, at the scene, told the Folha de S.Paulo newspaper it was a “tragedy foretold.”

The city and state governments have been working for years to forcibly remove squatters from buildings in central Sao Paulo, with plans for revitalizing the area.

Franca said about 150 buildings in the region were occupied by organized groups of squatters, who have pressured the government for years to provide housing for the city’s homeless.

The governor said it was legally difficult to force people to evacuate the old and decaying buildings.Rev. John Sanqiang Cao (center) poses in a picture with his family. The pastor is currently imprisoned in China. Ben Cao

Ben Cao speaks about his father as though the man is a living legend. The 23-year-old from Charlotte, North Carolina, says his father, the Rev. John Sanqiang Cao, is a passionate Christian minister, a devoted humanitarian and a man with “absolutely no quit in him, no matter the circumstances.”

John Cao is also apparently a master of dad jokes, like the one he often tells about his Chinese name, which translates to “three talents.”

“He loves to tell people the first talent is sleeping, the second is eating, and he hasn’t quite figured out the third talent yet,” Ben Cao told HuffPost about his dad.

But for more than a year, Ben Cao has been unable to speak to his father at all.

John Cao is a prominent figure in China’s “house church” movement, a network of small, unregistered congregations that operate independently of China’s state-sanctioned religious institutions. The pastor has been held in China since March 2017, when he was arrested while traveling back to the country from Myanmar. Chinese officials charged him with “organizing others to cross the border illegally,” a crime The Associated Press claimed is frequently used to indict human traffickers.

But John Cao has crossed the border many times, bringing volunteers from Bible schools he’s helped build in China over to his schools in Myanmar without incident.

Now, he faces a seven-year prison sentence, which his family and supporters believe is an unwarranted punishment.

Ben Cao and his older brother, Amos Cao, are pleading with the Chinese government to show their father mercy.

“I am deeply saddened, and devastated, by the incarceration of my father,” Ben Cao said. “He is my mentor, role model, friend, and support system.”

Faith In China

The pastor’s arrest comes during a push by Beijing to “Sinicize,” or make more Chinese, the country’s major religions, removing perceived foreign influences and ensuring faith leaders’ loyalty to the communist government.

Although the Chinese constitution officially guarantees citizens religious freedom, religion is highly regulated in the country. The state recognizes both Protestantism and Catholicism, but requires churches to register with one of three state-sanctioned Christian religious organizations. While state churches ascribe to core Christian doctrines, they also require pastors to be politically loyal to the government and give moral sanction to its programs. The government also maintains authority over the selection of clergy.

House churches operate outside of state-sanctioned Christianity, meeting in smaller groups in living rooms, factory buildings and restaurants. A 2010 report from the Pew Research Center suggested that 35 million of China’s 58 million Protestants belonged to independent house churches.

Experts say John Cao’s arrest could be part of the ruling party’s attempts to exert authority over these independent Christian churches.

Rev. John Sanqiang Cao is a Chinese Christian pastor and a legal permanent resident of the U.S. Ben Cao

A Pastor’s Purpose

John Cao, a 58-year-old native of China, converted to Christianity in his 20s. He married an American citizen, and his two sons are also American citizens. While he established a life in America, attending seminary in New York and pastoring two Chinese congregations in North Carolina, he felt called to be a missionary in his home country.

The pastor is a legal permanent resident of the U.S., but kept his Chinese citizenship in order to “facilitate ease of travel in and out of China” according to his supporters.

Over the years, he became a prominent figure in China’s house church movement. He founded more than a dozen schools in central and southern China, according to The Associated Press. At these schools, he reportedly gave students an education and training to be future Christian missionaries.

Around 2014, the pastor began to turn his attention to the neighboring country of Myanmar. More than 50 of his Chinese trainees volunteered to travel with John Cao to Myanmar as he expanded and built 16 schools there.

Cao has built Bible schools throughout central and southern China and in the neighboring country of Myanmar. Ben Cao

Xi Lian, an expert in Chinese Christianity at Duke University, said that there are ethnic minority populations in the Yunnan province that live along the border between China and Myanmar.

“Historically there has been a strong and warm response to Christianity among those minority peoples,” Lian told HuffPost. “That is a main reason for contemporary missionary work in the area.”

Ben Cao said his father’s work in Myanmar was focused more on charity and humanitarian aid than the religious work he did in China.

“He dedicated three years of his life, from 2014 to 2017, to providing clothes, food, water, shelter, education and spirituality to the minority groups in the mountains of Myanmar,” Ben Cao told HuffPost.

He added that his father did not attempt to hide border crossings, in which he went from Yunnan province to Myanmar’s Wa region, from Chinese authorities. John Cao often made the short 30-foot trip across a river on a bamboo raft in broad daylight, per the AP. The pastor was frequently called in to meet with Chinese security agents about his work with volunteers in Myanmar.

John Cao’s son believes that his father was doing what he thought was right.

“Although my father technically broke a Chinese law, there were no secrets, no illegal arrangements, and no traces of wrong-doing,” Ben Cao said. “He had been conducting business in Myanmar for three years without any trouble from Chinese authorities. My father claims that the authorities were aware of their operation in Myanmar, and even helped them cross the border on occasion.”

Experts say John Cao's arrest could be part of a broader government crackdown on independent Christianity in China. Ben Cao

A Pastor’s Peril

John Cao’s journey on March 5, 2017, didn’t end like his previous trips. On his way back to China from Myanmar with a fellow teacher, the pastor was arrested by Chinese security agents.

He was sentenced in March 2018 to seven years in prison, a decision his lawyer is currently appealing. The Chinese Embassy in the U.S. did not respond to multiple requests for comment on John’s arrest.

Lian, of Duke University, told HuffPost that John’s arrest and imprisonment is “unprecedented” in recent Chinese history.

“We don’t know exactly what message the Chinese government is trying to send. I suspect it is tied to the broader, nationwide efforts to stop the momentum of the Protestant movement in today’s China,” Lian said. “It may also have to do with enforcing the national boundary, which it sees as being undermined by the border crossings of minority peoples whose ethnic and cultural identity takes precedence over their national identity and their loyalty to the Chinese state.”

Lian added that it has been harder in recent years for Chinese Christians to practice their faith freely outside official state-sanctioned churches.

ChinaAid, an American watchdog group that analyzes religious freedom in China, says that religious persecution against Chinese Christians has increased in recent years. In a 2016 report, the group claimed that more than 1,800 church leaders were detained in China that year, while another 303 were sentenced to prison terms.

Brynne Lawrence, a English editor for ChinaAid, told HuffPost that John’s arrest is “definitely indicative of a wider crackdown on house churches,” especially since the crime he was charged with is more commonly applied to child traffickers.

“Moreover, Pastor Cao had crossed that border many times before and had done nothing to cause arrest,” Lawrence told HuffPost.

William Nee, a China Researcher for Amnesty International, told HuffPost that John Cao’s sentence of seven years seems “vastly disproportionate” to any offense the pastor may have committed. He hypothesized that it could be meant as a political warning to others.

“The arrest of John Sanqiang Cao is almost certainly related to a much broader crackdown on Christianity in China, and the government’s attempts to limit missionary activities and any forms of religion not under government control,” Nee told HuffPost in an email. “It is tragic that a pastor engaging in humanitarian work could get swept up in such a politicized campaign.”

This February, the government enacted new regulations on religion, including restricting Chinese nationals from leaving the country for religious purposes without government authorization. Pastors of underground churches have reportedly been prevented from leaving mainland China altogether, according to the AP.

“It’s part of the overall drive of the state to ‘sinicize’ Christianity ― by limiting the ability of the Chinese church to connect with Western Christianity,” Lian said.

A State Department spokesperson told HuffPost that it is “deeply concerned” about John Cao’s seven-year sentence. The spokesperson said State Department officials met with the pastor’s wife when she visited China’s Yunnan Province to try to see her husband and submit requests to Chinese officials about his case.

“Mr. Cao’s humanitarian work to build schools and deliver food has contributed to poverty alleviation in poor, rural areas. Mr. Cao is nearly 60 years old, and his health is deteriorating,” the spokesperson wrote in an email. “We continue to urge Chinese authorities to release Mr. Cao immediately on time served and humanitarian grounds, and allow him to reunite with his family.”

Rev. Cao poses with family members. Ben Cao

A Family’s Faith

Ben Cao said that before the arrest, his dad had planned to retire from missionary work after this trip to China. He added his father was well aware of the risks associated with missionary work in the country.

“He always knew risk of advocating religious freedom in China, but his bravery and perseverance ended up costing him his freedom,” Ben Cao said.

The son said his family’s next steps are to continue raising awareness about his dad’s situation and about threats to religious freedom worldwide. He said he hopes to see China relax its restrictions on religions and “have an open mind” when discussing the coexistence of religion and the Chinese Communist party.

Ben Cao said he wants the U.S. government to negotiate his dad’s unconditional release.

“I would love to see a response from President Donald Trump,” Ben Cao said.

And although the pastor is miles away in a Chinese prison, Ben said he wants his dad to remain hopeful.Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu delivered a dramatic speech on Monday, boasting of new and shocking evidence about Iran’s nuclear program.

Standing in front of a giant white screen, Netanyahu gave a nearly 20-minute presentation in which he told audiences, “Iran lied, big time.” It appeared to be a clear attempt on his part to convince U.S. President Donald Trump to pull out of the 2015 nuclear deal with Iran, observers said.

“It was pretty obvious that the speech had an audience of one: the president of the United States,” said Ali Vaez, Iran project director for the International Crisis Group.

Everything about the speech, from its simplified breakdown of major points to the fact that Netanyahu spoke in English, gave the impression that he had geared the address directly toward the White House.

“The fact that it’s in English clearly demonstrates that it’s intended for the Trump administration and perhaps a U.S. audience,” said Dina Esfandiary, Centre for Science and Security Studies Fellow at King’s College London.

“It was intended to show there was no point in keeping the nuclear deal.”

Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu speaks during a news conference in Tel Aviv, Israel, on April 30, 2018. Amir Cohen/Reuters

The Iran deal involves six world powers agreeing to lift sanctions on Iran in exchange for the Iranian government ceasing its nuclear weapons program. Netanyahu delivered his speech just days ahead of the May 12 deadline for Trump to decide whether he will restore sanctions on Iran, which would deal a severe blow to the nuclear deal.

World leaders who support the agreement, including French President Emmanuel Macron and German Chancellor Angela Merkel, have recently appealed to Trump to preserve the deal.

On Monday night, it was Netanyahu’s turn to repeat his case that Trump should abandon the U.S. commitment to the deal, which he views as insufficient to stop Iran from threatening Israel while giving economic relief that will increase Iran’s regional power.

The prime minister claimed Israeli secret services secured a trove of Iranian documents earlier this year that proved Iranian officials had lied in the past about their intention to build a nuclear weapon. But Netanyahu did not give any proof that Iran was violating the current terms of the deal, and the documents did not appear to refute the International Atomic Energy Agency’s assessment that Iran had halted its nuclear weapons activities after 2009.

“Basically all that Netanyahu did was show more information about something that we already knew about,” said Esfandiary.

Experts say that although the documents may offer more details on Iran’s nuclear program before 2009, they have little to no bearing on the country’s activities today. The International Atomic Energy Agency, which enforces the Iran nuclear deal, also already made the key points of Netanyahu’s speech public in reports years ago.

“When you compare Netanyahu’s speech to the IAEA’s final report on Iran’s nuclear weapons program, everything Netanyahu said is already described by the IAEA,” said Jeffrey Lewis, the director of the East Asia nonproliferation program at the Middlebury Institute of International Studies at Monterey.

“This is really a political effort by Netanyahu.”

Amir Cohen/Reuters

Netanyahu has long opposed the nuclear deal with Iran, even pleading with the U.S. Congress in 2015 to reject the agreement. He’s found a more welcoming reception for his message since Trump took office, and following Netanyahu’s broadcast on Monday, Trump told reporters the documents backed up his repeated claims that the nuclear agreement is the “worst deal ever.”

“What’s happening today and what’s happened over the last little while and what we’ve learned has really shown that I’ve been 100 percent right,” Trump said.

But experts say that if Netanyahu’s speech proves anything, it’s the necessity of the nuclear argreement’s strict inspection regime and legal framework.A scooter rider in San Francisco. The city’s attorney sent cease-and-desist letters to scooter companies. Other cities, in the South, have been more welcoming to scooters, which scooter advocates say can be more comfortable than riding bikes. Justin Sullivan/Getty Images

By Rebecca Beitsch

Their launch followed a familiar pattern. Electric scooters have followed a wave of dockless bikes, popping up seemingly overnight, to the delight of some residents and officials and to the dismay of others.

No, these aren’t Vespas. Instead, they more resemble the souped-up Razor scooters that are favored by schoolkids. Electric scooters’ small motors have been humming around cities up and down the East and West coasts, drawing the ire of some city officials who said scooter companies sidestepped government by going ahead before regulations could be written.

“It would be very nice if the tech bros could come in and ask in a collaborative fashion for permission rather than after-the-fact forgiveness,” said a San Francisco supervisor, Aaron Peskin, at a meeting in which the city was considering scooter regulations. The same day as the meeting, the city attorney sent a cease-and-desist letter to three scooter companies that had started in the area.

But the reception to scooters has been much warmer in the South, where some mid-sized cities are in talks to bring them in.

Bike sharing has arrived more slowly in the South for the same reason many smaller places have struggled to replicate the flourishing bike-share programs seen in major metropolises: Sprawling cities with less-developed pedestrian infrastructure and a less-dense downtown core are a tough sell for bike-share programs.

Yet as private, dockless bike-share companies spread further inland from the coasts and bring their product to mid-tier cities, many towns in the South are poised to become early adopters of electric scooters.

“I work in some of the most obese, hot, behind the cultural shift, and behind the bike culture shift, communities,” said Lindsey Gray West, who helped start the Birmingham, Alabama, bike-share program and now runs Bantam Strategy Group, a bike-share consulting firm in Baton Rouge, Louisiana, that works almost exclusively with Southern cities.

But scooters have been an easy sell, she said. “Just in the last two weeks probably I’ve had multiple city councilmen, multiple mayors over the age of 70, all at least 50 and older, that have come back and said, ‘This is the best thing I’ve ever done.’”

Gray West said scooters are a good fit for the South much for the same reason she advocated to have electric-assist bikes in Birmingham: It’s hot, it’s hilly, and people don’t want to show up for business meetings drenched in sweat.

The industry has been growing rapidly. Ride-hailing company Uber recently bought bike-share company Jump for an estimated $100 million. And scooters, which first hit the streets in late 2017, have reached more cities this year as the temperature climbs, with the devices rolling out in a new town every few weeks.

Already, scooters have arrived in sweltering Miami, and Mobile, Alabama, has committed to bringing in dockless bikes and scooters. LimeBike is planning to come to New Orleans, a city official there confirmed. And talks are underway in New Orleans, Huntsville and Birmingham in Alabama, as well as Long Beach and Gulfport, Mississippi, and Louisiana State University in Baton Rouge. Bird and LimeBike had just launched in Austin, but both companies pulled their scooters off the streets this weekend after the city passed an emergency ordinance Friday.

Dennis Madsen, a long-range planner in Huntsville, said the electric scooter could be a great help in connecting the two vital points of the city: its downtown and a tech campus filled with aerospace companies, two job centers that are about 6 miles apart. The temperate climate means bikes and scooters can be used year-round, though in the summer there may be a preference for scooters.

“Being able to quickly and comfortably cover a lot of ground is great, especially if you can do so without looking like you’ve gone through the ringer,” Madsen said. “It’s not even a concern of wanting to look good — you just don’t want to look like you came out of the tub.”

Unlike cities such as Washington, D.C., and San Francisco, these towns aren’t turning to scooters to solve a congestion problem but rather to draw people in and revitalize their downtown.

“I think something like the scooter is going to contribute to the vibrancy and the kind of pedestrian feel of the city,” said Birmingham city councilor Darrell O’Quinn, who has been pushing for scooters.

“I think it’s something that is a low-cost attraction that mid-sized cities can bring in that is something that’s fun,” O’Quinn said. “It generates some interest in the community while also being a real benefit to people in terms of increasing their mobility. In the South in particular, it makes sense because when it’s 98 degrees outside you want to make those trips as quick as possible.”

Scooter companies see their product as a cure to transportation woes in cities big and small.

“It’s going to appeal to anyone who looks at their calendar and says, ‘I need to get from Point A to Point B. It’s too far to walk or there’s a lot of traffic. How am I going to get there?’” said Kenneth Baer, a spokesman for an electric scooter company, Bird.

That’s not to say there aren’t some reservations about the little machines.

The scooters typically max out at 15 mph, and their reliance on batteries mean companies must bring them in every night for charging, which city leaders say helps keep the scooters from becoming too scattered or being a nuisance.

O’Quinn said the slow speeds makes them comparable to a bike and a fine fit downtown, where the speed limit is 25 mph.

But in South Bend, Indiana, which also is considering scooters, planning director Tim Corcoran said officials still are trying to work out the safest place for people to ride.

“A person in a car understands a person on a bike but not necessarily a person riding a scooter in the street,” he said. “We’re thinking about where we would allow scooters to be used, whether we’re comfortable with people using them on a sidewalk or not. Likewise, are we comfortable with them on the street? Both are interesting to think about, and there are plusses and minuses to each.”

Offering a less strenuous option could help bring mobility to people who may be unlikely to ride a bike due to age or physical condition. Although scooters don’t offer many of the same health benefits as bikes, some observers hope that riding them will lead to more active lifestyles.

“I think scooters are a gateway drug to walking and decreasing the stunning rates of obesity in this country,” said Paul Mackie with Mobility Lab, a transportation think tank.

Alabama, Mississippi and Louisiana, three states with cities considering the scooters, are among the most obese states in the country, according to the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.

Companies that offer both bikes and scooters, however, hope cities will allow both.