Some punchlines are best avoided by straight white guys. So “Late Night” host Seth Meyers got writer Amber Ruffin, who is black, and writer Jenny Hagel, who’s gay, to finish the jokes for him on Thursday. They covered everything from segregation, to women’s hockey at the Winter Olympics, to the death of Billy Graham.Storm Reid, Oprah Winfrey, Mindy Kaling, Reese Witherspoon and Ava DuVernay at a March 7 screening of "A Wrinkle In Time" in New York City. Dimitrios Kambouris via Getty Images

“A Wrinkle in Time,” Ava DuVernay’s sci-fi blockbuster for Disney, is the latest casualty in the so-called culture wars. With its wildly diverse cast and its message of empowerment for young girls, the movie has been described variously with admiration and disdain ― declared both “revolutionary” and a “noble failure.”

One particularly salty review from The Federalist called it a “victim of diversity-deranged stunt casting ... more interested in promoting colorblind multi-culturalism than producing an entertaining adaptation.”

Another article on Fox News condemned some cultural critics for “trying to look away from the movie’s problems and instead fawn over its politicized message,” and suggested that DuVernay “cares more about advancing social issues than making money for Disney.” The headline refers to the project as “Oprah’s ultra-PC” film.

There is no question that this movie is important and deeply necessary. There is also no question that it is flawed, and that some critiques — of its pacing, its world-building, its effects — are valid. Several things can be true at once.

But in the wake of the stellar success of “Black Panther,” it is worth asking why the specific detail of the film’s deliberately inclusive casting is the subject of so much vitriol. What is the impetus behind equating the movie’s perceived failures ― it’s projected to make around $30 million this weekend, a decent but not stellar amount ― with its diversity?

One wonders a great many things about these critics. One wonders if those complaining that PC culture and “multi-culturalism” have “ruined” the source material — Madeleine L’Engle’s 1962 novel, in which main character Meg Murry is assumed to be white — truly care all that much about the adaptation’s fidelity to the text. One wonders if the criticism and complaints would cease if the movie were simply based on an original story, or if the mere idea of a diverse cast and crew, no matter the source material, is the main issue here. One wonders if these critics felt the same amount of disgust at the idea of Scarlett Johansson portraying Major Kusanagi in “Ghost in the Shell,” a movie that was simply OK.

One wonders, too, about the critic I was speaking with last month about the future box office potential of black filmmakers and black-led films. This critic said “A Wrinkle In Time” shouldn’t be part of the conversation, because it’s “half white.” The critic continued: “It’s not a black movie. You’ve got Reese Witherspoon and Chris Pine. It’s just a different thing.”

The success of “Black Panther” was one thing, but “A Wrinkle in Time” represents, in many ways, a far bigger and more important shift in the ongoing, often exhausting conversation about diversity and representation in Hollywood. What does it mean for someone like DuVernay to make a movie that is difficult, divisive, not universally loved? Why must the critics hedge their negative reviews with patronizing words like “noble failure?” Why aren’t black artists (especially women) given space to fail and win, to be the first but not the best?

“DuVernay is experiencing what so many black folks who are the “first” to do anything experience ― the burden of expectations far exceeding those placed on many of her white, male peers, the burden of an individual’s failures being seen in some circles as pervasively revealing of blackness in general.”

After seeing “A Wrinkle in Time” this week, an image of actress Dorothy Dandridge came to mind. It’s an image of Dandridge in her prime, arriving on the red carpet the night of the 27th Academy Awards in 1955. She’s wearing long silk gloves, a glamorous fur stole, a stunning, long chiffon gown. She’s smiling, waving at the cameras, looking every bit the classic Hollywood star she is. But that night she’s more than just a movie star, of course ― she’s the first black woman, ever, to be nominated for Best Actress at the Oscars.

I’ve always wondered what was going through Dandridge’s mind in that photo, during that whole night. I’ve often wondered what, if anything, her megawatt smile might have been concealing as she made history, coming so close to gracing the Oscars stage and becoming the first black woman to accept that award. I’ve wondered if she guessed that she would eventually lose (to Grace Kelly), whether she contemplated what losing, for her, a black sex symbol in a racist white town, would ultimately mean.

I’ve wondered about whatever feelings of exhilaration and precariousness she might have felt that night — the exhilaration and precariousness of being a first.

“A Wrinkle in Time,” itself, represents a huge industry first: the first live-action movie with a budget of more than $100 million ever to be directed by a black woman.

And DuVernay herself has many firsts under her belt: the first African-American to win the U.S. directing award in Sundance’s dramatic category, the first black female director to have a film nominated for Best Picture at the Oscars, the first black woman to be nominated for Best Director at the Golden Globes, the first black woman nominated for Best Documentary at the Oscars, etc.

But the thing about being “first” that we never really talk about when we praise pioneering black entertainers, athletes and politicians is how incredibly charged it is with an energy of devastating expectation. Making history means you’re celebrated, yes, but it also means you’re the only one, the first, and with that comes its own baggage. DuVernay is experiencing what so many black folks who are the “first” to do anything experience ― the burden of expectations far exceeding those placed on many of her white, male peers, the burden of an individual’s failures being seen in some circles as pervasively revealing of blackness in general.

The movie isn’t great for many reasons. I can’t pretend that some of its more earnest lines didn’t make me cringe, that it wasn’t at various points clunky, disjointed and unsure of itself. But the movie also spoke to me on an emotional level that, yes, made it easier for me — a young black woman who grew up with deep self-hatred, who believed she’d never accomplish anything in life and had few things in her world to suggest the opposite — to look away from its problems.NEW YORK ― We’ve seen a lot of variations of Jack Pearson on “This Is Us,” spanning several years ― from his younger, clean-shaven days to his full-bearded look.

But in next week’s Season 2 finale, viewers will get the chance to see Milo Ventimiglia playing a much older version of Jack ― gray hair and all. The episode will show what Jack would have looked like many years later if he hadn’t died from cardiac arrest after saving his family, their dog and their keepsakes from a house fire. Essentially, it’s a present-day Jack at what appears to be the wedding of his daughter Kate (Chrissy Metz).

“I think that’s a version of Jack that everybody would have liked to have seen and they are excited to see. For me, selfishly it gives me another opportunity to work with actors on the show that I may not be able to work with because of Jack’s early passing,” said Ventimiglia, who sat down with HuffPost Thursday at the New York City Fire Department Engine 8 to discuss the importance of changing batteries in smoke detectors as part of a partnership with Duracell.

Milo Ventimiglia teamed up with Duracell, visiting the New York City Fire Department this week to remind everyone to change their smoke detector batteries when changing their clocks for daylight saving time. Santiago Felipe via Getty Images

So what would Jack have been like if he did live into his 70s?

“I think he’d be much like the younger Jack. I think he’d be happy to be around his kids, happy to be around his wife,” Ventimiglia said. “He’d probably be building homes somewhere.”

An older version of Jack Pearson on "This Is Us." NBC

To get the look, Ventimiglia had to sit in the makeup chair for a while.

“It took about three hours to put on and about an hour to take off. But it’s amazing how it transforms how I feel, how I move, how I talk. It’s an amazing feeling ― all of a sudden, you’re in your 70s,” he said.

On a daily basis, stepping into the role of Jack Pearson, though, comes relatively easy for Ventimiglia. He says it’s especially natural acting alongside Mandy Moore, who plays Jack’s wife, Rebecca Pearson, on the NBC series.

“There’s not a lot of imagination needed. I put on the clothes. I put on the hair and makeup — I have a mustache or a beard,” he said. “I look into Mandy Moore’s eyes and I’m Jack.”

Moore recently told HuffPost she’s watched nearly every “This Is Us” episode with Ventimiglia. It’s become a “tradition,” Ventimiglia said, especially because the completed episodes air months after the actual filming.

“I think we watch them because we want to see the work of our co-stars and our crew but also I think we’ve grown to enjoy the time after the fact,” he said. “We get a chance to watch it together and talk about it together right in the moment of seeing it. It’s kind of like watching it with your family.”

And yes, Ventimiglia cries while watching the show, too.

“For me, the episodes about the kids and about Rebecca, those are the ones that affect me the most. The ones about Jack — less so because I’m in his shoes,” he said, adding, “I’m much more emotional than Jack Pearson is.”

The episode in which Jack’s cause of death is revealed was particularly heart-wrenching for viewers. Ventimiglia, for one, is glad that it finally aired and that people now know how his character died.

Ventimiglia plays Jack Pearson opposite Mandy Moore's Rebecca Pearson in the show. NBC

“For months and months and months — every day ― and me in particular ― getting asked the question, ‘How does this man die?’ To finally have it revealed to the audience was a pretty big relief,” he said. “Of course there are more secrets within the show that I have to hold back now. It transfers from one secret to the next creatively.”

The series has much more to uncover about Jack’s backstory. With that and all of the show’s success, Ventimiglia says he feels a responsibility to the show and the fans.

“I think probably just being out in the world and knowing the impact the character has made on people,” he said, “and trying to be respectful of that and lean into that and embrace where people are responding to the positive message of the show. And trying to respond ... to that positivity.”President Donald Trump will meet North Korean leader Kim Jong Un by May in an effort to persuade the regime to abandon its nuclear weapon program, South Korean officials said Thursday.

Chung Eui-Yong, South Korea’s national security adviser, told reporters gathered outside the White House that Kim expressed his “eagerness to meet” with Trump “as soon as possible” during a visit between the two countries earlier this week. South Korean officials have been in Washington this week to meet with the Trump administration following the summit in Pyongyang.

White House press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders said the meeting would be held at a place and time to be determined later but added that “in the meantime, all sanctions and maximum pressure must remain.”

“President Trump greatly appreciates the nice words of the South Korean delegation and President Moon,” she said. “He will accept the invitation to meet with Kim Jong Un at a place and time to be determined. We look forward to the denuclearization of North Korea.”

Kim Jong Un talked about denuclearization with the South Korean Representatives, not just a freeze. Also, no missile testing by North Korea during this period of time. Great progress being made but sanctions will remain until an agreement is reached. Meeting being planned! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) March 9, 2018

Trump briefly told the White House press corps earlier Thursday that South Korea would make a “major statement” about North Korea. He later told ABC’s Jonathan Karl that, “hopefully, you will give me credit” for the announcement.

A senior administration official linked the planned meeting to Trump’s own campaign of maximum pressure against the North Koreans, saying the U.S. was at this juncture “precisely because of the approach that President Trump has taken.”

“Kim Jong Un is the one person who is able to make decisions under their authoritarian [system]. It made sense to accept an invitation to meet with the one person who can make decisions instead of repeating the long slog of the past,” the official said in a call with reporters, also noting: “President Trump has been very clear from the beginning that he is not prepared to reward North Korea in exchange for talks.”

Earlier this week, South Korea sent several emissaries to Pyongyang to meet with Kim after a successful bout of diplomacy between the two countries during the 2018 Winter Olympics. During the meeting, North Korea signaled that it would be willing to negotiate with the United States about ending its nuclear weapon program and said, as a show of good faith, the country would halt all nuclear and missile tests for the time being.

Kim and South Korean President Moon Jae-in also agreed to host a diplomatic summit at the end of next month at the Demilitarized Zone.

“The North Korean side clearly stated its willingness to denuclearize,” Moon’s office said in a statement at the time. “It made it clear that it would have no reason to keep nuclear weapons if the military threat to the North was eliminated and its security guaranteed.”

The U.S. still plans to hold its annual joint military drills with South Korea, known as Foal Eagle, later this month. The exercise, which will run through May, involves thousands of troops and has long been a point of consternation to the North Koreans.

Kim reportedly made quite an impression on the South Koreans during their visit. The New York Times reports the envoys described the reclusive leader as “forthcoming and daring” and said they were surprised by his willingness to begin negotiations with the United States.

But experts have expressed caution at the sincerity of the North Korean claims. The country’s efforts to develop nuclear missiles capable of reaching the U.S. stretch back decades to the fall of World War II, and some say Pyongyang may be trying to capitalize on decreased tensions between Kim and the rest of the world.

The North has been subject to increasingly harsh sanctions over the past several years, and the country may be trying to open the door to negotiations in an effort to minimize the effects on its economy.Samira Wiley in "The Handmaid's Tale" Season 1. Take Five/Hulu

Samira Wiley was fresh off her star turn as Poussey on “Orange Is the New Black” when she began captivating audiences as Moira, the fiery friend of Offred/June (Elisabeth Moss) on Hulu’s “The Handmaid’s Tale.” Wiley’s unrelenting performance earned her an Emmy nomination for best supporting actress in a drama series, which she ultimately lost to her co-star Ann Dowd, aka the indomitable Aunt Lydia.

That loss, she said, has only heightened the stakes for her “Handmaid’s” return. “Every single day we’re in here cracking at Season 2 and trying to make sure it’s as amazing if not more amazing than last season,” the actress told HuffPost.

Wiley is set to return to our screens in April. Following a newsworthy first season, she said everyone from the writers to the cast and crew feel the pressure to deliver better-than-ever work, especially as the show’s plotlines move past those in Margaret Atwood’s original dystopian books. They’ll be new twists, new turns, new places to explore in and around Gilead ― particularly for Moira.

In the Season 1 finale, Moira escaped Gilead and crossed the border into Canada, where she was greeted by Luke (O.T. Fagbenle), June’s husband. Audiences were left to wonder whether the two would combine forces in an effort to save June, who’d recently discovered she’s pregnant with a child that’s not Luke’s. But just as the season was about to end, our protagonist was escorted out of a home she’d been imprisoned in and into a black van, leaving everyone’s fate open-ended.

Below, Wiley shares some details on the plots that we might expect from Season 2 and what the show means in the Me Too era. She also clarifies some of her previous comments on the series’ handling of race ― though it seems like we’ll have to wait for an interview with showrunner Bruce Miller to hear exactly how the show is or isn’t adjusting to past criticism.

Samira Wiley in "The Handmaid's Tale" Episode 101. Take Five/Hulu

You were just in Australia for the LGBTI Awards and Mardi Gras, I heard.

I was. I just landed in Toronto last night. Back in America!

I’m sure that time difference is playing with your mind…

I said back in America, I’m not even in America! I’m in Canada! [Laughs]

Same thing, right? [Laughs] So you’re heading to PaleyFest with your “Handmaid’s Tale” cast. Are you looking forward to discussing Season 2 and releasing it into the world after all the Season 1 hype?

Oh, absolutely. Especially when it’s something we’ve been immersed in since September. It’s been our whole lives. Every single day we’re in here cracking at Season 2 and trying to make sure it’s as amazing if not more amazing than last season; and not being able to talk about it is a little … I can’t wait to be able to open up to people about it because I think it’s going to be great.

How much pressure did the cast and creators feel ahead of Season 2, following the success — awards, praise — of the first season?

Of course, we have collective feelings about wanting to make sure Season 2 is amazing, but I think that we all have our own personal goals. I’m sure for Elisabeth [Moss] — I mean, I don’t know how she could top last season but she is amazing, so we’ll see. For my own journey, I had an individual Emmy nomination as well and that was the most amazing thing that has happened to me in my career, so [I feel the need] to keep my eye on the quality of the work. There is added pressure for myself in terms of wanting to get it right, whatever that means.

Coming from your role as Poussey in “Orange Is the New Black,” finding a part like Moira must mean a lot to you. Playing these strong female characters and then to get recognized for it ― is it nice?

It’s really a dream. I feel super lucky especially when it comes to me getting much more comfortable in terms of who I am in the LGBT community. I think visibility is of the utmost importance and to know I’ve somehow been “picked” to be a voice, I feel like it’s a real responsibility that I have and I want to be able to portray these characters in a way that is inspiring to young women. I don’t know how I’ve sort of fallen into these two characters that have been so impactful; but I feel humbled by it, and I just want to continue to inspire people with our craft.

"The Handmaid's Tale" Season 2. Take Five/Hulu

You mentioned responsibility. Playing someone like Moira in the second season, whose story arc is changing, can you talk about getting into the mindset of bringing this character to life again?

Moira is having a different journey this season. She’s escaped to Canada and her life is completely different now. But I think that there are so many different sides to us as women, we’re so complex, and to be able to show this strong woman’s journey now that her life has changed — we see her as a fighter; someone who is determined beyond all end to escape Gilead. And now, where do we go once she has? In Toronto, Canada, where she’s escaped, we’ll see not only the strong Moira that we’ve become so used to but also a person who is trying to acclimate to this new world. She goes through different struggles in Canada, and I think it’s very important and interesting to explore all of those sides of this woman.

It can’t be easy for her to make it to safety, but look back on what she’s been through in Gilead and what she knows her friend, June, is facing. Is that a mental game for her moving forward?

Yeah, it is. In theory, it sounds great — you escape Gilead; you’re super free; you’re at the refugee center; you get money and heath insurance and a car and everything is great. But, you know, she’s there with no one. She ends up finding Luke, but that’s the only person she has. June is the best friend in her life, and she’s not around; her partner is not around. And it’s sounds great, but it can also be very depressing and very hard on a person. She’s just trying to figure that out.

June is pregnant, but things are not looking great for her after Season 1. What will Moira and Luke do, if anything, to rescue her?

I wonder how many things I can say about June … it’s a real mystery where she’s going, where she’s going to end up. But I can talk about Luke and Moira — of course their minds are on June. She’s their third — the three of them are really a family, and they really love Hannah. They think about her every single day and how to get her out of there, how to get to her. She’s their family, it’s all-consuming for their time together in Canada.

Now that the story has moved beyond the book, are we going to see more of the world outside of Gilead? Not only in Toronto but around the borders of the Republic?

Yes, this story does become a little more [about] outside of Gilead. We’ll see and hear different things and perspectives from different parts of the world. But even also within Gilead, we’ll see places we’ve never seen before. One thing that I can think of is what we talked about so much in Season 1, which is the Colonies where people who have been classified as “un-woman” are sent. These are women who are called gender traitors who are lesbians — of course you’re safe if you could have babies; even if you’re gay you could be a Handmaid — but this place is where women are sent to waste away and die. We’ve heard about the horrors of this place, but this is another place within Gilead that we’re actually going to be able to see this season, and it’s not pretty. Let’s just say that.

Will we meet new characters in these Colonies that will spark a new storyline?

Yes, we’ll be meeting characters that we have not met before this season.

"The Handmaid's Tale" Season 2. Take Five/Hulu

Do you feel the show will be received or read any differently now that the Me Too movement has happened?

Well, just like Season 1, where people talked about how relevant our show was and how timely it was in regards to the social climate and our presidential election and where we were at exactly that moment, my hope is that people will say the same thing with the second season when it comes to the Me Too movement; the Time’s Up movement; and women in general being victimized in a way that all of us as women know, and we’ve known for every day of our lives. [The show] is spreading awareness to the other half of our population. It’s important that the work I want to be involved in is relevant to the time that we’re living in. It makes me feel like the work I’m doing every day is important. This is exactly what I want to be involved in, and I would love that to be the same response for Season 2.

It must feel powerful to be on a TV show that is now constantly referenced in regards to politics and current social issues. But again, you think about the pressure that comes along with it.

Absolutely. I think it’s something that is not necessarily helpful to have at the forefront of your mind, the pressure of it, because it’s not the way we worked the first season. I think the way we worked was diligently trying to just get the story right, make Margaret [Atwood] and the many fans of the book happy. We just tried to be true to what the heart of the story was, and now with Season 2, we need to be able to veer away from the book and make our own story. There’s a little added pressure there, you know? Because people are wondering, “So what comes next?” But I do think that, for me, it’s important to try and not think about that pressure.

Having Margaret’s viewpoint and using these movements to inspire the script, did you find that the writers were referencing Me Too and the social politics of today for Season 2?

I think with everything, I’m so surprised and in awe of the writers on our show. It just seems that they are so in tune with exactly what is happening right now in our country, in our world. Every time I read a script, it feels like I’m watching a new episode for the audience: I feel it in my gut. It feels so close and so relevant to what we’re living every day, what we’re seeing on the news, the stories we’re hearing from our colleagues and people we meet. I really am in awe of how they can do that, and it feels so good to be able to portray that and work collaboratively with them to make something cohesive.

You previously said you are proud of the way the show addresses race because it focuses more so on women in general, no matter the color of their skin, ethnicity or sexual orientation. Can you talk about that a little leading into Season 2 ― since new potential storylines could magnify that.

Thank you so much for bringing up what I said last year, because after our first season, I’m definitely not blind and deaf to everything that people have been saying about race as it pertains to our show. You hear people say things like, “It feels post-racial,” or “It’s ignoring the fact that black people are in this world.” But, thats important for conversation. Sometimes, for me, being in something, it’s hard to step completely outside of it and look at it objectively. I’m Moira in this moment. I’m trying to make sense of this character and make every moment work. But I do definitely think those things are worth talking about and worth acknowledging.

With the addition of the Colonies and new storylines within and around Gilead, will the show use the opportunity to expand on this discussion?

I’m not really equipped to answer this question. The part that I have in the show is very … yeah, I don’t think I’m equipped to answer this, sorry. [Hulu clarified that Wiley was eager to answer, but that she felt it best to let creator Bruce Miller be the first to address the topic.]

Do you see the show moving even past a Season 2?

I definitely think so. Like I said, I’m always in awe of the writers and thinking, “How can they follow this up?” Then, it’s right in front of me and I’m like, “Oh my God, how did they do this?” I think that, in having conversations with them as well, they definitely have plans to have more seasons.Compared to their heterosexual peers, LGBTQ youth are more likely to have poor diet and exercise habits, abuse drugs and alcohol, experience bullying and dating violence, engage in risky sexual behaviors and attempt suicide, researchers said. Rawpixel via Getty Images

(Reuters Health) - A growing number of U.S. schools are offering safe spaces for ’tweens and adolescents who identify as lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender or questioning (LGBTQ) and prohibiting harassment based on sexual orientation or gender identity, a U.S. study suggests.

About 62 percent of middle schools and high schools had a counselor’s office, designated classroom or student organization where LGBTQ youth could get support from administrators, teachers or other school staff in 2014, up from 51 percent in 2010, the study found.

And just over 90 percent of schools had anti-harassment policies by 2014, up from 88 percent in 2010.

“For LGBTQ students to thrive in their schools and communities, they need to feel socially, emotionally and physically safe and supported,” said lead study author Zewditu Demissie, a researcher in the Division of Adolescent and School Health at the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention in Atlanta.

“Evidence suggests that school-based practices, such as identification of ‘safe spaces’ have the potential to prevent victimization and related health consequences among LGBTQ youth,” Demissie said by email.

Compared to their heterosexual peers, LGBTQ youth are more likely to have poor diet and exercise habits, abuse drugs and alcohol, experience bullying and dating violence, engage in risky sexual behaviors and attempt suicide, researchers note in the American Journal of Public Health.

LGBTQ teens often do better in school and have a lower risk of substance abuse or suicide when school policies offer them lots of support with anti-harassment policies, safe spaces and student groups like gay-straight alliances, the study authors write.

To examine trends in school policies that support LGBTQ ’tweens and teens, researchers looked at data from questionnaires completed by principals and teachers nationwide in 2008, 2010, 2012 and 2014.

In addition to safe spaces and anti-harassment policies, researchers also looked at whether schools offered professional development to help teachers and staff understand the needs of LGBTQ youth; helped these students access health providers experienced in treating LGBTQ youth; offered social or psychological services at school or referred students to outside providers; and provided health education relevant to LGBTQ youth.

On most of these other measures, schools came up short.

By the end of the study, less than half of schools offered social or psychological services on campus or referred students to outside providers, for example.

At that point, only about 29 percent of schools had a gay-straight alliance, and just 24 percent provided sexual education materials that were relevant to LGBTQ youth.

One limitation of the study is that researchers lacked data to examine middle schools and high schools separately, and it’s possible that older students might have received different levels of support than younger students. Another drawback is that some states without enough data were excluded from the analysis.

It’s also unclear how often or how stringently policies protecting LGBTQ youth are enforced, said Kimberly McManama O’Brien, a researcher at Boston Children’s Hospital and Harvard Medical School who wasn’t involved in the study.

“I worry that some schools may feel that by making a statement barring harassment their job is done,” McManama O’Brien said by email. “But without the training of teachers and staff or offering access to healthcare providers or other types of supports, this prohibition alone may not be enough.”

Parents can advocate for schools to implement these policies, and they can also discuss with their kids things that might come up in school related to their sexual orientation or gender identity to help children get support outside school when they need it, said Hongying Dai, a researcher at Children’s Mercy Hospital and the University of Missouri-Kansas City.

“LGBTQ youths have disproportionately higher risk in physical and mental health than their straight peers,” Dai, who wasn’t involved in the study, said by email. “A school environment that provides more support for LGBTQ youths could potentially reduce the stress due to social stigma, discrimination and marginalization.”A Florida sheriff’s deputy who resigned for staying outside Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School during last month’s mass shooting also warned other officers to stay away, according to newly released police radio recordings.

“Do not approach the 12 or 1300 building, Stay at least 500 feet away at this point,” ex-Deputy Scot Peterson says on police radio minutes after the shooting had stopped and students and staff lay dying.

The Feb. 14 massacre killed 17 people and wounded more than a dozen. Peterson, an armed school resource officer hired to protect students on the Parkland, Florida, campus, was forced to resign after it was discovered he did not engage the shooter. The police radio recordings, along with a timeline of events released Thursday by the Broward County Sheriff’s Office, suggest Peterson may have hampered the ability of other officers to help victims.

Peterson can be heard on the recordings giving commands as he waits outside the school and the first officers arrive.

“Get the school locked down, gentlemen!” he shouts.

Deputy Scot Peterson told other officers not to enter the building as a gunman was shooting students. Twitter

Peterson says several times that he heard gunfire coming from the “1200 building” on the campus, but never entered. The county sheriff has said protocol is for deputies to engage an active shooter.

“Do not approach the 12 or 1300 building, stay at least 500 feet away,” Peterson says over the radio at a point several minutes after the active shooting had stopped and the suspect was no longer in the 1200 building, according to the timeline.

Jeff Bell, president of police union representing Broward deputies, told the Miami Herald he welcomed the release of the new records.Actor Colin Firth’s wife, Livia Giuggioli, an Italian movie producer and director, has confirmed she had an affair with the man she’s now accusing of stalking her and her husband.

The Firths, who’ve been together for over two decades, apparently separated for a short while a couple years back. During this time, Giuggioli began an affair with lifelong friend and journalist Marco Brancaccia, who has launched a “frightening campaign of harassment” against the pair, who have since gotten back together, the couple’s representative said Friday.

“For obvious reasons, the Firths have never had any desire to make this matter public. A few years ago Colin and Livia privately made the decision to separate. During that time Livia briefly became involved with former friend Mr. Brancaccia. The Firths have since reunited,” a representative for the actor told HuffPost Friday in a statement.

The statement comes after reports about the allegations were made public due to leaked court documents, which possibly stem from the indictment against Brancaccia made by Italian prosecutors after the Firths lodged a harassment complaint.

“Subsequently, Mr. Brancaccia carried out a frightening campaign of harassment over several months, much of which is documented,” the statement continued. “As a consequence of his stalking, threats and refusal to desist, the legal complaint was lodged with the Italian authorities.”

The couple is based in London, but the Firths also have a home in Umbria, Italy.

Brancaccia, who works for the ANSA news agency, is now the subject of an Italian police investigation. He has denied the allegations and accused Giuggioli of fabricating the stalking claims to cover up the affair, which he says occurred between 2015 and 2016.

“We were romantically involved, she wanted to leave Colin for me,” he said in a statement to The Times published Friday morning. He added that the couple’s marriage had “been over for years.”

Brancaccia went on to claim that he only sent two WhatsApp messages to Giuggioli, as well as an email detailing the affair to Firth, who he describes as “understanding.”

“In a year she sent me hundreds of messages of love, photos and videos, even a diary,” he added.

Firth and Giuggioli share two children together Luca, 16 and Matteo, 15. The Oscar-winner also has another son, from a previous relationship to actress Meg Tilly.Less than a year after legalizing marriage equality, Bermuda passed a law last month to ban same-sex marriage once again.

Same-sex couples have until the end of May to wed there before the new measure goes into effect. The self-governing British territory became the first to reverse its stance on the issue, according to GLAAD, as countries increasingly move to legalize marriage between people of any gender.

Now, a pack of celebrities, including Ellen DeGeneres, Tegan and Sara and Patricia Arquette, are calling to boycott the vacation hot spot ― at least until its residents make equality the law of the tiny land.

“I guess I’m canceling my trip,” DeGeneres tweeted Thursday evening. “Anyone else?”

Bermuda just banned marriage equality. I guess I’m canceling my trip. Anybody else? https://t.co/c5bwUbyjZt pic.twitter.com/VpT5QQAFsq — Ellen DeGeneres (@TheEllenShow) March 7, 2018

Actor Bradley Whitford called for a boycott last month, shortly after the news broke.

Later in February, Arquette also called on followers to boycott Bermuda.

On Wednesday, pop duo Tegan and Sara sent a tweet saying they were “thinking of our friends in the LGBTQ community in Bermuda,” and encouraged followers to support efforts to overturn the policy.

Thinking of our friends in the LGBTQ community in Bermuda. "Bermuda is the first country in the world to remove the right to marry for gay and lesbian couples." Learn more here and consider supporting the fight for justice and equality. https://t.co/LR2zNJSVzB https://t.co/gUgk7lOSad — Tegan and Sara (@teganandsara) March 8, 2018

Bermuda’s Supreme Court ruled in May 2017 that a registrar’s decision to deny a marriage license to a same-sex couple was discriminatory, legalizing marriage equality in the socially conservative Atlantic territory.

Legislators responded by creating the Domestic Partnership Act, which allows same-sex couples to form domestic partnerships, not marriages, and claims to offer such partnerships equal rights. Same-sex couples who are already married in Bermuda can remain married.

Critics say the law contradicts Bermuda’s constitution, which protects against discrimination.

Some worry the law will create problems for Bermuda’s $431 million tourism industry. Cruise lines registered in Bermuda ― including Carnival’s Cunard, P&O Cruises and some Princess cruises ― will not be able to host same-sex marriages regardless of where the ships travel, CNBC reported.

The LGBTQ segment of the global tourism industry is significant and growing, according to a 2017 report by the World Tourism Organization, which states that locations supportive of LGBTQ rights are (unsurprisingly) appealing to LGBTQ travelers.

GLAAD has called on tourism businesses to speak out against Bermuda’s reversal on marriage equality.

“These brands and their business leaders should demonstrate true leadership and stand for those customers they’ve courted by helping to combat this harmful decision,” GLAAD President and CEO Sarah Kate Ellis said in a statement.WASHINGTON ― Republicans failed to come up with the votes Friday to pass a major piece of their domestic policy agenda, with a farm bill rewrite dramatically going down on the House floor after a number of conservatives made a last-minute decision to oppose the legislation.

The bill, which fell short 198-213 with 30 Republicans voting no and no Democrats voting yes, had shaky support all week, but it had looked like it could get just enough votes Friday morning after House Freedom Caucus leaders appeared to be close to a deal on immigration with GOP leaders and moderates.

By the time the vote was called, however, conservative leaders in the Freedom Caucus said not enough progress had been made on the compromise, and a key number of them joined about a dozen moderate Republicans to sink the bill. (House Speaker Paul Ryan (R-Wis.) also ended up voting against the bill for procedural purposes of bringing the bill back up.)

The Freedom Caucus had withheld its support of the farm bill all week as a point of leverage over immigration, as Republicans sign a discharge petition for a vote on a slate of immigration proposals with the intention of passing a proposal that almost all Democrats would support.

Conservatives initially believed they could stymie the discharge petition ― which is used to bring a piece of legislation to the floor when leaders refuse to give a vote to a bill with majority support ― by holding a vote on part of the legislative vehicle for the petition itself. But it became clear later in the week that their plan wouldn’t actually stop the petition.

So the Freedom Caucus shifted its focus toward working out an agreement on an actual immigration bill that could pass muster with GOP moderates and conservatives.

Republican leaders tried to work out that deal with the Freedom Caucus, and conservatives said Friday morning that they felt there’d been significant progress. Minutes before the final vote was called, as the House voted on amendments to the farm bill, leaders were still negotiating with the Freedom Caucus to try and find some agreement on immigration that would push the farm bill over the top.

But that deal never quite materialized, and just before the final vote came, leaders decided their best chance of passing the bill was to abandon talking with the Freedom Caucus and work individual members to try and pressure them to flip.

Ultimately, leaders didn’t get close enough, and the bill fell short by a number of votes. (Leadership would have had to flip eight Republicans to pass the bill.)

Leaders can still pick up the bill next week. And under House rules, a motion to reconsider the bill would have to be brought up within two legislative days, though Republicans could always bring up the bill under a separate rule at any time. This likely isn’t the end for this farm bill.

But Friday’s failure is an embarrassing defeat for Republican leaders, and it leaves immigration negotiations in a strange place. Republicans who wanted the farm bill may now be less inclined to support a hard-line immigration bill, and more inclined to sign on to the discharge petition. And Freedom Caucus members have now taken a firm line that they won’t support the farm bill for vague immigration promises.

Conservatives were lukewarm to the farm bill as it stood. The bill includes significant amounts of farm subsidies for rural businesses and reauthorizes the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program to get buy-in from more urban lawmakers. Democrats and moderate Republicans opposed the bill on the grounds that the SNAP cuts it included were too drastic.

The bill would require a greater number of adults receiving SNAP benefits to work at least 20 hours per week or enroll in training. The stricter requirement would therefore reduce food stamp enrollment ― which has already been on a steady decline ― by an additional 1.2 million over 10 years, according to the Congressional Budget Office.

Speaker of the House Paul Ryan (R-Wis.) holds his weekly press conference in the Capitol on May 17. Bill Clark via Getty Images

Echoing businesses in their districts, Ryan and other Republicans said denying benefits to some adults would make it easier for companies to hire ― which is another way of saying the bill would help keep wages down.

There’s no way to reduce welfare enrollment without being “harsh,” Rep. Glenn Grothman (R-Wis.) said during a committee session on Wednesday. Grothman supported even harsher SNAP reforms and added that some welfare recipients provide “a bad role model for their children.”

Rep. Alcee Hastings (D-Fla.) responded, “Some of the best mothers in the world are poor mothers and some of the worst mothers in the world are rich mothers.”

The bill directly targets poor parents. Under current law, adults 18-49 who don’t have minor children are subject to the work requirement, which is waived in many areas due to above-average unemployment. The legislation would make the waivers more difficult for states to obtain, and would broaden the requirement to people in their 50s and parents of minor children older than 6. The bill would also create a new training program in which SNAP recipients could enroll for a limited time in order to meet the requirement.

While the bill makes it more difficult for some people to obtain SNAP benefits, certain farmers and their relatives would become newly eligible for farm subsidies that can add up to $125,000 annually per person. One provision would exempt certain types of farm businesses from an income limit that disallows married households from obtaining subsidies if their annual income exceeds $1.8 million.

Republicans also defeated a bipartisan amendment that would have reformed the sugar program, which benefits sugar producers by guaranteeing a minimum price for the commodity. Sugar welfare is the most reviled agribusiness giveaway in the farm bill. Unlike other farm programs, it has well-financed opposition from food makers that use sugar as an ingredient.

But even this small effort to rein in farm subsidies was easily defeated on the House floor Thursday. Rep. Ted Yoho (R-Fla.) said the amendment would only “line the pockets of these multinational soda pop makers and candy makers.”

Nothing in the bill can become law unless it can also pass the Senate, where agriculture committee Chairman Pat Roberts (R-Kan.) has already said he won’t support anything that can’t win acceptance from at least some of his Democratic colleagues.President Donald Trump denounced Oakland Mayor Libby Schaaf on Thursday for tipping off immigrants about federal raids in her city, saying from the Oval Office that “what she did ... was a disgrace.”

But Schaaf shrugged off the president’s comment with a smile. “I am proud to live in a country where everyone can criticize elected officials,” she told a reporter in a video her office provided to HuffPost.

Much of the criticism of Schaaf’s decision to warn residents about raids has come from outside her community, she said Thursday.

“I’m so appreciative of the Oakland community ... the feelings of being supported, of being heard, of being stood up for, those have been really wonderful for me to hear,” she added.

After learning late last month that Immigration and Customs Enforcement was planning local raids, Schaaf warned residents to take precautions, saying it was her “duty and moral obligation” to warn her constituents. Oakland is a “city of law-abiding immigrants and families who deserve to live free from the constant threat of arrest and deportation,” Schaaf said.

“How dare you vilify members of our community by trying to frighten the American public into thinking that all undocumented residents are dangerous criminals?” - Oakland Mayor Libby Schaaf

Schaaf’s action catapulted her to national prominence and to the heart of an increasingly heated battle between the Trump administration and cities and states over undocumented immigrants.

Attorney General Jeff Sessions also attacked Schaaf on Wednesday. “How dare you needlessly endanger the lives of our law enforcement officers to promote a radical open-borders agenda?” he challenged her during a speech in Sacramento.

Schaaf responded: “How dare you vilify members of our community by trying to frighten the American public into thinking that all undocumented residents are dangerous criminals?”

Sessions claimed that ICE would have arrested some 800 undocumented immigrants had Schaaf not tipped off Oakland residents.

Trump said Thursday: “Where they had close to a thousand people ready to be gotten, ready to be taken off the streets. Many of them, they say 85 percent of them were criminals, had criminal records.” He did not provide the source of that figure or elaborate on the nature of the alleged crimes.

Sessions filed a lawsuit against California this week, challenging three laws that make it a so-called “sanctuary state” for undocumented immigrants. One of the laws blocks local police from sharing certain information about immigrants with federal authorities. Another bars employers from turning over workers’ records to federal authorities unless officials have court orders forcing them to do so.

California Gov. Jerry Brown (D) angrily slammed Sessions’ lawsuit as a “political stunt,” saying he sounded more like a “Fox News” host than a “law enforcement official.”

Brown said the administration was “initiating a reign of terror against California immigrants.”

The governor said the administration’s actions constitute “going to war against the state of California, the engine of the American economy.”

“It’s not wise, it’s not right and it will not stand,” Brown said.

The U.S. Conference of Mayors issued a strong statement against Sessions’ lawsuit on Wednesday.

“The United States Conference of Mayors today stands firmly united with mayors across the state of California,” the statement read. “The Attorney General’s decision to yet again threaten mayors and demonize our immigrant communities only strengthens our resolve to fight for what is just as we enforce the laws of our cities. It is unfortunate that the Attorney General continues to ignore both the Constitution and policing practices that have made our cities safer.”A pastor closely linked to Donald Trump said he’s against sex with adult film stars but isn’t holding the alleged affair with Stormy Daniels against the president.

“Evangelicals still believe in the commandment: Thou shalt not have sex with a porn star,” Robert Jeffress told Fox News on Thursday. “However, whether this president violated that commandment or not is totally irrelevant to our support of him.”

Jeffress, who is an evangelical adviser to the president, said Trump’s personal behavior isn’t an issue.

“Evangelicals knew they weren’t voting for an altar boy when they voted for Donald Trump,” he said. “We supported him because of his policies and his strong leadership.”

In fact, when it comes to those behaviors, he suggested there’s pretty much nothing Trump can do to alienate him as long as he delivers on those policies.

“I‘m his friend,” he said. “I will never walk away.”

Daniels was reportedly paid $130,000 just before the 2016 election to keep silent about an alleged 2006 affair with Trump. Now she is suing the president, claiming the agreement is invalid because he never signed it.

Representatives of Trump have denied the affair, as has Daniels via a written statement.

He is the head pastor of the First Baptist Dallas megachurch.

See the full discussion in the clip above.Tony Award winner Ruthie Ann Blumenstein, who goes by the stage name Ruthie Ann Miles, is out of intensive care and healing after being injured in a car crash that killed her 4-year-old daughter.

The pregnant Broadway star and her daughter, Abigail Blumenstein, were two of five pedestrians hit on a corner in the Park Slope neighborhood of Brooklyn, New York, on Monday when a car ran a red light and plowed into a crowd of people. Miles’ pregnancy appears to be unharmed.

A 46-year-old man and another woman, Lauren Lew, a friend of Miles, were also injured in the crash. Lew’s 1-year-old son, Joshua, was pronounced dead at the scene.

Ruthie Ann Miles and her daughter with Jake Gyllenhaal on Feb. 23, 2017. Miles and Gyllenhall starred together in "Sunday in the Park With George." Walter McBride/WireImage via Getty Images

The car’s driver, 44-year-old Dorothy Bruns, reportedly told police she has medical issues. She has not been charged.

A message posted to Miles’ Twitter account updated fans on her health status.

“By all accounts it is a miracle our second child is unharmed,” the statement read. “Please continue to pray for the Lew and the Blumenstein families as we process the unthinkable and lay our grief in the loving arms of Jesus.”

Miles took home the 2015 Tony for Best Featured Actress in a Musical for her performance in the revival of “The King & I.” The Broadway community tweeted messages of love and support for the longtime performer.Lisa Bonet said she never knew about any "specific actions" on the part of Bill Cosby. Danny Moloshok / Reuters

Actress Lisa Bonet has been tight-lipped in the wake of dozens of sexual assault allegations against Bill Cosby, who played her father on TV in “The Cosby Show” and “A Different World.”

That is, until now.

In a story for PorterEdit, Bonet said she had no prior knowledge of Cosby’s alleged behavior, but added that the comedian emitted some seriously negative vibes when she worked with him.

“There was just energy,” the actress said. “And that type of sinister, shadow energy cannot be concealed.”

When asked specifically if she “sensed darkness” from Cosby, Bonet said, “Always.”

Cosby, 80, and Bonet, 50, were rumored to have a bad professional relationship, and a 1986 interview Bonet did with David Letterman didn’t alleviate suspicions. When Letterman asked the then-19-year-old Bonet why she would want to leave the popular sitcom “The Cosby Show” for its spinoff, “A Different World,” the actress responded with: “They told me to?”

The cast of “The Cosby Show” for season 1: (clockwise from top left) Tempestt Bledsoe as Vanessa Huxtable, Malcolm-Jamal Warner as Theodore "Theo" Huxtable, Lisa Bonet as Denise Huxtable, Phylicia Rashad as Clair Hanks Huxtable, Keshia Knight Pulliam as Rudy Huxtable, (center) Bill Cosby as Dr. Heathcliff "Cliff" Huxtable. NBC via Getty Images

Bonet also sparked a media uproar when she starred in 1987’s “Angel Heart,” in which she had a controversial sex scene with Mickey Rourke. The part starkly clashed with the squeaky-clean image of Denise Huxtable, Bonet’s character on “The Cosby Show.”

Cosby told Ebony in 1987 that he and Bonet had “very, very strong conversations” and “Lisa knows that if I’m upset about something, like, say MAD, I don’t bite my tongue.”

Bonet was eventually fired from “The Cosby Show” for creative differences and did not appear in the finale.

When Net-a-Porter asked Bonet if the allegations against Cosby have tainted her memories of working on the show, her response offered a new degree of poignancy.Demi Lovato did not enjoy the 2016 Met Gala, and she’s blaming an unnamed celebrity for making the experience “terrible.”

“This one celebrity was a complete bitch and was miserable to be around. It was very cliquey,” Lovato told Billboard in an interview published Thursday. “I remember being so uncomfortable that I wanted to drink.”

The singer, who has struggled with addiction in the past, has been sober for nearly six years now.

She didn’t name anyone in particular for making her night so bad, but a photo she posted to Instagram at the time is raising eyebrows all over again.

Lovato and Nicki Minaj both attended the event as guests of designer Jeremy Scott of Moschino. Minaj didn’t tag Lovato when she posted a photo from the gala, even though she mentioned everyone else who was pictured. Lovato added fuel to the rumors by writing a pretty damning caption on her own pic from the night.

“This picture pretty much summed up my first and probably last met,” Lovato wrote, adding hashtags #sofuckingawkward #notforme and #whatsgood ― a reference to when Minaj called out Miley Cyrus at the VMA Awards in 2015. “I’m obviously laughing at the fact that 1. I look incredibly awkward and 2. That the shade being thrown in this picture actually gives me life.”

What’s good, Demi?

A post shared by Demi Lovato (@ddlovato) on May 3, 2016 at 5:29pm PDT

Lovato left the Met Gala and went straight to an Alcoholics Anonymous meeting at 10 p.m., she told Billboard.

“I changed my clothes, but I still had my diamonds on ― millions of dollars of diamonds on in an AA meeting,” she said. “And I related more to the homeless people in that meeting who struggled with the same struggles that I deal with than the people at the Met Gala ― fake and sucking the fashion industry’s dick.”

We’re not sure if Anna Wintour will extend another invitation to Lovato after these comments, but it sounds like the singer doesn’t want one anyway.From left, Russian President Vladimir Putin, presidential candidates Donald Trump and Hillary Clinton, CIA Director John Brennan, President Barack Obama and national security adviser Susan Rice. Photo illustration: Yahoo News photos: AP 7 Getty Images

This article was originally published on Yahoo News and Mother Jones.

This is the second of two excerpts adapted from Russian Roulette: The Inside Story of Putin’s War on America and the Election of Donald Trump (Twelve Books) by Michael Isikoff, Chief Investigative Correspondent for Yahoo News, and David Corn, Washington bureau chief of Mother Jones. It will be released on March 13.

CIA Director John Brennan was angry. On Aug. 4, 2016, he was on the phone with Alexander Bortnikov, head of Russia’s Federal Security Service (FSB), the intelligence agency that succeeded the KGB. The phone call was one of their regularly scheduled ones, the main subject once again the horrific civil war in Syria. By this point, however, Brennan had had it with the Russian spy chief. For the past few years, Brennan’s pleas for cooperation in defusing the Syrian crisis had gone nowhere. And after they finished discussing Syria — again with no progress — Brennan brought up two other issues not on the official agenda.

First, Brennan raised the problem of Russia’s harassment of U.S. diplomats — an especially pressing matter at Langley after an undercover CIA officer had been beaten outside the U.S. Embassy in Moscow two months earlier. The continuing mistreatment of U.S. diplomats, Brennan told Bortnikov, was “irresponsible, reckless, intolerable and needed to stop.” And, he pointedly noted, it was Bortnikov’s own FSB “that has been most responsible for this outrageous behavior.”

Then Brennan turned to an even more sensitive issue: Russia’s interference in the American election. Brennan was now aware that at least a year earlier Russian hackers had begun their cyberattack on the Democratic National Committee. We know you’re doing this, Brennan said to the Russian. He pointed out that Americans would be enraged to find out Moscow was seeking to subvert the election — and that such an operation could backfire. Brennan warned Bortnikov that if Russia continued this information warfare, there would be a price to pay. He did not specify the consequences.

Bortnikov, as Brennan expected, denied Russia was doing anything to influence the election. This was, he groused, Washington yet again scapegoating Moscow. Brennan repeated his warning. Once more Bortnikov claimed there was no Russian meddling. But, he added, he would inform Russian President Vladimir Putin of Brennan’s comments.

Yahoo News

This was the first of several warnings that the Obama administration would send to Moscow. But the question of how forcefully to respond would soon divide the White House staff, pitting the National Security Council’s top analysts for Russia and cyber issues against senior policymakers within the administration. It was a debate that would culminate that summer with a dramatic directive from Obama’s national security adviser to the NSC staffers developing aggressive proposals to strike back against the Russians: “Stand down.”

*****

At the end of July — not long after WikiLeaks had dumped over 20,000 stolen DNC emails before the Democratic convention — it had become obvious to Brennan that the Russians were mounting an aggressive and wide‑ranging effort to interfere in the election. He was also seeing intelligence about contacts and interactions between Russian officials and Americans involved in the Trump campaign. By now, several European intelligence services had reported to the CIA that Russian operatives were reaching out to people within Trump’s circle. And the Australian government had reported to U.S. officials that its top diplomat in the United Kingdom had months earlier been privately told by Trump campaign adviser George Papadopoulos that Russia had “dirt” on Hillary Clinton. By July 31, the FBI had formally opened a counterintelligence investigation into the Trump’s campaigns ties to Russians, with sub-inquiries targeting four individuals: Paul Manafort, the campaign chairman; Michael Flynn, the former Defense Intelligence Agency chief who had led the crowd at the Republican convention in chants of “Lock her up!”; Carter Page, a foreign policy adviser who had just given a speech in Moscow; and Papadopoulos.

Brennan spoke with FBI Director James Comey and Adm. Mike Rogers, the head of the NSA, and asked them to dispatch to the CIA their experts to establish a working group at Langley that would review the intelligence and figure out the full scope and nature of the Russian operation. Brennan was thinking about the lessons of the 9/11 attack. Al-Qaida had been able to pull off that operation partly because U.S. intelligence agencies — several of which had collected bits of intelligence regarding the plotters before the attack — had not shared the material within the intelligence community. Brennan wanted a process in which NSA, FBI and CIA experts could freely share with each other the information each agency had on the Russian operation — even the most secret information that tended not to be disseminated throughout the full intelligence community.

Brennan realized this was what he would later call “an exceptionally, exceptionally sensitive issue.” Here was an active counterintelligence case — already begun by the FBI — aiming at uncovering and stopping Russian covert activity in the middle of a U.S. presidential campaign. And it included digging into whether it involved Americans in contact with Russia.

*****

While Brennan wrangled the intelligence agencies into a turf­-crossing operation that could feed the White House information on the Russian maneuver, Obama convened a series of meetings to devise a plan for countering whatever the Russians were up to. The meetings followed the procedure known in the federal government as the “interagency process.” The protocol was for the deputy chiefs of the relevant government agencies to meet and hammer out options for the principals — that is, the heads of the agencies — and then the principals hold a separate (and sometimes parallel) chain of meetings to discuss and perhaps debate before presenting choices to the president.

Yahoo News

But for this topic, the protocol was not observed. Usually when the White House invited the deputies and principals to such meetings, they informed them of the subject at hand and provided “read­ahead” memos outlining what was on the agenda. This time, the agency officials just received instructions to show up at the White House at a certain time. No reason given. No memos supplied. “We were only told that a meeting was scheduled, and our principal or deputy was expected to attend,” recalled a senior administration official who participated in the sessions. (At the State Department, only a small number of officials were cleared to receive the most sensitive information on the Russian hack; this group included Secretary of State John Kerry; Tony Blinken, the deputy secretary of state; Dan Smith, head of the department’s intelligence bureau; and Jon Finer, Kerry’s chief of staff.)

For the usual interagency sessions, principals and deputies could bring staffers. Not this time. “There were no plus ones,” an attendee recalled. When the subject of a principals or deputies meeting was a national security matter, the gathering was often held in the Situation Room of the White House. The in‑house video feed of the Sit Room — without audio — would be available to national security officials at the White House and elsewhere, and these officials could at least see that a meeting was in progress and who was attending. For the meetings related to the Russian hack, Susan Rice, Obama’s national security adviser, ordered the video feed turned off. She did not want others in the national security establishment to know what was under way, fearing leaks from within the bureaucracy.

Rice would chair the principals’ meetings — which brought together Brennan; Comey; Kerry; Director of National Intelligence James Clapper; Defense Secretary Ash Carter; Homeland Security Secretary Jeh Johnson; Treasury Secretary Jack Lew; Attorney General Loretta Lynch; and Gen. Joseph Dunford, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff — with only a few other White House officials present, including White House chief of staff Denis McDonough; homeland security adviser Lisa Monaco, and Colin Kahl, Vice President Joe Biden’s national security adviser. (Kahl had to insist to Rice that he be allowed to attend so that Biden could be fully briefed.)

Rice’s No. 2, deputy national security adviser Avril Haines, oversaw the deputies’ sessions. White House officials who were absent from the meetings were not told what was being discussed. This even included other NSC staffers — some of whom bristled at being shut out. Often the intelligence material covered in these meetings was not placed in the President’s Daily Brief, the top-secret document presented to the president every morning. Too many people had access to the PDB. “The opsec on this” — the operational security — “was as tight as it could be,” one White House official later said.

*****

As the interagency process began, there was no question regarding the big picture being drawn up by the analysts and experts assembled by Brennan: Russian state-sponsored hackers were behind the cyberattacks and the release of swiped Democratic material by WikiLeaks, Guccifer 2.0 (an internet persona suspected of being a Russian front), and a website called DCLeaks.com. “They knew who the cutouts were,” one participant later said. “There was not a lot of doubt.” It was not immediately clear, however, how far and wide within the Russian government the effort ran. Was it coming from one or two Russian outfits operating on their own? Or was it being directed from the top and part of a larger project?

Yahoo News

The intelligence, at this stage, was also unclear on a central point: Moscow’s primary aim. Was it to sow discord to delegitimize the U.S. election? Prompting a political crisis in the United States was certainly in keeping with Putin’s overall goal of weakening Western governments. There was another obvious reason for the Russian assault: Putin despised Hillary Clinton, blaming her for the domestic protests that followed the 2011 Russian legislative elections marred by fraud. (At the time, as secretary of state, Clinton had questioned the legitimacy of the elections.) U.S. officials saw the Russian operation as designed at least to weaken Clinton during the election — not necessarily prevent her from winning. After all, the Russians were as susceptible as any political observers to the conventional wisdom that she was likely to beat Trump. If Clinton, after a chaotic election, staggered across the finish line, bruised and battered, she might well be a damaged president and less able to challenge Putin.

And there was a third possible reason: to help Trump. Did the Russians believe they could influence a national election in the United States and affect the results? At this stage, the intelligence community analysts and officials working on this issue considered this point not yet fully substantiated by the data they possessed. Given Trump’s business dealings with Russians over the years and his history of puzzling positive remarks about Putin, there seemed ample cause for Putin to desire Trump in the White House. The intelligence experts did believe this could be part of the mix for Moscow: Why not shoot for the moon and see if we can get Trump elected?

“All these potential motives were not mutually exclusive,” a top Obama aide later said.

Obama would be vacationing in Martha’s Vineyard until Aug. 21, and the deputies took his return as an informal deadline for preparing a list of options — sanctions, diplomatic responses, and cyber-counterattacks — that could be put in front of the principals and the president.

*****

As these deliberations were under way, more troubling intelligence got reported to the White House: Russian-linked hackers were probing the computers of state election systems, particularly voter registration databases. The first reports to the FBI came from Illinois. In late June, its voter database was targeted in a persistent cyberattack that lasted for weeks. The attackers were using foreign IP addresses, many of which were traced to a Dutch company owned by a heavily tattooed 26-year‑old Russian who lived in Siberia. The hackers were relentlessly pinging the Illinois database five times per second, 24 hours a day, and they succeeded in accessing data on up to 200,000 voters. Then there was a similar report from Arizona, where the user name and password of a county election official was stolen. The state was forced to shut down its voter registration system for a week. Then, in Florida, another attack.

Yahoo News

One NSC staffer regularly walked into the office of Michael Daniel, the White House director of cybersecurity, with disturbing updates. “Michael,” he would say, “five more states got popped.” Or four. Or three. At one point, Daniel took a deep breath and told him, “It’s starting to look like every single state has been targeted.”

“I don’t think anybody knew what to make of it,” Jeh Johnson later said. The states selected seemed to be random; his agency, the Department of Homeland Security, could see no logic to it. If the goal was simply to instigate confusion on Election Day, Johnson figured, whoever was doing this could simply call in a bomb threat. Other administration officials had a darker view, and believed that the Russians were deliberately plotting digital manipulations, perhaps with the goal of altering results.

Michael Daniel was worried. He believed the Russians’ ability to fiddle with the national vote count — and swing a national U.S. election to a desired candidate — seemed limited, if not impossible. “We have 3,000 jurisdictions,” Daniel subsequently explained. “You have to pick the county where the race was going to be tight and manipulate the results. That seemed beyond their reach. The Russians were not trying to flip votes. To have that level of precision was not feasible.”

But Daniel was focused on another parade of horribles: If hackers could penetrate a state election voter database, they might be able to delete every 10th name. Or flip two digits in a voter’s ID number, so when a voter showed up at the polls, his or her name would not match. The changes could be subtle, not easily discerned. But the potential for disorder on Election Day was immense. The Russians would only have to cause problems in a small number of locations — problems with registration files, vote counting, or other mechanisms — and faith in the overall tally could be questioned. Who knew what would happen then?

Daniel even fretted that the Russians might post online a video of a hacked voting machine. The video would not have to be real to stoke the paranoids of the world and cause a segment of the electorate to suspect — or conclude — that the results could not be trusted. He envisioned Moscow planning to create multiple disruptions on Election Day to call the final counts into question.

The Russian scans, probes and penetrations of state voting systems changed the top-secret conversations under way. Administration officials now feared the Russians were scheming to infiltrate voting systems to disrupt the election or affect tallies on Election Day. And the consensus among Obama’s top advisers was that potential Russian election tampering was far more dangerous. The Russian hack-and-dump campaign, they generally believed, was unlikely to make the difference in the outcome of the presidential election. (After all, could Trump really beat Clinton?) Yet messing with voting systems could raise questions about the integrity of the election and the results. That was, they thought, the more serious threat.

Yahoo News

Weeks earlier, Trump had started claiming that the only way he could lose the election would be if it were “rigged.” With one candidate and his supporters spreading this notion, it would not take many irregularities to spark a full‑scale crisis on Election Day.

Obama instructed Johnson to move immediately to shore up the defenses of state election systems. On Aug. 15, Johnson, while in the basement of his parents’ home in upstate New York, held a conference call with secretaries of state and other chief election officials of every state. Without mentioning the Russian cyber-intrusions into state systems, he told them there was a need to boost the security of the election infrastructure and offered the DHS’s assistance. He raised the possibility of designating election systems as “critical infrastructure” — just like dams and the electrical grid — meaning that a cyberattack could trigger a federal response.

Much to Johnson’s surprise, this move ran into resistance. Many of the state officials — especially from the red states — wanted little, if anything, to do with the DHS. Leading the charge was Brian Kemp, Georgia’s secretary of state, an ambitious, staunchly conservative Republican who feared the hidden hand of the Obama White House. “We don’t need the federal government to take over our voting,” he told Johnson.

Johnson tried to explain that DHS’s cybersecurity experts could help state systems search for vulnerabilities and protect against penetrations. He encouraged them to take basic cybersecurity steps, such as ensuring voting machines were not connected to the internet when voting was under way. And he kept explaining that any federal help would be voluntary for the states. “He must have used the word voluntary 15 times,” recalled a Homeland Security official who was on the call. “But there was a lot of skepticism that revolved around saying, ‘We don’t want Big Brother coming in and running our election process.’”

After the call, Johnson and his aides realized encouraging local officials to accept their help was going to be tough. They gave up on the idea of declaring these systems critical infrastructure and instead concluded they would have to keep urging state and local officials to accept their cybersecurity assistance.

Johnson’s interaction with local and state officials was a warning for the White House. If administration officials were going to enlist these election officials to thwart Russian interference in the voting, they would need GOP leaders in Congress to be part of the endeavor and, in a way, vouch for the federal government. Yet they had no idea how difficult that would be.

Yahoo News

*****

At the first principals’ meeting, Brennan had serious news for his colleagues: The most recent intelligence indicated that Putin had ordered or was overseeing the Russian cyber operations targeting the U.S. election. And the intelligence community — sometimes called the “IC” by denizens of that world — was certain that the Russian operation entailed more than spy services gathering information. It now viewed the Russian action as a full-scale active measure.

This intelligence was so sensitive it had not been put in the President’s Daily Brief. Brennan had told Obama personally about this, but he did not want the information circulating throughout the national security system.

The other principals were surprised to hear that Putin had a direct hand in the operation and that he would be so bold. It was one thing for Russian intelligence to see what it could get away with; it was quite another for these attacks to be part of a concerted effort from the top of the Kremlin hierarchy.

But a secret source in the Kremlin, who two years earlier had regularly provided information to an American official in the U.S. Embassy, had warned then that a massive operation targeting Western democracies was being planned by the Russian government. The development of the Gerasimov Doctrine — a strategy for nonmilitary combat named after a top Russian general who had described it in an obscure military journal in 2013 — was another indication that full-scale information warfare against the United States was a possibility. And there had been an intelligence report in May noting that a Russian military intelligence officer had bragged of a payback operation that would be Putin’s revenge on Clinton. But these few clues had not led to a consensus at senior government levels that a major Putin-led attack was on the way.

*****

At this point, Obama’s top national security officials were uncertain how to respond. As they would later explain it, any steps they might take — calling out the Russians, imposing sanctions, raising alarms about the penetrations of state systems — could draw greater attention to the issue and maybe even help cause the disorder the Kremlin sought. A high‑profile U.S. government reaction, they worried, could amplify the psychological effects of the Russian attack and help Moscow achieve its end. “There was a concern if we did too much to spin this up into an Obama‑Putin face‑off, it would help the Russians achieve their objectives,” a participant in the principals’ meeting later noted. “It would create chaos, help Trump and hurt Clinton. We had to figure out how to do this in a way so we wouldn’t create an own goal. We had a strong sense of the Hippocratic Oath: Do no harm.”

A parallel concern for them was how the Obama administration could respond to the Russian attack without appearing too partisan. Obama was actively campaigning for Clinton. Would a tough and vocal reaction be seen as a White House attempt to assist Clinton and stick it to Trump? They worried that if a White House effort to counter Russian meddling came across as a political maneuver, that could compromise the ability of the Department of Homeland Security to work with state and local election officials to make sure the voting system was sound. (Was Obama too worried about being perceived as prejudicial or conniving? “Perhaps there was some overcompensation,” a top Obama aide said later.)

Yahoo News

As Obama and his top policymakers saw it, they were stuck with several dilemmas. Inform the public about the Russian attack without triggering widespread unease about the election system. Be pro‑active without coming across as partisan and bolstering Trump’s claim the election was a sham. Prevent Putin from further cyber aggression without prompting him to do more. “This was one of the most complex and challenging issues I dealt with in government,” Avril Haines, the NSC’s No. 2 official, who oversaw the deputies meetings, later remarked.

The principals asked the Treasury Department to craft a list of far‑reaching economic sanctions. Officials at the State Department began working up diplomatic penalties. And the White House pushed the IC to develop more intelligence on the Russian operation so Obama and his aides could consider whether to publicly call out Moscow.

*****

At this point, a group of NSC officials committed to a forceful response to Moscow’s intervention started concocting creative options for cyberattacks that would expand the information war Putin had begun.

Michael Daniel and Celeste Wallander, the National Security Council’s top Russia analyst, were convinced the United States needed to strike back hard against the Russians and make it clear that Moscow had crossed a red line. Words alone wouldn’t do the trick; there had to be consequences. “I wanted to send a signal that we would not tolerate disruptions to our electoral process,” Daniel recalled. His basic argument: “The Russians are going to push as hard as they can until we start pushing back.”

Daniel and Wallander began drafting options for more aggressive responses beyond anything the Obama administration or the U.S. government had ever before contemplated in response to a cyberattack. One proposal was to unleash the NSA to mount a series of far-reaching cyberattacks: to dismantle the Guccifer 2.0 and DCLeaks websites that had been leaking the emails and memos stolen from Democratic targets, to bombard Russian news sites with a wave of automated traffic in a denial-of-service attack that would shut the news sites down, and to launch an attack on the Russian intelligence agencies themselves, seeking to disrupt their command and control nodes.

Yahoo News

Knowing that Putin was notoriously protective of any information about his family, Wallander suggested targeting Putin himself. She proposed leaking snippets of classified intelligence to reveal the secret bank accounts in Latvia held for Putin’s daughters — a direct poke at the Russian president that would be sure to infuriate him. Wallander also brainstormed ideas with Victoria Nuland, the assistant secretary of state for European affairs and a fellow hard-liner. They drafted proposals to dump dirt on Russian websites about Putin’s money, about the girlfriends of top Russian officials, about corruption in Putin’s United Russia party — essentially to give Putin a taste of his own medicine. “We wanted to raise the cost in a manner Putin recognized,” Nuland recalled.

One idea Daniel proposed was unusual: The United States and NATO should publicly announce a giant “cyber exercise” against a mythical Eurasian country, demonstrating that Western nations had it within their power to shut down Russia’s entire civil infrastructure and cripple its economy.

But Wallander and Daniel’s bosses at the White House were not on board. One day in late August, national security adviser Susan Rice called Daniel into her office and demanded he cease and desist from working on the cyber options he was developing. “Don’t get ahead of us,” she warned him. The White House was not prepared to endorse any of these ideas. Daniel and his team in the White House cyber response group were given strict orders: Stand down. She told Daniel to “knock it off,” he recalled.

Daniel walked back to his office. “That was one pissed-off national security adviser,” he told one of his aides.

At his morning staff meeting, Daniel matter of factly said to his team it had to stop work on options to counter the Russian attack: “We’ve been told to stand down.” Daniel Prieto, one of Daniel’s top deputies, recalled, “I was incredulous and in disbelief. It took me a moment to process. In my head I was like, Did I hear that correctly?” Then Prieto asked, “Why the hell are we standing down? Michael, can you help us understand? “Daniel informed them that the orders came from both Rice and Monaco. They were concerned that were the options to leak, it would force Obama to act. “They didn’t want to box the president in,” Prieto subsequently said.

Yahoo News

It was a critical moment that, as Prieto saw it, scuttled the chance for a forceful immediate response to the Russian hack — and keenly disappointed the NSC aides who had been developing the options. They were convinced that the president and his top aides didn’t get the stakes. “There was a disconnect between the urgency felt at the staff level” and the views of the president and his senior aides, Prieto later said. When senior officials argued that the issue could be revisited after Election Day, Daniel and his staff intensely disagreed. “No — the longer you wait, it diminishes your effectiveness. If you’re in a street fight, you have to hit back,” Prieto remarked.

*****

Obama and his top aides did view the challenge at hand differently than the NSC staffers. “The first-order objective directed by President Obama,” McDonough recalled, “was to protect the integrity of election.” Confronting Putin was necessary, Obama believed, but not if it risked blowing up the election. He wanted to make sure whatever action was taken would not lead to a political crisis at home — and with Trump the possibility for that was great. The nation had had more than 200 years of elections and peaceful transitions of power. Obama didn’t want that to end on his watch.

By now, the principals were into the nitty-gritty, discussing in the Sit Room the specifics of how to respond. They were not overly concerned about Moscow’s influence campaign to shape voter attitudes. The key question was precisely how to thwart further Russian meddling that could undermine the mechanics of the election. Strong sanctions? Other punishments?

The principals did discuss cyber responses. The prospect of hitting back with cyber caused trepidation within the deputies’ and principals’ meetings. The United States was telling Russia this sort of meddling was unacceptable. If Washington engaged in the same type of covert combat, some of the principals believed, Washington’s demand would mean nothing, and there could be an escalation in cyberwarfare. There were concerns that the U.S. would have more to lose in all-out cyberwar.

“If we got into a tit-for-tat on cyber with the Russians, it would not be to our advantage,” a participant later remarked. “They could do more to damage us in a cyberwar or have a greater impact.” In one of the meetings, Clapper said he was worried that Russia might respond with cyberattacks against America’s critical infrastructure — and possibly shut down the electrical grid.

The State Department had worked up its own traditional punishments: booting Russian diplomats — and spies — out of the United States, and shutting down Russian facilities on American soil. And Treasury had drafted a series of economic sanctions that included massive assaults on Putin’s economy, such as targeting Russia’s military industries and cutting off Russia from the global financial system. One proposal called for imposing the same sorts of sanctions as had been placed on Iran: Any entity that did business with Russian banks would not be allowed to do business with U.S. financial institutions. But the intelligence community warned that if the United States responded with a massive response of any kind, Putin would see it as an attempt at regime change. “This could lead to a nuclear escalation,” a top Obama aide later said, speaking metaphorically.

Yahoo News

After two weeks or so of deliberations, the White House put these options on hold. Instead, Obama and his aides came up with a different plan. First, DHS would keep trying to work with the state voting systems. For that to succeed, the administration needed buy‑in from congressional Republicans. So Obama approached Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell and House Speaker Paul Ryan to try to deliver a bipartisan and public message that the Russian threat to the election was serious and that local officials should collaborate with the feds to protect the electoral infrastructure.

Obama and the principals also decided that the U.S. government would have to issue a public statement calling out Russia for having already secretly messed with the 2016 campaign. But even this seemed a task fraught with potential problems. Obama and his top aides believed that if the president himself issued such a message, Trump and the Republicans would accuse him of exploiting intelligence — or making up intelligence — to help Clinton. The declaration would have to come from the intelligence community, which was then instructed to start crafting a statement. In the meantime, Obama would continue to say nothing publicly about the most serious information warfare attack ever launched against the United States.

Most of all, Obama and his aides had to figure out how to ensure the Russians ceased their meddling immediately. They came up with an answer that would frustrate the NSC hawks, who believed Obama and his senior advisers were tying themselves in knots and looking for reasons not to act. The president would privately warn Putin and vow overwhelming retaliation for any further intervention in the election. This, they thought, could more likely dissuade Putin than hitting back at this moment. That is, they believed the threat of action would be more effective than actually taking action.

A meeting of the G-20 was scheduled for the first week in September in China. Obama and Putin would both be attending. Obama, according to this plan, would confront Putin and issue a powerful threat that would supposedly convince Russia to back off. Obama would do so without spelling out for Putin the precise damage he would inflict on Russia. “An unspecified threat would be far more potent than Putin knowing what we would do,” one of the principals later said. “Let his imagination run wild. That would be far more effective, we thought, than freezing this or that person’s assets.” But the essence of the message would be that if Putin did not stop, the United States would impose sanctions to crater Russia’s economy.

Obama and his aides were confident the intelligence community could track any new Russian efforts to penetrate the election infrastructure. If the IC detected new attempts, Obama then could quickly slap Russia with sanctions or other retribution. But the principals agreed that for this plan to work, the president had to be ready to pull the trigger.

Yahoo News

*****

Obama threatened — but never did pull the trigger. In early September, during the G-20 summit in Hangzhou, China, the president privately confronted Putin in what a senior White House official described as a “candid” and “blunt” talk. The president informed his aides he had delivered the message he and his advisers had crafted: We know what you’re doing. If you don’t cut it out, we will impose onerous and unprecedented penalties. One senior U.S. government official briefed on the meeting was told the president said to Putin, in effect: “You f*** with us over the election and we’ll crash your economy.”

But Putin simply denied everything to Obama — and, as he had done before, blamed the U.S. for interfering in Russian politics. And if Obama was tough in private, publicly he played the statesman. Asked at a post-summit news conference about Russia’s hacking of the election, the president spoke in generalities — and insisted the United States did not want a blowup over the issue. “We’ve had problems with cyber-intrusions from Russia in the past, from other counties in the past,” he said. “Our goal is not to suddenly, in the cyber arena, duplicate a cycle escalation that we saw when it comes other arms races in the past, but rather to start instituting some norms so that everybody’s acting responsibility.”

White House officials believed for a while that Obama’s warning had some impact: They saw no further evidence of Russia cyber-intrusions into state election systems. But, as they would later acknowledge, they largely missed Russia’s information warfare campaign aimed at influencing the election — the inflammatory Facebook ads and Twitter bots created by an army of Russian trolls working for the Internet Research Agency in St. Petersburg.

On Oct. 7, the Obama administration finally went public, releasing a statement from the Office of the Director of National Intelligence and Department of Homeland Security that called out the Russians for their efforts to “interfere with the U.S. election process,” saying that “only Russia’s senior-most officials could have authorized these activities.” But for some in the Clinton campaign and within the White House itself, it was too little, too late. Wallander, the NSC Russia specialist who had pushed for a more aggressive response, thought the Oct. 7 statement was largely irrelevant. “The Russians don’t care what we say,” she later noted. “They care what we do.” (The same day the statement came out, WikiLeaks began its month-long posting of tens of thousands of emails Russian hackers had stolen from John Podesta, the CEO of the Clinton campaign.)