Everyone loves a nice, comfy chair ― and these dogs are no exception.

The Knox County Humane Society in Galesburg, Illinois, recently put out a call for used chairs.

“The shelter pets absolutely love their chairs!” the organization, a no-kill shelter, wrote on Facebook. “If anyone has any older chairs they no longer want, please think of the shelter pets!”

The public responded in a big way.

The shelter just released footage showing their furry pals kicking back and relaxing in their comfy chairs.

Knox County Humane Society

“They love their chairs,” Erin Buckmaster, the society’s volunteer executive director told the “Today” show. “It’s wonderful.”

The furniture isn’t just going to the dogs. The organization also posted a video showing some of their cats enjoying the donated chairs.

These chairs probably would’ve been sent out to the curb for trash collection, Buckmaster said, but now they’re getting a second life as comfy new resting spots for pets in need.

“We never dreamed it would take off like this,” Buckmaster said. “I really just wanted the dogs to feel more comfortable while staying at the shelter.”SB 7026 contains a number of gun-related reforms, including a three-day wait period on gun sales, raising the age requirement for all firearms sales to 21, some regulation of bump stocks, and allocating $69 million to the state’s Department of Education for mental health programs.

Along with these measures, the bill would allow county sheriff’s offices to establish the Coach Aaron Feis Guardian Program, an initiative that would arm select school staff members. The program’s language specifically excludes most teachers, except in the case of Junior Reserve Officers’ Training Corps educators and teachers in the military or law enforcement.Yep, a "Black Panther" sequel will be coming, Marvel Studios says. Marvel Studios

Marvel Studios President Kevin Feige confirmed to Entertainment Weekly in an interview published Friday that ― SHOCK! ― a “Black Panther” sequel is certain.

When asked about his plans for a sequel, Feige said there was “nothing specific to reveal,” but that “we absolutely will do that.”

“Black Panther” completely destroyed at the box office, earning over $500 million domestically so far, which puts it in the top 10 of highest grossing films of all time. Worldwide, the film inches ever closer to the $1 billion mark. At the moment, “Black Panther” sits at $940 million in global ticket sales.

Obviously, there are very few details on the next film, but Feige said they have “a pretty solid direction on where we want to head with the second one.”The National Rifle Association filed a lawsuit in federal court on Friday to block a new gun law in Florida just over an hour after it was signed by Republican Gov. Rick Scott, who is an NRA member.

The Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School Public Safety Act — passed three weeks after a mass shooting at the school killed 17 people — raises the minimum legal age for buying any guns in Florida from 18 to 21 and would allow some teachers and other staff in the Florida school system to be armed after training. SB 7026 also prohibits gun ownership by people mental health problems and expands the three-day waiting period that had applied only to handguns to now include long gun purchases.

An NRA spokeswoman said the suit was filed “against the state for violating the constitutional rights” of gun buyers under the age of 21, the Tallahassee Democrat reported.

“This blanket ban violates the fundamental rights of thousands of responsible, law-abiding Florida citizens and is thus invalid under the Second and Fourteenth Amendments,” the lawsuit states. “At 18 years of age, law-abiding citizens in this country are considered adults for almost all purposes and certainly for the purposes of the exercise of fundamental constitutional rights.”

The suit, filed in the Northern District of Florida, names Florida Attorney General Pam Bondi and Rick Swearingen, the commissioner of the Florida Department of Law Enforcement.

Earlier Friday, Scott hailed the “historic legislation” that would help ensure that “every student in Florida has the right to learn in a safe environment.” He was flanked by family members of the Parkland, Florida, shooting victims at the signing ceremony. Seventeen people were killed by a mass shooter at the Parkland high school on Feb. 14.

The new law also prohibits the sale and purchase of bump stocks, which boost the firing speed of semiautomatic weapons. The law’s controversial “guardian program” will allow some school employees and teachers to carry handguns with law enforcement training and if a school district agrees to participate in the program. While the NRA supports arming teachers, the Florida teachers union is opposed to the program.

The law also provides $67 million to develop the program for arming school personnel, as well as funds to make school buildings safer, hire additional school-based police officers and provide mental health services.A California GOP candidate for Congress is feeling the heat after posting a shocking video of herself accosting a person believed to identify as transgender inside a public restroom.

Jazmina Saavedra, a Republican challenger seeking to represent the 44th Congressional District, which includes part of Los Angeles County, posted the video to her Facebook page Tuesday. The roughly seven-minute clip shows Zaavedra entering a women’s restroom at a Denny’s restaurant in Los Angeles and arguing with a customer using a toilet stall.

“That guy is violating my right to use the ladies’ room here, and he’s saying he’s a lady,” Saavedra says in the clip, which can be viewed below. “Stupid guy.”

With her camera still rolling, Saavedra positions herself outside the restroom and waits for the customer to exit.

“You invaded my privacy,” she tells the customer, who makes a beeline for the restaurant’s exit. “Next time, use the men’s room! Or nobody’s room! A transgender room!”

According to her campaign website, Saavedra is a conservative who “believes in America first” and “supports President Donald Trump’s agenda for the benefit of making both a greater America and a safer America.”

Rep. Nanette Diaz Barragán, the Democratic incumbent whom Saavedra is challenging, said Friday on Twitter that she was “appalled” by the video.

I was appalled by the treatment that this woman received for simply trying to use the restroom. Everyone has the right to their own identity, and the right not to be discriminated against for who they are. https://t.co/9IincnpFWy — Nanette Barragán (@Nanette4CA) May 18, 2018

But in an interview with ABC 7, Saavedra didn’t back down. “You cannot put together a man and a woman in the same bathroom,” she told the news station Friday. “No way.”

“This is not about gender. This is not about being gay or something,” she continued. “This is about [when] I hear a voice of a man in the ladies’ room. This is all about that.”

Denny’s said it was “extremely disturbed” by the video and believes “transgender guests and team members should be allowed to use the bathroom of the gender they identity with.”The Trump administration’s push to resurrect abstinence-only sex education for teens prompted skepticism from Jimmy Kimmel on his late-night show Thursday.

The host said the campaign seemed hypocritical, given President Donald Trump’s alleged affair with porn actress Stormy Daniels and the legal wrangling to keep her from dishing the dirt.Former President Barack Obama and his wife, Michelle, are reportedly talking to Netflix about making a series of shows for the streaming network, The New York Times reported Thursday night.

The deal, which the Times said is not yet finalized but in advanced negotiations, would feature the former president and first lady in programs. The shows would focus on “inspirational stories” about issues important to them.

CNN, also citing unnamed sources Thursday, said the talks center on a “production partnership.”

The former president is no stranger to the streaming network. He appeared as a guest in the premiere episode of David Letterman’s Netflix show, “My Next Guest Needs No Introduction.” The streaming service also premiered a biopic on the former president in 2016, “Barry.”

Though the Obamas have highly anticipated memoirs on the horizon and are active through the Obama Foundation, the Netflix deal would be the highest-profile media partnership for them since leaving the White House last year.

When the former first couple negotiated together to sell the rights to their forthcoming memoirs, they broke records when they nabbed a publishing deal for both books worth more than $60 million. A portion of the book advances would go to charity, including to the Obama Foundation.Carlos Garcia Rawlins / Reuters

Teenagers don’t want armed teachers in their schools, according to a new SurveyMonkey poll, which outlines some of the ― often modest ― differences between teens and adults on issues about guns.

There’s been plenty of gun polling in the aftermath of last month’s Parkland, Florida, shooting, but most has looked only at opinions among adults. The results provide a new set of information on the generation coming of age amid seemingly-endless headlines about mass shootings.

More than a third of teenagers, but just 16 percent of adults, said they worried a lot about becoming the victim of a mass shooting. The majority of teens, but fewer than three in 10 adults, said they’d gone through an active-shooter drill.

Teens were 8 points likelier than adults to say that they’d prioritize federal action on gun policy, rather than mental health, to prevent future mass shootings. They were also notably more confident that the student rallies for stricter gun control might have an effect. Nearly 60 percent of the teens, compared to fewer than half of the adults polled, believed that the rallies would lead to a meaningful change in society.

A majority of both adults and teens said that having a gun in the house makes it more dangerous, that they dislike the NRA and that they believe armed guards, but not armed teachers, would contribute to school safety. But there were some differences in degree. Teens were 10 points likelier to say that having a gun in the house makes it more dangerous, and 7 points likelier to hold an unfavorable view of the NRA. And while 82 percent of adults in the poll said they believed armed guards would make schools safer and 42 percent that they thought arming teachers and school officials would protect schools, just 70 percent and 31 percent of teenagers, respectively, said the same.

On other questions, however, age proved to be less of a divide. Just over three-quarters of both teens and adults supported setting a national minimum age of 21 “to buy an AR-15 style rifle.” Just a third of 13-17 year olds, compared to 40 percent of adults, said they’d followed the shooting very closely ― and young Americans weren’t notably likelier than older ones to say they’d taken political action on guns in the past year.

The results come on the heels of other polling that found millennial-aged Americans more familiar than older adults with active shooter drills, and more apt to believe that Congress should take actions on shootings ― but not likelier to support stricter gun laws, or to name gun policy as among their top political priorities. The latest poll suggests that, although student activists have jumpstarted a national debate on guns, their peers’ views on the issue are on the whole only modestly different from the views held by older Americans. (Divides along political lines, by contrast, remain far starker.)

“Gun control simply does not divide generations all that much,” wrote political scientist John Sides.The “Star Wars” themed area at the Disneyland resort in Anaheim, California, is rapidly taking shape.

A new fly-through video released by the company shows all the progress made in the construction of the land, dubbed “Star Wars: Galaxy’s Edge.”

“At Star Wars: Galaxy’s Edge, guests will be transported to the planet of Batuu, a remote outpost on the galaxy’s edge that was once a busy crossroads along the old sub-lightspeed trade routes,” the company said in a news release.

The new land will feature a ride that “lets guests take the controls of Millennium Falcon on a customized secret mission” as well as another ride that “puts guests in the middle of a climactic battle between the First Order and the Resistance.”

It’s a safe bet that there will also be a few merchandising opportunities.

A second and largely identical version of “Star Wars: Galaxy’s Edge” is also under construction at Disney’s Hollywood Studios at Walt Disney World in Florida. A hotel themed to the franchise is also planned.

AdvertisementNORFOLK, Neb. ― Danielle Lammers, a 35-year-old administrative assistant, wife and mother, had a bump on the back of her lower thigh. It had been there for as long as she could remember, but in July of last year it started to hurt while the family was on vacation at a lakeside cabin in Missouri. Her family doctor referred her to a surgeon who could remove it, though she soon learned she was pregnant and had to put off the procedure until she was in her second trimester.

Both the doctor and the surgeon seemed confident the growth was benign. It wasn’t. A biopsy showed that Danielle had clear-cell sarcoma, a rare, potentially lethal cancer that typically affects people aged 20 to 40. Suddenly, Danielle needed another, more invasive operation. And she had to get it at an academic medical center in Omaha two hours away, because the doctors closer to her home in Norfolk, a farming and manufacturing city of about 25,000 residents, had never seen it before.

The surgery was a success. Danielle knew she would need regular screenings for several years to make sure the cancer doesn’t return, but she was mostly able to turn her thoughts to getting ready for another baby in the house.

Then came the financial shock: about $50,000 in medical bills.

She and her husband, Tracy, had assumed the bills would be not be a problem. They are members of Medi-Share, one of a handful of nonprofit Christian “sharing ministries” whose popularity has exploded in the last few years. Like the other ministries, Medi-Share, based in Florida, promotes itself as an affordable, spiritually oriented way to pay for health care. The Lammers had joined about a year and a half earlier, after Danielle lost her job at a large firm in a round of layoffs and took a position at a small business that doesn’t provide benefits. Tracy, who is 44 and manages a trailer repair shop, also can’t get coverage through work.

“You’re not only getting taken care of by a medical doctor, you’re also getting taken care of spiritually, through the power of prayer.” - Man in a television advertisement for Medi-Share

The Lammers understood they were not buying a traditional insurance product. The company literature made clear the couple was ultimately responsible for their own bills, and that Medi-Share had limits and offered no guarantees of payment. Still, after listening to their friends in Medi-Share talk about their experiences ― and after speaking with the company’s representatives ― the Lammers came to believe Medi-Share would take care of their expenses just as well as the company plan they had from Danielle’s old employer.

But Medi-Share doesn’t operate in the way that an employer plan would. After reviewing her records, it determined the tumor was actually a pre-existing condition ― because, Medi-Share explained in a letter, Danielle had mentioned the bump to her family doctor once before, roughly three years earlier. That made it ineligible for treatment under the ministry’s guidelines.

The Lammers were dumbfounded. During the conversation when Danielle had mentioned the bump, it was not causing her discomfort, and the doctor had said not to worry about it. “I wasn’t medicating it, I wasn’t treating it,” Danielle said in January, when she first told her story to HuffPost. “It’s not like every bump becomes cancer.”

Tracy called Medi-Share’s customer service: “I just kept saying, ‘How were we supposed to know? How is anybody supposed to know?’” After a while, he raised his voice enough that Danielle heard him from another part of the house. “It is a Christian place, so you feel guilty even getting mouthy with them,” Danielle said. “But he kinda had to.”

Tracy said it would be more accurate to say he had gotten “nicely angry” ― although, he allowed, he might have cursed once or twice.

Eventually a manager got on the line and suggested the Lammers take advantage of an option the rejection letter had mentioned: filing a formal appeal using Medi-Share’s internal review process. They did, faxing a letter from their family doctor confirming their recollections about the medical history. Two weeks ago, the Lammers learned that Medi-Share was reversing its decision. It had approved payment for a balance that had, by that point, reached nearly $75,000.

“Tracy and I are beyond grateful that Medi-Share has taken the time to listen to our side of the story and re-examine our bills and our situation,” Danielle said last week, after learning about the decision. “The stress of having to figure out how to pay all of these bills out-of-pocket was devastating.”

Although Medi-Share said it could not comment on specifics of the Lammers’ situation because of confidentiality rules, a spokesperson described its internal review procedure as “far more personal and generous than many of the standard appeal processes in the healthcare industry.”

Still, the fact that payment was even an issue says a lot about the coverage that sharing ministries provide their members. Pre-existing conditions aren’t supposed to matter anymore, under the Affordable Care Act. But they matter for people who enroll in ministries and other alternatives to traditional insurance. More and more Americans are doing just that.

Why Sharing Ministries Are Suddenly So Popular

Stories like Danielle’s were relatively common before the 2010 health care law took effect. Insurance companies selling to individuals rather than through employers routinely scoured medical records for signs that new claims were actually the result of pre-existing conditions that beneficiaries had not disclosed.

Sometimes insurers would refuse to pay for claims or even cancel coverage outright, even if there was scant evidence anybody had covered up an illness. Indignation over the practice reinforced calls for reform, and helped make the enactment of “Obamacare” and its protections for people with serious medical conditions possible.

Today, people who buy coverage through HealthCare.gov, a state-run analogue like Covered California, or directly from insurers no longer have to worry that prospective insurers will treat them differently or deny them coverage because they have diabetes or cancer. They also know the policies they buy will cover a set of 10 “essential” benefits, including mental health, maternity care, and prescription drugs, paying for pretty much anything that might be associated with a major illness or injury.

These protections are wildly popular and help explain why Republican efforts to repeal the law outright have repeatedly failed. But the new requirements have also made insurance more expensive, as insurers pay claims they might have avoided before. Although the ACA also created federal tax credits to cut the cost of premiums, the credits are smaller for people at higher incomes and cut off altogether for people with incomes above four times the poverty line (roughly $100,000 for a family of four).

That has created demand for cheaper alternatives, especially for people who don’t get much or any financial assistance. Christian health ministry plans are filling that demand.

These plans are not insurance and the law does not treat them that way. They are voluntary arrangements for people who agree to certain conditions, such as abiding by Christian faith, or forswearing alcohol and smoking. They generally do not pay for services that violate religious tenets, such as abortion or maternity coverage from pregnancies out of wedlock. They also offer spiritual support, soliciting prayers for the sick from their members.

Participation in sharing plans has increased from less than 200,000 a decade ago to more than 1 million today, according to the trade association that represents them. It is almost certainly financial appeal, rather than spiritual, that is driving this sudden growth. Joining a ministry can cost hundreds or even thousands of dollars a month less than enrolling in a traditional health insurance plan, especially in areas where premiums under the Affordable Care Act have become most expensive.

But the reason the ministries are so much cheaper is they aren’t subject to many of the ACA’s requirements, even though having a membership in one provides an exemption from paying the individual mandate penalty, which remains in force until 2019.

Some ministries have annual or lifetime limits, or set other restrictions on what they will cover ― for example, leaving out inpatient psychiatric care. Some limit or exclude preventative care, including basic cancer screenings. People who join sharing ministries must generally agree, in advance, to forgo lawsuits and take any disputes to arbitration. Usually that means “biblically based mediation and arbitration,” which is a sometimes controversial method that relies partly on religious law. A member with a problem cannot appeal to state insurance regulators for help, because sharing ministries fall outside their jurisdiction.

The ministries have many satisfied members, including people who might otherwise not be able to afford coverage. Some find them to be more personal and nurturing than huge, faceless insurance companies. But as the ministries attract a broader group of customers and market themselves more aggressively as an alternative to Obamacare, they are drawing increasing concern from consumer advocates and regulators.

One worry is that because of the pre-existing exclusions and benefits structure, ministries disproportionately attract and retain people in relatively good health, leaving the traditional insurance market with a relatively sicker group of customers. This drives up costs for insurers offering traditional plans, forcing them to jack up premiums.

The other worry is that people joining the ministries do not fully grasp the limits on their coverage, discovering the truth only when they get sick and suddenly face steep medical bills.

How Ministries Became Part Of The Health Care Landscape

As the Lammers’ case shows, even vigilant consumers can be confused about what Christian sharing ministries actually cover.

Danielle and Tracy have four children, including a pair of twins, and a fifth now on the way. They live in a single-story ranch-style house near the center of Norfolk, just a few blocks down the street from a bank and a Pizza Hut ― and about two miles from the childhood home of Johnny Carson, the city’s most famous former resident.

The Lammers say they attend church, but less often than they would prefer. Work and the kids make it shard to find the time. “Our family has Christ in our hearts and in our home,” Danielle said. “Unfortunately, making it to a weekly service just doesn’t work for us right now, but that doesn’t mean we don’t believe and have God in our lives.”

As they sat in their living room on a frigid January evening, they recounted reading through the Medi-Share literature and talking to friends who were already members. Danielle, who has straight, light auburn hair that falls past her shoulders, was just starting her third trimester at that time, and seemed more perplexed than angry over what was happening.

Tracy and Danielle Lammers, sitting in their dining room two weeks after learning Medi-Share considered Danielle's cancer a pre-existing condition and rejected payment for treatment. Medi-Share later reversed its decision, following their appeal. Jonathan Cohn/HuffPost

“I feel kind of silly for everything that is going on,” she said. “We understood it wasn’t technically insurance, but it worked the exact same way as insurance.”

Tracy, who is stocky with shorn hair, remembered calling the company four or five times before they signed up. He said he had thought to ask about physician networks, out-of-pocket payments, and prescription formularies ― all the things he figured might become an issue.

One reason he finally felt sufficiently confident in Medi-Share, he explained, was that he found out it counted toward the individual mandate. “We don’t have to pay a penalty when we pay our taxes,” Tracy said, cradling one of the twins in his lap. “So they have to follow ― in my opinion, and my doctor feels the same way ― they have to follow federal, or Obamacare, rules.”

In reality, ministries were something of an afterthought during the drafting of the Affordable Care Act, as Laura Santhanam recounted in a recent article for PBS Frontline. Ministries had existed as formal, incorporated arrangements only since the 1980s, and two decades later they were still serving a tiny community of people joined mostly by faith.

Rather than pick a fight that would have risked accusations that Democrats were hostile to religion, Obamacare’s architects agreed that ministry members would not have to pay the mandate penalty, as long as the ministries met a handful of conditions ― such as submitting to regular audits in order to ensure solvency and covering medical conditions that arose after a member joined.

Notably, that meant the ministries could continue to limit or exclude coverage of pre-existing conditions, and decline to include some of the law’s essential benefits.

Even with that special dispensation, the ministries were not free to operate everywhere, because they previously had run afoul of regulators in some states. In one case, Montana’s insurance regulator blocked Medi-Share from his state following some payment disputes, including one in which a former pastor ended up with unpaid medical bills following a heart attack.

In response to such rulings, the ministries sought laws that would partly or wholly shield them from regulation by state insurance departments. Today, 30 states have such laws on the books. Many of them look a lot like a template from the American Legislative Exchange Council, the conservative policy network, which the organization calls the “Freedom to Share Act.”

In other states, regulators simply allow the ministries to operate. In Montana, GOP exemption bills kept running into vetoes from Democratic governors until a conservative Republican, Matt Rosendale, won election as insurance commissioner in 2016 and promptly reversed the old ban.

By then, Medi-Share had altered its financial model. Instead of collecting sharing contributions, pooling them, and then distributing payments, it was creating individual accounts and redistributing money among them so that members could pay their medical bills. As a result, Rosendale said, Medi-Share no longer qualified as insurance, and so was no longer within his office’s jurisdiction to regulate. (Rosendale’s office declined to return phone calls seeking more explanation of the decision.)

Today, the ministries operate in all 50 states and market aggressively on television, radio, and the Internet.

Some ads highlight the ministries’ emphasis on faith. In one television spot for Medi-Share that ran in 2016, families appear interview-style, while soft music plays in the background. “You’re not only getting taken care of by a medical doctor,” one man says to the camera, “you’re also getting taken care of spiritually, through the power of prayer.”

Other ads focus on affordability. “Medi-Share is about half the cost of other health care programs,” one of the ministry’s Montana radio ads said. “Honestly, this may be a game-changer for you and your family.”

What The Ministries Cover, And What They Don’t

Plenty of people who belong to ministries have told reporters how much they like the coverage ― that they appreciate both the savings and the spiritual support, and that it was there for them when they needed it.

One of them is Erica Jackson, a Texas woman whose daughter ran up more than $12,000 in medical expenses during an emergency room visit. As she told Politico’s Paul Demko and Renuka Rayasam in a recent article on the growth of sharing ministries, all but $3,700 ― her personal share, which is the ministry equivalent of a deductible ― was covered through the ministry. That’s less than the out-of-pocket spending she would have had under many Obamacare plans. “They had it all under control,” she said of the ministry.

Medi-Share has covered even much larger bills, Michael Gardner, the senior director of marketing and communications at Medi-Share’s parent organization, said in written responses to questions from HuffPost. (The company denied requests for interviews.) In one instance, according to Gardner, members shared $2.29 million in expenses for an infant with severe medical problems. Sixteen members have had more than $1 million in bills they were able to share with other members, he said.

“Medi-Share is an example of the good that happens when the modern concept of the sharing economy is applied to the Biblical ideal of sharing our resources to lift one another’s burdens,” Gardner said. “While people may inquire due to the program’s availability and affordability, they join and stay because they become part of a community that is committed to and effective at sharing one another’s burdens.”

“There is nothing we can do.” - Martin Swanson, health policy director at Nebraska's Department of Insurance, which lacks jurisdiction over sharing ministries.

But ministries frequently acknowledge, as Gardner put it, that “health care sharing isn’t for everyone.” Although they don’t generally specify exactly who that might be, it’s easy enough to figure out.

A Medi-Share member diagnosed with rheumatoid arthritis generally would be on the hook for a half-year’s worth of drugs, some of which cost $2,000 or $3,000 a month, because for any single condition Medi-Share covers only a six-month supply of prescriptions each year. (They would still have access to discounted prices, which Medi-Share offers to members.) The same would be true for a member with hemophilia, treated with drugs that could cost 10 times that or more. A member with a child who has autism and needs speech therapy would discover that Medi-Share, like other ministries, doesn’t usually cover those services at all.

And then there are the stories of people in ministries who run afoul of pre-existing condition exceptions. One of them is an Illinois couple, Bet and Erik Olson, who adopted two children from Ethiopia. Their story was the focus a lengthy 2017 investigation by journalist Laura Turner in BuzzFeed. Both of the Olson’s children needed expensive blood work, and one has a disorder that requires expensive medication. Their provider, Samaritan Ministries, rejected the bills as related to a pre-existing condition (and would not answer questions from BuzzFeed as to why).

At Medi-Share, Gardner said, the ministry “goes to great lengths to ensure that prospective members understand that Medi-Share is not insurance.” The guidelines spell out the limits, and members must indicate with a separate signature that they understand those limits. But experts and consumer advocates worry that people who sign up for ministries may not realize the implications of those limits until it’s too late.

“They are being marketed as an alternative [to regulated insurance], so that suggests they are somewhat equivalent,” says Karen Pollitz, a senior fellow at the Henry J. Kaiser Family Foundation. “People don’t understand what they are buying isn’t insurance. It’s easy to get lost.”

Martin Swanson, health policy director at the Nebraska Department of Insurance, told HuffPost that he and his colleagues are hearing about ministries more and more, especially at public information events. He said he always warns people that joining means giving up some coverage guarantees and that, if members run into trouble, his office won’t be in a position to help them because Nebraska is among the states that exempts ministries from insurance department oversight.

“There is nothing we can do,” Swanson said.

Why People Who Hate Obamacare Love Ministries

Usually it’s brokers, not state regulators, that people consult when considering whether to join a ministry. Many brokers sell them happily ― sometimes taking large commissions, though it depends on the ministry.

One exception is Courtney Callaway, an Omaha-based broker for Prime Choice Insurance. Although Callaway knows that the ministries work well for a lot of people, she won’t sell them because she doesn’t think she can stand behind them with the confidence she has in traditional insurance policies. “To me it’s too dangerous,” Callaway told HuffPost. “It’s not insurance.”

Callaway understands why people go to the ministries anyway. It’s because the plans from HealthCare.gov and insurers have gotten so expensive. And if they don’t turn to ministries, they will turn to some other alternative.

Frequently, that means buying short-duration health insurance plans, which several major carriers sell and which typically last just three months (although some insurers package them in bundles so they last for a year). Designed as stopgaps for brief but predictable lapses in coverage, they’ve become increasingly popular among people seeking a less expensive alternative to Obamacare ― although, like the ministries, short-duration plans are cheaper because they offer less coverage and include a variety of pre-existing restrictions.

Courtney Callaway, an Omaha-based insurance agent, says she doesn't sell membership in sharing ministries because they are not subject to Affordable Care Act regulations and outside the jurisdiction of state regulators. Jonathan Cohn/HuffPost

Callaway sells these, figuring they are better than nothing and are under insurance department regulation. But she says she goes through the plans with her clients very carefully, to make sure they understand all the ways a short-duration plan could leave them exposed to big medical bills.

Nebraska is not the only place where this is happening. Iowa and Tennessee are among the states where the insurance markets are evolving in a similar manner. Thanks to a combination of factors, some related to the design of the Affordable Care Act and some related to the way hostile Republican officials have implemented it, the underlying cost of comprehensive coverage has risen dramatically in these places.

It’s not a problem for the majority of people buying on their own, because they qualify for tax credits. They can get plans for dirt cheap, or sometimes for no cost at all. But other buyers are migrating to alternative means of paying their medical bills ― if not the ministries, then the short-term plans ― that cost less upfront but are not as useful, or simply not available, to people with serious medical problems.

This ends up creating a cycle, as the group of people still buying traditional policies gets less and less healthy. “That will make the market less attractive to insurance companies, driving up prices and reducing plan choices for consumers that want or need real insurance coverage,” said Sabrina Corlette, a research professor at Georgetown University.

The Trump administration and its allies are not trying to stop this transformation. They’re trying to speed it up, as part of their efforts to undermine the 2010 health care law. Last month, the administration proposed a regulation that would make it easier for insurers to sell short-duration plans. This past week, GOP lawmakers in Florida passed a bill that would make it easier for residents to join ministries.

One legislator there said he wasn’t worried that the ministries were outside the state insurance department’s jurisdiction because, as he put it, they are “self-regulating.”

That may be enough for many of their members. Even the Lammers seem okay for now. Their baby is due in April and they can finally think about paying for diapers rather than tens of thousands of dollars in medical bills.Stephanie Clifford, aka Stormy Daniels, is having a field day on Twitter with the many people who are insulting her now that she wants to speak out about an affair she says she had with President Donald Trump.

Clifford is embroiled in a legal battle over whether a non-disclosure agreement she signed in October 2016 in return for $130,000 is valid. But while the case plays out, the porn star is responding to haters on Twitter with some hilarious snark, including chastising one user for misspelling skank.

One tweet in particular amused Clifford:

I actually took a screenshot of my favorite troll a couple days ago. I laughed so hard I couldn't even respond. When someone can't even insult you correctly ( you're all welcome. Enjoy) pic.twitter.com/KcTGns82xw — Stormy Daniels (@StormyDaniels) March 9, 2018

In case any low-information voters don’t understand why Clifford found the message so funny, here’s a short primer: Ivanka Trump is the president’s daughter, though Trump once said, “If Ivanka weren’t my daughter, perhaps I’d be dating her.”

Clifford told InTouch Weekly in 2011 that Trump often compared her to his daughter (presumably Ivanka, since the president’s other daughter, Tiffany, was a child at the time of the alleged affair).

“He told me once that I was someone to be reckoned with, beautiful and smart just like his daughter,” Clifford said, according to InTouch.

Now, Clifford seems to be enjoying that special kind of hate that Trump can inspire among some supporters on Twitter:

The correct spelling is "skank" https://t.co/E1Ie16OXC4 — Stormy Daniels (@StormyDaniels) March 9, 2018

Great spelling correction but Stormy is not a Skanc, shes an all out Pig and whore. — S. phinito (@SphinitoS) March 9, 2018

Exactly. I've been trying to explain that for hours. At least you've been paying attention. https://t.co/6E53UPg9xt — Stormy Daniels (@StormyDaniels) March 9, 2018

Actually “skanky whore.” — Bill Schaefer (@bill1195) March 9, 2018

...at least according to my business card. https://t.co/XWSskEsiiG — Stormy Daniels (@StormyDaniels) March 9, 2018

Clifford has also refused to apologize for her choice of profession.A standoff at a veterans home in Yountville, California, ended Friday night with the deaths of three female employees and the gunman who took them hostage, the California Highway Patrol said.

Police identified the shooter as Albert Wong, a military veteran they said was armed with a high-powered rifle. The gunman stormed the Veterans Home of California-Yountville in Napa County midmorning Friday during a farewell party for an employee. He exchanged gunfire with a Napa County sheriff’s deputy, then took three hostages into a room, where he stayed throughout the day. The others in the building fled.

The victims have been identified as Jennifer Golick, 42; Jennifer Gonzalez, 29, and Christine Loeber, 48.

Hostage negotiators were never able to contact Wong, 36, as law enforcement officers and a SWAT team circled the veterans home. Officers finally entered the building about 6 p.m. local time and found the four bodies, Chris Childs, assistant captain of the California Highway Patrol, said at a news conference late Friday.

“This is a tragic piece of news, one that we were really hoping we wouldn’t have to come before the public to give,” Childs said.

Childs thanked the deputy who confronted the gunman and prevented him from “going out and finding other victims.” The deputy was not injured.

Officers found the gunman’s rental car nearby, and a police dog indicated there may have been an explosive inside. “We found a cellphone, not a bomb,” Childs said.

He did not say what kind of gun the shooter used or give a time of death for the gunman and the hostages. Authorities were reaching out to family members of the victims late Friday.

The standoff began after the county sheriff’s office responded to a call about 10:30 a.m. when a gunman walked into a party hosted by The Pathway Home.

Larry Kamer said his wife, Devereaux Smith, was one of about 10 to 15 people at the party when the gunman came in, according to The Associated Press. The gunman reportedly allowed everyone, including Smith, to leave except for the three people he took as hostages.

“Potentially” 30 shots were heard being fired, Veterans Home spokesman Joshua Kisser told HuffPost.

SWAT teams on scene of #Yountville veterans home shooting. LIVE VIDEO: https://t.co/0qyCtycosx pic.twitter.com/xOp5G2BQSW — NBC Bay Area (@nbcbayarea) March 9, 2018

The Veterans Home is built on roughly 600 acres, making it the largest veterans home in the U.S., Kisser said. The facility, about an hour north of San Francisco, is home to about 1,000 retired service members.

Jan Thornton, 51, said her father is a World War II veteran who lives in the skilled nursing section of the facility. She said staff immediately locked down the buildings, along with individual rooms, upon reports of an active shooter Friday morning.

“I called my dad’s friend [who lives there] right away, because my dad has dementia and I didn’t want to panic him,” Thornton said, adding that her father was safe.

Brian Goder, a 59-year-old Air Force veteran who has lived at the Veterans’ Home for a little over two years, said he was walking to the dining hall when he was put on lockdown.

“As I was walking, people kept yelling ‘Sir! Sir!’ to me,” Goder told HuffPost. “I turned around and there were probably about a dozen police officers with ARs running past me.”

Ground and air ambulances were initially staged near the Veterans Home, police said. Police also cleared out the nearby Vintners Golf Club, which is open to the public.

“My poor dad,” Thornton said. “He saw enough of this at war. He doesn’t need to see this at home.”Fox News

WASHINGTON ― A former Navy sailor who pleaded guilty to a felony count of unauthorized possession and retention of national defense information for snapping photos on a nuclear attack submarine has received a pardon from President Donald Trump — and his attorney says Fox News deserves the credit.

The legal team for Kristian Saucier compared his case to the handling of the investigation into former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton’s use of a private email server. That grabbed Trump’s interest, and it’s now paid off in the form of a presidential pardon, announced Friday.

Last week, Saucier appeared on “Fox & Friends,” a program that the president records and watches during his morning “executive time.” Trump frequently sends tweets that correspond with segments on the morning show.

Crooked Hillary Clinton’s top aid, Huma Abedin, has been accused of disregarding basic security protocols. She put Classified Passwords into the hands of foreign agents. Remember sailors pictures on submarine? Jail! Deep State Justice Dept must finally act? Also on Comey & others — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) January 2, 2018

Ronald Daigle, a lawyer hired to advocate for Saucier’s pardon, told HuffPost that Fox News played a key role in getting the case on Trump’s radar.

“Absolutely,” Daigle said when asked whether going on Fox News was a big part of their strategy. “They were big supporters of Kris right from the beginning. They supported Kris.”

In 2016, shortly after then-FBI Director James Comey announced the results of the Clinton email investigation, Saucier’s legal team began comparing the submariner’s case to Clinton’s. The Justice Department responded that Saucier was “grasping at highly imaginative and speculative straws,” but the case got Trump’s attention.

Saucier was sentenced to a year behind bars prior to the 2016 election ― a sentence he completed before his pardon. One reason that federal prosecutors likely handled the case the way they did: Saucier destroyed a laptop, a camera and the camera’s memory card shortly after he was interviewed by the FBI. Pieces of a laptop were later found in the woods near a Saucier family home. Prosecutors tend to treat suspects more harshly when they are accused of destroying evidence.

Since the election, Saucier’s team has “sent tons of marketing materials to the White House” and distributed press releases in an effort to “capture the president’s opinion,” Daigle said.

Saucier’s team was aiming for a “political” pardon rather than a pardon that goes through the normal process of the Justice Department’s Office of the Pardon Attorney, Daigle said. Saucier was not yet eligible to go through that lengthy procedure.

Office of the Pardon Attorney

“I flipped the process around,” Daigle said. “We were doing something to try to capture the attention of the president. When we put the pardon in, we did a press release for that. When we heard back from the pardon office, we put a press release for that. Every step of the way, we’re trying to do what we can to be on the radar, and hopefully the president will hear us. We think he heard us more than once.”

Daigle believes that Trump simply ordered that a pardon be prepared for his signature and that the Justice Department had very little involvement. A Justice Department spokesman declined to comment on its role in the pardon.

Daigle’s pardon strategy isn’t going to work for defendants across the board, he said.

“It’s not going to happen in every case. It just happened because we had a set of circumstances that were truly unjust,” said Daigle, referring to his argument that his client was prosecuted where others who committed similar offenses weren’t.

Daigle said he and his client were “very excited” about the news. He said he hoped Saucier, who has a young child, would be able to get his military benefits back.

“This would make a huge difference to his family if he can get his benefits back,” Daigle said. “This is a very talented young man, and he couldn’t find a job coming out for anything, only as a garbage collector. Now he’ll be able to go after these licenses and stuff to have a nice career on the outside.”The gun control debate rages anew in the wake of last month’s Florida high school mass shooting. While there may not be a fix-all solution, the vast majority of Americans agree: Something must be done.

Sometimes, humor is the best way to present an issue ― even a serious one. Alex Clark and his animation studio broke down the gun control debate in a way that the internet would surely understand: with cats.

If you’d like to do more, Clark suggests attending the “March For Our Lives” rally in Washington on March 24. Students from Florida’s Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School and others will march to demand stronger gun laws.A woman named in the nondisclosure agreement signed by Stephanie Clifford, aka Stormy Daniels, turns out to be both a fellow porn performer and a fellow Donald Trump accuser.

Actress Jessica Drake, identified in the agreement as “Angel Ryan,” was mentioned as one of four people aware that Clifford allegedly had a yearlong affair with Trump between 2006 and 2007, according to the New York Daily News.

During the 2016 presidential campaign, Drake accused the future president of grabbing her, kissing her and offering her $10,000 for sex a decade earlier. She said the incident occurred at a July 2006 event in Lake Tahoe, the same one where Clifford said she met Trump.

Drake’s lawyer, Gloria Allred, confirmed that Drake is Angel Ryan to CNN and HuffPost, but declined further comment. Allred also refused to talk to the Daily News about Drake’s relationship with Clifford or how she knew about the affair with Trump.

The two performers have known each other since at least 2003, when Wicked Pictures signed Drake to an exclusive contract a year after they signed Clifford.

Jessica Drake (left) and Stormy Daniels pose at the Wicked Pictures booth at an adult entertainment expo in Las Vegas in 2015. Ethan Miller via Getty Images

They’ve had multiple opportunities to talk: The Internet Adult Film Database lists 11 scenes between the two women.

Clifford signed the nondisclosure agreement on Oct. 28, 2016, just days before the presidential election. It forbids her from disclosing “confidential information” about Trump or his alleged sexual partners in exchange for $130,000.For Ryan Amador, love doesn’t need to be everlasting in order to be celebrated.

The indie singer-songwriter said he drew on memories of a weeklong summer romance for his new video, “Loverboy,” which shows him canoodling with a mysterious man (played by director Jesse Scott Egan) in a moonlit park and in a bedroom.

“You make me feel safe, you make me feel loved even though you’re trying to be tougher than you are,” Amador sings to a 1980s-influenced synthesized beat. “You’re such a loverboy, and I can see it in your eyes.”

Amador, who is based in Los Angeles, has emphasized LGBTQ themes in his art before. His 2013 video “Define Me” showed him and singer-actress Jo Lampert stripping down to their underwear to reveal homophobic epithets written across their bodies in black ink.

He told HuffPost that “Loverboy,” while less overtly political, was intended to “simply celebrate” the sensuality of two men kissing. Visually, he looked to the Oscar-winning film “Call Me by Your Name” for inspiration.

“I’ve spent a lot of time being a queer activist, but when it comes time to hold a guy’s hand in public or talk to my parents about the guys I’m dating, I find that I’m nervous,” Amador said. “So, in some ways, this video acts as a second coming out for me, to express what it feels like when two men court one another.”

He continued, “I’m actually pretty scared to show it to my parents, but I think they’ll love it in the end.”

Released Friday, “Loverboy” is the second single from Amador’s forthcoming album, “The American.” Slated to drop this fall, “The American” is the singer’s most ambitious musical project to date, with songs recorded with local musicians and producers across 10 U.S. cities.The ladies of Twitter never fail to brighten our days with their brilliant ― but succinct ― wisdom. Each week, HuffPost Women rounds up hilarious 280-character musings. To see this week’s great tweets from women, scroll through the list below. Then visit our Funniest Tweets From Women page for our past collections.WASHINGTON ― Some Republican lawmakers are beginning to ask whether their leaders plan to be ambitious enough with what could be the final months of united GOP control of the government.

House Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy (R-Calif.) presented a slide at a GOP conference meeting Tuesday that showed an admittedly incomplete but still rather sparse agenda for the coming months, according to members at the gathering.

Although that agenda included an omnibus appropriations bill to keep the government funded until October, as well as a Federal Aviation Administration reauthorization and some banking legislation, other items were pure messaging votes ― like a balanced budget amendment and implausible Internal Revenue Service reforms tied to April 15.

Also on the slide was the so-called Stop School Violence Act, the most ambitious feature of which is the name. The bill would simply provide $50 million annually for training and equipment to prevent and respond to school violence. Plus, there was mention of legislation to streamline permits for energy infrastructure projects and the farm bill, which may come down to a one-year extension rather than a full five-year reauthorization.

House Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy and Speaker Paul Ryan appear to be setting an unambitious tone for 2018. Tom Williams via Getty Images

What was more notable about the Republican House agenda was what wasn’t included. There was no major infrastructure legislation. No bill addressing the Deferred Action on Childhood Arrivals immigration program. No budget. No real legislation on guns. Even the individual appropriations bills weren’t on the list.

When McCarthy received pushback during the conference meeting on Tuesday, he noted it wasn’t an exhaustive list. Republicans will surely pass other bills in addition to what was mentioned. For example, Congress has to pass some sort of spending bill to keep the government open beyond September (after passing the omnibus to keep the government open past the end of March).

McCarthy spokesman Matt Sparks told HuffPost on Wednesday that “House Republicans continue to advance our agenda, building on the positive momentum from 2017 to strengthen our communities, military, and economy.”

Voting And Chewing Gum At The Same Time

It’s unclear, however, what else Republicans actually intend to get signed into law before the midterm elections, which could hand Democrats control of one or both chambers of Congress. There is a banking bill currently in the Senate that could eventually get to the president’s desk, there are some financial regulations that Republicans have their eyes on, and there are plenty of seemingly small changes to law that could have dramatic consequences for people in the future.

The Senate, for instance, could devote much of its time to confirming judges and reshape the federal judiciary for decades to come. And the Trump administration could singlehandedly dismantle a number of regulations that Democrats favor.

But that doesn’t seem to be enough for many House conservatives.

“The American people expect more than an omnibus and a few bills that do not really address key concerns,” Freedom Caucus Chairman Mark Meadows (R-N.C.) told HuffPost on Tuesday, specifically mentioning infrastructure as an area of needed action.

Rep. Justin Amash (R-Mich.) also criticized his party’s leadership for a less-than-aggressive agenda, although he noted that he didn’t think it was any different from how Republicans have run Congress for the entirety of his seven-plus years here.

“That’s the way they run the place,” Amash said. “It’s a shame. I don’t know what to tell you. I wouldn’t run it this way.”

Asked what he intended to do about it, Amash didn’t really have an answer. “Unless someone wants to organize a coup, I’m not sure there’s much you can do,” he said, adding that he had no plans to try to oust Speaker Paul Ryan (R-Wis.) “in the immediate future.”

“You never can rule it out though,” Amash added.

Other Republicans were also happy to say the GOP needed to do more with the time left before the November elections. Rep. Ted Yoho (R-Fla.) said he wanted Republicans to tackle mandatory spending issues. Rep. Daniel Webster (R-Fla.) said it’d be a shame not to approve a budget so that Republicans could use that as a reconciliation vehicle to pass legislation ― perhaps on “welfare reform” ― with a simple majority in the Senate. And yet another Florida Republican, freshman Rep. Matt Gaetz, said he had thus far been disappointed by Congress’ inability to “walk and chew gum at the same time.”

Playing The Long Game, Fingers Crossed

But some Republicans are already nervous about their re-election bids, and GOP leaders seem content so far to let their members run on last year’s tax law, while not muddling the message by overreaching on something like welfare reform.

GOP leaders are so resistant to pushing aggressive welfare changes that more conservative House members are advocating for a tactical retreat on the farm bill, which would be a natural vehicle for enacting those changes, because they don’t believe they can get the policies they want now. Conservatives would like to extend the farm bill for just one year, saving the fight and the vehicle for a later day.

That sentiment among Republican lawmakers ― that they can’t get what they want now, so they might as well delay on the chance that they can get what they want later ― could dominate the rest of the year.

Even basic responsibilities could be pushed off, like passing individual appropriations bills or a budget. Last year, Republicans in the House just bundled together the spending measures and restricted which amendments could get a vote, while the Senate didn’t do any individual appropriations bills. Lawmakers could follow a similar script this year, leaving plenty of time for campaigning, more messaging legislation and additional bills renaming post offices ― a category that has already inflated the number of bills passed and signed into law under President Donald Trump.

Still, there were Republicans who insisted that Congress was as busy as ever.

Rep. Buddy Carter (R-Ga.) told HuffPost that Republicans were taking the agenda for the rest of the year “very seriously, and we intend to address some very serious issues.”

Rep. Ken Buck (R-Colo.) argued that the problem wasn’t with House Republicans.

“It seems like the House is doing a hell of a lot,” Buck said. “Why don’t you talk to the Senate?”

He said that hundreds of bills had passed the House and were waiting for action in the Senate. And when HuffPost noted that many of those just renamed things, Buck defended the virtue of smaller bills.Olivia Cooke and Anya Taylor-Joy in "Thoroughbreds." Focus Features

The female psychodrama is one of cinema’s great traditions.

Societal sanctions burden these films’ protagonists, so much so that each reaches a breaking point, even if she struggles to externalize it.

The new movie “Thoroughbreds,” opening in theaters Friday, transposes the psychodrama’s hallmarks onto two teen girls choked by the open air of suburbia, where the rumor mill is a villain and the houses are so grand they envelop anyone who dares to enter.

Cory Finley’s humorous directorial debut, adapted from a play he wrote, looks at suburbia the way David Lynch did in 1986′s “Blue Velvet” ― enigmatic, maddening ― but he sprinkles in enough of the popular-girl pastiche seen in 1988′s “Heathers” to create a monument that treats cold-blooded calculations as a savory antidote to the world’s ills.

Shannen Doherty, Lisanne Falk, Kim Walker and Winona Ryder in "Heathers." Archive Photos via Getty Images

Anya Taylor-Joy, the magnetic actress best known for “The Witch” and “Split,” plays Lily, a Connecticut queen bee who’s been recruited to spend time with her estranged classmate Amanda, portrayed by Olivia Cooke of “Bates Motel” and “Me and Earl and the Dying Girl” fame. Awaiting trial for killing her family’s horse, Amanda is a card-carrying social pariah and possible sociopath who delivers expert tutorials on fake-crying.

Lily is determined to maintain a polished facade, and Amanda is determined to shatter it, especially after Lily reveals how much she loathes her stepfather (Paul Sparks), a surly prick who flaunts his wealth so as to remind Lily and her mother (Kaili Vernoff) that they are beholden to his patriarchy.

When Amanda and Lily reunite at the start of “Thoroughbreds,” they are positioned as foils. The score’s soft booms and ominous rattles graft onto them an unspoken conflict, as if their stratified social standings make them enemies maintaining face. But the girls were friends circa sixth grade, so there’s a kinship buried in Lily’s plastic smile and Amanda’s placid confrontations. The latter knows her mom is paying Lily to hang out with her under the guise of studying for standardized tests, so Amanda already has ammo to wield over her manicured pal, who is still processing her father’s death and mother’s remarriage.

Anya Taylor-Joy and Olivia Cooke in "Thoroughbreds." Focus Features

But once Amanda reveals she knows Lily was never really looking to reconnect, the wall between them crumbles: Lily assumes some of Amanda’s candor, and Amanda takes on an inkling of Lily’s sympathy. As is often seen in teenagers, who are prone to mimicking their peers, Amanda and Lily’s personalities slowly merge ― not entirely, but just enough to help them hatch a plan to murder Lily’s stepfather with the help of a low-rent drug dealer who owns a gun (a manic Anton Yelchin, nailing his final screen role).

When I first saw “Thoroughbreds” at the Sundance Film Festival in January 2017 ― back when it was titled “Thoroughbred,” singular ― I called it “Heathers” meets “Persona.” Having again devoured its slick dark comedy recently, those parallels are even more apparent. (As is a touch of “Double Indemnity.”) Both of those movies adopt a more heightened reality than “Thoroughbreds,” teetering somewhere between satire and low fantasy. And yet they share distinct DNA.

In “Persona,” Ingmar Bergman’s cryptic avant-garde experiment, a stage actress (Liv Ullmann) becomes physically and emotionally indistinguishable from her vulnerable nurse (Bibi Andersson) who has always felt unheard. The actress has stopped speaking, giving her ample time to listen. In “Heathers,” Michael Lehmann’s satire, murder and suicide are pastimes for the wealthy, exploited as a means of securing schoolyard popularity ― a biting critique of capitalism.

Amanda and Lily’s murder plot isn’t designed to earn them social points, but it is a way of escaping their realities. Lily can flee the torment of her wicked stepfather, and Amanda can escape the tedium of a life where no one thinks she has much worth. The camera remains fixed on the girls, following them as they move through Lily’s lavish home and cutting to sudden close-ups to expose their inner machinations. Watching them, murder feels like justifiable vengeance, a way out of being undervalued and misunderstood. Finley’s knack for black humor adds a deliciousness to the proceedings.

Bibi Andersson and Liv Ullmann in "Persona." Archive Photos via Getty Images

“Thoroughbreds” further departs from psychodramas of yore by avoiding the hysterics that sometimes define these movies’ protagonists. It’s telling that all of the aforementioned titles are directed by men, as are 1962′s “What Ever Happened to Baby Jane?” and “Carnival of Souls,” the genre’s installments that most portray their women as fanciful basket cases. (“Hysteria won’t solve anything,” a man tells Candace Hilligoss’ distraught character in “Carnival of Souls.”)

As Emily Yoshida wrote last year in a sharp Vulture essay about psychodramas, “A scene without a man will never matter as much as a scene with one; a scene without a man isn’t as real as a scene between two women — hence the unreality that so many of these films exist in.” Interestingly, Finley is more generous to his characters than some of the other fellas responsible for female-fronted psychodramas: “In a way, the core structure of the movie is a romantic comedy,” he recently said. “For me, that’s the one genre that really doesn’t have a hero and a villain.” He’s able to pay homage to Lynch and Bergman and Roman Polanski and Billy Wilder while still modernizing the tropes he borrows.

By the time “Thoroughbreds” ends ― no spoilers ― everything we know about Amanda and Lily has shifted. But it’s not as if they become foreign versions of the girls we first met. To Finley’s point about this being a rom-com of sorts, Amanda and Lily are unconventional soulmates. Like any great couple, they invoke in each other qualities they didn’t know they possessed. Some of those qualities are dark, brooding and bitter, giving “Thoroughbreds” a certain self-aware camp. Dark occurrences in picture-perfect suburbia begs for irony.