The mutual admiration society of Winter Olympics skating star Adam Rippon and actress Reese Witherspoon finally convened in person on “The Late Show” Wednesday ― and it was fabulous.

Rippon, a bronze medalist in the team event and a scene-stealer everywhere else, exchanged a series of flattering tweets with Witherspoon as he wowed the world with his blades and brashness. After his first dazzling free skate in the games, he said in a TV interview that he wanted to make Witherspoon proud.

On Wednesday, late-night host Stephen Colbert watched proudly as he got those two together for more love.

“This is the relationship the world’s been waiting for,” Witherspoon said.

The “Legally Blonde” star of course got to try on Rippon’s medal, and became the foil in some of the skater’s shtick.

“You’re so beautiful in person,” he told her. “Thank you,” Witherspoon replied.

“I was talking to Stephen,” Rippon cracked.

Watch all the fun below.

Those two (well, three):President Donald Trump’s lawyer got a restraining order against former adult film actress Stephanie Clifford (aka Stormy Daniels) in an attempt to stop her from speaking out about her alleged 2006 affair with Trump.

Attorney Michael Cohen secretly obtained a restraining order on Feb. 27 in private arbitration proceedings, NBC News reported. The order was meant to block Clifford from disclosing “confidential information,” per a nondisclosure agreement she’d signed back in Oct. 28, 2016, just days before the presidential election.

The 2016 nondisclosure agreement barred Clifford from sharing information about Trump or his alleged sexual partners, and detailed that Clifford’s attorney at the time would receive $130,000 for her to stay quiet.

On Tuesday, Clifford filed a lawsuit against Trump, which included the text of the nondisclosure agreement. The suit claims the nondisclosure agreement ― which it called a “hush agreement” ― was not valid, because Trump himself hadn’t signed it, though both Clifford and Cohen had.

At a press briefing on Wednesday, White House press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders responded to a question about the case by saying the president has denied the allegations and by referring to the arbitration.

“Again, this case has already been won in arbitration,” Sanders added. “Anything beyond that, I would refer you to outside counsel.”

Stephanie Clifford, aka Stormy Daniels, filed a lawsuit on Tuesday against President Donald Trump. Gabe Ginsberg via Getty Images

“President Trump hasn’t won anything relating to Ms. Clifford,” Clifford’s lawyer Michael Avenatti told NBC News on Wednesday, in response to Huckabee Sanders’ comment about the arbitration.

“First of all, it does not appear as if he was even a party to the arbitration Ms. Sanders is referring to. How can you win something you’re not even a part of?” Avenatti said. “Secondly, claiming that Mr. Trump ‘won’ at arbitration when there has been no hearing, no notice to Ms. Clifford, no opportunity given to her to respond, and no decision on the merits, is completely bogus.”

On Wednesday, Cohen’s lawyer Lawrence S. Rosen told The New York Times that the arbitration barred Clifford from filing her Tuesday lawsuit.

In the suit, Clifford claims her alleged affair with Trump occurred in summer 2006 and went “well into 2007” ― after Trump married Melania Trump and their son Barron was born. The suit also refers to the Feb. 27 arbitration, calling it “bogus” and listing it as one of multiple attempts to block Clifford from discussing the alleged relationship.

“To be clear, the attempts to intimidate Ms. Clifford into silence and ‘shut her up’ in order to ‘protect Mr. Trump’ continue unabated,” the Tuesday lawsuit said. “On or about February 27, 2018, Mr. Trump’s attorney Mr. Cohen surreptitiously initiated a bogus arbitration proceeding against Ms. Clifford.”

On Wednesday, Avenatti told NBC News that earlier that day Cohen’s attorney had “further threatened [Clifford] in an attempt to prevent her from telling the truth about what really happened. We do not take kindly to these threats, nor will we be intimidated.”Nation of Islam leader Minister Louis Farrakhan recently said "powerful Jews" are his "enemy." Mark Wilson via Getty Images

A prominent feminist activist and a Democratic lawmaker have resisted calls to condemn notorious Nation of Islam leader Louis Farrakhan for his anti-Semitic views.

Tamika Mallory, the co-founder of last year’s Women’s March, attended an event last month at which Farrakhan, during a three-hour speech, said “the powerful Jews” are his “enemy.” She later posted a video of herself at the event and an Instagram photo with a caption praising Farrakhan.

“White folks are going down,” Farrakhan said during his annual Saviours’ Day address in Chicago. “And Satan is going down. And Farrakhan, by God’s grace, has pulled the cover off of that Satanic Jew and I’m here to say your time is up, your world is through.”

Rep. Danny Davis (D-Ill.) called Farrakhan “an outstanding human being” last month. Pressed by the Daily Caller to explain Farrakhan’s anti-Semitic beliefs, the lawmaker skirted the issue.

“So I know Farrakhan, I know the Middle East question, I know the Jews and Farrakhan — I know all that, but that’s not what I spend all my time focused on,” Davis, a member of Congress’ Progressive Caucus, told the conservative news outlet last week. “That’s just one segment of what goes on in our world. The world is so much bigger than Farrakhan and the Jewish question and his position on that and so forth. For those heavy into it, that’s their thing, but it ain’t my thing.”

Both the Anti-Defamation League and the Southern Poverty Law Center have denounced Farrakhan’s harsh anti-Semitic rhetoric. He has previously accused Jewish people of having “a stranglehold on Congress,” blames them for black oppression, and has also attacked the LGBTQ community.

As the leader of the Nation of Islam, Farrakhan has the support of one of the largest black organizations in America that often hosts service events and programs in impoverished communities. But as the SPLC points out, the organization also has a “theology of innate black superiority over whites ... and deeply racist, anti-Semitic and anti-LGBT rhetoric.”

These reasons should all be enough to denounce Farrakhan, but during his February speech in Chicago, Farrakhan found a seemingly unlikely supporter in Mallory, who posted an Instagram photo of herself with him.

“Thank God this man is still alive and doing well,” Mallory wrote. “He is definitely the GOAT [greatest of all time].”

After being called out on social media, Mallory denounced anti-Semitism and homophobia in a series of tweets without ever directly denouncing the man who promotes those positions.

Contrary to others, I listen. I have been in deep reflection and trying to be as thoughtful as possible. I want my own work to speak for itself but I will reiterate my commitment to building this movement. I won’t go back, I won’t redraw the lines of division. I want a new way. — Tamika D. Mallory (@TamikaDMallory) March 5, 2018

She defended herself again on Wednesday in an editorial for News One.

“I go into difficult spaces,” she wrote. “I attend meetings with police and legislators — the very folks so much of my protest has been directed towards. I’ve partnered and sat with countless groups, activists, religious leaders and institutions over the past 20 years. I’ve worked in prisons as well as with present and former gang members.”

Farrakhan, who once called Adolf Hitler a “very great man,” is not mentioned in her editorial.

Anthony Clark, a progressive activist challenging Davis in Illinois’ March 20 primary, said the veteran congressman’s ties to Farrakhan “are extremely deep.”

Davis “has always gotten away with his missteps, just because he’s been entrenched in our district,” Clark told Tablet, a Jewish online magazine.

“I would be hypocritical to yell against [President Donald] Trump and point fingers at someone because of racism and yet ignore anti-Semitism or homophobia or Islamophobia or classism or agism,” Clark said. “You have to literally fight to hold accountable any and everybody. Because if not, we’re not going to change anything.”

In a March 6 pinned tweet, Farrakhan posted video of himself speaking at the Saviours’ Day event.President Donald Trump made an uncomfortable assumption about a union leader while meeting with workers in the aluminum and steel industries on Thursday.

United Steelworker Union local 2227 president Scott Sauritch spoke during the meeting about how his family was affected when his father lost his job because of an effort to increase imports in the 1980s. He ended his speech by speaking directly to his father, Herman.

“Your story didn’t end,” Sauritch said as he promised to try to prevent workers in his union from a similar fate.

“Your father Herman is looking down,” Trump told Sauritch. “He’s very proud of you right now.”

The only problem: Sauritch’s father isn’t dead.

“Oh, he’s still alive,” the steelworker told the president.

The workers and White House staffers in the room laughed at the awkward mistake, and Trump took the misstep in stride.

“Hey, then he’s even more proud of you,” he said.

Trump introduced another worker to speak, then signed two proclamations into law that would impose tariffs on steel and aluminum imports, with exemptions for Canada and Mexico. The move imposes a 25 percent and 10 percent charge increase on steel and aluminum, respectively.Mississippi lawmakers celebrated International Women’s Day on Thursday by passing a bill that would ban abortion at 15 weeks of pregnancy ― the strictest limit in the nation. Gov. Phil Bryant (R) has said he will sign the legislation into law.

“As I have repeatedly said, I want Mississippi to be the safest place in America for an unborn child,” Bryant tweeted. “House Bill 1510 will help us achieve that goal.”

The bill that passed in both chambers of the state legislature has no exceptions for rape and incest victims, but does exempt women whose lives are endangered by the pregnancy or whose fetuses would not survive the pregnancy.

Abortion is already extremely difficult to access in Mississippi, which has only one clinic left. The state is already one of 17 that bans abortions at 20 weeks. Arkansas tried to ban the procedure at 12 weeks, but a federal appeals court ruled the law unconstitutional and blocked it.

Reproductive rights advocates have argued that the 20-week ban is unconstitutional, because the Supreme Court ruled in Roe v. Wade that a state cannot impose an undue burden on a woman’s ability to have an abortion until the fetus would be able to survive outside the womb. Doctors set viability at about 22-24 weeks.

The Center for Reproductive Rights has said it will sue Mississippi once the governor signs the bill into law. The civil rights group argues women have the right to end their pregnancies safely and legally.The U.S. State Department, which just quietly erased the reproductive health care section from its annual global human rights report, lamented the spread of HIV among women and girls in a tweet celebrating International Women’s Day Wednesday night.

As we celebrate #InternationalWomensDay tomorrow, we know that almost 1,000 young women will be newly infected with HIV on this day alone. @PEPFAR is committed to changing these statistics and empowering young women to write their own AIDS-free future. https://t.co/y0Tf7qa6nr — Department of State (@StateDept) March 7, 2018

The tweet belies the fact that President Donald Trump’s policies seek to systematically undermine the global HIV response and dismantle women’s health care access around the globe. His 2019 budget proposal would cut $1.2 billion from global HIV programs like PEPFAR and the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria.

Trump’s expanded Global Gag Rule restricts an unprecedented $8.8 billion in U.S. foreign aid for international health programs that provide or even mention abortion. This policy has already begun to shut down or cripple women’s health and family planning clinics throughout sub-Saharan Africa and South America that were providing condoms, birth control and HIV medication to low-income women.

His proposed cuts to the National Institute for Allergy and Infectious Diseases would slow HIV research efforts in the U.S. and impair its outreach to other counties.

A group of over 200 global HIV clinicians, doctors and scientists, led by Nobel Prize recipient Dr. Françoise Barré-Sinoussi, called out the Trump administration’s hypocrisy in an open letter.

“Science shows us that we can defeat HIV, but not if we defy evidence,” they wrote. “President Trump’s misguided budget proposal, and his Administration’s attempts to scale up policies in defiance of evidence will only undermine the global AIDS response and should be stopped.”

Maybe the International Women’s Day tweets should stop, too.A mysterious January 2017 meeting in the Seychelles between a close associate of President Donald Trump and a Russian banker with alleged ties to Vladimir Putin has come under renewed scrutiny this week.

Special counsel Robert Mueller has been gathering evidence about the rendezvous, which took place less than two weeks before Trump’s inauguration. Mueller is reportedly looking to see if the meeting was meant to set up a secret back channel between Trump and Putin, the Russian president. George Nader, an adviser to the United Arab Emirates who was at the meeting, has been cooperating with Mueller’s probe, and it appears his testimony could help unlock several major questions about the affair.

Here’s what you should know about the Seychelles meeting.

Erik Prince, the founder of Blackwater and a close associate of President Donald Trump, reportedly met with a Russian linked to the Kremlin during a secret meeting in the Seychelles in January 2017. Justin Chin/Bloomberg via Getty Images

Why was there a secret meeting in the Seychelles?

The UAE arranged the meeting in the Seychelles Islands in January 2017, just days before Trump assumed office, The Washington Post first reported last April. The location may have been chosen for its relative discretion.

“The Seychelles is the kind of place where you can have a good time away from the eyes of the media,” the country’s secretary of state for foreign affairs told the Post at the time.

Erik Prince, a longtime supporter of Trump’s campaign and the founder of the Blackwater private security firm, met with a Russian official linked to Putin, although Prince has described the meeting as an unplanned chance encounter.

It’s not clear what Prince and the official talked about. But according to The New York Times, Trump’s son-in-law Jared Kushner, eventual national security adviser Michael Flynn and then-Russian ambassador Sergey Kislyak discussed the possibility of setting up the communications channel in a December 2016 meeting.

The Washington Post also received an anonymous letter claiming that Kushner, Kislyak and Flynn “talked about arranging a meeting between a representative of Trump and a ‘Russian contact’” in an unidentified third country. The Post’s Adam Entous told MSNBC that the letter said “Flynn was deemed too high-profile to do the trip.”

Kushner has denied that the request took place.

Who else was there?

Prince met with Kirill Dmitriev, a Russian banker who manages a government-controlled wealth fund and is also thought to be close to Putin.

The meeting was set up by the UAE and the country’s de facto leader, Crown Prince Mohammed bin Zayed al-Nahyan. Nader served as a representative for the Middle Eastern nation and had met Prince before, serving as a consultant for Blackwater.

Prince has said he went to the Seychelles as a private businessman, and has denied the original report by the Post. He told the House Intelligence Committee in November that he had no plans to meet with Dmitriev, but Emirati officials convinced him to go to the bar at the hotel he was staying in to have a drink.

“One of the entourage says, ‘Hey, by the way, there’s this Russian guy that we’ve dealt with in the past,’” Prince told lawmakers. “‘He’s here also to see someone from the Emirati delegation. And you should meet him, he’d be an interesting guy for you to know, since you’re doing a lot in the oil and gas and mineral space.’”

He claimed they only spoke about oil prices and how much the UAE “wished for resumption of normal trade relations with the USA.”

What is Mueller investigating?

Nader has been cooperating with Mueller’s probe since mid-January and recently gave testimony about his knowledge of the meeting in front of a grand jury, according to a report in the Times this week. He allegedly served as a representative of the crown prince, and the Times notes that Emirati officials believed Prince was serving as a representative of the Trump transition team and Dmitriev as an envoy from the Kremlin.

In an earlier story, the Times noted that Mueller has widened the scope of his probe and is also investigating whether the Emiratis were attempting to buy influence with Trump.Think the Laurel or Yanny thing is weird?



You can hear the words ‘Brainstorm’ or ‘Green Needle’ based on which word you think about. Try it.pic.twitter.com/7TrS9XNhNR — George Aylett (@GeorgeAylett) May 17, 2018

The Yanny vs. Laurel headsplitter is so yesterday. There’s a new mind-blower in town, and this time, quite incredibly, what you hear is supposed to depend on what you’re thinking about.

The battling words are “brainstorm” and “green needle.” Sure enough, an audio clip of the words seems to vacillate between the two choices — or even “brain needle” and “green storm.”

The whole thing is supposed to function on the same principles as the Yanny and Laurel puzzler: A change in pitch and individuals’ sensitivities to certain pitches push them into one “camp” or another.

The word “brainstorm” is stronger in lower frequencies, and “green needle” is stronger in higher ones. It’s also important that the audio quality not be particularly crisp.

In this case, apparently, the selections are so closely balanced along the pitch line that a thought might be enough to nudge a listener one way or the other — as long as the brain is “primed” to think of the options.

Reddit user “squidjeep” originally posted the video clip of the toy that emits the sounds, calling it “black magic fuckery.”Sen. Mike Crapo (R-Idaho) speaks during a hearing in Washington, D.C., on Feb. 6, 2018. Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg via Getty Images

WASHINGTON ― While a piece of legislation wending its way through the U.S. Senate would do favors for banks big and small, the bill also has several little provisions benefiting consumers.

Republicans, however, are apparently watering down at least one of those provisions, according to Sen. Sherrod Brown (D-Ohio), the top Democrat on the Senate Banking Committee.

The original bill would have required credit monitoring companies like Equifax to offer free credit freezes to all consumers, and to exclude medical debt for one year from the credit reports of U.S. veterans. An amended version of the bill, introduced late Wednesday, would also give free credit monitoring to active-duty members of the military.

“A small gesture to the people that serve our country was too much for the Republicans and Equifax,” Brown said on the Senate floor Thursday.

“In exchange for this token benefit, they demanded consumers and service members give up their right to take Equifax to court the next time the company’s recklessness exposed sensitive financial data,” Brown said.

Sen. Mike Crapo (R-Idaho), chairman of the Senate Banking Committee and lead author of the legislation, has touted the bill’s “important consumer protections for veterans,” as have many of the 17 members of the Democratic caucus who supported the bill in a procedural vote earlier this week.

Last year, Equifax admitted it had allowed cyber criminals to steal personal information relating to more than 143 million Americans whose credit histories the company had tracked. Consumer advocates harshly criticized the company for then offering a “free” credit monitoring service for victims of the breach ― while initially requiring anyone who signed up to waive their right to join a class action lawsuit against the company.

According to Brown’s office, service members who benefit from the credit-monitoring provisions of the legislation would forfeit the right to sue if they had a later grievance against a credit monitoring company.

The main provisions of the bill would ease regulations on community banks, as well as on some of the biggest banks in the country. Crapo’s office did not immediately respond to HuffPost’s request for comment.

“It takes away from these service members the right to sue,” Brown told HuffPost. “Everything about this bill is getting worse and worse.”

Other consumer protections in the bill would require credit reporting companies to let people freeze their credit information for free, and would require the firms to set up a website for doing so.

“These are crumbs in an otherwise toxic bill,” Bart Naylor, a financial policy expert with the consumer advocacy group Public Citizen, said in an interview.

The Congressional Budget Office noted in a cost estimate of the bill this week that the credit provisions would have a relatively small impact.

Of the provision prohibiting charges for credit freezes, the CBO noted that “only about 0.3 percent of Americans with credit reports have frozen their credit, and a number of states already prohibit such charges.”

Of the provision requiring firms to set up a website for requesting credit freezes, the CBO said that “credit reporting agencies already have websites allowing consumers to request security freezes.”

Of the provision disallowing credit reporting agencies from reporting medical debt incurred by veterans for a year, the CBO said “credit reporting agencies already have a six month delay on reporting medical debt for all individuals.”

Naylor said it’s unfair that medical debt hurts anyone’s credit score in the first place.

“We actually think while veterans do deserve special attention, this slight nod in their direction should apply to everyone,” Naylor said. “Medical debt is certainly not a sign of profligate spending.”It starts out as a cute clip featuring a father reading a passage from “The Hitchhikers Guide To The Galaxy” to his child. But the spot takes an emotional turn, leading to a call for donors to give blood in a way that the book’s late author, Douglas Adams, would almost certainly appreciate.

Get your tissues ready (or maybe a towel) and check out the clip above from the Australian Red Cross Blood Service.

Then, don’t panic. Do as the ad suggests and “be life, the universe and everything to someone” by donating blood.Composer John Williams announced he will be leaving the “Star Wars” franchise after next year’s “Episode IX.”

“We know (director) J.J. Abrams is preparing one now that I will hopefully do next year for him,” Williams told KUSC radio. “I look forward to it. It will round out a series of nine that will be quite enough for me.”

“Episode IX” is expected to be the final installment in the current storyline as well as the last chapter in the long-running saga of the Skywalker family.

“Doing the first film in 1977, none of us had any idea that there would be a second film,” Williams said. “It’s developed in the most amazing way.”

Disney plans to make more “Star Wars” films featuring new storylines and characters, but it looks like it will have to do so without Williams, who has scored eight “Episode” movies.

In addition to “Star Wars,” the 86-year-old maestro has composed some of the most instantly recognizable themes in the history of cinema, including “Jaws,” “E.T.,” “Superman,” “Jurassic Park,” “Raiders Of The Lost Ark,” “Schindler’s List” and the first three “Harry Potter” films.

Williams, who has won five Oscars and 24 Grammy Awards, will receive the Grammy Trustees Award from The Recording Academy this summer.

“Star Wars: Episode IX,” which does not yet have a full title, is set for release on Dec. 20, 2019.If Ivanka Trump really is committed to improving women’s rights, there are plenty of people offering suggestions.

President Donald Trump’s daughter-turned-White House adviser got an earful on Thursday after turning to Twitter to mark International Women’s Day ― leading to immediate ridicule by people who criticized her and her father for their track record on women’s rights.

“Today we come together in recognition of women at home & around the globe,” she tweeted. “We celebrate women’s achievements, past & present, & pledge to empower women to reach their full economic potential for generations to come. When women thrive, we ALL succeed.”

Today we come together in recognition of women at home & around the globe. We celebrate women’s achievements, past & present, & pledge to empower women to reach their full economic potential for generations to come. When women thrive, we ALL succeed. #InternationalWomensDay — Ivanka Trump (@IvankaTrump) March 8, 2018

Ivanka Trump has said she would make “women’s empowerment” a key issue in her father’s White House.

But people on Twitter, responding to her post, listed reasons why Trump’s latest “pledge to empower women” could use some work.

Critics pointed to her business practices. Her clothing brand’s merchandise is produced in foreign factories, where laborers ― both men and women ― receive low wages and have limited ability to advocate for themselves.

You can start by paying a fair wage to your sweat shop workers in China. Better yet, have your products manufactured in the US #WalkTheTalk — Concerned Citizen (@joaninDC61) March 8, 2018

You don’t care about women at home or work, you don’t care about empowerment, you care nothing about us...all you care about is the #TrumpGrifterFamily and their bottom line. U are making money every day in the WH off of presidential seals & making and selling products overseas pic.twitter.com/7fibKOVPqf — Ruth Ann Share (@RuthShare) March 8, 2018

Other people on Twitter slammed the powerful White House roles handed to Trump and her husband, Jared Kushner, which some see as nepotism.

You are not responsible for your horrible father. But you are responsible for never achieving anything alone without him. So YOU want to celebrate women's achievements? YOU,who are a grifter who only lives on nepotism? Who is not asahmed of wasting tax payers money for nothing? — cgn (@cgn2810) March 8, 2018

Twitter users also criticized Trump for failing to forcefully speak out against her father’s misbehavior toward women.

The president, who once said his star power entitles him to grab women by the genitals, has been accused of sexual misconduct by 21 women. In recent days it was reported that Donald Trump’s personal lawyer attempted to silence adult film star Stormy Daniels, who says she had an affair with Trump while he was married to Melania Trump.

You know who seems to be doing great? Stormy Daniels. In fact, you and Stormy are the only women actually profiting from this administration. — Brent D. Stump (@BrentontheDL) March 8, 2018

Ivanka Trump, President Donald Trump's oldest daughter, is seen in India in 2017. Cathal McNaughton / Reuters

Some Twitter users reminded Ivanka Trump of her demonstrated ability to flip-flop between her roles as White House adviser and first daughter, depending on the circumstances. Recently, for example, she was asked during an interview to comment on allegations of sexual misconduct against the president. She called it “a pretty inappropriate question to ask a daughter.”

I find this statement inappropriate - as you're the daughter of Donald Trump. — Irene Morris (@ireneand4js) March 8, 2018

It's inappropriate for you to say anything about women when your father is accused of 19 sexual assaults and had an affair with a porn star he paid to keep quiet before election and is still bullying her into silence today. Inappropriate- that's the word right Ivanka? — Jenifer (@jenifer__5) March 8, 2018

I didn’t see you at the women’s march... pic.twitter.com/rrKUzdRszB — Michaelangelo (@lomlplexTOGG) March 8, 2018

She is part of the administration, fair game. She was also okay with daddy bringing Clinton’s accusers to the debate to rattle Hillary. How pro woman was that? — Jennifer (@jerseymom473) March 8, 2018

I find it insulting that you even bring up the cause of women’s issues. You work for a pussy grabbing accused rapist and sexual predator, who has no respect for women whatsoever. Oh and he’s also your father so you could do something about this, but you don’t. pic.twitter.com/ICRuDZYAuX — Ryan Graney (@RyanEGraney) March 8, 2018

You have no self-awareness whatsoever. I stand amazed and stunned at how you try to keep up this act. pic.twitter.com/mlQsp3LDAL — Resistance Mia (@miashort1977) March 8, 2018

The backlash against Ivanka Trump’s Womens’ Day tweet, of course, is nothing new. Just days earlier, she was skewered on social media for a similar comment about Women’s History Month.

Learn more about the global movement for women’s rights, equality and justice at InternationalWomensDay.com or UNWomen.Org“When a bill makes it to my desk, I’ll do what they don’t seem to be doing in Washington,” Scott told the Tampa Bay Times. “I’m going to review the bill line by line, and the group that I’m going to be talking to, the group that I care the most about because it impacted them so much, is the families.”

SB 7026 contains a number of gun-related reforms, including a three-day wait period on gun sales, raising the age requirement for all firearms sales to 21, some regulation of bump stocks, and allocating $69 million to the state’s Department of Education for mental health programs.

Along with these measures, the bill would allow county sheriff’s offices to establish the Coach Aaron Feis Guardian Program, an initiative that would arm select school staff members. The program’s language specifically excludes most teachers, except in the case of Junior Reserve Officers’ Training Corps educators and teachers in the military or law enforcement.

These employees would need to complete “132 hours of comprehensive firearm safety and proficiency training, pass psychological evaluation, submit to and pass drug tests; and complete certified diversity training,” according to a Monday press release describing the bill.Actor Michael B. Jordan became one of the men leading the charge for a more equitable Hollywood when he announced on Wednesday that his production company would adopt inclusion riders on all its projects.

“In support of the women & men who are leading this fight, I will be adopting the Inclusion Rider for all projects produced by my company Outlier Society,” Jordan wrote in an Instagram post.

A post shared by Michael B. Jordan (@michaelbjordan) on Mar 7, 2018 at 3:03pm PST

The “Black Panther” and “Creed” star then linked to the USC Annenberg Inclusion Initiative, led by Dr. Stacy Smith, who first publicly presented the inclusion rider as a solution to Hollywood’s dismal diversity problem in a 2014 op-ed in The Hollywood Reporter. Smith, who researches equality in film and television at the University of Southern California, also discussed the rider in her 2016 TED Talk, “The Data Behind Hollywood’s Sex Problem.”

The inclusion rider, Smith explains, is an opportunity for top actors to contractually demand that their projects reflect the world we actually live in by requiring diversity on screen and behind the camera.

“We are thrilled that Michael B. Jordan has signed on to this effort and committed to the inclusion rider,” Smith told HuffPost. “He and the members of his team are true leaders. We hope other actors and content creators will follow their lead and make inclusion something that is embedded in all of their projects.”

The inclusion rider exploded onto the national scene when Frances McDormand concluded her Oscars acceptance speech by saying, “I have two words to leave you with tonight, ladies and gentlemen: inclusion rider.” She told reporters following the show that she had just learned of the concept the week prior.

AdvertisementAhead of the student march for gun control in Washington, D.C., planned for this month, Baltimore’s mayor vowed that thousands of her city’s students will be among the protestors.

Mayor Catherine E. Pugh said Tuesday that she will provide 60 buses to transport students to the “March for Our Lives” rally on March 24, which was organized by survivors of last month’s deadly shooting at a Florida high school.

Her announcement came as hundreds of Baltimore’s students walked out of classes and marched to City Hall to protest gun violence throughout the city and its schools.

Once at City Hall, they were met by Pugh, who cheered them on.

Baltimore students, seen outside of City Hall on Tuesday, participated in a walkout to protest gun violence in schools and the city. Baltimore Sun via Getty Images

“We need to end this violence, and it needs to be heard from not just me, leaders of the city. We need to hear the voices of young people. Maybe then Congress will listen,” Pugh said, according to local station WBAL.

“We are a nation filled with too many guns,” the mayor added in a video message posted to Twitter later that night. “There is a need to control guns in our country, period, and so we want our young people in Baltimore’s voices to be heard in Washington, D.C.”

I’m proud of the students and the youth of our City for uniting together, demanding change and letting their voices be heard. I look forward to them representing #Baltimore at the @AMarch4OurLives rally on March 24 #myBmore #gradesupgunsdown #marchforourlives pic.twitter.com/aYaBmM7Bbq — Mayor Catherine Pugh (@MayorPugh50) March 7, 2018

Pugh, during an exchange on the issue with Fox News’ Laura Ingraham on Wednesday night, said that funding for approximately 3,000 students’ transportation is being made available through both the private sector as well as through individual donations.

James Bentley, a spokesman for her office, confirmed that detail to HuffPost on Thursday, adding that Pugh’s office is actively reaching out to philanthropic donors for their support. As for Pugh’s decision to send students south, he said it followed the march’s national organizers reaching out late last month.

The organizers “expressed a desire to increase diversity at the march and to have the kids from Baltimore participate in the march,” he said in an email.

Students are seen participating in Tuesday's walkout to protest gun violence in schools and Baltimore. Baltimore Sun via Getty Images

Gun control in Baltimore remains a hot-button issue, with high crime and violence rates continuing to plague the city.

Last year, 88 percent of those killed in Baltimore died from a firearm. The majority of the guns used to commit the acts were illegally possessed, The Baltimore Sun reported citing local authorities said.

Another report in USA Today in January named Baltimore the nation’s most dangerous city, with the area having the nation’s highest per capita murder rate.

The Brennan Center for Justice, which reviewed crime statistics from the nation’s 30 largest cities, also reported that Baltimore saw a 16.4 percent increase in violent crimes between 2016 and 2017, a percentage that was higher than any other city.

Students from Baltimore School for the Arts walk along Guilford Avenue on their way to City Hall on Tuesday. Baltimore Sun via Getty Images

During this week’s student march, the young demonstrators walked not just for those in Florida but themselves and those around them.

Student Quinn Parker, 16, marched with a sign reading “We stand with Excel Academy,” a school in West Baltimore that has lost seven students to gun violence over the last two years, The Baltimore Sun reported.

“Our city, with its history of such high homicide rates, needs to do a better job of keeping its students safe — everywhere,” Parker told the paper.Sen. Mike Lee (right) has made it his mission to pass the First Amendment Defense Act. George Frey via Getty Images

Sen. Mike Lee (R-Utah) reintroduced on Thursday the First Amendment Defense Act, a bill that would provide a range of federal protections for individuals and companies that discriminate against LGBTQ people.

Framed as a religious liberty measure, the legislation aims to prohibit the federal government from taking “discriminatory” action against a person for speaking or acting in accordance with a sincerely held religious or moral belief against same-sex marriage, polygamy or sexual relations outside of marriage.

The government itself would be barred from disfavoring such people in terms of tax status, grants, contracts, loans, licenses, employment, benefits, access to facilities, and a long list of other federal goodies.

And the bill defines the term “person” to include nonpublicly traded for-profit companies.

“What an individual or organization believes about the traditional definition of marriage is not ― and should never be ― a part of the government’s decision-making process when distributing licenses, accreditations, or grants,” Lee said in a statement on Thursday.

The bill, he argued, would ensure that “federal bureaucrats will never have the authority to require those who believe in the traditional definition of marriage to choose between their living in accordance with those beliefs and maintaining their occupation or their tax status.”

LGBTQ advocates warn that the First Amendment Defense Act could set a dangerous precedent for what is protected under the banner of religious freedom. David Stacy, government affairs director for the advocacy group Human Rights Campaign, said the bill’s protections would amount to “state-sanctioned discrimination.”

“Supporters of this legislation are using religious liberty as a sword to hurt LGBTQ families,” Stacy told HuffPost.

Lee and Rep. Raul Labrador (R-Idaho) first introduced versions of this legislation in 2015. Neither of those bills made it out of committee.

But the revived bill ― which has a total of 22 GOP co-sponsors, including Sens. Marco Rubio (Fla.), Ted Cruz (Texas) and Rand Paul (Ky.) ― reframes the original wording to exclude publicly traded for-profit companies, federal employees and contractors, and health care facilities from the list of protected entities. That revision could make all the difference.

The reintroduction of the bill comes as the Trump administration has overturned multiple protections for LGBTQ people established under President Barack Obama. Attorney General Jeff Sessions in October released a memo announcing that federal civil rights legislation does not protect transgender people from discrimination in the workplace.Dear Colleagues,

By now, many of you may have read media accounts indicating that we’ve changed HUD’s mission statement and that these changes signal some sort of retreat from our legal and rightful role in protecting Americans from housing discrimination. It’s not enough that I merely assert these news reports are patently false; it’s necessary that I personally address them and reassure you, the HUD family, that nothing could be further from the truth.

First, some background. HUD’s current mission statement reads: “HUD’s mission is to create strong, sustainable, inclusive communities and quality affordable homes for all. HUD is working to strengthen the housing market to bolster the economy and protect consumers; meet the need for quality affordable rental homes; utilize housing as a platform for improving quality of life; build inclusive and sustainable communities free from discrimination, and transform the way HUD does business.”

A bit wordy perhaps but I agree with every word. The Department’s mission statement has changed from time to time to capture the dynamic nature of our work. It changed in 2003 and again in 2010. Now, in 2018, we are considering another change to our mission statement and are seeking comments and ideas from our senior staff. But the notion that any new mission statement would reflect a lack of commitment to fair housing is nonsense. Yesterday, we issued a public statement to correct the record.

As in previous Administrations, HUD is considering modest changes to the Department’s mission statement to make it a more clear and concise expression of the historic work this agency performs on behalf of the American people. You can be sure of one thing—any mission statement for this Department will embody the principle of fairness as a central element of everything that we do. HUD has been, is now, and will always be committed to ensuring inclusive housing, free from discrimination for all Americans.

Next month, we will mark the 50 Anniversary of the Fair Housing Act. In signing that landmark bill into law, President Johnson said, “Fair Housing for all, all human beings who live in this country, is now a part of the American way of life.” I believe that and I know you do too. The ideals of that law, and our continuing work to support them, are really quite simple—fair is fair.

Thank you for all you do to give meaning and substance to our mission.

Sincerely,

Secretary Ben CarsonMiramar, Florida, U.S.

Joe Raedle via Getty Images

Laurie Woodward Garcia, center, joins other women on International Women's Day in front of a U.S. Department of Homeland Security and Immigration and Customs Enforcement office to ask for fair treatment and dignity for women who are called to the office.Reddit has an entire “Shower Thoughts” subreddit dedicated to “the miniature epiphanies you have that highlight the oddities within the familiar.” In honor of those weird, wonderful and sometimes profound musings, here are 25 of the best posts from the last week:Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.) speaks at a March 7 news conference in which Senate Democrats introduced their $1 trillion infrastructure plan. Alex Wong/Getty Images

Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.) plans to hold a live, televised town hall on March 19 devoted to exploring the issue of economic inequality.

The town hall, called “Inequality in America: The Rise of Oligarchy and Collapse of the Middle Class,” will take place from 7 to 8:30 pm ET before a live audience in the auditorium of the U.S. Capitol. It will be broadcast online with the help of the event’s digital media partners, The Guardian, NowThis, The Young Turks and Act.tv.

The 80-minute panel discussion is an attempt to capitalize on the success of Sanders’ January town hall on “Medicare for all” that drew 1.6 million live viewers.

“The goal is twofold: No. 1 is to have a serious discussion on one of the most important issues facing our country, and that is who owns America, who has the power, why the middle class is declining,” Sanders told HuffPost. “We’re going to talk about extreme poverty in America.

“Then we’re going to be talking about where we go from here. How do we create an economy that works for everybody and not just the 1 percent?”

Sanders has made no secret of his disdain for the superficial habits of mainstream media outlets in general, and television news in particular. He is convinced that the corporate ownership of these operations prevents them from holding accountable the powerful economic forces in the country.

“You tell me how often [the television news] has had serious discussion about the decline of the middle class, the impact of wealth and income inequality, what it means that people like the Koch brothers can spend $400 million on a campaign? Have you ever seen a program about that?” he asked.

But one advantage of Sanders’ 2016 presidential campaign is that he now has a social media following large enough to communicate his message directly to a sizable swath of the public.

“What we want to do is to force discussion about issues of importance to the American people that the corporate media, for a dozen different reasons, will not cover,” he said.

Even before the “Medicare for all” town hall, Sanders had dramatically increased his online video presence. Short Facebook videos he has posted explaining health care and tax policies have garnered millions of views. The lengthier digital town hall format allows Sanders to go into greater depth than those short videos.

The program will consist of a four-person panel: Sanders, Sen. Elizabeth Warren (D-Mass.), filmmaker Michael Moore, and Darrick Hamilton, an economics and urban policy professor at The New School in New York City.

As the panelists discuss what has caused rising economic inequality and how it might be addressed, they will invite guest speakers with specific expertise to join the discussion.

The scheduled guests include Catherine Coleman Flowers, a founder of the Alabama Center for Rural Enterprise Community Development Corp., an anti-poverty group; Gordon Lafer, a labor policy expert at the University of Oregon; and Cindy Estrada, a vice president of the United Auto Workers labor union.

“What do we need to do to join the rest of the world in guaranteeing health care for all people, have a livable minimum wage, build the affordable housing, make sure that every kid in this country is able to go to college regardless of his or her income, and how do we rebuild the infrastructure?” - Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.)

Unlike the “Medicare for all” town hall, which was devoted to a single policy solution, the inequality town hall is expected to be more open-ended in its proposals.

Based on the way Sanders diagnoses the problem, however, the answers he intends to examine most closely are likely to come from the progressive toolkit. That presumably includes policies that Sanders himself has championed: free college tuition, expanded Social Security benefits, paid family leave, a higher minimum wage and rules that strengthen labor unions.

“What do we need to do to join the rest of the world in guaranteeing health care for all people, have a livable minimum wage, build the affordable housing, make sure that every kid in this country is able to go to college regardless of his or her income, and how do we rebuild the infrastructure?” he said of the event’s mission.

Sanders elicited criticism from supporters of Hillary Clinton during the 2016 presidential campaign for his message on class and economic inequality that appeared to sidestep inequalities driven by race, gender and other identities or experiences.

Sanders continues to dispute the criticism, noting his vocal opposition to racial bias in policing and his support for criminal justice reform and women’s reproductive rights.

The Vermont senator’s town hall is likely to address economic hardship in communities of color and the particular solutions that might be needed. Hamilton, Coleman Flowers and Estrada each have expertise in the intersection of racial and economic inequities.The mobile billboards outside the office of Australia's minister for women. Australian Council of Trade Unions

Drawing inspiration from the American movie “Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri,” Australian trade unions parked their version outside the office of the minister for women Thursday to call on the federal government to mandate paid domestic violence leave for all workers.

As International Women’s Day was being marked, the Australian Council of Trade Unions (ACTU), which represents more than 2 million workers, parked three red signs outside the Melbourne office of Kelly O’Dwyer, the minister for women, whose responsibilities include strengthening women’s economic security, helping women attain leadership roles and keeping women and children safe from violence.

The billboards stated, “Women are being killed,” “Paid domestic leave can save lives” and “Why no action, Kelly O’Dwyer?”

The ACTU is calling on the government to make 10 days of paid domestic violence leave available to all workers. Australian trade unions have been pushing for paid domestic violence leave to be inserted into government-mandated minimum working conditions for all workers nationwide for some time.

Statistics collated by Our Watch, a nonprofit that aims to raise awareness about violence against women and children, show that 1 in 3 Australian women has experienced physical violence since the age of 15, and 1 in 4 has experienced physical or sexual violence by an intimate partner. Our Watch says that, on average, one woman in Australia is killed each week by a current or former partner. Another monitoring project, Destroy the Joint, reported that, as of March 4, at least 11 women had been killed in domestic violence situations so far in 2018.

Domestic violence leave is an uncommon yet growing workplace condition in Australia. Paid time off for workers to deal with domestic violence situations ― such as being forced to leave home, resettle children or pets, get their finances in order or seek medical or psychological help ― is available to about 1 million workers in Australia, according to the ACTU, but is provided only on a voluntary basis by forward-thinking employers.

O’Dwyer said it was “absolutely disgraceful that... the ACTU would play politics with domestic violence in an attempt to score cheap political points,” to which the union answered on Twitter:

Kelly O'Dwyer is accusing us of politicising domestic violence leave.



Damn straight we are - women are being killed.#WeWontWaitDV #IWD2018 #WeWontWait #StopGBVatWork pic.twitter.com/8pT1tKwjgt — Australian Unions (@unionsaustralia) March 8, 2018

“We’re going to do whatever is necessary to bring this issue into the open,” ACTU secretary Sally McManus said. ″[Workers] are going to be more productive, and they’re going to stay in their jobs.”

Unions have claimed that such a nationwide program of domestic violence leave would cost as little as five cents per employee, and they have appealed to the Fair Work Commission (FWC), Australia’s industrial umpire, for the condition to become a standard work entitlement. However, the reform was opposed by the former minister for women, Michaelia Cash, and O’Dwyer has not yet expressed support for the change.

Last year, the FWC ruled that 10 days of unpaid leave should be available under standard work agreements, but unions are pushing for the 10 days to be paid leave so that domestic violence victims do not have to choose between earning money or making emergency arrangements. Unions celebrated it as a minor win at the time, claiming it would be the first such system of its type in the world, but committed to continuing the fight to secure paid leave.

“We need to change our current workplace laws because they are failing women,” said Gerard Dwyer, national secretary of the Shop, Distributive and Allied Employees Association, at the time of the decision. “One way to do that is by providing access to the time off they need to escape an abusive or violent situation, including attending court hearings or looking for a safe home to relocate children and pets.”The guns were cached in swimming pool heating units ― pools and their accessories being the sort of thing you can ship from Miami to Rio de Janeiro without arousing suspicion. The smugglers had gutted the units and filled them back to their original weight with rifles and ammunition.

There were 60 assault-style rifles and ammo in the shipment that arrived at Rio’s international airport on June 1, 2017 ― 45 of them manufactured in the United States. And they were all almost certainly intended for the drug gangs fighting among themselves and against local police in Rio’s favelas, helping drive a sharp spike in violence across Brazil’s second-largest city. These were Brazilian turf wars, waged with weapons manufactured in Maine, Massachusetts, Illinois, Minnesota, South Carolina, Alabama and Florida.

The shipment was no one-time deal. The Brazilian traffickers had a routine, with code words rooted in Portuguese lingo. The assault-style rifles were flechas in the traffickers’ slang — arrows. The cartridges were biscoitos, or cookies. Bullets and ammunition were jujuba de Smith: jujuba like the candy, Smith as in Smith & Wesson. At one point in their investigation, Rio’s Civil Police listened in on a phone call between two men, one identified as Gil dos Santos Almeida, the other as João Victor Silva Roza, who police say helped negotiate weapon sales in Rio de Janeiro. The following is a translation of a transcript of the call included in Federal Police records and documents from Brazil’s Federal Public Ministry:

Gil: Hi, dude.

João Victor: Do you have the Smith candies?

Gil: Whose?

João Victor: The Smiths.

Gil: No, man.

João Victor: Don’t you? I will take that shit there. Got any?

Gil: Yeah.

And now here they were, in the customs area of Rio’s Galeão International Airport, a heating unit full of flechas and biscoitos and jujuba, exposed by an X-ray machine. It was, according to the Federal Police, the largest shipment of rifles and ammunition ever seized at Rio’s airport.

In the days after the bust, police arrested several Brazilians they said were involved in the plot. But the alleged head of the operation remained elusive, even though police believed they knew exactly who he was: Frederik Barbieri, a 46-year-old Brazilian who had been raised outside Rio de Janeiro before becoming a millionaire by smuggling guns from the United States to his home country.

There had been a similar sting in 2010 and similar accusations against Barbieri. But by 2012, he had fled to the United States and settled in South Florida, from which, Brazilian police allege, he spent five years smuggling more than 1,000 rifles and thousands of rounds of ammunition into Brazil.

Whenever a mass shooting happens in the United States ― at Sandy Hook or Sutherland Springs, in Las Vegas or at Stoneman Douglas High School ― Americans engage in predictable, and usually fruitless, debates about gun control: about how to reduce the sheer volume of guns available in America, how to limit the ease with which Americans can buy them, and how to reduce the increasingly heavy death tolls guns bring to our cities and states, schools and churches.

Barbieri’s case, however, highlights another phenomenon that is rarely discussed: the fact that American guns often find their way out of the United States via smugglers looking to make an easy profit by selling cheaply bought contraband at a sizable markup.

“This has been going on for decades and decades, because the United States is the candy store of guns for the world,” said Joseph Vince, a retired special agent for the U.S. Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives, or ATF. “This has nothing to do with the Second Amendment, or hunters or shooters. This has to do with us creating a situation that takes a lot of lives and provides the means for organized crime to exist in these countries.”

It’s not just the guns being trafficked out of the United States; it’s the gun violence problems, too.

Weapons smuggled in hollowed-out pool water heaters are seized at Rio de Janeiro's international airport on June 1, 2017. Ricardo Moraes/Reuters

American rifles are not exactly flooding Brazil, at least not to the extent that they have flowed into Mexico and other Latin American countries. Still, in the last three years, Brazil’s Federal Police have seized more than 1,500 American-made guns, most of them from people the police say are drug traffickers and members of drug gangs, according to a report the Federal Police released in December.

Common sense suggests that the number of rifles seized represents only a fraction of the number of rifles available on illicit markets, and some data on seizures support that notion.

Rifles make up fewer than 5 percent of the guns Brazilian police have seized in the last year, according to the Institute of Peace, a São Paulo think tank. But heavy ammunition made for rifles constitutes 22 percent of total munitions seizures, suggesting “both a large presence in the illegal market and the intensity of [rifle] use,” the Institute’s researchers wrote in a 2017 report.

The vast majority of those weapons have been found in Rio, a city that has experienced a sharp uptick in homicides and violent crimes over the last three years as a nationwide economic collapse blew up the Rio state and municipal budget, left it without money to pay police officers or fund basic services, and spiked unemployment rates.

The result has been war-like battles between a discontented police force and the city’s three major drug gangs, which control many of Rio’s informal, underserved favela communities. The drug gangs themselves, meanwhile, have been engaged in their own turf wars, leading to daily shootouts between traffickers and other dealers, traffickers and the police, and even traffickers and the Brazilian military.

The saga has taken an immeasurable social and psychological toll on Rio de Janeiro, especially on its poorest residents. There were 688 shootings in January 2018 alone. In Rio’s favelas, the informal working-class, often impoverished neighborhoods that the government has neglected and that drug gangs largely control, they have forced widespread school closures, the shuttering of community centers, routine stop-and-frisks of innocent favela residents and the exacerbation of human rights violations already associated with the city’s pre-2016 Olympics “pacification” program, which sought to seize control of favelas from the drug gangs and deliver the sort of vital social services the neighborhoods have long lacked. The program is now a broke and miserable failure.

And then there is the body count: Brazil as a whole suffered more than 60,000 homicides in 2016, according to federal crime data, a 3.8 percent increase from the year before. There were more than 5,000 homicides committed in the Rio state alone, a 24 percent increase from 2015. (There were roughly 17,000 homicides in the United States in 2016.)

More than 400 officers were killed in the line of duty across Brazil last year, with 132 of those deaths occurring in Rio, a 34 percent increase from the year prior. But they, too, have become more violent: In Rio state, police were responsible for 925 killings in 2016, roughly the same number of police killings that occurred in the entire United States that year, even though the U.S. population is nearly 20 times the size of Rio state’s. Rio was home to more than a fifth of the 4,200 police killings that took place in Brazil.

The majority of these homicides are committed with Brazilian-made handguns. Brazil also has a sizable gun manufacturing industry, and the southern state of Rio Grande do Sul is home to Taurus International, a company that bills itself as “the global leader in revolver manufacturing.”

But statistics and anecdotal evidence from police suggest that the authorities are increasingly coming across U.S.-made guns, most of which are assault-style rifles ― AR-10s, AR-15s, AK-47s, or something similar ― or high-caliber handguns that pack far more punch than the weapons manufactured or readily available for purchase in Brazil.

“The U.S. continues to be the largest indirect source of illegal handguns and assault rifles,” the report from Brazil’s Federal Police, released in December, said. And though it named eight other countries as significant sources of weapons seized by police, officers on the ground discount the role other foreign countries play in supplying the country’s, and Rio’s, ongoing war.

“Almost all of the shipments of foreign weapons arriving in Brazil leave the United States,” Fabricio Oliveira, the head of Brazil’s Bureau of Firearms and Explosives, told HuffPost.

That’s true whether the guns are manufactured in the U.S. or Europe, as smugglers routinely siphon European rifles into Brazil through the United States. Surging levels of violence in both Rio and Brazil, the Federal Police said, is increasingly “a result of unrestricted sales in stores and fairs in American cities.”

“Almost all of the shipments of foreign weapons arriving in Brazil leave the United States.” - Fabricio Oliveira, the head of Brazil’s Bureau of Firearms and Explosives

U.S. gun makers built and sold more than 10.6 million guns in 2015. In 2016, the number rose to nearly 11.5 million, a single-year record. U.S. gun companies more than doubled their output from 2009 to 2016.

Many of them inevitably leak from the United States into other countries. In 2014, more than 2,000 U.S.-made firearms illegally crossed the Mexican border every day, according to Mexico’s governmental research service.

Though many of those guns stay in Mexico, to be used on one side or the other in its ongoing drug war, they also routinely follow international drug smuggling routes to countries like Colombia, Nicaragua, El Salvador, Venezuela, Paraguay and, apparently, Brazil.

And though drug and gun smuggling to Mexico takes up most of the United States’ attention, there’s a rich history of such trafficking between the U.S. and Brazil, too.

In the late 1980s and early 1990s, Brazilian drug gangs were loading up so heavily on U.S.-made weapons that Brazilian cops routinely claimed they were outgunned in battles with traffickers. U.S. and Brazilian authorities were so concerned with the practice that Brazil’s Federal Police and the ATF set up a direct hotline to communicate about weapon seizures.

Advances in customs surveillance technology and heightened awareness of the problem helped limit the practice, at least between the U.S. and Brazil. In 1996, the Brazilian government successfully persuaded the United States to suspend arms export licenses to Paraguay, a move that helped decrease the flow of guns to Brazil’s southwestern border, which had become a major checkpoint on international drug- and gun-smuggling routes.

The hotline between Brazil and the U.S. no longer exists, and the ATF, which holds trace agreements with various foreign countries to help it track U.S. firearm seizures, appears to have let its pact with Brazil lapse years ago. Since 2010, the U.S. Department of Justice and the ATF have prosecuted only two cases of alleged gun smuggling between the U.S. and Brazil, according to public records.

“All firearms that are trafficked are a concern, but Brazil does not have near the volume as the guns that are trafficked to Mexico,” Steve Barborini, a former ATF agent who is now a detective in the Palm Beach County Sheriff’s Office, said in an email. “Therefore the guns headed to Brazil are not on the priority radar.”

U.S. guns seemed to become less of a priority for the Brazilians, too, especially as they saw them with less frequency. They were far more concerned with their own weapon manufacturers and the smuggling of Brazilian-made guns and drugs among its South American neighbors. Brazil has toughened its gun laws over the last 15 years, making it nearly impossible to own a firearm for personal use. But illegal purchasing is common. Many of the weapons manufactured in Brazil are exported to other Latin American countries, such as Paraguay, before they are smuggled right back into Brazil.

Even academic researchers and policy observers diverted their attention away from the U.S.-Brazil relationship, focusing instead on smuggling between the U.S. and Mexico, or to countries like El Salvador and Jamaica, where the problems were more evident.

For years, the flow of weapons from the U.S. to Brazil just didn’t seem like much of a problem.

And then, one morning in 2015, a Rio policeman was shot in the head.

Brazil is seeking the extradition of Frederik Barbieri, a Florida resident suspected in the smuggling of guns to Rio de Janiero. Globo News

Luiz Carlos Barbosa de Lima had just said goodbye to his wife and 3-month-old son on the morning of May 15, 2015. Barbosa was basking in the glow of perhaps the biggest capture of his career: He’d been one of the lead officers in a raid that brought down a major player in a Rio drug gang. He was an accomplished cop.

Fifteen shots peppered the vehicle Barbosa had just backed out of his driveway in São Gonçalo, a municipality north of the city of Rio de Janeiro that is home to roughly 1 million of the Rio state’s 16.5 million residents.

When the shooting finally stopped, Barbosa was dead.

Soon after, police began to investigate not just Barbosa’s death but also the increase in the number of rifles used in crimes across Rio de Janeiro. During that investigation, according to authorities in Brazil, they came across a notebook that included notes on drug and weapon trafficking operations ― as well as the names and phone numbers of people participating in the schemes.

Though the police records do not specifically link the seizure at Rio’s airport to Barbosa’s death, a Federal Police spokesman said the next day that the investigation had started soon after the 2015 killing of an officer in São Gonçalo.

The police dubbed their investigation “Operation Armalite,” naming it after a gun producer based in the rural town of Geneseo, Illinois, that produces rifles similar to the AR-10 and, according to its website, “products that consumers, military, and law enforcement users around the world depend on.”

At the time of Barbosa’s death, Frederik Barbieri had been living in Port Saint Lucie, Florida, with his wife, Ana Claudia, since at least 2012. Barbieri had been born, according to the Brazilian press, in Iraja, a neighborhood in the Rio suburbs. He’d had only minor run-ins with the law in the United States, according to state records: a traffic violation in 2012 and a citation related to another traffic violation in 2015 that was ultimately dismissed.

But Barbieri was no stranger to Brazilian law enforcement, which had accused him of illegally trafficking weapons into the country in 2010. He had somehow escaped punishment. But now, back in Brazil, police were slowly piecing together a puzzle that would lead to Barbieri’s arrest in the United States nearly two years later, in a case that caused the Brazilian media to brand him “Senhor das Armas” ― the Lord of Guns.

For nearly two years after the launch of the investigation, the Brazilian police had monitored phone calls between suspected traffickers whose names they’d come across in the discovered notebook. They’d pieced together elements of the scheme they were trying to stop but hadn’t had much luck finding a way to stop it.

The alleged smugglers weren’t exactly subtle. HuffPost’s reporting on Barbieri’s scheme is based on official documents and records from Brazil’s Federal Public Ministry, as well as an indictment from the U.S. Department of Justice that was unsealed after his arrest in the United States. The following conversation between negotiator João Victor and an unidentified man was translated from a transcript in documents from Brazil’s Federal Public Ministry:

João Victor: Hey, bro. I’m with two big dealers out there …

Person 2: Big ones?

João Victor: Yeah, dude.

Person 2: Take it easy, there. Let me talk to someone in here. Which one is it? That one of mine?

João Victor: A-R

Person 2: How much?

João Victor: Four, five ... forty-five.

Person 2: Let me talk to someone in here, and I will let you know. I’m not giving you certainty, no. OK? I’m not going to do the same thing the guy did to you, no. But I’ll talk to my buddy in here. If my buddy goes, I’ll talk to you.

João Victor: Are you going to do this now? I’ll keep waiting for you, huh?

Person 2: That’s it! I’ll call you back.

Even when they stuck with the code, there was little mistaking their subject. “I wanted to get an arrow from there,” a man named Chuca, who police say was one of João Victor’s associates in the scheme, said in a conversation monitored by the police, “and how many muni [ammunition]?”

“I think it’s 18, he said,” João Victor said.

Then, on the night of May 31, 2017, police intercepted a phone call between João Victor and another man, named by police as Luciano de Andrade Faria. According to police records, the two men openly discussed waiting for a call from a dispatcher, who would alert them to a new shipment possibly arriving in Rio the next day. They were hoping to clear it through customs and pick it up as soon as possible.

The next morning, on June 1, police officers knocked on the door of a home in Nilópolis, a city just northwest of Rio. They had traced the phone call to that address, but police were shocked when an older man appeared before them. He didn’t fit the profile of the traficante they were looking for. Still, they pressed: Did he have any ties to any transportation businesses that picked up foreign shipments from Rio’s international airport?

“No,” he told them.

But, the man added, his son owned an import services company. Then he pointed down the street, in the direction of a home a few blocks away.

Within minutes, Luciano was telling cops that he was leaving for the airport later that day to pick up a shipment from the United States. At Galeão International Airport, Luciano directed them to customs. After a few orders and some initial confusion, they found their shipment. When they put the containers through X-ray machines, police found exactly what they were looking for.

All but 15 of the 60 guns they found had been made in the United States. The firearms were as follows, according to Maurício Mendonça, a delegate for Rio’s Civil Police:

45 rifles, equivalent to AK-47s, that fired 7.62 x 39 millimeter ammunition. Thirty of them were made by Century Arms, an American gun manufacturer based in Florida. The other 15 were made in either Romania or Serbia.

One rifle, equivalent or similar to a G3, that fired 7.62 x 51 millimeter ammunition, manufactured by PTR Industries, of Aynor, S.C.

14 rifles, equivalent or similar to AR-10s, that fired 7.62 x 51 millimeter ammunition. All of them were made by American companies: eight by Huntsville, Alabama-based DMPS Panther Arms and one each by the following companies: Smith and Wesson, of Springfield, Mass., one of the largest gun manufacturers in the world; Rock River Arms, of Colona, Ill.; Diamondback Firearms, of Cocoa, Fla.; Windham Weaponry, of Windham, Maine; Alexandria Pro-Fab, of Alexandria, Minn.; Palmetto State Armory, of Columbia, S.C.

It was Brazil’s largest seizure of illicit firearms since at least 2007, according to federal authorities.

Two weeks later, the Brazilian authorities accused Barbieri of orchestrating a broad scheme to repeatedly smuggle weapons from Miami International Airport to Rio de Janeiro with the intention of selling them to Rio’s drug gangs.

The plot involved more than 15 people, most of whom were immediately arrested in Brazil. But Barbieri, the man police alleged was the mastermind of the scheme, remained free in Florida.

That scheme, as outlined in official Brazilian and American documents, is fascinating in its simplicity.

Upon arriving in South Florida, Barbieri set up a pool supply company in Miami and operated it as a seemingly legitimate business that sold pool heaters and other equipment primarily for export to Brazil.

Once he’d procured the weapons to be shipped to Brazil, according Brazilian police, he’d fill the pool heaters with guns.

Barbieri’s associates, police say, would then send the cargo to Brazil via legitimate U.S. shipping and forwarding companies that, according to police reports, were unaware they were serving as the middlemen in a vast intercontinental weapon-smuggling ring.

Once the shipments arrived in Rio, the process reversed itself. According to police, a man named Alexandre Claudio Duarte Pires would sign for the cargo at the airport with forged import tickets that used the names of four legitimate Brazilian shipping companies and listed the recipients as two other real companies that sold pool equipment in Brazil.

A Brazilian customs agent would then clear the cargo through the customs process, the Brazilian documents said. Luciano would pick up the shipments, which were destined ― again, under the assumption that they contained pool equipment ― for delivery to companies based in Jacarepagua, near the park that is home to most of the venues from Rio’s 2016 Olympic Games.

Instead of taking the shipments to Jacarepagua, though, Luciano would dump the packages in Niteroi, a separate city across Guanabara Bay to Rio’s east, where João Victor would take control of them. At that point, Brazil’s police say, João Victor and another associate would negotiate the sale of weapons and ammunition to an assortment of middlemen.

Those middlemen, according to police, would then sell the weapons to their connects in all three of Rio de Janeiro’s major criminal factions: the Comando Vermelho (Red Command), Amigos dos Amigos (Friends of Friends) and the Terceiro Comando Puro (Pure Third Command).

The process, law enforcement officials in both countries allege, helped make Barbieri rich. The weapons Barbieri shipped sell for $700 to $1,000 in the United States but command $15,000 to $20,000 on Rio’s black market, according to U.S. court documents. The shipment Brazilian police uncovered in June was worth as much as $2 million, Brazilian police claim.

Barbieri’s operation, police say, has executed dozens of other shipments similar to this one. Brazilian police believe the smuggling ring managed to sneak more than 1,000 rifles and nearly 300,000 pieces of ammunition into Brazil from 2014 to 2017. If true, it would amount to more than half of all ammunition Brazilian police have seized in that span, according to The Institute of Peace, the São Paulo think tank.

Barbieri remained free in the United States for months as American law enforcement officials, at the urging of their counterparts in Brazil, carried out their own investigation into his alleged crimes. Finally, on Feb. 23, the Americans received a tip from a source that Barbieri was holding rifles in a storage unit in Vero Beach, Florida. Police obtained a warrant to search the facility and found more than 2,000 rounds of ammunition, dozens of high-capacity magazines and more than 50 rifles, most of which were “wrapped for shipment,” according to documents filed in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Florida.

That night, U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement Officials arrested Barbieri at his home in Florida.

Barbieri was indicted on four separate charges, including conspiracy to commit offenses against the United States, firearms smuggling from the U.S. to Brazil, and exporting firearms without a legal license. The charges, all felonies, carry maximum sentences of five to 20 years. Barbieri has claimed in previous interviews with Brazilian news outlets that he is a U.S. citizen. ICE does not comment on the immigration status of people it arrests.

Barbieri’s listed phone number was disconnected by the time HuffPost attempted to reach out to him in late 2017. His lawyer in Brazil, Bruno Saccani, flatly denied the allegations against his client late last year, suggesting that police and prosecutors in Brazil had already decided on Barbieri’s guilt. Saccani has not responded to multiple interview requests since.

Barbieri denied any connection to the scheme upon his arrest in the United States, according to the federal complaint against him. Leonard Paul Fenn, an attorney temporarily assigned to represent Barbieri, said that the case hadn’t progressed enough to offer comment on the allegations against Barbieri.

But in previous interviews with Brazilian news outlets, Barbieri has claimed that it was not him but members of Rio’s Civil Police force who organized the smuggling scheme. They were framing him to cover their own crimes, he said. “They are civilian policemen, and then, to say it was theirs, it is easier to say that it was mine,” Barbieri said.

Brazil’s police forces for decades have dealt with allegations of internal corruption, particularly at the state level and especially in Rio de Janeiro. But Brazilian police immediately responded to Barbieri’s claims by saying they would investigate if they could find any evidence to corroborate them.

Brazil is currently seeking Barbieri’s extradition to face criminal charges there.

Weapons destroyed by the Brazilian Army "Exercito" at the military center in the Deodoro district of Rio on June 2, 2017. Anadolu Agency via Getty Images

The majority of weapons smuggled from the U.S. to Brazil still come across the porous border between Paraguay and Brazil, according to the Brazilian Federal Police report issued in December.

The shipments police tied to Barbieri, however, came straight from a major U.S. airport to one of Brazil’s busiest hubs: pool heaters, stuffed with guns and ammunition, shipped on planes, passing beneath the noses of customs officials and inspectors in both countries.

“It was unexpected,” Maurício Mendonça, the Rio police delegate, told Globo News shortly after the June 1 seizure. “We did not believe that the criminals would use this kind of route on that scale.”

Former officials from U.S. Customs and Border Patrol were less surprised that such a scheme was so easy to pull off. There’s simply no way customs officials can inspect every shipment that comes into or goes out of a busy hub like Miami.

“You want to smuggle in plain sight,” said Kenneth Prager, who led the CBP’s Miami Field Office in the late 1980s and early 1990s. “Brazil’s trade with Florida is a very big deal, and whenever you have a legitimate program like that, someone’s going to use it for illegitimate means. Smuggling is the second-oldest crime ever, so none of this is a surprise for me.”

The Miami airport handles 84 percent of all imports to the United States from Latin America and the Caribbean, and 81 percent of all exports from the United States to the rest of the Americas.

In 2014, more than 100,000 tons of cargo entered Miami International Airport from Brazil or exited the airport bound for Brazil. That same year, the Miami airport handled nearly 34,000 tons of industrial machinery and equipment ― that is, packages like those that contained the pool heaters and air conditioners in which the guns were secreted.

Smuggling is made even easier because of the sheer number of guns available in the United States. There are, according to estimates, more than 350 million guns in the United States, and U.S. gun manufacturers continue to churn them out at record pace. In 2016 alone, they produced more than 4.2 million rifles, and more than 147,000 of them were legally exported from the U.S. to other countries, according to ATF.

There are no real estimates on how many guns have left the country illegally, but from 2009 to 2014, authorities seized more than 73,000 U.S.-made firearms in Mexico alone, according to the U.S. Government Accountability Office. More than half were rifles and shotguns, and most of them, the ATF reported, were likely purchased legally in the U.S. before they were smuggled across the border. And in 2011, the ATF reported that more than 90 percent of weapons seized in the Bahamas and more than 80 percent of those seized in Jamaica were U.S.-made, the Council on Foreign Relations reported.

Miami’s location in a state with lax gun laws exacerbates the problem. It’s easier to procure a significant amount of high-powered rifles in a short amount of time in Florida, which has no ban on assault weapons, requires no license to purchase firearms and does not register guns. Buying a rifle in Florida is so easy that it took two HuffPost reporters just 38 minutes to legally purchase an AR-15 in Orlando two days after the Pulse nightclub massacre in June 2016. Many states, including Florida, impose no restrictions on purchases of multiple firearms. The United States has no federal gun trafficking law, and the bar for prosecuting trafficking-related crimes is often prohibitively high, multiple former ATF agents said.

“Because of how easy it is to get guns in the U.S., you can stockpile them and wait to devise a plan to get them out of the country,” said Donald De Fago, a retired former U.S. Customs and Border Patrol official who led agency efforts to combat trafficking. “If you have the market down in Colombia or Brazil or anywhere, and you have the will and the financing, you can just take your time here.”

The ATF, meanwhile, is an agency in something of a perpetual crisis, largely created by America’s powerful gun lobby and its allies in Congress, who together have spent decades trying to cripple the bureau charged with enforcing U.S. gun laws.

From 2005 to 2014, at a time when gun manufacturing was skyrocketing, the ATF saw its budget increase just 34 percent, barely enough to keep it ahead of inflation and far less than what other law enforcement agencies received. Its staffing levels have remained stagnant: It had fewer total employees and only about 300 more special agents in 2015 than it had in 2001. A quarter of the bureau’s special agents were set to reach retirement age by 2013, with an additional 20 percent eligible for retirement by the end of 2018. In 2016, President Barack Obama attempted to boost the agency’s budget so it could hire replacements, but the available funding was barely enough to maintain staff levels.

The agency is so busy combating firearms smuggling in the United States, where an estimated 50,000 firearms are illegally trafficked across state lines each year, that the bureau often lacks the resources, manpower or time to worry about guns leaving for other countries.

“They have so few inspectors that, even in this country, it’d take 20 years for every dealer to be inspected,” said Vince, the former ATF agent who is now a criminal justice professor at Mount St. Mary’s University in Maryland. “You can’t operate like that.”

Morale at the ATF has plummeted as well. Once considered one of the best places to work in the federal government, ATF ranked 279th out of 314 federal agencies when employees were asked about the capabilities of its senior leadership in a 2014 survey, as the Center for American Progress noted in a study of the agency published in 2015. It is no coincidence that the ATF has spent much of the last 15 years without a permanent director.

The ATF keeps aggregated trace data on weapons that leave the United States for certain countries, but Brazil is not yet one of them. The United States has also failed to ratify the Inter-American Convention Against the Illicit Manufacturing of and Trafficking in Firearms, Ammunition, Explosives and Other Related Materials (CIFTA), a treaty that would require increased criminal penalties on illegal manufacturing and trafficking of firearms and, in theory, allow countries in the Americas to share more information and increase cooperation on cross-border efforts to reduce gun crimes. (Critics of CIFTA say that it is possibly unconstitutional or, at least, “incompatible with American liberties.”)

The agency also closed its office in Bogota, Colombia, leaving it without a single international bureau in South America. Though ICE and the Drug Enforcement Administration have agents in Brazil, the closest ATF agents are headquartered more than a thousand miles away, in El Salvador.

There are, however, indications of concern within the U.S. government. In 2007, the U.S., Mexico and other countries in Central America entered a cooperative agreement meant to stem illegal drug and weapon trafficking between the countries. And in response to a 2009 report from the Government Accountability Office, the ATF and ICE began to work more collaboratively to combat firearms smuggling across the border with Mexico.

In July 2017, barely a month after the Brazilian sting operation intercepted the shipment at Rio’s airport, the ATF and Brazil signed a new memorandum of understanding on a trace agreement between the two countries. It’s a relationship, an ATF spokesman said in an email, that “allows for more efficient and comprehensive tracing of firearms recovered in Brazil. Tracing firearms gives law enforcement investigative leads to assist in solving crime and helps in the interdiction of firearms to prevent crime.”

That agreement, the spokesman said, is “another example of the thousands of partnerships ATF has in providing these investigative leads to the law enforcement community in the U.S. and internationally.”

Rifles seized last month in Brazil. On the side of the rifles is an image of the U.S. flag. Brazilian Federal Highway Police

In the days after Barbieri’s arrest in the United States, Brazilian cable news outlets and newspapers plastered his photo onto their nightly broadcasts and front pages. The Lord of Guns, the orchestrator of Brazil’s biggest gun-smuggling operation in at least a decade, had finally fallen.

On its face, the investigation into Barbieri’s alleged crimes worked exactly as it should have. Brazilian police carried out a thorough investigation that led them to a shipment of illegally trafficked weapons at Rio’s airport. They contacted U.S. law enforcement officials, who launched their own investigation and caught Barbieri before he could send 50 more rifles to Brazil.

And yet, if Brazilian officials are right, Barbieri succeeded in sending more than 1,000 rifles and hundreds of thousands of rounds of ammunition from the U.S. to Brazil before anyone sniffed him out.

For at least five years, Barbieri apparently was able to help fuel Rio’s drug war from 4,000 miles away. This is largely because a remarkable unwillingness to even remotely limit gun manufacturers’ ability to mass produce weapons for the sake of profit has made the United States the perfect staging ground for international smugglers looking to get a piece of the action.

The ATF, customs officials and law enforcement bodies in countries like Brazil, as a result, are left to play an unending game of whack-a-mole, all while U.S.-made guns continue to inflict violence and death on populations that can do little about it. And that’s because the United States has made the political choice to cripple the agencies and partnerships vital in policing and preventing a problem it has created.

The Lord of Guns may have been toppled, but that doesn’t mean the flow of weapons from the U.S. to Brazil has been stanched.

On Jan. 18, police in Rio de Janeiro seized 60 more weapons during a highway traffic stop in the city’s south zone. Nineteen of them were rifles. Their make and model, as well as the manufacturer, are unclear from initial reports. So, too, is the identity of the person responsible for shipping them to Brazil.

Advertisement