Aja Brown, Compton's youngest mayor, is running to represent California's 44th Congressional District. Ted Soqui via Getty Images

Compton Mayor Aja Brown (D) announced Thursday that she’s running to represent California’s 44th Congressional District, adding more intrigue to a race that until late last month was expected to be relatively low-profile.

“My vision for a greater 44th is anchored in delivering real results, through building coalitions that unify, partnering with our cities to bring forth new investment, new opportunities and focusing on collective progress that we can see and touch,” Brown said at a press conference near the Calvary Community Church of Compton.

Brown ― who, at age 31, became the youngest mayor of Compton in 2013 ― will face off against incumbent Rep. Nanette Barragán (D) and actress-turned-pundit Stacey Dash, who is running as a Republican and tweeted Wednesday that she was glad to “help to open the race up.”

During Thursday’s press conference, Brown dismissed TMZ’s suggestion that Dash’s candidacy motivated her to run a competing campaign.

“To be clear, my decision to enter this race was not predicated on one person, but on the 700,000 residents of the 44th District,” she said.

Director Ava DuVernay, left, is seen with Brown at a screening of DuVernay's film "A Wrinkle In Time" earlier this month. Robin L. Marshall via Getty Images

Barragán, who has represented the district since last year, gained the California Democratic Party’s endorsement in late February. She also has the support of California Sen. Kamala Harris (D).

Dash, who is best known for starring in the 1995 film “Clueless” and for her stint as a Fox News commentator, will likely face an uphill battle in the race, as the largely black and Latino district overwhelmingly voted for Hillary Clinton in the 2016 election. Dash, an outspoken supporter of President Donald Trump, has also faced backlash for her criticism of former President Barack Obama and for calling to abolish Black History Month.Charlize Theron likes to get high on her own supply ― from her mother.

The 42-year-old “Gringo” actress revealed during an appearance on “Jimmy Kimmel Live!” Wednesday that her mom, Gerda, recently started buying her weed. It all started because the two have trouble sleeping, Theron said. They wanted to try a strain of weed that would help, rather than their usual sleep medication.

“Last week she showed up at my house, literally drove in in her little tennis outfit, and brought me a little container and just left it on my kitchen table,” Theron said. “And she was like, ’So I got some blueberry covered chocolate ones, but if you want it faster acting you should go for the mints, ’cause those you suck and it just works faster.”

Theron said she was really happy with the results, and said the remedy “totally works, it’s amazing” and that her sleep is now “incredible.”

And while she’s willing to share sleep advice, she’s not willing to share her dealer mother.

“You can’t have her, she’s all mine,” the actress said.

Charlize Theron (right) with her mother, Gerda, at the Oscars in 2013. Kevin Mazur via Getty Images

Sounds like we’ll be hearing a lot more weed tips and stories throughout Theron’s press trip for her new movie, “Gringo” — which just happens to be about a pharmaceutical team heading to Mexico to mass-produce a marijuana pill.

During her Wednesday appearance on “Kimmel,” Theron also opened up about why she stopped smoking pot after a “good solid eight years on the marijuana.”

“I’m always willing to try anything,” the actress said. “And then my chemistry sort of changed one day and I found myself, like, frozen in front of my fridge for eight hours and I couldn’t speak and it wasn’t fun anymore.”

In a recent interview with E! News, Theron said she’d been a “wake and baker” for most of her life.

AdvertisementSam Nunberg, the former Trump campaign aide who went on a wild media spree earlier this week, now says that despite his earlier statements otherwise, he has complied with special counsel Robert Mueller’s subpoena and will appear before a federal grand jury on Friday.

In an interview with WABC Radio’s Rita Cosby and Curtis Sliwa on Wednesday, Nunberg said he wanted to “do something memorable” and not be “some side note in history” when he told multiple media outlets Monday that he wouldn’t comply with Mueller’s subpoena and challenged the special counsel to arrest him.

He appeared to walk back those claims later on Monday, saying he’d likely cooperate with the investigation after all, and told The Washington Post on Tuesday that he’d changed his mind about ignoring the order.

Nunberg confirmed on Wednesday that he’d handed over all of the communications Mueller had requested, including emails and text messages with 10 campaign associates, and that he met a deadline imposed by the subpoena.

“I’m not holding anything back,” Nunberg told the radio station. He noted that Mueller’s request for the records, which he initially called ridiculous, “was much easier to do than I initially thought.”

The former aide also insisted that he “wasn’t drunk” during his media blitz. CNN’s Erin Burnett had remarked to Nunberg that she smelled alcohol on his breath during his appearance on the network.

Nunberg also defended the length of the interview with Burnett, saying that he if was “able to do a ... 35 minute interview drunk, I think that would be pretty historic.”

The former aide is now expected to appear before a grand jury on Friday, saying he was “happy to go” and would answer any questions.

“I’m not going to take the fifth on anything, because I don’t need to take the fifth on anything,” Nunberg said. “I’m not going to give them the excuse to throw me into jail because I won’t respond to a question ... I’m going to answer every single question.”“One day, [my shift supervisor] Derek showed me a photo of his genitals. That was my breaking point,” said one plaintiff, Cycei Monae, who recounted that she was harassed by the boss daily.

The harassment claims fit a pattern across the fast-food industry, marked by employees often hesitant to come forward for fear of losing work. Two in five women working in fast food reported experiencing some form of harassment, according to a 2016 Hart Research study. Yet fewer than half end up reporting the behavior. Of those who do, one in five end up facing some form of retaliation.

“We don’t make a lot of money; I was paid only $8.50 an hour,” Monae explained in a HuffPost blog. “Many of us have families to support. Our economic survival might depend on keeping quiet — and that is beyond wrong.”

McDonald’s pay structure afflicts all of its workers, not just women. Most of the burger chain’s workers were making less than $10 an hour until recently, even those with years of experience at the company. The chain finally announced in 2015 that it would raise its average hourly minimum pay to $9.90 from $9.01 and would eventually let pay rise above $10 per hour.WASHINGTON — After widespread public criticism of its sexual harassment policies, Uber this week announced that it would end its practice of forcing individual sexual harassment accusers into private arbitration. It’s among a small handful of companies who have taken a stand against the legal mechanism, which can effectively silence victims of sexual harassment and assault by giving employers disproportionate power.

Shortly after, its ride-sharing rival Lyft announced a similar policy, joining Microsoft, the first major company to ban the practice back in December.

Congress could make all companies follow suit and allow individuals to take sexual harassment cases against employers to court. In December, Rep. Cheri Bustos (D-Ill.) and Sen. Kirsten Gillibrand (D-N.Y.) introduced legislation in the House and Senate that would ban employers across the board from applying forced arbitration in cases involving workplace sexual harassment.

The legislation boasted a bipartisan group of co-sponsors, and it had a boost from former Fox News host Gretchen Carlson, whose contract contained a forced arbitration clause when she leveled sexual harassment claims against executives at the cable news giant.

Sen. Kirsten Gillibrand (D-NY) (C) and former Fox News commentator Gretchen Carlson (R) listen as Rep. Cheri Bustos (D-IL) speaks during a news conference December 6, 2017 on Capitol Hill in Washington, DC. Alex Wong via Getty Images

Despite increased attention on the issue because of the Me Too and Time’s Up movements, the legislation appears to have stalled, with both bills referred to legislative committees nearly six months ago. Some of its advocates suspect that it’s due to lobbying and pushback from business leaders who don’t want to publicly declare that they are against the legislation — and in effect, say they support silencing sexual misconduct victims.

In a Tuesday statement, Bustos heralded Uber’s decision as “proof that our movement is making a difference.” She renewed her calls for Republican leaders to move forward on the bills, accusing them of “being lobbied aggressively by special interests who are on the wrong side of history.”

Among the several businesses and groups that have reported lobbying activity on the legislation, Microsoft is the only company to publicly back the bills, after the company’s president met with Sen. Lindsey Graham (R-S.C.), one of the Senate bill’s co-sponsors.

During a press conference introducing the legislation in December, Graham called on business leaders and groups like chambers of commerce to lend their support, arguing that it was good for their interests.

However, when HuffPost contacted the other organizations that have disclosed lobbying related to the bill, two of them — the National Retail Federation and the Society of Human Resources Management — confirmed that they oppose the bill. Others said that they do not have an official position on the bill, but have favored arbitration in the past.

When asked about its lobbying, the National Retail Federation said it has been “working to educate members of Congress on how arbitration agreements serve the interests of both workers and employers by avoiding lengthy, costly litigation and ensuring a fair and fast process for resolving workplace disputes,” according to a statement from Lizzy Simmons, NRF’s vice president for government relations. “Arbitration also offers an added virtue of occasionally settling these disputes with less rancor than a lawsuit.”

A spokeswoman for SHRM wrote in an email that the group “supports public-policy proposals that promote an accessible, prompt and fair resolution of harassment claims in the workplace while protecting confidentiality and due process, including in arbitration.”

Lauren Sheets Jarrell, chief counsel at the American Tort Reform Association, said in an email that “we generally support arbitration as an efficient tool for judicial economy.” When asked about the group’s lobbying, she said that it had not taken a position on the bill.

“We’re taking a look at these pieces of legislation and discussing them with our members. The Chamber will work with anyone to make sure appropriate steps are taken to combat sexual harassment,” a spokeswoman for the U.S. Chamber of Commerce said.

In the past, the Chamber has opposed other efforts to restrict forced arbitration.

“I think if companies are unwilling to support a sexual harassment survivor or sexual assault survivor’s right to file a claim in open court, they should say so.”” - Julia Duncan, senior director of government affairs at the American Association for Justice

Earlier this year, Facebook, which also has reported lobbying activity, said that it was considering its position on the bill. A company spokeswoman said Thursday that there were no updates. Uber, which is not among the companies that have reported lobbying activity, said Tuesday it supports the bill.

Both bills were referred to their corresponding committees and subcommittees, the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Regulatory Reform, Commercial and Antitrust Law, and the Senate Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.

A spokeswoman for the House subcommittee’s GOP vice chair, Rep. John Ratcliffe (Texas), said that there were no updates on the status of the bill. A spokeswoman for subcommittee chair Rep. Tom Marino (R-Pa.) did not return multiple requests for comment.

A spokeswoman for HELP committee chair Sen. Lamar Alexander (R-Tenn.) did not immediately return a request for comment on any updates on the bill.

Advocates for the legislation suggested that the relative lack of public support from companies and interest groups are the reason for the bill stalling and argued that their apparent reluctance to state a position shows that they may not want to publicly say that they are against it.

“Publicly, everybody will tell you, we support women’s rights, we support the rights of rape survivors, but privately, companies are lobbying against the bill,” said Julia Duncan, senior director of government affairs at the American Association for Justice, one group that has lobbied in favor of the bill. “I think if companies are unwilling to support a sexual harassment survivor or sexual assault survivor’s right to file a claim in open court, they should say so.”

Duncan argued that congressional action is necessary because it’s not enough to put the onus on individual companies like Uber to reform their practices.As the Me Too movement unfurls across professions, places of learning and governments around the world, it seems we have entered a time of reckoning for gender inequality. But while voices of resistance grow louder, women everywhere still face deep discrimination purely on account of being women.

International Women’s Day, a commemorative event taken up around the world on March 8, seeks to highlight the challenges women face.

Inevitably, there will be some who will pipe up across social media on Monday to ask why we need this day, and why we aren’t focusing on men more. So, if anyone asks, here are some handy statistics that reveal just why we must take every opportunity to shine a light on gender inequality.

217: the number of years women must wait for economic equality

Demonstrators protesting against wage inequality in Paris, France. NurPhoto via Getty Images

Women around the world will have to wait a whopping 217 years to have the same job and wage opportunities as men. That’s more than eight generations away. Literally no woman alive right now will live to see worldwide economic equality.

This figure came from a World Economic Forum survey of 144 countries last October, which found that, for the first time since 2006, the gender gap is actually widening. While income may be rising globally, women are not sharing equally in the benefits. “There seems to be a slowdown in momentum when it comes to proactive measures being taken to address gender gaps, particularly in the workplace,” said Vesselina Stefanova Ratcheva, an economist at WEF.

This exclusion comes at a cost. The McKinsey Global Institute calculated in 2015 that improving gender inequality could add as much as $28 trillion to the global economy.

2059: the year women in the U.S. will receive equal pay

Women in some U.S. states will be waiting until the next century to get equal pay. Edgar Su / Reuters

Despite making up half the workforce, women in the U.S. cannot expect to be paid equally to their male peers until 2059. Florida women should see the gender pay gap closed first, in 2038, according to research from the Institute for Women’s Policy Research. In Wyoming, however, women have to wait until 2153.

Women with full-time jobs still only earn 80 cents for every dollar earned by a man, according to 2016 figures. Women of color face even greater levels of inequality. African-American women earn 63 cents for every dollar men earn, and Hispanic and Latina women earn 54 cents on the dollar. While there are many complex reasons for this gap — some related to the choices women make, or feel they have to make, to have families — few would suggest the playing field is level between women and men.

This inequality has an inadvertent effect on the economy. Women who earn more are better able to provide for their families. An estimated half of all households in America with children under 18 have a mother who is a breadwinner: either a single mother or married mother who provides at least 40 percent of the family’s earnings. If women received equal pay for equal work, research suggests the number of children with working mothers who live in poverty would halve. Plus, the U.S. economy would produce $512.6 billion in additional income.

130 million: the number of girls not in school

A Palestinian girl attends a lesson on the first day of the new school year at a United Nation-run school in the Gaza Strip. Ibraheem Abu Mustafa / Reuters

There are 130 million girls not in school globally, and 15 million elementary-school-age girls will never even set foot in a classroom. This has deep social and economic implications. Education is a key pathway out of poverty. According to World Bank research, girls who get an education tend to participate more in the labor market, earn more, have fewer children, more economic independence and have better health outcomes.

100: the U.S. ranking for women’s representation in government

U.S. Senator Kamala Harris (D-CA) speaking at he LA Promise Fund's Girls Build Leadership summit in December 2017. Mario Anzuoni / Reuters

Women make up 19.6 percent of the members of Congress, and 21 percent of the Senate. That puts the country 100th in the world for female political representation, sandwiched between Indonesia and Kyrgyzstan.

This underrepresentation matters. Women arrive in positions of power with distinct experience and frames of reference. Research shows, for example, that women are more likely than male counterparts to make bills which prioritize women and families. Then there’s the role model issue — if girls and young women don’t see themselves in politics, they are less likely to aim for political office themselves.

Nov. 19: the date of International Men’s Day

bbbrrn via Getty Images

In response to the inevitable avalanche of tweets asking why there isn’t an International Men’s Day, the answer is: YES, THERE IS. It’s on Nov. 19.

It seeks to highlight discrimination against men and boys, and celebrate positive male role models. It’s not a zero-sum game; we can fight for equal rights for women as well as recognizing that men have challenges, stigmas and inequalities to overcome, too.CNN’s Chris Cuomo pressed Sen. Ted Cruz (R-Texas) to explain on Wednesday why his campaign is attacking an opponent’s nickname when Cruz uses one himself.

Following the Texas primary race on Tuesday, Cruz’s re-election campaign released a new ad mocking Rep. Beto O’Rourke, the Democratic challenger for Cruz’s Senate seat, for his name.

O’Rourke’s given name is Robert, but he goes by Beto, a childhood nickname that stuck. Cruz’s campaign ad, which features a short country music jingle, claims O’Rourke chose the nickname to “fit in.”

I remember reading stories, liberal Robert wanted to fit in, so he changed his name to Beto, and hid it with a grin. Beto wants those open borders, and he wants to take our guns. Not a chance on earth he’ll get a vote from millions of Texans.

So Cuomo asked Cruz ― whose given name is Rafael Edward ― about his own nickname.

“You know, look, your name is Rafael. You go by Ted. Your middle name is Edward ― that’s an anglicized version of it. He went the other way, and has a more ethnic version of his name,” Cuomo pointed out.

“Why go after it? You’re both doing the same thing,” he added.

“You’re absolutely right. My name is Rafael Edward Cruz,” the senator said, before launching into a story about his father, who was an immigrant from Cuba.

Earlier this week, Cruz appeared on conservative radio host Hugh Hewitt’s program and warned listeners that Republicans could lose the U.S. Senate and the House in November’s midterm elections.

“If conservatives are complacent ― and mark my words, we are going to see historic turnout from the extreme left in November ― which means if conservatives stay home, we have the potential, we could lose both houses of Congress,” Cruz said.

O’Rourke, who won 61.8 percent of the vote Tuesday night in Texas’ Democratic primary race, is still considered a long shot, though it seems Cruz is in for a fight that may be more competitive this year. Texas has not elected a Democrat statewide since 1994.This is what “women’s work” looks like.

And, no, it doesn’t consist only of cooking in the kitchen or raising children (although those things are definitely still work). Women’s work looks like anything you can think of: a butcher, a bullfighter, a soccer coach, a wrestler, a bus driver, a religious leader, a production designer, a police officer, a weightlifter, a bike mechanic, a real estate agent, a barber ― the list goes on and on.

To honor the varying types of work women do this International Women’s Day, HuffPost rounded up 40 photos of women working in different industries around the globe. From sailors to scientists to taxi drivers ― scroll below to see 40 captivating photos of women working around the world.

Kenya PATRICIA ESTEVE/Getty Images Sarah Achieng is a 31-year-old professional boxer and sports administrator. Here she poses after her training session at a gym in Nairobi, Kenya, on Feb. 27, 2018. Mexico OMAR TORRES/Getty Images Professional wrestler Cristal poses for a photograph in her training gym on Feb. 9, 2018, in Mexico City. Somalia MUSTAFA SAEED/Getty Images Soccer coach and player Marwa Mauled Abdi, 24, poses at Ubah fitness center in Hargeisa, Somalia, on March 1, 2018. Japan KAZUHIRO NOGI/Getty Images Firefighter Ran Namise, 24, poses in front of a fire engine at Kojimachi Fire Station in Tokyo on Feb. 23, 2018. Mali MICHELE CATTANI/Getty Images Houssa Nientao, 64, is one of the few female Muslim monks, also known as "marabouts," in Bamako, Mali. Here she poses in a room on Feb. 20, 2018. Cuba ADALBERTO ROQUE/Getty Images Yordanka Masfollor, 34, has a Ph.D. in chemical sciences. Here she poses for a picture at a biotechnology laboratory in Havana on March 2, 2018. Spain CRISTINA QUICLER/Getty Images Lea Vincens, 33, is a rejoneadora (a bullfighter who mounts a horse with a lance). Here she poses at the Aracena bullring in Huelva, Spain, on Feb. 25, 2018. Greece LOUISA GOULIAMAKI/Getty Images Rania Rapti, a butcher, poses in her family's business in Athens, Greece, on March 5, 2018. Pakistan ABDUL MAJEED/Getty Images Zahida, a police assistance sub-inspector, poses for a photograph at a police academy in Peshawar, Pakistan, on Feb. 26, 2018. Sierra Leone ISSOUF SANOGO/Getty Images Gold prospector Awa Kamara, 65, poses for a photograph in the Pampana River on March 5, 2018, near Mekeni, Sierra Leone. Iraq AHMAD AL-RUBAYE/Getty Images Huda Salem, a 20-year-old member of the Iraqi national weightlifting team, trains at a gym in Baghdad on Feb. 22, 2018. El Salvador MARVIN RECINOS/Getty Images Nicol Gomez, 37, is a guardian at the La Esperanza prison in San Salvador, El Salvador. Here she poses for a portrait in front of a group of prisoners practicing yoga on March 4, 2018. Uganda ISAAC KASAMANI/Getty Images Farmer Bettina Tumuhaise, 41, poses at her pigsty in Zirobwe, Uganda, on March 2, 2018. Lebanon JOSEPH EID/Getty Images Ray Bassil, 29, is a Lebanese trapshooting champion and UNDP youth and gender goodwill ambassador. Here she poses for a photo at the shooting club in Adma, Lebanon, on Feb. 9, 2018. Kuwait YASSER AL-ZAYYAT/Getty Images Mai Ibrahim Al-Mesad is a project manager of the maritime section of the Jaber Al-Ahmad Causeway in Kuwait City, Kuwait. Here she poses for a picture at the construction site on March 4, 2018. Senegal SEYLLOU/Getty Images Mechanic and garage co-owner Fatou Sylla poses on Feb. 28, 2018, at her garage in Dakar, Senegal. China FRED DUFOUR/Getty Images Taxi driver Yang Fengxia, 45, poses in the street in Hancheng, China, on Feb. 16, 2018. India SHAMMI MEHRA/Getty Images Kuldeep Kaur, 51, is an Indian watch woman for the Bhangiwal village near Mehatpur, India. Here she walks with a flashlight during her night round on Feb. 24, 2018. France FRED TANNEAU/Getty Images Sailor Marie Rouffet poses for a picture in the port of Le Guilvinec, France, on Feb. 16, 2018. Pakistan ARIF ALI/Getty Images First responder Samra Akram Zia poses for a photograph with her motorcycle ambulance in Lahore, Pakistan, on Feb. 24, 2018. Portugal PATRICIA DE MELO MOREIRA/Getty Images Barber Dalia Antunes, 44, poses at the Oliveira Barbershop in Lisbon, Portugal, on March 3, 2018. Spain CRISTINA QUICLER/Getty Images Cristina Munoz Ferraro, 37, is a real estate agent at Remax Family. Here she poses for a picture at the Remax Family office in Sevilla, Spain, on Feb. 28, 2018. U.S. VALERIE MACON/Getty Images Production designer Hannah Beachler poses for a picture in West Hollywood, California, on Feb. 22, 2018. She designed the world of Wakanda in the recent film "Black Panther." Egypt KHALED DESOUKI/Getty Images Asmaa Megahed is a 31-year-old Egyptian carpenter. Here she poses for a picture at her workshop in the Abdeen district in downtown Cairo on Feb. 26, 2018. Guatemala JOHAN ORDONEZ/Getty Images Guatemalan deputy and human rights activist Nineth Montenegro poses for pictures at the Congress in Guatemala City, Guatemala, on March 1, 2018. South Sudan STEFANIE GLINSKI/Getty Images Security guard Marlin Keji John, 30, poses in Juba, South Sudan, on Feb. 22, 2018. Chile CLAUDIO REYES/Getty Images Boxer Carolina "Crespita" Rodriguez, 34, poses for a picture in Santiago, Chile, on March 1, 2018. U.S. JASON REDMOND/Getty Images Wendy Lawrence, 58, is a retired U.S. Navy captain and former NASA astronaut. Here she's pictured by the space shuttle trainer that was used for astronaut training on Feb. 28, 2018. It's now at the Museum of Flight in Seattle. France PHILIPPE DESMAZES/Getty Images Chef Anne-Sophie Pic, the only female three-starred Michelin chef in France and one of a handful in the world, poses on March 2, 2018, in the kitchen of her restaurant La Maison Pic in Valence, France. India CHANDAN KHANNA/Getty Images Anny Divya, 31, is a pilot who became the youngest woman in the world to captain the Boeing 777 aircraft. Here she poses next to planes at the Indian Air Force Museum in New Delhi on Feb. 24, 2018. South Africa GULSHAN KHAN/Getty Images Mixed martial arts fighter Shana Power, 25, poses for a picture in the gym she co-owns in Johannesburg, South Africa, on Feb. 28, 2018. Panama RODRIGO ARANGUA/Getty Images Eyda Rios, 55, is a Panama Canal locks operator. Here she poses at the Panama Canal's Pedro Miguel Locks on the outskirts of Panama City, Panama, on Feb. 26, 2018. Uruguay PABLO PORCIUNCULA BRUNE/Getty Images Carmen Cousello, 58, was Uruguay's first female bus driver in 1998. Here she poses for a picture in Montevideo, Uruguay, on Feb. 28, 2018. Nicaragua INTI OCON/Getty Images Betania Gutierrez, a tobacco roller at the Momotombo Factory, poses in Granada, Nicaragua, on Feb. 26, 2018. Spain JOSE JORDAN/Getty Images Firefighter Maria Jose Martienz Ortiz, 43, poses for a picture in the Fuente San Luis fire station in Valencia, Spain, on Feb. 28, 2018. Turkey ILYAS AKENGIN/Getty Images Ayniye Kaya, a 78-year-old Kurdish woman, collects garbage in the streets of Diyarbakir, Turkey, on Feb. 23, 2018. Ivory Coast ISSOUF SANOGO/Getty Images Mariatou Guiehoa is the president of The Network of Women Trade Unionists of Ivory Coast. Here she poses next to co-workers in her office in Abidjan, Ivory Coast, on Feb. 22, 2018. Brazil MAURO PIMENTEL/Getty Images Venezuelan refugee Maria Marchan, 23, poses for a picture as she sells beers for a living at a street market in the city of Boa Vista, Brazil, on Feb. 25, 2018. Slovakia AMIR MAKAR/Getty Images Slovak U.N. peacekeeper Lt. Ivana Strycekova poses for a picture prior to a peace medals ceremony at an old airport in Nicosia, Cyprus, in the U.N. buffer zone on Feb. 22, 2018. India SANJAY KANOJIA/Getty Images Bike mechanic Rajpati Devi, 45, poses at her roadside workshop in Allahabad, India, on Feb. 24, 2018. Devi, a mother of four, took over the puncture repair and mechanic business after her husband died four years ago.The NFL is reportedly investigating claims that draft prospect Derrius Guice was asked about his sexuality in an interview.

Guice, a former Lousiana State University running back, told SiriusXM NFL Radio Wednesday that a team at the NFL Scouting Combine asked him if he was gay. He also said they asked if his mother was a prostitute.

“Some people are really trying to get in your head and test your reaction,” Guice said in the interview, according to USA Today. “I go in one room, and a team will ask me do I like men, just to see my reaction. I go in another room, they’ll try to bring up one of my family members or something and tell me, ‘Hey, I heard your mom sells herself. How do you feel about that?’”

The athlete didn’t specify which team asked him the questions, but said he was told to “come in prepared” for the combine.

“You’re being watched and tested the whole time,” he said.

Following Guice’s interview, NBC’s Pro Football Talk confirmed via a source with knowledge of the situation that the questions he referenced were indeed asked.

The news was quickly denounced by the Human Rights Campaign.

Derrius Guice's experience of being asked about his sexual orientation by a prospective employer illustrates the risks faced by millions of #LGBTQ people today in employment, athletics and other areas of their lives. It is inappropriate and unacceptable. https://t.co/lmiHOjm8mq — Human Rights Campaign (@HRC) March 8, 2018

The Human Rights Campaign’s Ashland Johnson blasted the inquiries into Guice’s sexuality “as absurd and inappropriate” in a statement on the organization’s website.

“Guice’s experience illustrates the risks faced by millions of LGBTQ people today in employment, athletics, housing and other areas of their lives,” Johnson, who is HRC’s director of public education and research, wrote.

A spokesman told Pro Football Talk that the NFL was “looking into the matter.”

“A question such as that is completely inappropriate and wholly contrary to league workplace policies,” NFL spokesman Brian McCarthy said Thursday. “The NFL and its clubs are committed to providing equal employment opportunities to all employees in a manner that is consistent with our commitment to diversity and inclusion, state and federal laws and the CBA.”

Unfortunately, Guice’s claims are not isolated. In 2016, New York Giants cornerback Eli Apple said the Atlanta Falcons asked him similar questions during an interview.

“The Falcons coach, one of the coaches, was like, ‘So, do you like men?’ It was like the first thing he asked me,” Apple told Comcast SportsNet Philadelphia. “It was weird. I was just like, ‘No.’ He was like, ‘If you’re going to come to Atlanta, sometimes that’s how it is around here, you’re going to have to get used to it.’”

The Falcons’ head coach Dan Quinn later apologized to Apple, saying he’d spoken to the coach who interviewed the athlete and “explained to him how inappropriate and unprofessional this was.”This article was originally published on Yahoo News and Mother Jones.

This is the first of two excerpts adapted from Russian Roulette: The Inside Story of Putin’s War on America and the Election of Donald Trump (Twelve Books), by Michael Isikoff, Chief Investigative Correspondent for Yahoo News, and David Corn, Washington bureau chief of Mother Jones. It will be released on March 13.

It was late in the afternoon of Nov. 9, 2013, in Moscow, and Donald Trump was getting anxious.

This was his second day in the Russian capital, and the brash businessman and reality TV star was running through a whirlwind schedule to promote that evening’s extravaganza at Moscow’s Crocus City Hall: the Miss Universe pageant, in which women from 86 countries would be judged before a worldwide television audience estimated at 1 billion.

From left, Russian President Vladimir Putin, Aras Agalarov, Rob Goldstone, Emin Agalarov, Donald Trump and Olivia Culpo. Photo illustration: Yahoo News photos: Mikhail Svetlov/Getty Images Jeff Bottari/AP Adriel Reboh/Patrick McMullan via Getty Images Victor Boyko/Getty Images Maxim Shemetov/Reuters

Trump had purchased the pageant 17 years earlier, partnering with NBC. It was one of his most-prized properties, bringing in millions of dollars a year in revenue and, perhaps as important, burnishing his image as an international playboy celebrity. While in the Russian capital, Trump was also scouting for new and grand business opportunities, having spent decades trying — but failing — to develop high-end projects in Moscow. Miss Universe staffers considered it an open secret that Trump’s true agenda in Moscow was not the show but his desire to do business there.

Yet to those around him that afternoon, Trump seemed gripped by one question: Where was Vladimir Putin?

From the moment five months earlier when Trump announced Miss Universe would be staged that year in Moscow, he had seemed obsessed with the idea of meeting the Russian president. “Do you think Putin will be going to the Miss Universe Pageant in November in Moscow — if so, will he become my new best friend?” Trump had tweeted in June.

Once in Moscow, Trump received a private message from the Kremlin, delivered by Aras Agalarov, an oligarch close to Putin and Trump’s partner in hosting the Miss Universe event there: “Mr. Putin would like to meet Mr. Trump.” That excited Trump. The American developer thought there was a strong chance the Russian leader would attend the pageant. But as his time in Russia wore on, Trump heard nothing else. He became uneasy.

Yahoo

“Is Putin coming?” he kept asking.

With no word from the Kremlin, it was starting to look grim. Then Agalarov conveyed a new message: Dmitry Peskov, Putin’s right-hand man and press spokesman, would be calling any moment. Trump was relieved, especially after it was explained to him that few people were closer to Putin than Peskov. If anybody could facilitate a rendezvous with Putin, it was him. “If you get a call from Peskov, it’s like you’re getting a call from Putin,” Rob Goldstone, a British-born publicist who had helped bring the beauty contest to Moscow, told him. But time was running out. The show would be starting soon, and following the broadcast Trump would be departing the city.

Finally, Agalarov’s cellphone rang. It was Peskov, and Agalarov handed the phone to an eager Trump.

*****

Trump’s trip to Moscow for the Miss Universe contest was a pivotal moment. He had for years longed to develop a glittering Trump Tower in Moscow. With this visit, he would come near — so near — to striking that deal. He would be close to branding the Moscow skyline with his world-famous name and enhancing his own status as a sort of global oligarch.

During his time in Russia, Trump would demonstrate his affinity for the nation’s authoritarian leader with flattering and fawning tweets and remarks that were part of a long stretch of comments suggesting an admiration for Putin. Trump’s curious statements about Putin — before, during and after this Moscow jaunt — would later confound U.S. intelligence officials, members of Congress, and Americans of various political inclinations, even Republican Party loyalists.

What could possibly explain Trump’s unwavering sympathy for the Russian strongman, his refusal to acknowledge Putin’s repressive tactics, his whitewashing of Putin’s abuses in Ukraine and Syria, his dismissal of the murders of Putin’s critics, his blind eye to Putin’s cyberattacks and disinformation campaigns aimed at subverting Western democracies?

Yahoo

Trump’s brief trip to Moscow held clues to this mystery. His two days there would later become much discussed because of allegations that he engaged in weird sexual antics while in Russia — claims that were not confirmed. But this visit was significant because it revealed what motivated Trump the most: the opportunity to build more monuments to himself and to make more money. Trump realized that he could attain none of his dreams in Moscow without forging a bond with the former KGB lieutenant colonel who was now the president of Russia.

This trek to Russia was the birth of a bromance — or something darker — that would soon upend American politics and then scandalize Trump’s presidency. And it began in the most improbable way — as the brainstorm of a hustling music publicist trying to juice the career of a second-tier pop singer.

*****

Trump’s Miss Universe landed in Moscow because of an odd couple: Rob Goldstone and Emin Agalarov.

Goldstone was a heavyset, gregarious bon vivant who liked to post photos on Facebook poking fun at himself for being unkempt and overweight. He once wrote a piece for the New York Times headlined “The Tricks and Trials of Traveling While Fat.” He had been an Australian tabloid reporter and a publicist for Michael Jackson’s 1987 “Bad” tour. Now he co-managed a PR firm, and his top priority was serving the needs of an Azerbaijani pop singer of moderate tal­ent named Emin Agalarov.

Emin — he went by his first name — was young, handsome and rich. He yearned to be an international star. His father, Aras Agalarov, was a billionaire developer who had made it big in Rus­sia, building commercial and residential complexes, and who also owned properties in the United States. After spending his early years in Russia, Emin grew up in Tenafly, N.J., obsessed with Elvis Presley. He imitated the “King of Rock ‘n’ Roll” in dress, style and voice. He later studied business at Marymount Manhat­tan College and subsequently pursued a double career, as an executive in his father’s company and as a singer. He married Leyla Aliyeva, the daughter of the president of Azerbaijan, whose regime faced repeated allegations of corruption. After moving to Baku, the country’s capital, Emin soon earned a nickname: “the Elvis of Azerbaijan.”

Emin cultivated the image of a rakish pop star, chronicling a hedonistic lifestyle on lnstagram by posting shots from beaches, nightclubs, and various hot spots. He brandished hats and T-shirts with randy sayings, such as “If You Had a Bad Day, Let’s Get Naked.” But his music career was stalled. For help, he turned to Goldstone.

In early 2013, Goldstone was looking to get Emin more media exposure, especially in the United States. A friend offered a sug­gestion: Perhaps Emin could perform at a Miss Universe pageant. The event had a reputation for showcasing emerging talent. The 2008 contest had featured up-and-comer Lady Gaga. (Trump would later brag — with his usual hyperbole — that this appearance was Lady Gaga’s big break.) About the same time, Goldstone and Emin needed an attractive woman for a music video for Emin’s lat­est song — and they wanted the most beautiful woman they could find. It seemed obvious to them that they should reach out to Miss Universe.

Yahoo

This led to meetings with Paula Shugart, president of the Miss Universe Organization, who reported directly to Trump. She agreed to make the reigning Miss Universe, Olivia Culpo, available for the music video. (Within the Miss Universe outfit, Culpo, who had previously been Miss USA, was widely considered a Trump favorite.) And over the course of several conversations with Shugart, Goldstone and Emin discussed where the next Miss Universe contest would be held. At one point, Emin proposed to Shugart that Miss Universe consider mounting its 2013 pageant in Azerbaijan. That didn’t fly with Shugart.

At a subsequent meeting, Emin revised the pitch. “Why don’t we have it in Moscow?” he suggested. Shugart was interested but hesitant. The pageant had looked at Moscow previously. It had not identified a suitable venue there, and it was fearful of running into too much red tape. “What if you had a partner who owns the biggest venue in Moscow?” Emin replied. “Between myself and my father, we can cut through the red tape.”

The venue Emin was referring to was Crocus City Hall, a grand 7,000-seat theater complex built by his father. Moreover, the influential Aras Agalarov could help smooth the way — and bypass the notorious bureaucratic morass that was a regular feature of doing business in Russia.

A native Azerbaijani, Aras Agalarov was known as “Putin’s Builder.” He had accumulated a $1 billion- plus real estate fortune in part by catering, like Trump, to the superwealthy. One of his projects was a Moscow housing community for oligarchs that boasted an artificial beach and waterfall. Agalarov had been tapped by Putin to build the massive infrastructure — conference halls, roadways and housing — for the 2012 Asian-Pacific Economic Cooperation summit in Vladivostok. He had completed the project in record time. That venture and others — the construction of soccer stadiums for the World Cup in Russia and the building of a superhighway around Moscow — had earned Agalarov Putin’s gratitude. Later in 2013, Putin would pin a medal on Agalarov’s lapel: “Order of Honor of the Russian Federation.”

When Shugart first mentioned to Trump the idea of partnering with a Russian billionaire tight with Putin to bring the Miss Universe contest to Moscow, the celebrity developer was intrigued. At last, here was an inside track to break into the Russian market. And Agalarov agreed to kick in a good chunk of the estimated $20 million pageant budget. Trump was all for it. A Putin-connected oligarch would be underwriting his endeavor.

But the deal had to include something for Emin. Trump’s Miss Universe company guaranteed that Emin would perform two musical numbers during the show. He would be showcased before a global television audience. He and Goldstone believed this could help him achieve his dream: cracking the American pop market.

Even before that, there would be a payoff for Emin. In May, Culpo showed up in Los Angeles for the one-day shoot. Emin was filmed strolling through a deserted nighttime town looking for his love — to the tune of his song “Amor” — and a sultry woman played by Culpo walked in and out of the beam of the flashlight he carried. A few weeks later, the video was done. Emin held a release party at a Moscow nightclub owned by his family. It was a lavish affair. Russian celebrities dropped by. Shugart and Culpo flew in to join the celebration.

*****

Yahoo

In June 2013, Trump arrived in Las Vegas to preside over the Miss USA contest, which was owned by the Miss Universe com­pany. Goldstone, Aras Agalarov and Emin were in town for the event. Emin posted a photo of himself outside Trump’s hotel off the Vegas strip wearing a Trump T-shirt and boasting a hat exclaim­ing “You’re Fired!” — the tagline from Trump’s hit television show, “The Apprentice.” Trump had yet to meet the Agalarovs. But when they finally got together in the lobby of his hotel, he pointed at Aras Agalarov and exclaimed, “Look who came to me! This is the richest man in Russia!” (Agalarov was not the richest man in Russia.)

On the evening of June 15, the two Russians and their British publicist were planning a big dinner at CUT, a restaurant located at the Palazzo hotel and casino. Much to their surprise, they received a call from Keith Schiller, Trump’s longtime security chief and confidant, informing them that his boss wanted to join their party. Sure, they said, please come.

At the dinner for about 20 people in a private room, Emin sat between Trump and Goldstone. Aras Agalarov was across from Trump. Michael Cohen, Trump’s personal attorney who acted as the businessman’s consigliere, was on the other side of Goldstone. Also at the table was an unusual associate for Trump: Ike Kaveladze, the U.S.-based vice president of Crocus International, an Agalarov company. In 2000, a Government Accountability Office report identified a business run by Kaveladze as responsible for opening more than 2,000 bank accounts at two U.S. banks on behalf of Russian-based brokers. The accounts were used to move more than $1.4 billion from individuals in Russia and Eastern Europe around the globe in an operation the report suggested was “for the purpose of laundering money.” His main client at the time was Crocus International. (Kaveladze claimed the GAO probe was “another Russian witch-hunt in the United States.”)

Trump was charming and solicitous of his new partners. He asked Aras what kind of jet he owned. A Gulfstream 550, Aras answered. But the Russian billionaire quickly noted that he had a Gulfstream 650 on order. “If that was me,” Trump replied, “I would have said I was one of only one hundred people in the world who have a Gulfstream 650 on order.” It was a small Trumpian lesson in self-promotion. And Trump, proud of himself, turned to Goldstone to emphasize his point: “There is nobody in the world who is a better self-promoter than Donald Trump.”

After the dinner, part of the group headed to an after-party at a raunchy nightclub in the Palazzo mall called the Act. Shortly after midnight, the entourage arrived at the club. The group included Trump, Emin, Goldstone, Culpo, and Nana Meriwether, the outgoing Miss USA. Trump and Culpo were photographed in the lobby by a local paparazzi. The club’s management had heard that Trump might be there that night and had arranged to have plenty of Diet Coke on hand for the teetotaling Trump. (The owners had also discussed whether they should prepare a special performance for the developer, perhaps a dominatrix who would tie him up on stage or a little-person transvestite Trump impersonator. They nixed that idea.)

Trump nobody

The group was ushered to the owner’s box, where Emin had an unusual encounter. Alex Soros, the son of George Soros, the bil­lionaire philanthropist who funded opposition to Putin, was there as Meriwether’s date. Emin started chatting with Soros and invited him to visit him in Moscow. “You should know,” Soros replied, “I’m no fan of Mr. Putin.” And, he added, he was a big admirer of Mikhail Khodorkovsky — the oligarch turned Putin critic then serving time in a Siberian prison. Emin laughed it off.

The Act was no ordinary nightclub. Since March, it had been the target of undercover surveillance by the Nevada Gaming Con­trol Board and investigators for the club’s landlord — the Palazzo, which was owned by GOP megadonor Sheldon Adelson — after complaints about its performances. The club featured seminude women performing simulated sex acts of bestiality and grotesque sadomasochism — skits that a few months later would prompt a Nevada state judge to issue an injunction barring any more of its “lewd” and “offensive” performances. Among the club’s regular acts cited by the judge was one called “Hot for Teacher,” in which naked college girls simulate urinating on a professor. In another act, two women disrobe and then “one female stands over the other female and simulates urinating while the other female catches the urine in two wine glasses.” (The Act shut down after the judge’s ruling. There is no public record of which skits were performed the night Trump was present.)

As the Act’s scantily clad dancers gyrated in front of them late that night, Emin, Goldstone, Culpo and the rest toasted Trump’s birthday. (He had turned 67 the day before.) Trump remained focused on Emin and their future partnership. “When it comes to doing business in Russia, it’s very hard to find people in there you can trust,” he told the young pop singer, according to Goldstone. “We’re going to have a great relationship.”

The next night, toward the end of the Miss USA broadcast, Trump hit the stage to announce that the Miss Universe pageant would be held the coming November in Russia. In front of the audi­ence, the Agalarovs and Trump signed the contract for the event. Trump declared, “This will be one of the biggest and most beautiful Miss Universe events ever.” On the red carpet earlier that evening, Trump had hailed Emin and Aras Agalarov: “These are the most powerful people in all of Russia, the richest men in Russia.”

Two days later Trump expressed his desire on Twitter to become Putin’s “new best friend.” Emin quickly responded with his own tweet: “Mr. @realDonaldTrump anyone you meet becomes your best friend — so I’m sure Mr. Putin will not be an exception in Moscow.”

*****

Yahoo

The Moscow event held great potential for Trump to score in Russia. Now he was partnering with a Russian billionaire connected to other oligarchs and favored by Putin. (Trump already had a controversial venture under way in Baku, where he was developing a hotel with the son of the transportation minister of the corrupt regime. This project would soon founder.) “For Trump, this Miss Universe event was all about expanding the Trump Organization brand and getting his names on buildings,” a Miss Universe associate recalled.

And anyone who wanted to do big deals in Russia — especially an American — could only do so if Putin was keen on it. “We all knew that the event was approved by Putin,” a Miss Universe official later said. “You can’t pull off something like this in Russia unless Putin says it’s OK.” Trump would only be making money in Russia because Putin was permitting him to do so.

Immediately, the contest was beset by controversy. A few days before the announcement in Las Vegas, the Russian Duma had passed a law that made it illegal to expose children to information about homosexuality. The new antigay measure was the latest move by Putin to appeal to the conservative Orthodox Church and ultranationalist forces. It came amid a disturbing rise in antigay violence throughout Russia. In the southern city of Volgograd a few weeks earlier, a gay man’s naked body was found in a courtyard, his skull smashed, his genitals scarred by beer bottles. The atmosphere was “ugly and brutal,” a U.S. diplomat who then served in Moscow later said. “There would be these hooligans who would go after gay people in bars and beat them up. There was a pretty vicious cam­paign against the LGBT community.”

Human rights and gay rights advocates in Russia and around the world denounced the new law. Vodka boycotts were launched. There was a push to relocate the Winter Olympics, scheduled to be held the following year in Sochi, Russia. In the United States, the Human Rights Campaign called on Trump and the Miss Uni­verse Organization to move the event out of Russia, noting that under the new law a contestant could be prosecuted if she were to voice support for gay rights.

The uproar over the Russian antigay act confronted Trump with a dilemma — how to distance himself from the law without jeopardizing his big Russia play. The Miss Universe Organization issued a statement asserting that it “believes in equality for all indi­viduals.” That didn’t stop the protests. Bravo talk show host Andy Cohen and entertainment reporter Giuliana Rancic, who had pre­viously co-hosted the pageant, quit the show. Miss Universe officials scrambled and found replacements: Thomas Roberts, an openly gay MSNBC anchor, and former Spice Girl Mel B.

Yahoo

Roberts explained his decision in an op-ed on MSNBC.com: “Boycotting and vilifying from the outside is too easy. Rather, I choose to offer my support of the LGBT community in Russia by going to Moscow and hosting this event as a journalist, an anchor and a man who happens to be gay. Let people see I am no different than anyone else.”

This was a godsend for Trump. He granted Roberts an inter­view on MSNBC. “I think you’re going to do fantastically,” he told Roberts, “and I love the fact that you feel the same about the whole situation as me.” Inevitably, the conversation turned toward Putin and whether he would appear at the pageant. “I know for a fact that he wants very much to come,” Trump said, “but we’ll have to see. We haven’t heard yet, but we have invited him.”

Though U.S. relations with Moscow were at this point deterio­rating, Trump was touting Putin as a wily and strong leader. In September, Putin published an op-ed in the New York Times that opposed a possible U.S. military strike against the government of Bashar Assad in Syria (in retaliation for its use of chemical weapons) and that denounced President Barack Obama for referring to American exceptionalism. The next day, Trump on Fox News commended Putin’s move. “It really makes him look like a great leader,” he said.

The following month, Trump appeared on David Letterman’s late-night show. The host asked if Trump had ever done any deals with the Russians. “I’ve done a lot of business with the Russians,” Trump replied, adding, “They’re smart and they’re tough.” Letterman inquired if Trump had ever met Putin. “He’s a tough guy,” Trump said. “I met him once.” In fact, there was no record he ever had.

*****

Trump landed in Moscow on Nov. 8, having flown there with casino owner Phil Ruffin on Ruffin’s private jet. (Ruffin, a longtime Trump friend, was married to a former Miss Ukraine who had competed in the 2004 Miss Universe contest.) Trump headed to the Ritz-Carlton, where he was booked into the presidential suite that Obama had when he was in Moscow four years earlier.

There was a brief meeting with Miss Universe executives and the Agalarovs. Schiller would later tell congressional investigators that a Russian approached Trump’s party with an offer: He wanted to send five women to Trump’s hotel room that night. Was this traditional Russian courtesy — or an overture by Russian intelligence to collect kompromat (compromising material) on the prominent visitor? Schiller said he didn’t take the offer seriously and told the Russian, “We don’t do that type of stuff.”

Trump was soon whisked to a gala lunch at one of the two Moscow branches of Nobu, the famous sushi restaurant. (Nobu Matsuhisa, its founder, was one of the celebrity judges for the Miss Universe telecast. Agalarov was one of the co-owners of the restaurant; another co-investor was actor Robert De Niro.) An assortment of Russian businessmen was there, including Herman Gref, the chief executive of Sberbank, a Russian state-owned bank and one of the co-sponsors of the Miss Universe pageant.

Yahoo

Trump was treated with much reverence. He gave a brief wel­coming talk. “Ask me a question,” he told the crowd. The first query was about the European debt crisis and the impact that the financial woes of Greece would have on it. “Interesting,” Trump replied. “Have any of you ever seen ‘The Apprentice’?” Trump spoke at length about his hit television show, repeatedly noting what a tre­mendous success it was. He said not a word about Greece or debt. When he was done with his remarks, he thanked them all for com­ing and received a standing ovation. (Later, Aras Agalarov, remi­niscing about this lunch, would note, “If [Trump] does not know the subject, he will talk about a subject he knows.”)

Gref, a close Putin adviser, was pleased with his face time with Trump. “There was a good feeling from the meeting,” he later said. “He’s a sensible person … [with] a good attitude toward Russia.”

Trump next went to the theater in Crocus City Hall. It was the day before the show. This was Trump’s chance to review the con­testants and exercise an option he always retained under the rules of his pageants: to overrule the selection of judges and pick the con­testants he wanted among the finalists. In short, no woman was a finalist until Trump said so.

At each pageant, Miss Universe staffers would set up a special room for Trump backstage. It had to conform to his precise require­ments. He needed his favorite snacks: Nutter Butters and white Tic Tacs. And Diet Coke. There could be no distracting pictures on the wall. The room had to be immaculate. He required unscented soap and hand towels — rolled, not folded.

In this room would be videos of the finalists who had been selected days earlier in a preliminary competition and the other contestants, particularly footage of the women in gowns and swim­ suits. Here, a day or two before the final telecast, Trump would review the judges’ decisions.

Frequently, Trump would toss out finalists and replace them with others he preferred. “If there were too many of women of color, he would make changes,” a Miss Universe staffer later noted. Another Miss Universe staffer recalled, “He often thought a woman was too ethnic or too dark-skinned. He had a particular type of woman he thought was a winner. Others were too ethnic. He liked a type. There was Olivia Culpo, Dayanara Torres [the 1993 winner], and, no surprise, East European women.” On occasion, according to this staffer, Trump would reject a woman “who had snubbed his advances.”

Once in a while, Shugart would politely challenge Trump’s choices. Sometimes she would win the argument, sometimes not. “If he didn’t like a woman because she looked too ethnic, you could sometimes persuade him by telling him she was a princess and married to a football player,” a staffer later explained.

*****

Yahoo

That night, Aras Agalarov hosted a party at Crocus City Hall to celebrate his 58th birthday. Various VIPs were invited. Trump by now was exhausted. He spent much of the time sitting with Shugart and Schiller. At one point, Goldstone approached him with a request from Emin. The pop star was filming a new music video. Could Trump the next day shoot a scene that would be based on “The Apprentice”? Trump agreed, but it had to be early — between 7:45 and 8:10 in the morning. Sure, Goldstone said. Twenty-five minutes of Trump would have to do.

About 1:30 a.m., Trump left the party and headed to the Ritz-Carlton hotel a few blocks from the Kremlin. This would be his only night in Moscow. According to Schiller, on the way to the hotel, he told Trump about the earlier offer of women, and he and Trump laughed about it. In Schiller’s account, after Trump was in his room, he stood guard outside for a while and then left.

(But Schiller by other accounts was accustomed to being a go-between for Trump. In a 2011 interview with In Touch Weekly magazine that was not published until early 2018, Stormy Daniels, a porn star who claimed she had an 11-month-long affair with Trump, identified Schiller as the Trump aide who facilitated her secret liaisons with Trump. “That’s how I got in touch with him,” Daniels said. “I never had Donald’s cellphone number. I always used Keith’s. I went up to the room and he said, “Oh yeah, he’s waiting for you inside.’”)

The morning of Nov. 9, Trump showed up for Emin’s shoot. He was needed for the final scene. The video would open with a boardroom meeting with Emin and others reviewing Miss Universe contestants. Emin would doze off and dream of being with the various contestants. Enter Trump for the climax — Emin wakes up with Trump shouting at him: “What’s wrong with you, Emin? Emin, let’s get with it. You’re always late. You’re just another pretty face. I’m really tired of you. You’re fired!” Trump’s bit would only last 15 seconds. Yet soon Emin would release a video that he could promote as featuring the world-famous Trump.

The rest of the day was just as hectic: a press conference with 300 Russian reporters and more interviews, includ­ing one with Roberts in which Trump was pressed again about Putin.

Do you have a relationship with Putin and any sway with the Russian leader? Roberts asked him. Trump was unequivocal: “I do have a relationship.” He paused. “I can tell you that he’s very inter­ested in what we’re doing here today. He’s probably very interested in what you and I are saying today. And I’m sure he’s going to be seeing it in some form.”

Trump could barely contain his praise for Russia’s president: “Look, he’s done a very brilliant job in terms of what he represents and who he’s representing. If you look at what he’s done with Syria, if you look at so many of the different things, he has really eaten our president’s lunch. Let’s not kid ourselves. He’s done an amazing job. … He’s put himself at the forefront of the world as a leader in a short period of time.”

Yahoo

But Trump’s comments about a “relationship” with Putin were, at this point, wishful thinking. The word had spread through the Miss Universe staff that Trump fiercely craved Putin’s atten­dance at the pageant. In preparation for Putin’s possible appear­ance, Thomas Roberts and Mel B were taught several words in Russian to welcome the Russian president: “hello,” “thank you,” and so on. With her cockney accent, Mel B had trouble pronounc­ing the Russian words. She was told she had to get this right because Putin might come.

By late afternoon, Trump’s anxiety was palpable. There had been no word. He kept asking if anybody had heard from Putin. Then Agalarov’s phone rang. “Mr. Peskov would like to speak to Mr. Trump,” Agalarov said.

Trump and Peskov spoke for a few minutes. Afterward, Trump recounted the conversation to Goldstone. Peskov, he said, was apologetic. Putin very much wanted to meet Trump. But there was a problem nobody had anticipated: a Moscow traffic jam. King Willem-Alexander and Queen Maxima of the Netherlands were in town, and Putin was obligated to meet them at the Kremlin. But the royal couple had gotten stuck in traffic and was late, making it impossible for the Russian president to find time for Trump. Nor would he be able to attend the Miss Universe pageant that evening.

Putin wanted to make amends, though. Peskov conveyed an invitation for Trump to attend the upcoming Olympics, where perhaps he and Putin could then meet. He also told Trump that Putin would be sending a high-level emissary to the evening’s event — Vladimir Kozhin, a senior Putin aide. And, Peskov told Trump, Putin had a gift for him.

It was a crushing disappointment for Trump. But he quickly thought of how to spin it, suggesting to an associate that, after the telecast, they could spread the word that Putin had dropped by. “No one will know for sure if he came or not,” he said.

One reason Trump’s hoped-for meeting with the Russian president never materialized was his attention to another project. Trump was originally scheduled to spend two nights in Moscow — which would have yielded a wider window for a get-together with Putin. But Trump had decided to attend the celebration of evangelist Billy Graham’s 95th birthday on Nov. 7 at the Grove Park Inn in Asheville, N.C. In Russia, Trump told Goldstone that it had been necessary for him to show up at the Graham event: “There is something I’m planning down the road, and it’s really important.”

Goldstone knew exactly what Trump was talking about: a run for the White House. Franklin Graham, the evangelist’s son, was an influential figure among religious conservatives. When Trump two years earlier was championing birtherism — the baseless conspiracy theory that Barack Obama had been born in Kenya and was ineligible to be president — Graham joined the birther bandwagon, raising questions about the president’s birth certificate. Appearing at this event and currying favor with Franklin Graham was a mandatory stop for Trump, if he were serious about seeking the Republican presidential nomination. And it paid off: Trump and his wife, Melania, were seated at the VIP table, along with Rupert Murdoch and Sarah Palin. Franklin Graham later said that Trump was among those who “gave their hearts to Christ” that night.

*****

Yahoo

Before the Miss Universe broadcast, there was the obligatory red carpet event. Camera crews from around the world recorded the strutting celebrities. A triumphant-looking Trump posed with Aras and Emin Agalarov for the paparazzi. Trump dodged a question about whether Emin had been booked to perform based on merit.

“Russia has just been an amazing place,” Trump exclaimed. “You see what’s happening here. It’s incredible.” Behind him was a banner featuring the logos of the Trump Organization, Miss Uni­verse, Sberbank, Mercedes and NBC. The NBC peacock was in black and white, without its usual rainbow of colors. Officials at Agalarov’s company had ordered Miss Universe staffers to eschew the rainbow, fearing it would be seen as a gay pride message.

Thomas Roberts walked the red carpet with his husband. He wore a bright-pink tuxedo jacket — something he would never do back home in New York. He was sending his own message. In inter­views, he explicitly denounced Putin’s antigay laws.

Other celebs and local notables strolled past the entertain­ment reporters. The group included Kozhin and a curious guest: Alimzhan Tokhtakhounov, aka “the Little Taiwanese,” one of Russia’s most prominent suspected mobsters and a fugitive from U.S. justice. Tokhtakhounov had an odd link to Trump’s signa­ture property: Seven months earlier he had been indicted in the United States for protecting a high-stakes illegal gambling opera­tion run out of Trump Tower. Additional Trump guests included Chuck LaBella, an NBC executive who worked on Trump’s “Celeb­rity Apprentice,” and Bob Van Ronkel, an American expatriate who ran a business specializing in bringing Hollywood celebrities to Russian events. (Van Ronkel once had tried to produce an Ameri­can television show extolling the KGB and its heroic exploits.)

The show went off well. Trump sat in the front row next to Agalarov. Emin performed two of his Euro-pop numbers. Aero­smith’s Steven Tyler, one of the judges, pumped out his classic hit “Dream On.” For the finale, Culpo crowned Miss Venezuela the new Miss Universe. There was no mention during the broadcast of the controversy over the antigay law.

After the event, there was a rowdy after-party with lots of vodka and loud music. A 26-year-old aspiring actress, Edita Shaumyan, made her way into the VIP section, entering the roped-off area at the same time as a famous Russian rap singer named Timati. Shaumyan caught Trump’s eye. He approached her, gestured to Timati, and asked, “Wait, is this your boyfriend? You’re not free?” She said no, she wasn’t there with Timati. “You’re beautiful,” Trump told her. “Wow, your eyes, your eyes.” According to Shaumyan, “He said, ‘Let’s go to America. Come with me to America.’ And I said, ‘No, no, no. I’m an Armenian. We’re very strict. You need to meet my mother first.’” When other women approached trying to get photographs with Trump, he took hold of Shaumyan’s arm and said, “Don’t go. Stay. Stay.” Shaumyan took selfies with him. (She later produced five photos and a video of her with Trump that night.) But nothing further happened. Trump later had somebody give Shaumyan his business card with his phone number on it. She never called.

From the party, Trump headed to the airport. He was going straight home on another Ruffin jet. The next day, he called Roberts. He told him he was pleased with the show and that it had been a smash, with great ratings. That was not accurate — at least not in the United States. The telecast drew 3.8 million American viewers, much less than the 6.1 million who had watched it the previous year.

*****

Yahoo

In the following days, various media outlets in Russia and the United States reported that Trump had used his visit to Moscow to launch a major project in the Russian capital. “U.S. ‘Miss Universe’ Billionaire Plans Russian Trump Tower,” declared the headline on RT, the Russian government-owned TV channel and website. The Moscow Times proclaimed, “Donald Trump Planning Skyscraper in Moscow.” Trump’s partners in the Trump SoHo project he had developed in New York City, Alex Sapir and Rotem Rosen, had come to Moscow for the event and met with Agalarov and Trump to discuss the possibilities.

It seemed things were moving fast. The state-owned Sberbank announced it had struck a “strategic cooperation agreement” with the Crocus Group to finance about 70 percent of a project that would include a tower bearing the Trump name. If the deal went ahead, Trump would officially be doing business in Moscow with the Russian government.

“The Russian market is attracted to me,” Trump told Real Estate Weekly. “I have a great relationship with many Russians.” He added, with his customary exaggeration, that “almost all of the oligarchs” had been at the Miss Universe event.

Back in the United States, Trump tweeted out the good news: “I just got back from Russia—learned lots & lots. Moscow is a very interesting and amazing place!” The next day he tweeted at Aras Agalarov, “I had a great weekend with you and your family. You have done a FANTASTIC job. TRUMP TOWER-MOSCOW is next. EMIN was WOW!”

The project moved further along than is publicly known. A letter of intent to build the new Trump Tower was signed by the Trump Organization and Agalarov’s company. Donald Trump Jr. was placed in charge of the project.

Trump was finally on his way in Russia. And shortly after the Miss Universe event, Agalarov’s daughter showed up at the Miss Universe office in New York City bearing a gift for Trump from Putin. It was a black lacquered box. Inside was a sealed letter from the Russian autocrat. What the letter said has never been revealed.

*****

In February 2014, Ivanka Trump flew to Moscow to scout potential sites for the Trump Tower project with Emin Agalarov. “We thought that building a Trump Tower next to an Agalarov tower — having the two big names — could be a really cool project to execute,” Emin later said.

Yahoo

But international events would quickly intervene. Weeks after Ivanka’s visit, the Obama administration and the European Union imposed tough sanctions on Russia in response to Putin’s annexation of Crimea and his military intervention in Ukraine. It would be a kick to Russia’s already faltering economy, struggling because of the plummeting price of oil. And one round of sanctions imposed by the EU targeted Russian banks in which the Russian government held a majority interest — that included Sberbank, which had agreed to finance the Trump deal. Its access to capital was now hindered.

In this environment, the plans for the Trump Tower in Moscow crumbled. According to the Trump Organization, Ivanka Trump, after touring Moscow with Emin, killed the deal for business reasons. But Rob Goldstone suspected that the demise of Trump’s project with the Agalarovs influenced Trump’s view of sanctions: “They had interrupted a business deal that Trump was keenly interested in.”

That deal was dead. But Trump’s involvement with Russia and Putin was not done. He still had a close bond with an influential oligarch, Aras Agalarov, who was wired to the Kremlin. And he stayed in touch with his Miss Universe pals, Emin and Goldstone. In January 2015, nearly a year after Putin’s invasion in Ukraine, Trump had Emin and Goldstone as guests to his office in Trump Tower — a meeting that was never publicly revealed during the investigations that followed the 2016 election. As Goldstone recalled it, they found Trump listening to the blaring sounds of a “hideous” rap video about Trump. The lyrics were ridiculing Trump, and Goldstone asked, “Have you listened to the words?” Trump replied, “Who cares about the words? It has 90 million hits on YouTube.” While they chatted, Trump was encouraging to Emin, who had performed at the Miss Universe contest in 2013: “Maybe next time, you’ll be performing at the White House.”