Michelle Obama speaks during the second day of the Obama Foundation Summit in Chicago on Nov. 1, 2017. Kamil Krzaczynski / Reuters

The former first lady recently interviewed four young women from around the world for an International Women’s Day feature for Refinery29. In partnership with the Obama Foundation, Refinery29′s feature spotlighted the four teenagers from Nepal, Ghana, Guatemala and Chicago to highlight the important of empowering girls with education.

Alejandra Teleguario Santizo, a 17-year-old from Guatemala who has organized her community to rally against sexual violence, asked Michelle Obama what advice she would give to young women like herself who are looking to blaze their own paths and become leaders.

“My best advice to girls, including my own daughters, is do not be afraid to fail. So often, our own fear of failure is the thing that keeps us back,” Obama said. “We think we have to be perfect, that if we make even the tiniest mistake, it’s a catastrophe. That’s simply not true!”

She added that the only way to succeed is life “is by failing and failing well.”

“You cannot let your failures eat you up or make you want to quit,” Obama said. “You have to learn from them, let them challenge and inspire you to do more ― to take some risks and to step outside of your comfort zone.”

Obama also told Santizo another important key to success: Be kind to other women.

“I also advise girls to be supportive of each other. I cannot say this enough! Too often we’re taught that we have to compete, or that someone else’s failure is our success,” she said. “But we can all rise together; we can all win. We have to be a team of women and girls who love each other and value each other and cherish one another. Because if we don’t cherish each other, no one else will.”

“So often, our own fear of failure is the thing that keeps us back.” - Michelle Obama

Obama and her husband, former President Barack Obama, have been working to educate more girls around the world since they launched the Let Girls Learn initiative in 2015. The program brings together several international organizations to address the variety of challenges preventing girls from getting an education.

Eva Lewis, a 19-year-old activist and artist from the South Side of Chicago (where Obama also grew up), asked her how education can be liberating for everyone, but especially girls. Her answer did not disappoint.

“I always tell students that if you focus on school right now, you will have all kinds of freedom later on in your life,” Obama said. “You’ll have the freedom to choose a career you enjoy and to earn a living that supports your family. That is truly liberating. And that’s not just true here in America.”

When girls get an education, their whole world changes, Obama noted.

“Right now, millions of adolescent girls around the world actually don’t have the chance to go to school. Imagine if, at the age of 10 or 11 or 12, someone came to you and said, ‘Sorry, you’re a girl, you’re finished with your education. Forget about all your dreams. Instead you’ll marry a man twice your age and start having babies,’” she said.

“When we give girls an education, it can help liberate them from that kind of life. Educated girls marry later, have lower rates of infant and maternal mortality, and are more likely to immunize their children and less likely to contract malaria and HIV. Studies also show that girls who are educated earn higher salaries, and sending more girls to school and into the workforce can boost an entire country’s GDP,” Obama continued.” So education can liberate individuals, families, and even nations.”

Head over to Refinery29′s feature and make sure to click through to read each individual interview.Massachusetts Sen. Elizabeth Warren announced on Wednesday that she had sent $5,000 donations to every single state to help them hire organizers and register voters. Boston Globe via Getty Images

Sen. Elizabeth Warren (D-Mass.) has donated more than a quarter of a million dollars to support the canvassing efforts of the Democratic Party in all 50 states.

“I believe in partnership, and I believe in the work you do to reach out and connect people to the Democratic Party and to grow our party all across this country. I don’t want to leave anyone behind,” Warren said during a Democratic National Committee fundraiser held in Washington, D.C. on Wednesday.

“That’s why, as of today, I’ve sent off donations this year not only to the DNC, but to every single one of our 50 state parties to help them hire organizers and register people ― every single party,” she added, to loud applause.

I believe in the work @TheDemocrats & Democratic state parties do to elect leaders who will fight to level the playing field. So as of today, I’ve sent $5k donations to every single one of our 50 state parties to help them hire organizers & register voters. #IWillVote — Elizabeth Warren (@elizabethforma) March 8, 2018

Warren’s office confirmed that the senator, who may be mulling a 2020 presidential run, donated $5,000 from her own campaign account to each state party for a total of $250,000. The senator also gave a separate $15,000 check to the DNC. Last year, Warren accused the DNC of being “rigged” in favor of Hillary Clinton in 2016.

“I want a Democratic Party strong enough to compete for every vote, in every race, at every level, in every state, in every election — and I’m willing to do my part to help make that happen,” Warren said.

The fundraiser was held as part of the DNC’s new #IWillVote initiative to reach 50 million voters ahead of the November midterm elections. Similar events are scheduled with Democratic speakers across the country. Sens. Cory Booker (D-N.J.) and Kirsten Gillibrand (D-N.Y.), who are also believed to be considering a 2020 presidential run, spoke at the event as well.Donna Ali, mother of Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School student Arianna Ali, holds a candle at a vigil mourning those who died. Johanne Rahaman for HuffPost

The Broward County Sheriff’s Office released 10 of 81 phone calls on Thursday related to the Parkland, Florida, school shooting, revealing parents’ desperation as they sought information about the safety of their children.

“She’s afraid to talk, they’re hiding right now,” the mother of a Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School student told a 911 operator the day a gunman opened fire, killing 17 and wounding dozens more. “She’s too afraid.”

“Tell her to be quiet,” the operator said. “Be quiet. Keep the phone line open ... everyone needs to be quiet in that room. If they can put their phones on silent that would be good, just in case someone tries to call them.”

“I love you, I love you, I love you,” the mother could be heard telling her daughter on another line. “Can you hide somewhere? Can you play dead? You need to do it. If he shoots, you need to play dead.”

In a phone call from inside the school, a male voice whispered to an operator that a shooting was taking place. Then the line went quiet for a moment.

“Hello? Hello?” the operator asked.

The person on the other end was breathing heavily and crying.

“Stoneman Douglas High School is being shot up,” he whispered again. Seconds later, the line disconnected.

In another recording, an officer said he heard what sounded like “firecrackers.”

“I think we got shots fired,” the officer said. “Possible shots fired, 1200 building.”

Moments later, he asked for backup.

“Make sure we get some units over here, I need to shut down Stoneman Douglas,” he said.

Authorities’ decision to release the calls, police audio and police records for the suspected shooter comes as student activists at the high school and across the country fight for stronger gun control measures.

Protesters gathered at the Fort Lauderdale federal courthouse on Feb. 17, 2018 to demand gun control. Johanne Rahaman for HuffPost

“It’s unbelievable that a 19-year-old was able to purchase this type of gun,” 42-year-old Patricia Jacomini told HuffPost a day after the shooting at a vigil in Florida, referring to the assault-style rifle the shooter reportedly used. “My daughter, she was all night trying to contact [her friend] since yesterday afternoon. And now she found out he was dead.”

Another parent, Donna Ali, said she and her children had been unable to sleep after the shooting.

The calls show the frantic situation as it played out in real time. One man said his fiancee’s sister, a student at the school, had been texting him. A 911 dispatcher asked the man for the room number the student was hiding in.

“Please help me,” the student replied when the man asked. Frustrated and struggling to find answers, he cursed aloud: “Give me a fucking room number, please.”

In another call, a distraught mother discovered that her daughter was hiding in a room the shooter had fired into.

“My daughter just texted me from school ... says there’s an active shooter,” the mother said in a call to police. Her daughter, huddled in a classroom, said the gunman had shot out the glass in the door.By Richard Tolman, University of Michigan / The Conversation

Can President Donald Trump’s recent repudiation of domestic violence actually help prevent it?

Rob Porter, a high-level aide to Trump, was accused of serial domestic violence by his two ex-wives. The controversy dominated news coverage earlier this month. Trump publicly denounced domestic violence one week after Porter resigned, saying “I’m totally opposed to domestic violence of any kind.”

Those who called for such a statement by the president may be motivated by the belief that when powerful men convincingly call out abusers, society’s acceptance of domestic violence can be diminished.

There is not a lot of research to support this commonsense idea. But there is a growing body of work with men and boys that research shows can be effective in diminishing domestic violence.

This is a significant evolution in the field. Since the establishment of the first domestic violence shelters in the 1970s, domestic violence policies and services have rightly focused most attention on survivors and meeting their needs for safety and healing.

Increasingly, though, domestic violence organizations are adopting approaches that involve men and boys in domestic violence prevention. The idea is that by addressing the root causes, these programs can stop domestic violence from occurring in the first place.

I am a professor who studies how to intervene and prevent men’s violence against women. Our research team has researched the effectiveness of programs that involve boys and men in domestic violence prevention efforts.

Much of the work being done with men and boys is not well-known, despite the fact that this is a thriving movement. Here is a snapshot of some of those efforts, both global and local, and what we know about their effectiveness.

1. Sports and prevention

Some efforts to involve men are directed in the arena of sports because, well, men like sports. They venerate sports figures and identify with teams. Reports of domestic violence perpetrated by athletes have grown more common. This has led to visible efforts by sports organizations to respond with sanctions for perpetrators and to become part of prevention efforts, like the NFL’s No More. The seriousness and effectiveness of these efforts are yet to be determined.

But sports have also been the site of innovative and effective interventions for youth. Coaching Boys Into Men provides high school athletic coaches with the resources they need help prevent relationship abuse, harassment and sexual assault by their players.

Coaching Boys Into Men curriculum being taught to the football team at an Iowa middle school. Futures Without Violence, CC BY

The program’s curriculum includes coach-to-athlete trainings that model respect and promote healthy relationships. It also includes a card series to help coaches incorporate themes of teamwork, integrity, fair play and respect into their daily practice and routine.

Coaching Boys Into Men lesson card for coaches. Contributed by Futures Without Violence, CC BY

2. Transition to fatherhood

A prime risk factor for future abuse is the exposure of children to violence. Preventing abuse in new families would reduce children’s exposure to violence and thus the potential for future violence.

One promising strategy is to involve men in prevention efforts as they move into fatherhood. Research shows that a caring and supportive relationship with their fathers reduces the risk of harsh physical discipline by the next generation of parents, both for fathers and mothers. Positive fathering predicts warmer and more positive parenting by adult sons when they become fathers.

Strategies that could be used in this area include engaging men at prenatal visits such as ultrasound appointments, which the vast majority of men in the U.S. attend, and at in-home visits during pregnancy and after the birth of a child.

Global campaigns such as MenCare seek to improve caregiving by fathers and address partner violence. MenCare’s programs ask men to become more equitable partners and provide them with opportunities to learn and practice parenting skills. They promote policy change, like paid parental leave. And they conduct media campaigns to inspire men and their communities to support men’s caregiving.

3. Preventing dating abuse

Studies document high levels of dating violence beginning in middle school. When it comes to prevention, one could argue that programs must intervene early or the effort will be wasted, because stopping abuse before it becomes a entrenched pattern is more likely to be effective in preventing relationship violence.

School-based abuse prevention programs like Safe Dates and Fourth R have shown some success in changing attitudes and behavior. The Safe Dates program, for example, uses nine 50-minute sessions, a student-performed 45-minute play and a poster contest, to explore topics on how to cultivate caring relationships, overcome gender stereotypes and help friends.

4. Bystander programs

“Bystander” prevention programs, increasingly commonplace on college campuses, build skills to recognize, respond to, and disrupt behavior that might lead to sexual assault or intimate partner violence.

Some examples of bystander behavior include telling a man who is saying disrespectful things about women to stop or helping a woman who is being harassed to get away from a situation in which she could be harmed. Teens involved in bystander interventions are more likely to intervene to prevent victimization of their peers.

5. Motivating men to be allies

Our research group surveyed men around the world who have been involved in efforts to prevent violence against women. The survey revealed that many men who get involved have a personal experience with violence – as child witnesses or survivors of their own child abuse. Still others find their way to prevention efforts through a commitment to social justice.

Importantly, we found that many men are receptive to violence prevention efforts when they tune in to survivors’ experiences.

Given that men are moved by learning about survivors’ experiences, the visibility of and emotional power of the #MeToo movement and the remarkable and vivid accounts of White House aide Rob Portman’s ex-wives can lead men to get involved in ending violence against women.

Whatever the pathway, men’s involvement in preventing domestic violence in their families, workplaces and communities can be part of the global effort to promote safety and equality for women, and to end victimization in all its forms.

AdvertisementIn another major victory for transgender rights this week, New Hampshire’s Republican-controlled House of Representatives voted on Wednesday in favor of a bill that prohibits discrimination against transgender individuals.

The bill, which passed 195-129, bans discrimination in housing, employment and public accommodations on the basis of gender identity. It now goes to the Senate, where supporters said they expect it to pass. If it does, the legislation would then head to the desk of Republican Gov. Chris Sununu, who has suggested he will sign it.

BREAKING: NH House of Reps just passed #TransBillNH #HB1319 that would ensure that transgender people cannot be discriminated against in employment, housing, or public places!



Shout to everyone who contributed to this!#NHPolitics #LGBTQRights pic.twitter.com/OJGONrjKG6 — ACLU_New Hampshire (@ACLU_NH) March 7, 2018

VICTORY! OTP 195-129! The House has just passed #TransBillNH, legislation that would update our nondiscrimination laws to explicitly prohibit discrimination against #transgender Granite Staters in employment, housing and public spaces! #nhpolitics pic.twitter.com/ZVux4M5v5s — Freedom NH (@FreedomNH_) March 7, 2018

READ: Democrats carry transgender rights bill to passage in NH House despite @GovChrisSununu's waffling #nhpolitics pic.twitter.com/Y1bJjYUSbp — NH Democratic Party (@NHDems) March 7, 2018

Supporters of the anti-discrimination bill ― called HB 1319 ― said it will go a long way in protecting the state’s transgender community and providing them with equal opportunities.

“No person should be fired, evicted or denied service just because of who they are, and it is far beyond time that the Granite State’s non-discrimination protections include transgender people,” Marty Rouse of the Human Rights Campaign said in a statement. “We call on the New Hampshire Senate to swiftly pass this bill and send it to Governor Sununu’s desk for his signature.”

When the vote was announced on the House floor on Wednesday, video of the visitor’s gallery showed people cheering and applauding. For supporters of the bill, the victory was particularly sweet as it came about a year after a similar bill stalled in the House.

“As part of the transgender community, I’ve seen so much pain,” local resident Gerri Cannon told WMUR. “People struggling to keep their jobs, people being fired just because they’re transgender, people being thrown out of their apartments because some guy doesn’t like who they are.”

Opponents of the bill argued that extending anti-discrimination protections could have negative repercussions, with some Republican lawmakers repeating the oft-touted ― and debunked ― idea that predatory men would be able to prey on women and girls in places like public restrooms if such legislation was passed.

“If a violent man wants to harm a woman, all he has to do is say he identifies as a woman and he can go wherever he pleases. Never again will there be a safe space for women,” said Rep. Jeanine Notter (R-Merrimack), per the AP. Rep. Al Baldasaro (R-Londonderry) questioned if the bill would “open up the doors where a male who is a female is able to take a shower with my granddaughters.”

Supporters lambasted this reasoning as flawed and misguided.

“None of the jurisdictions where these protections exist have experienced increases in harassment, violence or any other public safety issue in public bathrooms or locker rooms,” said Rep. Ed Butler (D-Hart’s Location), who was one of the bill’s sponsors.

It’s been a big week for transgender rights across the country.

On Monday, a federal judge in Idaho struck down a state policy barring transgender people from changing the assigned gender on their birth certificates.

In a landmark decision on Wednesday, a federal appeals court ruled that it’s illegal for employers to discriminate against transgender workers under Title VII of the 1964 Civil Rights Act, which prohibits discrimination on the basis of “race, color, religion, sex [or] national origin.”

New Hampshire is currently the only New England state where there are no anti-discrimination laws protecting transgender people. If HB 1319 is signed into law, it could have a positive domino effect across the nation.The Kushner Companies logo near the entrance to 666 Fifth Avenue. Drew Angerer via Getty Images

White House adviser Jared Kushner’s family business has been looking to get out from under the burden of its financially troubled flagship skyscraper for at least as long as most Americans have heard of Kushner. Multiple news reports indicate that help is on the way.

Brookfield Properties, a Canada-based real estate company, is reportedly in talks with Kushner Companies to acquire a major stake in the 666 Fifth Avenue property, two real estate executives briefed on the pending deal told The New York Times.

Kushner Companies is run by Charles Kushner, who purchased the midtown Manhattan building over a decade ago with his son Jared. In January 2017, Jared Kushner resigned as chief executive of the family business to become an adviser to his father-in-law, President Donald Trump. He has, however, retained a significant stake in the company.

Roughly a year, two potential deals involving 666 Fifth Avenue fell through ― with Anbang, a giant Chinese insurance company, and with Qatari billionaire Hamad bin Jassim Al-Thani ― over concerns about Jared Kushner’s possible conflict of interest between advancing the family business and protecting U.S. interests.

Kushner, who advises the president on Middle East policy among other issues, has reportedly been under scrutiny by special counsel Robert Mueller over his alleged efforts to boost the family company with investors in Qatar, the United Arab Emirates, Turkey, Russia and China.

One of Brookfield’s major investors is the state-owned Qatar Investment Authority, according to the Times. But both Brookfield and the Qatar Investment Authority denied that the Qatari government was involved in any such transaction with Kushner Companies.

“No Qatar-linked entity has any involvement in, investment in or even knowledge of this potential transaction. They are in no way involved,” a Brookfield spokesperson told HuffPost on Thursday.

A press representative for the Qatar Investment Authority similarly told HuffPost that it has “no involvement whatsoever in this deal.”

The Kushner Companies declined to comment for this story.

The Kushners purchased 666 Fifth Avenue at the beginning of 2007, right before the economy crashed, for a whopping $1.8 billion. That price amounted to nearly twice as much, per square foot, as a building in Manhattan had ever sold for, according to The Daily Beast. Within a year, the Kushners were $1.4 billion in debt.WASHINGTON ― The fallout from then-presidential candidate Donald Trump ― or one of his aides ― paying off a former adult film actress in 2016 to keep quiet about their alleged sexual relationship has dominated cable news for weeks. But there’s one group of people in Washington who don’t seem all that interested in the Stormy Daniels scandal: Democratic leaders.

When House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi (D-Calif.) was asked about the topic Thursday, she sidestepped the question, saying Democrats are more concerned about the president’s policies than his personal life.

“I don’t know that we necessarily have to get involved on any of that,” Pelosi said ― though she noted that “you can be sure, if any of that were happening with a Democrat, the Republicans would be very involved in it.”

“I don’t know that we necessarily have to get involved on any of that,” House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi (D-Calif.) said Thursday about the Stormy Daniels scandal. Michael Brochstein/SOPA Images via Getty Images

Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer (D-N.Y.) also passed on a question about Daniels, whose real name is Stephanie Clifford, and the $130,000 payment connected to a nondisclosure agreement for her silence.

“I’m not going to comment on that issue,” Schumer said Wednesday. “We want to stick to infrastructure.”

Democratic leaders are seemingly so sensitive about Trump’s alleged relationship with Daniels, and the subsequent payment to her, that they struggle even to refer to it in conversation. Pelosi said Thursday that Americans are worried about the economy, rather than “whatever category you want to place the president’s, um ― rumors about the president’s personal life.”

In fairness, the story needs no help staying in the headlines. And Democrats’ reluctance to comment on it may be more a matter of strategy than propriety. “You never want to hold up traffic when there’s a car wreck,” one Democratic leadership aide told HuffPost on Thursday. “Let Donald be Donald.”

Democratic strategist Hilary Rosen expressed a similar sentiment. “I think this is one of those good cases of, if your opponent is blowing himself up on an issue, get out of the way,” she said. “Go Stormy!”

But the topic is potentially much larger than the president’s “personal life.”

For one thing, it’s a precarious situation to have a president who’s apparently susceptible to blackmail. If Trump is paying off people to stay quiet about affairs, what if that information got in the hands of a foreign adversary?

For another, there are a host of questions about the money Daniels received in October 2016 to stay quiet. Michael Cohen, Trump’s former personal lawyer, has suggested he personally paid the porn actress, which could constitute an excessive in-kind donation. The payment came about a decade after the alleged affair, so it was clearly intended to influence the presidential election, meaning it likely should have been reported as a campaign expense. And if Trump did pay off Daniels with his own money, he may have been reimbursed through the campaign, with the Trump Organization charging the campaign for rent and other activities.

If the money came from the Trump Organization, that would also be a problem, as corporations can’t make contributions to candidates.

On top of those legal issues, there’s also a potent moral case that Democrats apparently refuse to make. Trump, a candidate embraced by the Christian right, is credibly accused of cheating on his wife with an adult film star. He then apparently paid her off to stay quiet, and has been less than forthcoming about the questions surrounding that payment.

Meanwhile, Democratic leaders can’t even bring themselves to call it an “affair.”As seen from previous feats, Hafthor Bjornsson’s real-life strength doesn’t fall so short of his Mountain character’s knight-slaying might on “Game of Thrones.”

Watch above as Bjornsson deadlifts 1,041 pounds at the Arnold Strongman Classic in Columbus, Ohio, last week.

He made that look relatively easy, unlike one of the other competitors. Mikhail Shivlyakov from Russia had blood spurt out his nose during a 939-pound effort.

Bjornsson broke the world record in what the event website called the “ROGUE Elephant Bar Deadlift” and won the whole competition as well, pocketing $72,000.The New York Times published a correction after opinion writer Bari Weiss cited a fake Twitter account to bolster her criticism of liberals. Shannon Stapleton / Reuters

New York Times opinion writer Bari Weiss found herself at the center of another firestorm after her most recent column cites a fake Twitter account to justify her criticism of the political left.

Weiss argues in her essay that liberals have become intolerant of alternative views and ― in a deeply cliched straw-man argument ― says they’re more offended by the American right than by global tyranny. She promoted the piece on Twitter as a look at “when liberals get tossed into the slop bucket with the likes of Richard Spencer,” but didn’t mention she’s actually the one who’s making that comparison in the first place.

“Leftists ... seem to believe that the real cause for concern are the secret authoritarians passing as liberals and conservatives in our midst,” Weiss writes. “The main effect is that these endless accusations of ‘fascism’ or ‘misogyny’ or ‘alt-right’ dull the effects of the words themselves. As they are stripped of meaning, they strip us of our sharpness — of our ability to react forcefully to real fascists and misogynists or members of the alt-right.”

As proof, she cites progressive commentator Dave Rubin, who she claims liberals have “denounced as an ‘Anti-L.G.B.T. fascist’ and a ‘fascist lieutenant’ for criticizing identity politics.”

The problem with that example? The criticism she cites comes from a hoax Twitter account, OfficialAntifa, which BuzzFeed exposed last year.

“The accounts are being set up as a way to mock Antifa, and to discredit it by tweeting out hoaxes and offensive comments,” wrote BuzzFeed’s Craig Silverman. Twitter users took Weiss to task, both for the mistake and for the column in general.

bari weiss's latest column features stellar reporting on the "intolerant left," like these two hyperlinks, which go to tweets from a fake antifa account that buzzfeed debunked in may 2017



source: https://t.co/0ZtXFnVr1J pic.twitter.com/L3s8lowOMY — Jack Crosbie (@jscros) March 7, 2018

Someday maybe the New York Times is going to be embarrassed that its main enemy during the Trump administration was college protesters — Jack Mirkinson (@jackmirkinson) March 7, 2018

The New York Times published a correction later on Wednesday, and Weiss apologized for the fallacious link.

I had missed @CraigSilverman's reporting on fake Antifa Twitter accounts and mistakenly linked to one in my piece. Mea culpa. The story has been corrected. https://t.co/hshV5HeP4m — Bari Weiss (@bariweiss) March 8, 2018

Weiss, a former Wall Street Journal writer who joined The New York Times last year, has inspired plenty of controversy before. She was resoundingly criticized during the Winter Olympics last month, when she paraphrased a quote from the musical “Hamilton”― “immigrants, we get the job done”― in reference to U.S. figure skater Mirai Nagasu.

When social media users pointed out that Nagasu was born in California, Weiss doubled down, and noted that Nagasu’s parents are immigrants. Not even Weiss’ co-workers had her back on that one.“I’m looking and I’m like, is this a joke?” Crews said last year. “And he comes over to me, I stick my hand out and he literally takes his hand and puts it and squeezes my genitals.”

Crews’ agent at the time, Brad Slater, assured him the company would handle the matter. Venit did apologize to Crews, but suffered no penalty until the story broke in November.

Venit was briefly suspended but is back at work.

Although Venit will not face criminal charges, Crews is still suing him in civil court.March 7 (Reuters) - A student has died and two others were injured in a shooting at an Alabamahigh school on Wednesday that police are calling accidental, officials and local media said.

The female student, 17, who attended Huffman High School in Birmingham, died en route to the hospital, according to officials and AL.com, an Alabama news website. A second student, a 17-year-old boy, was injured and is in critical but stable condition, while an adult employee was treated and released at the scene.

No arrest has been made and police are in possession of the weapon used in the incident, Birmingham police Chief Orlando Wilson said at a news conference.

Authorities provided no further details of the shooting.

The school has working metal detectors and would be open on Thursday with heightened security and a crisis team on hand, Lisa Herring, superintendent of Birmingham City Schools, told reporters.

The student who died was a graduating senior who would soon be 18 years old, had been accepted to college and aspired to be a nurse, Birmingham Mayor Randall Woodfin told reporters.

“Our hearts are heavy,” Woodfin said.

The shooting coincides with heightened tension in schools after a gunman with an assault-style rifle killed 17 people at a high school in Parkland, Florida, on Feb. 14. It was one of the deadliest U.S. school shootings in United States, where dozens of massacres have occurred in recent years.

Huffman is one of seven public high schools in Birmingham, the state’s most populous city.WASHINGTON ― Attorney General Jeff Sessions is rapidly shifting the Justice Department’s focus from Obama-era goals such as civil rights enforcement and criminal justice reform to conservative priorities.

A draft version of the department’s five-year strategic plan obtained by HuffPost shows the Trump administration’s plans for the DOJ include cracking down on undocumented immigrants, aggressively prosecuting national security leaks, zeroing in on campus speech issues, targeting the MS-13 gang and restoring the “rule of law” throughout the country.

The special counsel investigation into Russian interference in the 2016 election and President Donald Trump’s attacks on Sessions have grabbed headlines in the attorney general’s first year in office. But the Justice Department, of course, has jurisdiction over much more than the Russia probe.

United States Attorney General Jeff Sessions Aaron Bernstein / Reuters

The Justice Department is a massive bureaucracy with more than 100,000 employees spread out throughout every federal district in the nation and within component agencies like the FBI, the Drug Enforcement Administration and the U.S. Marshals Service. The Justice Department prosecutes defendants ranging from high-profile terrorists and drug kingpins all the way down to demonstrators who chuckle during congressional hearings. Its strategic decisions affect millions.

That makes the draft strategy — a final version is due out soon — a reminder of the full scope of the Trump administration’s impact on the direction of federal law enforcement. A Justice Department spokesman said the plan is not yet finalized but issued a statement highlighting many of the same priorities addressed in the draft plan.

“The Department’s 5-year strategic plan is not final until the Attorney General signs it. As he has not yet done so, we cannot comment on unofficial documents that we have not seen or reviewed and are not in final form,” Justice Department spokesman Ian Prior said. “That said, the Attorney General has made clear that his goals are to protect our national security, reduce violent crime, combat the deadly opioid crisis, enforce our immigration laws, and restore the rule of law.”

Sessions’ goals

The draft plan has four major strategic goals: counterterrorism; securing the borders and enhancing immigration enforcement; reducing violent crime; and promoting “integrity, good government and the rule of law.”

In the counterterrorism realm, the draft plan calls for the DOJ to improve its ability to use social media to identify terror threats; to steel DOJ employees against internal threats who “selectively leak classified information” to “advance their personal agendas” and to “aggressively investigate” the disclosure of classified information; and team up with the private sector to enhance the department’s ability to disrupt cyber attacks.

The draft plan also calls for immigration enforcement to be prioritized in every federal district across the country; to denaturalize those who obtained citizenship fraudulently; and to end “sanctuary” policies. The Justice Department sued the state of California over sanctuary policies this week.

Under crime prevention, the draft plan specifically names MS-13, an international gang that has gotten heavy attention from the Trump administration. The specific mention elevates them to a status not even given to the so-called Islamic State group. The draft strategic plan argues that violent crime and intentional targeted assaults on members of law enforcement are up, a disputed claim that critics say fail to place numbers in historical context. The draft document calls for a “strategic and targeted” plan to incapacitate violent criminals and says the DOJ will partner with other law enforcement agencies to dismantle drug trafficking organizations. The department will also attempt to “engage with the community,” reduce demand for opioids and focus on opioid-related health care fraud.

The DOJ’s final strategic goal involves promoting integrity, good government and the rule of law. The draft plan says the Justice Department should be a “beacon of integrity and bulwark against dishonesty.” That’ll be a tougher challenge, given that attacks on the Justice Department from President Trump and others on Capitol Hill have gutted Trump supporters’ trust in federal law enforcement. Additionally, the Justice Department’s internal watchdog has said Trump’s proposed budget doesn’t give his department enough support to do his work.

As part of the draft strategic plan, the Justice Department plans “promote a culture of respect for First Amendment rights” and to educate schools about their obligation to respect student expression. The Justice Department has already intervened in cases involving the free speech rights of conservatives and Christians.

What’s not in the plan

The draft plan’s omissions speak as loudly as its contents. Although the DOJ’s prior strategic plan emphasized civil rights enforcement and criminal justice reform, the draft version of the plan that HuffPost viewed does not.

The Obama-era plan highlighted the rights of federal prisoners and stated that incarceration “traps too many Americans and weakens too many communities.” It emphasized avoiding “harsh mandatory minimum sentences for low-level, nonviolent drug offenders,” supported Americans’ right to “equal protection and justice” and the need to protect “vulnerable populations.”

Criminal justice reform has been a focus of presidential son-in-law Jared Kushner, but hasn’t been a priority for the Justice Department. Sessions has rolled back Obama-era sentencing reforms and publicly opposed a bipartisan sentencing reform bill, earning a harsh rebuke from his former Senate colleague Chuck Grassley (R-Iowa).

Under Sessions, the Justice Department has retreated from police reform, which had become a top priority under the prior administration. Trump’s draft budget calls for the elimination of a historic office founded by the Civil Rights Act of 1964 that works to ease racial tensions. Less than one-third of Civil Rights Division employees are satisfied with the Trump administration’s policies.

Vanita Gupta, who headed the Justice Department’s Civil Rights Division under the Obama administration and is now the top executive of the Leadership Conference on Civil and Human Rights, said that Sessions has advanced an anti-civil rights agenda since the day he became the nation’s top law enforcement officer.



“I supposed they don’t have the item that says ‘roll back civil rights progress’ on their strategic plan, which has been what they’ve been doing,” Gupta told HuffPost. “Frankly they should’ve added that to the list.”

AdvertisementIt’s enough to make anyone go nuts: finding a bloody tooth in a bag of cashews.

That’s what a woman in Ravenna, Ohio, claimed happened one night last month while she was munching cashews as she drove in her car with her mom.

Nickolette Botsford said she suddenly felt something hard in her mouth.

She said she picked out the hard piece and gave it to her mother, who turned on the interior light to examine it. The two were shocked to see what appeared to be a human tooth.

“I got very upset, I was crying, I threw up two or three times,” Botsford told local station WOIO-TV.

A hospital confirmed the object was a human tooth, Botsford said, and noted a spot of dried blood on it.

Nickolette Botsford claims she found this blood-covered tooth in a bag of Planters cashews. Fox 47 News

Botsford was treated for exposure to blood or bodily fluids.

She reached out numerous times to Kraft Heinz Co., whose Planters subsidiary marketed Botsford’s cashews, according to the New York Post. The company finally responded to her queries and sent a courier to pick up the tooth.

Kraft Heinz officials told The Associated Press on Tuesday that the item Botsford sent was indeed a “foreign object,” but wouldn’t confirm it as a tooth. The company said it was investigating suppliers and the manufacturing process.The Northern Virginia teen accused of shooting his girlfriend’s parents dead in December after they confronted him over his extremist views had previously found a safe haven on Steam, one of the world’s most popular gaming apps.

Nicholas Giampa’s profile page on Steam depicts him as an unabashed neo-Nazi, with an SS symbol and the quote, “National Socialism will prevail” featured front and center:

Steam

But Giampa’s self-proclaimed Nazism wasn’t a problem — or even particularly rare — on Steam, which boasts 65 million monthly active users. Giampa, who owned hundreds of games, had more than 300 friends on the app, including some who also boasted of extreme views.

HuffPost identified thousands of accounts and user groups on Steam in which users claim to be Nazis, defend school shooters, and spout racist and violent bile. Plenty of these users are likely trolls, posting extreme claims they may not actually believe to get a rise out of people. But actual Nazis also brag of using humor and trolling to confuse the unindoctrinated about whether they’re joking. And some young men, including Giampa, seem to have taken all of it deadly seriously.

President Donald Trump, who was due to meet with top video game executives Thursday to discuss the violence in their products, has suggested that the games themselves lead to real-world violence. There’s no good scientific evidence that’s true. And Trump’s critique misses a huge part of the gaming world: social platforms like Steam, where young men like Giampa can not only play games, but also meet and chat with Nazis in a largely unmonitored environment.

So what if the problem isn’t the games themselves, but the Nazis who are playing them?

What Steam Is

Steam, which is owned by Valve Corporation, is as popular among PC and Mac gamers as Netflix is among those with TVs, boasting a community of 125 million. Think of it as a combination of Amazon Prime, Facebook, Slack and Reddit that allows you to chat, make friends, join groups, and buy and play games in one social and commercial hub. And while Steam doesn’t release demographic numbers, the Pew Research Center notes that 72 percent of teens ― and 84 percent of teen boys ― play video games.

If you ― or your children ― decide not to engage with anyone on the platform, and just buy and download the video games you want to play, you won’t see the site’s underbelly. But dig just below the surface, and you’ll find recommendations pointing you toward “dank memes for faggots”; community groups titled “KILL ALL THE JEWS” or “How to shoot up a school”; and user profiles praising school shooters like Nikolas Cruz, who allegedly killed 17 people at a Florida high school in February.

A basic search in the groups tab for words and phrases like “Nazis” or “Jews” or “school shooting” will bring up thousands of results. Valve has taken a lackadaisical approach to dealing with it.

Steam groups with neo-Nazi names.

Steam groups with names that seem to promote school shootings.

Many of these groups have few subscribers, signaling that they were set up merely to get a reaction and not necessarily to engage with others over a topic. Other groups attract dozens or hundreds of members ― and some of their members aren’t kidding around.

Giampa was one prominent user until his arrest in December. At the time, HuffPost identified a Twitter account tied to Giampa, which painted a picture of a kid who adored Adolf Hitler, hated transgender people and called for a “white revolution.”

So it followed on his Steam profile, which is linked to Giampa’s email account and which hasn’t been taken down. His arrest sent shockwaves through the various online communities he frequented. In the comments on his Steam profile, his friends mourned the loss of their compatriot.

“I’m just worried what’s coming back,” one user said. “Jail tends to screw.”

“Rip Rob [part of Giampa’s display name, Silent Rob SS] you are to crazy broh,” another said.

“Most 'Nazis' on Steam are just right-wingers that are being satirical.” - Mindcrime, an online friend of Nicholas Giampa

What’s interesting about Giampa’s online presence ― and the Steam community as a whole ― is that the Nazi symbolism and other hate speech don’t appear to faze anybody. It’s too rampant, too normalized. HuffPost spoke to a Steam user who described himself as one of Giampa’s online friends. Mindcrime, who asked to be identified only by his Steam ID, said Giampa was known as a standup gamer who never signaled that his politics would translate into real-world violence.

“His political views may have been very far-right-winged, but honestly he was a good kid,” said Mindcrime. “Never knew the guy [in real life] but we talked often online and [the shooting] devastated the group chat. Me and a few people talked [on his profile page] when we learned he was gone forever.”

Most Steam users assume that people with profiles like Giampa’s are just trolling, Mindcrime said. The hate speech and repeated references to troll symbols ― like Pepe the Frog or Kekistan, a fake country born of an online meme whose flag resembles the Nazi war flag ― arose in darker parts of the internet, like the website 4chan, where many also think of it all as a joke.

“Most ‘Nazis’ on Steam are just right-wingers that are being satirical,” Mindcrime said. “Most of them browse /pol/, which was a political satire board on 4chan to begin with.”

But not every user thinks it’s all a joke, and for leaders in the white nationalist movement, vague messaging is a tactic. HuffPost’s Ashley Feinberg unearthed a “style guide” for writers at The Daily Stormer ― a prominent white supremacist site ― which purposefully tiptoes around its own extremist vernacular so that nobody can tell if it’s joking or not.

Hundreds of Steam users changed their name to Nikolas Cruz after the school shooting in Florida.

And it only takes one user following through on the rhetoric to have deadly results. Video taken during the white nationalist rallies in Charlottesville, Virginia, last year shows a young man taking off his shirt when confronted about his views and saying, “I’m not really white power man, I just came here for the fun.” There were others at the rallies who didn’t seem to understand the gravity of marching alongside Nazis and other far-right groups. But at least one man who stood with them, white supremacist Alex Fields, took the message to its inevitable, violent extreme. He now stands accused of mowing down a group of protesters in his car and killing a woman.

Fields is 20 years old. Giampa is 17. Cruz is 19. They were young and impressionable when they were radicalized, and all three of them latched onto extremist rhetoric as they crossed into adulthood.

It Isn’t About The Games

Trump’s campaign against video games takes the easy — and scientifically unsupported — path of blaming them for gun violence. But as the Entertainment Software Association notes, “video games are plainly not the issue: entertainment is distributed and consumed globally, but the U.S. has an exponentially higher level of gun violence than any other nation.”

Hateful communities like those on Steam and other social media platforms rarely take center stage in conversations about video games and violence. And the platforms’ overlords stay relatively silent.

Valve hasn’t responded to reporters’ questions about its Nazi problem for months, including those posed by HuffPost for this story. It has occasionally shut down racist and violent posts by users after news organizations like Vice and the Center for Investigative Reporting exposed them. But without actively enforcing its policy against threats, harassment and political threads, Valve is playing a veritable game of whack-a-mole.Actor and producer Jon Favreau has signed up to write and executive produce a live-action “Star Wars” series for Disney’s new streaming service, Lucasfilm announced Thursday.

Fans of the franchise are already familiar with Favreau: He voiced a character in the “Star Wars: The Clone Wars” animated TV series and has a role in “Solo: A Star Wars Story,” due out May 25.

“If you told me at 11 years old that I would be getting to tell stories in the ‘Star Wars’ universe, I wouldn’t have believed you,” Favreau said, according to a release from Lucasfilm.

He is also no stranger to Disney. Favreau previously directed and produced “The Jungle Book” in 2016 and is now working on a live-action version of “The Lion King.”It’s almost spring. You can just feel it… kind of. If winter weather has officially got you down for the third consecutive month in a row, that means it’s time to get out of town. We’ve scoped out the best opportunities to ditch the purgatory that is March and eat, drink and soak up some sun — or some culture — which should have you in better spirits in no time. Here, our five favorite places to travel this month.

Art Wage/Getty Images

1. Miami, Florida

Miami is obviously a top vacation destination year-round, and it’s easy to see why: the weather, the beaches, the architecture, the nightlife. Even if the beach isn’t your thing, you can spend your time visiting the famed Wynwood Walls and the nearby restaurants and shops of this artsy neighborhood hot spot. Or, head to Little Havana for a dose of Cuban culture by stopping by the famed Versailles Café for coffee and croquetas.

Why you should go in March: While the rest of the country is starting to thaw from winter’s chill, Miami is heating up. It’s not peak season, so you can find favorable, relatively cheap flights into Miami or Fort Lauderdale, according to Skyscanner. Plus, the beach weather is amazing—some of South Florida’s finest—with sunny skies, moderate temperatures and less humidity than in the summer.

Where to stay: Betsy South Beach, a renovated Art Deco jewel on Ocean Drive has a stylish rooftop pool and deck, tasty dining options and incredible ocean views in the heart of lively SoBe. At the posh Ritz-Carlton Bal Harbour, it’s all about comfort and relaxation — the hotel sits on a more idyllic and quiet stretch of the beach, with huge oceanfront terraces attached to its rooms and soaking tubs in the bathrooms. Meanwhile, budget-conscious guests can always score a Miami deal on cute apartment-style accommodations on Airbnb.

Sean Pavonephoto/Getty Images

2. Charleston, South Carolina

This seaport city on South Carolina’s coast oozes Southern charm. Its palmetto-lined streets, waterfront promenades, historic mansions and cobblestone streets will draw you in, but its exciting art and culinary scene and its Southern hospitality will make it one hell of a vacation. Our perfect day? Brunch at Hominy Grill, a visit to nearby Boone Hall Plantation — where countless movies have been filmed and where Blake Lively tied the knot with Ryan Reynolds — followed by an afternoon or happy hour brew at the Bay Street Biergarten and a fancy dinner at a Charleston institution like FIG or the Charleston Grill.

Why you should go in March: Mild temps make Chuck Town pleasant this time of year. And it’s the start for springtime blooms with colorful camellias, pink tulip trees and wisteria vines blossoming throughout downtown and inside city parks. Plus, the Charleston Wine+Food Festival and Charleston Fashion Week both take place in March.

Where to stay: Belmond Charleston Place. This elegant hotel in the heart of downtown was built to fit in among the 18th-century buildings that surround it in the city’s historic district. With the City Market steps from the lobby and tourist attractions, antique stores and galleries nearby, not to mention an upscale mall attached to the Belmond and shopping mecca King St. just steps away, it’s the ideal location for sightseers. While the Belmond is certainly worth the splurge, if you’re on a budget, stay at the all-suite-style Springhill Suites by Marriott Charleston, which overlooks a marina and is a short (and cheap!) Uber ride away from all the action.

Ekash/Getty Images

3. Punta Mita, Mexico

On Mexico’s gorgeous Riviera Nayarit, about 30 miles north of Puerto Vallarta, you’ll find Punta Mita, a relaxed Pacific beach town on Banderas Bay known as a haven for both surfers and fisherman alike. It’s also a top draw for its spa scene and golf options. Just north of Punta Mita is the more laid-back, boho village of Sayulita. Home to charming and popular boutiques — La Hamaca, Manyana and Revolución del Sueño — and some of the area’s most popular beaches, the quaint surf town is a must-see.

Why you should go in March: Temps are always high in Punta Mita, but March is its coolest month, so guests can expect pleasant, warm weather. Plus, the official whale watching season runs through the end of March, so your chances of seeing humpbacks as they migrate back to warmer waters ain’t bad.

Where to stay: W Punta de Mita. Situated on one of the best surf breaks in Riviera Nayarit, this colorful and chic beach resort is stylish — each of its 119 guest villas features artisanal Mexican tiled floors, festive furnishings and surf-inspired local artwork — with top-notch amenities, an amazing beach and excellent dining options. Bonus: If your visit happens to fall on March 8, the resort is offering its female visitors free surf lessons taught by local pros in celebration of International Women’s Day.

Hotel El Convento

4. San Juan, Puerto Rico

Our favorite part of Puerto Rico’s capital city is Old San Juan’s cobblestone streets and colorful colonial architecture. Of course we love the beach — and the food — too! The island’s recovery from last year’s Hurricane Maria has been notably slow and complicated but San Juan’s hotels are welcoming visitors again and tourism officials want travelers to know that the city is open for business. So, hit the beach, grab a bite and dance the night away at one of the many salsa clubs in town.

Why you should go in March: Prices are low as the island continues its recovery. Visiting the island, staying in hotels, eating at restaurants and buying from local businesses is the best way travelers can help the island bounce back.

Where to stay: Hotel El Convento. This historic hotel is in a renovated 17th-century convent (hence the name) in Old San Juan’s cathedral square. Guests will also love the boutique hotel’s old world charm, its Spanish colonial decor and its rooftop terrace — complete with a hot tub and a plunge pool.

Styxclick/Getty Images

5. Columbus, Ohio

It’s definitely not the warmest destination on our list, but Columbus is having a moment. What it lacks in weather, it’s certainly making up for in culture. More than just home to Ohio State and its Buckeyes, the capital city has an unexpectedly diverse restaurant and bar scene, charming and walkable historic districts, and an exciting arts scene. These are must-tries for foodies: The Pearl, The Gild House, Katalina’s, Fox in the Snow and Skillet. For beer lovers, it’s also overflowing with new breweries.

Why you should go in March: There is plenty to do in Columbus itself — the Columbus Museum of Art, an architecture bus tour, Franklin Park Conservatory and Botanical Gardens—but in March nearby, the aptly named Dublin, Ohio, goes all out for St. Patrick’s Day with one of the best celebrations of the Irish holiday in the U.S.

Where to stay: Hyatt Regency Columbus. The best part about this contemporary, downtown Columbus hotel built in an atrium style is its location. It’s a short walk to the trendy and popular Short North Arts District, the lifeblood of Columbus’s cool. The 633-room hotel also gets high marks for value and service.The Donald J. Trump Foundation shut down last year after it was found to have violated federal rules on “self-dealing.” Bloomberg via Getty Images

President Donald Trump is planning to donate to charity in lieu of gifts for the upcoming royal wedding that he wasn’t invited to.

A White House spokeswoman said Thursday that the president and first lady Melania Trump would be giving to one of seven charities that Prince Harry and Meghan Markle designated for their nuptials on Saturday, multiple outlets reported.

The spokeswoman did not specify which of the seven charities the two would be donating to, or the amount of money they plan to contribute.

But the words “Trump” and “charitable” are not exactly synonymous. The president has time and again made promises of giving money to good causes without ever following through.

In 2016, at the height of the presidential campaign, New York City Comptroller Scott Stringer reviewed hundreds of pages of records to find that Trump and his charity hadn’t donated a single cent to a major 9/11 charity. Maybe that wouldn’t have been such a big deal if Trump hadn’t previously boasted about giving $10,000 to the fund.

And in a monthslong investigation, The Washington Post called more than 400 charities with connections to Trump only to find a single personal donation from him between 2008 and 2016.

His own self-described charity, the Donald J. Trump Foundation, shut down last year after it was found to have violated federal rules on “self-dealing.” The foundation was wracked with claims it was functioning as a political slush fund, and at one point Trump reportedly spent $20,000 of the “charitable” money on a 6-foot-tall portrait.Padma Lakshmi, Billy Eichner and Lena Dunham are among the many stars who will sashay their way onto “RuPaul’s Drag Race” as guest judges on the show’s 10th season, which kicks off March 22.

VH1 released the official roster of guest judges on Thursday. The list includes Christina Aguilera, Todrick Hall, Audra McDonald, Nico Tortorella and Andrew Rannells.

“Broad City” stars Abbi Jacobson and Ilana Glazer, as well as Kumail Nanjiani and Emily V. Gordon of “The Big Sick,” will also be featured as judges.

Meanwhile, Stephen Colbert, Andy Cohen and Cheyenne Jackson are scheduled to make special guest appearances during the season, according to a press release.

As to what it takes to land a guest judge stint on “RuPaul’s Drag Race,” RuPaul told Newsweek, “We really love kind people who are not trying to make a joke of what it is we’re doing.”

“We celebrate drag,” he added. “We’re not doing the whole ‘waka waka,’ ‘wonk wonk’ Milton Berle style of drag, which is ... seemingly misogynistic.”Sean Hannity got into it with one of his guests Wednesday as the Fox News host debated immigration policy with Univision’s Jorge Ramos.

And he got called out on his own show.

Hannity and Ramos were specifically arguing about crime but couldn’t even agree on the basic statistics.

Finally, an exasperated Ramos let loose on Hannity for using what he called misleading numbers on crime by leaving out context.

“You don’t tell your audience the truth, the facts,” Ramos said, “that immigrants are less likely to be criminals than those born in the United States.”Last month, “Star Wars” actor Oscar Isaac gave Finn and Poe shippers a new hope.

After signing a fan’s poster that read “FINNPOE IS ENDGAME,” Isaac incited a million more fan theories by adding the words “fully endorsed” below his signature. The stamp of approval was all the shipping community needed ― they’d been rooting for the two franchise characters, Isaac’s Poe Dameron and John Boyega’s Finn, to get together since “Star Wars: The Force Awakens” debuted in 2015.

So, could a Finn and Poe relationship actually be the endgame? Will they get together in future films? According to Finn himself, the answer is probably... no.

During an interview with Boyega about his role in the upcoming “Pacific Rim Uprising,” HuffPost asked about the possible “Star Wars” ship that fans so badly want to see: a queer love story between a former stormtrooper and a revered resistance pilot.

“I don’t know if that’s going to happen,” Boyega told HuffPost. “I think we already established a love between Finn and Rey, and now a sneaky kiss from Rose. I mean, just so many. They need to all leave me alone, man. I’m trying to just be handsome and sexy on my own, and they’re interrupting.”

Jokes aside, the actor continued:

“There’s too many options, man. But I don’t know. I really, really don’t know. I don’t know what’s going on with that. I feel like we’ve already established a connect and to not hold firm on that, I don’t know how that would work. But that’s up to [film director J.J. Abrams].”

Boyega previously told Mashable that fans would know “exactly which way” Poe and Finn’s possible romance was headed after “Last Jedi.” In other words, he seems to believe Finn’s kiss with Rose Tico (Kelly Marie Tran) was a kiss of death for #FinnPoe shippers.

Lucasfilm

But maybe that kiss wasn’t the be-all and end-all of fanfic dreams.

Last year, io9 uncovered a detail in Star Wars the Last Jedi the Visual Dictionary that further fuels the #FinnPoe flames, pointing out that Poe wears a ring from his mother and that he’s “waiting to share it someday with the right partner.”

Yes, “partner.”

Headcanon that poe dameron is gonna give finn the ring on his necklace pic.twitter.com/7Wb7j4BpXm — 🏳️‍🌈micayla♿ (@ASpoonieJourney) February 18, 2018

Poe was also apparently the one who patched up the damage to Finn’s jacket after the lightsaber fight with Kylo Ren (Adam Driver).

If that’s not love, just blast me out into space with Admiral Ackbar.

It’s also interesting that Boyega mentioned Rey as a possible love interest, since both he and Rey actress Daisy Ridley previously described their characters’ relationship as more brother-sister.

Perhaps we’ll just have to wait until “Star Wars IX” arrives and, hopefully, answers our questions. As Boyega would later tell HuffPost, he wants to know what the heck is going on with Finn’s story, too. Why did he defect from the First Order anyway? Could he help others do the same?

In the meantime, the actor talked about “Uprising,” in which he both produces the film and plays the role of Jake Pentecost, the son of Idris Elba’s gone-but-not-forgotten character Stacker Pentecost ― aka the guy who canceled the apocalypse in 2013′s original “Pacific Rim.” With Stacker gone, it seems up to Jake to save the world from giant monsters this time around.

What’s it like being Idris Elba’s son?

I mean, lord knows if I experienced that, I’d have loads of stories for you. But it was nice to get a congratulations message [from him] before filming. So yeah, he’s a cool dude, man.

In the trailer, it looked like you say a line about the apocalypse in a speech you give, but that line wasn’t in the movie. Why not?

In the real world, you wouldn’t say the exact same thing your dad said when you weren’t even there, so that’s not even something that Jake thinks about. He’s just giving the kids a speech about their circumstances. It’s a different time now. Dad made the epic speech saying he was going to cancel the apocalypse, and he did it! [Laughs] So now I’ve got to make another speech, just to clarify.

In the movie, you fight inside giant robots called Jaegers. What weapons would be on your own John Boy-jaeger?

A grill. And an inside kitchen with movie and cinema facilities and just a big massive AK-47 … I think I’ll just go classic with it.

I love “Adventure Time,” and I saw you tweet about this, but in “Star Wars” you’re Finn. In this movie, you’re Jake. Was that an intentional “Adventure Time” reference?

No, it was a coincidence. I didn’t plan for Finn to be called Finn in “Star Wars” and Jake to be called Jake in “Pacific Rim.” It was a coincidence actually. And yeah, I love “Adventure Time.” Why wouldn’t they have a special? They should do a special. I’ll do it. I’ll play a cat.

Speaking of other roles, in your recent Reddit AMA someone threw out the idea of you playing Blade, and you seemed into it. Is that something you’re thinking about or would want to do?

You guys can’t write off our guy Snipes, man. Snipes needs to come back for at least one movie, man. C’mon, dude. Yeah, I mean, I’m a Wesley Snipes advocate, so I think we should keep it that way. I don’t think he’s done yet.

Like your dad Idris Elba, I’ve seen your name thrown out for James Bond. What do you think about that possibility?

I’ve heard about it in interviews, but that’s about it. That’s an interesting one. Yeah, that’s an interesting one. I think Daniel Craig is still holding the flag. Let’s let him do what he needs to do.

Have you already had ideas for “Pacific Rim 3”?

Oh yeah, yeah, definitely. I mean ideas are going all over the place and right now I’m basically jotting down things. I’d like to see the way the story would go, [it] would be cool, and maybe if we could build up a certain specific trend in making each film have a tone. I think that would be creatively exciting. The first movie was obviously Guillermo del Toro’s specific tone, and this one was kind of like a live action anime. And to see the possibilities of where a third one would go would be very interesting.

In a New York Times interview, Harrison Ford said you’re not really replacing Han Solo because you have “bigger” and “better” ideas. What are these big ideas? Where do you want to see Finn go?

To be honest with you, I would love to get much more of a layered Finn and insight to his backstory and why he wanted to defect. For me, it’s so strange in the “Star Wars” universe to have a stormtrooper breakout of years and years of conditioning. Perhaps he could transfer that same kind of energy and power to other stormtroopers. You don’t know. But I think there’s an opportunity to do something unique with all the characters, including Rey and Poe, and we’ll see how that goes.