Anadolu Agency via Getty Images

Higher than usual turnout is expected for the 2018 midterm elections, and one indication is a surge in early voting in Texas primaries, with Democratic turnout up 69 percent and Republican votes up 20 percent from the early count for the 2014 primaries. And, unlike in Australia, no one dares tell Texans they have to vote.

High election turnouts throughout this past year follow the divisive and hotly contested 2016 general election, in which 55.7 percent of voting-age Americans cast a ballot, about 86 percent of registered voters, a healthy number for the U.S.

But in Australia in 2016, about 87 percent of voting-age people participated in the nation’s federal election, or 91 percent of enrolled voters. And that was the lowest turnout since the country introduced compulsory voting in 1924.

If the U.S. had compulsory voting, how would it change American democracy? One thing the Aussies figured for their own country was that near-universal engagement would have a moderating effect on politics.

Compulsory voting and enrollment have been credited with giving Australia relatively stable, moderate leaders for most of its history, according to Stewart Jackson, a lecturer in the department of government and international relations at the University of Sydney. He said that aspiring Australian politicians have to appeal to a majority of the entire population, rather than working to activate and energize certain segments of voters, an ideological “base.”

Australian voters line up on election day to determine all 226 members of the Parliament in Melbourne on July 2, 2016. Anadolu Agency via Getty Images

“The original intent, or one of the arguments, for compulsory voting was that it would make elections about policy. We’d stop pleading for people to vote and just talk about policy. You wouldn’t have to spend all your time with a get-out-the-vote effort,” Jackson told HuffPost. “Now we do have campaigns about policy. It’s not just trying to appeal to a particular sector to vote. You appeal to everybody. The parties have gotten good at appealing to the middle voter.”

Jenny Tilby Stock, a visiting research fellow at the University of Adelaide, said compulsory voting also encouraged voters to pay attention to politics and policy, to ensure that their vote went to the right party. “It encourages people to think about who they want to run the country. It definitely leads to a higher interest in politics. Some people complain about having to go vote, but then you think about other countries where blood has been shed and they’re not allowed to vote,” she told HuffPost.

Stock also said that higher turnout means the winning party can claim a greater mandate for their policies.

“It adds legitimacy to the government that is elected when so many people participate. In America, only a small number of the total population end up voting for the winning party. In Australia, just over half of the 95 percent of the country who is enrolled end up voting for the winner,” she said.

Despite occasional minor arguments that compulsory voting should be abolished in Australia, Stock said the system appears to be solid.

“The conservative side of politics brings up periodically that we do away with it, but it’s supported by the center and left. The argument is ‘Why should people who don’t care influence the vote?’ But the people who already don’t vote are young, marginal groups or ethnic groups, which is particularly important in America,” she said. “It’s a very good system. It’s been in for so long, the chances of changing it are minimal. It’s very effective.”

“We’re a very compliant country,” Jackson said. “We want to vote. Compulsory voting, in some respects, does force people to be engaged in politics. If you’re going to vote, you have to make a decision. Having to be engaged means you at least pay some attention to the world.”

In Australia, both enrolling to vote and actually casting a ballot are compulsory for local, state and federal elections. In reality, punishments for not doing so are low ― a fine of just $20 ($15 in U.S. dollars) for not voting, and zero punishment for not enrolling ― but it has a strong encouraging effect. Since compulsory voting was introduced in 1924, turnout has been as high as 96 percent in some elections. It has never dropped below 91 percent.

As of December, 96.3 percent of eligible Australians were on the electoral roll, or slightly more than 16 million people. The government estimates only 611,000 eligible people are not enrolled.

There is a uniform roll for state and federal elections, managed by the Australian Electoral Commission (AEC). The voting age in Australia is 18, but 16- and 17-year-olds can enroll, so the AEC routinely visits high schools to sign young people up. Anyone can enroll or update information online, too.

Australian Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull casts his ballot, with wife Lucy, in the 2016 election. Bloomberg via Getty Images

“Compulsory enrollment helps create an up-to-date and accurate electoral roll. This is important because the electoral roll is a tool for delivering the franchise in an equal and non-discriminatory way. It is the foundation of a fair election,” said former AEC commissioner Ed Killesteyn.

To make sure voters get their say, the AEC sends out mobile polling teams that cover millions of square miles by road, air and sea. In 2016, those teams made it to the 23 voters in Camel Camp and the 39 in Koongie Park, the AEC spokesman told HuffPost, and it gathered votes in Antarctica, where Australia has several permanent research bases.

#ausvotes in Antarctica. Not all polling places are quite this scenic... pic.twitter.com/08TjWQVTpZ — AEC (@AusElectoralCom) June 30, 2016

The AEC also offers postal voting, several weeks of early voting and election days that are nearly always on weekends.

And because those weekend election days are at polling places that are often schools and public buildings, local education and community groups use the opportunity to raise funds, often hosting family days at the polling places with barbecues, children’s games and market stalls.

Volunteers hand out voting instruction cards on election day in Melbourne, Australia, on July 2, 2016. Anadolu Agency via Getty Images

The barbecues are so popular, there’s now the tradition of the “democracy sausage,” a sausage sandwich sold on election days. Entire websites (such as democracysausage.org) have been created to show the wares at each polling station so voters, who are not tied to one precinct, can plan ahead and cast their votes at the place with the best food.

It is a tradition one Australian journalist tried to bring to America on Election Day in 2016.

.@mjrowland68 takes the democracy sausage to America for #USElection2016 and the locals love it! pic.twitter.com/ejhQtcrMeP — News Breakfast (@BreakfastNews) November 8, 2016

There is also an occasional push to not just sign up 16- and 17-year-olds but to also let them vote, which has been backed by the left-leaning Greens party and, more recently, by the Labor party.

“If young people are interested enough at 16, doing legal studies and politics at school, then yes. But it shouldn’t be compulsory, because the average 16-year-old probably won’t vote. They should be able to, but it shouldn’t be compulsory until 18,” Stock said.

Jackson said he doubted such a reform would pass in Australia but thinks high school students are often politically engaged enough to cast a reasoned vote.

“There is this idea of of no taxation without representation,” he said, noting that 16-year-olds can drive, work and pay taxes.SEOUL, March 6 (Reuters) - North Korea is willing to hold talks with the United States on denuclearisation and will suspend nuclear tests while those talks are under way, the South said on Tuesday after a delegation returned from the North where it met leader Kim Jong Un.

North and South Korea, still technically at war but enjoying a sharp easing in tension since the Winter Olympics in the South last month, will also hold their first summit in more than a decade next month at the border village of Panmunjom, the head of the delegation, Chung Eui-yong, told a media briefing.

“North Korea made clear its willingness to denuclearise the Korean peninsula and the fact there is no reason for it to have a nuclear program if military threats against the North are resolved and its regime is secure,” the head of the delegation, Chung Eui-yong, told a media briefing.

He also cited the North as saying it would not carry out nuclear or missile tests while talks with the United States were under way. North Korea has not carried out any such tests since November last year.

North Korean leader Kim Jong Un meets members of the special delegation of South Korea's President in this photo released by North Korea's Korean Central News Agency (KCNA) on March 6, 2018. KCNA KCNA / Reuters

Washington and Pyongyang have been at loggerheads for months over the North’s nuclear and missile programs, with U.S. President Donald Trump and Kim Jong Un trading insults and threatening war. North Korea has regularly vowed never to give up its nuclear program, which it sees as an essential deterrent against U.S. plans for invasion.

The United States, which stations 28,500 troops in the South, a legacy of the Korean War, denies any such plans.

To ensure close communication, the two Koreas, whose 1950-53 conflict ended in a mere truce, not a peace treaty, will set up a hotline between South Korean President Moon Jae-in and Kim Jong Un, Chung said.

The last inter-Korean summit was in 2007 when late former president Roh Moo-hyun was in office.

The agreement came on the heels of a visit made by a 10-member South Korean delegation led by Chung to the North Korean capital, Pyongyang, on Monday in hopes of encouraging North Korea and the United States to talk to one another.

Kim Jong Un met senior South Korean government officials for the first time and said it was his “firm will to vigorously advance” inter-Korean ties and pursue reunification, the North’s official news agency said.

Tensions between the two Koreas eased during the Olympics in South Korea, where Moon hosted a high-level North Korean delegation and the two sides presented a joint women’s ice hockey team. Kim Jong Un had invited Moon to North Korea for a summit, which was the first such request from a North Korean leader to a South Korean president.

North Korean leader Kim Jong Un shakes hands with Chung Eui-yong who is leading a special delegation of South Korea's President, in this photo released by North Korea's Korean Central News Agency (KCNA) on March 6, 2018. KCNA KCNA / Reuters

U.S. — SOUTH KOREA DRILLS TO GO ON

North Korea has boasted of developing nuclear-tipped missiles capable of reaching the United States, in defiance of U.N. Security Council resolutions, but Pyongyang and Washington both say they want a diplomatic solution to the standoff.

The first inter-Korean talks in more than two years were held early this year to bring North Koreato the Winter Olympics, when South Korea and the United States also postponed an annual joint large-scale military exercise that North Korea views as a preparation for invasion.

During this week’s visit, a senior Blue House official said North Korea was informed it was not feasible to postpone the joint military drills between South Korea and the United States again and that Kim Jong Un acknowledged the situation.

Kim Jong Un said he also understood the drills, expected in April, would be of a similar scale seen in previous years, the official said.

The South’s delegation leader, Chung, said he would travel to the United States to explain the outcome of the visit to North Korea and that he had a message from North Korea he will deliver to Trump.

Chung will later visit China and Russia, while Suh Hoon, the head of South Korea’s spy agency and another member of the delegation, will head to Japan.

Both North Korea and the United States have said before they are open to talks but the U.S. position has been that dialog must be aimed at North Korea’s denuclearisation, something Pyongyang has rejected.

Moon has also remained vigilant against North Korea’s weapons ambitions, saying on Tuesday South Korea should bolster its defenses in tandem with talks with Pyongyang.

The Pentagon has nevertheless said it was “cautiously optimistic” about the North-South talks, which resumed in January for the first time in two years.India’s first post-independence leader, Jawaharlal Nehru, who promoted a secular state and tolerance of India’s Muslims, said it was “entirely misleading to refer to Indian culture as Hindu culture.” That outlook informed the way India was governed by Nehru and then by his Congress party for more than half a century. The rights of minorities - including the prohibition of discrimination based on religion - are enshrined in India’s constitution, of which Nehru was a signatory in 1950.

Shashi Tharoor, a prominent member of the Congress party, said right wing Hindus are “leading a political campaign over Indian history that seeks to reinvent the idea of India itself.”

“For seven decades after independence, Indianness rested on faith in the country’s pluralism,” Tharoor said, but the rise of Hindu nationalism had brought with it a “sense of cultural superiority.”

A HISTORY FOUNDED ON HINDU TEXTS

The history committee met in the offices of the director general of the Archaeological Survey of India, a federal body that oversees archaeological research. Among the committee’s 14 members are bureaucrats and academics. The chairman, Dikshit, is a former senior official with the Archaeological Survey.

Culture Minister Sharma told Reuters he will present the committee’s final report to parliament and lobby the nation’s Ministry of Human Resource Development to write the findings into school textbooks. That ministry, which is responsible for education and literacy programmes, is also headed by an adherent of the RSS, Prakash Javadekar.

“We will take every recommendation made by the Culture Ministry seriously,” Javadekar said. “Our government is the first government to have the courage to even question the existing version of history that is being taught in schools and colleges.”

According to the minutes of the history committee’s first meeting, Dikshit, the chairman, said it was “essential to establish a correlation” between ancient Hindu scriptures and evidence that Indian civilization stretches back many thousands of years. Doing so would help bolster both conclusions the committee wants to reach: that events described in Hindu texts are real, and today’s Hindus are descendants of those times.

The minutes and interviews with committee members lay out a comprehensive campaign to achieve this, including the dating of archaeological sites and DNA testing of human remains.

Culture Minister Sharma told Reuters he wants to establish that Hindu scriptures are factual accounts. Speaking of the Ramayana, the epic that follows the journey of a Hindu deity in human form, Sharma said: “I worship Ramayana and I think it is a historical document. People who think it is fiction are absolutely wrong.” The epic tells how the god Rama rescues his wife from a demon king. It still informs many Indians’ sense of gender roles and duty.

Sharma said it was a priority to prove through archaeological research the existence of a mystical river, the Saraswati, that is mentioned in another ancient scripture, the Vedas. Other projects include examining artifacts from locations in scriptures, mapping the dates of astrological events mentioned in these texts and excavating the sites of battles in another epic, the Mahabharata, according to Sharma and minutes of the committee’s meeting.

In much the same way that some Christians point to evidence of an ancient flood substantiating the Biblical tale of Noah and his ark, if the settings and features of the ancient scriptures in India can be verified, the thinking goes, then the stories are true. “If the Koran and Bible are considered as part of history, then what is the problem in accepting our Hindu religious texts as the history of India?” said Sharma.

Modi did not order the committee’s creation - it was instigated by Sharma, government documents show - but its mission is in keeping with his outlook. During the 2014 inauguration of a hospital in Mumbai, Modi pointed to the scientific achievements documented by ancient religious texts and spoke of Ganesha, a Hindu deity with an elephant’s head: “We worship Lord Ganesha, and maybe there was a plastic surgeon at that time who kept the head of an elephant on the torso of a human. There are many areas where our ancestors made large contributions.” Modi did not respond to a request from Reuters that he expand on this remark.

Nine of 12 history committee members interviewed by Reuters said they have been tasked with matching archaeological and other evidence with ancient Indian scriptures, or establishing that Indian civilization is much older than is widely known. The others confirmed their membership but declined to discuss the group’s activities. The committee includes a geologist, archaeologists, scholars of the ancient Sanskrit language and two bureaucrats.

One of the Sanskrit scholars, Santosh Kumar Shukla, a professor at Jawaharlal Nehru University in New Delhi, told Reuters he believes India’s Hindu culture is millions of years old. Another committee member, Ramesh Chand Sharma, former head of the linguistics department at the University of Delhi, said he would take a strictly scientific approach. “I don’t subscribe to any ideology,” he said.

With an annual budget of about $400 million - an important source of federal funding for historical research, archaeology and the arts - the Culture Ministry is an influential place to start a campaign of historical revision.

After he was named culture minister in 2014 following Modi’s victory, Sharma, a doctor and chairman of a chain of hospitals, said he received guidance from the RSS. Sharma, a genial man with a wide smile, has a portrait of Bharat Mata, or Mother India, hanging above the doorway of a meeting room in his bungalow in central Delhi. Below it are portraits of past RSS leaders.

During the last three years, Sharma said, his ministry has organized hundreds of workshops and seminars across the country “to prove the supremacy of our glorious past.” The aim, he said, is to build a fresh narrative to balance the liberal and secular philosophy espoused by India’s first prime minister, Nehru, and furthered by successive governments for most of the nation’s post-independence history.

The Nehru Memorial Museum and Library, now controlled by Sharma’s ministry, these days mixes in sessions about right-wing Hindu leaders and causes. At one such event in 2016, the president of the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party, Amit Shah, took the opportunity to lambast Nehru as a man influenced by the western world. “We have always believed that our policies should have the smell of Indian soil,” Shah said. It was time for a history of India that concentrates on “facts about our great past.”

(Additional reporting by Krishna N. Das, Aditya Kalra and Vipin Das M in New Delhi, Jatindra Das in Bhubaneswar and Subrata Nagchoudhury in Kolkata.)NORTH AND SOUTH KOREA TO HOLD DENUCLEARIZATION TALKS The meetings will be the first in over a decade. [Reuters] [Tweet | Share on Facebook]

TEXANS HEAD TO POLLS TODAY The Lone Star State is holding the first 2018 primaries, and turnout is being closely monitored. Democrats are outpacing Republicans in early voting. [HuffPost]

TRUMP BREAKS PROMISE ... AGAIN President Donald Trump reportedly told Australia’s prime minister that its steel and aluminum industry would be exempt from any new tariffs. [HuffPost]

OREGON ENACTS NEW GUN SAFETY LAW It’s the first state to do so since last month’s shooting at a high school in Florida. [HuffPost]

YOU ARE PROBABLY HAVING A BETTER WEEK THAN SAM NUNBERG During several interviews published and broadcast Monday, the former Trump campaign aide said he won’t cooperate with a subpoena to appear before a grand jury weighing evidence over Russia’s alleged interference in the 2016 election. CNN’s Erin Burnett asked Nunberg if he had been drinking. [HuffPost]

TRUMP ORG STAFF BOOTED FROM TRUMP HOTEL The Panama City showdown ended with the name “Trump” being scraped from the hotel’s facade. [HuffPost]At least he kept his shirt on. Russian President Vladimir Putin, who likes to show off his athletic skills (and sometimes his pecs), juggled a soccer ball in a video posted Monday to hype the World Cup in Russia this summer.

Featuring many former soccer stars, the clip marks the final 100 days until the host nation plays in the opening game.

Wearing a suit and tie, Putin plays briefly with FIFA President Gianni Infantino and then taps a header for the 100th hit ― signifying the 100th day ― at the end of the video. It appears some generous editing helped the Russian president keep the ball in the air.Former “SportsCenter” anchor Jamele Hill denied that her ex-ESPN colleague Chris Berman left her a “threatening and racially disparaging voicemail” during a work dispute.

Hill, who now writes about race and culture for ESPN’s sports culture website, described the way her “personal conflict” with Berman has been characterized as “dangerously inaccurate.”

“Chris never left any racially disparaging remarks on my voicemail and our conflict was handled swiftly and with the utmost professionalism,” Hill wrote on Twitter Monday night.

The voicemail allegations surfaced Monday when former ESPN host Adrienne Lawrence filed a discrimination lawsuit against the network claiming “SportsCenter” anchor John Buccigross sexually harassed her. Lawrence alleges that Buccigross made repeated unwanted sexual advances and that the company inadequately responded to formal complaints she filed with ESPN’s human resources department.

The complaint, filed in federal court, also describes ESPN as a workplace “rife with misogyny.”

Among the allegations were one pertaining to Hill and Berman. According to a copy of the lawsuit obtained by Deadline, Lawrence claims Berman left a voicemail for Hill in 2016. The suit states:

In early 2016, ESPN’s The Undefeated personality Jemele Hill received a threatening and racially disparaging voicemail from [Chris] Berman on her ESPN phone line. After Hill notified executive Marcia Keegan (who oversaw Hill’s show His & Hers at the time and had been a senior director in HR) about the matter and forwarded the voicemail to her, nothing was done. Despite his continued and repeated misconduct toward women, Berman remains a celebrated and welcome ESPN employee.

ESPN denied the allegations against the network and said it would fight the lawsuit in court. Hill hit back at the claim over Twitter, noting she was more disappointed in Lawrence’s decision to “misrepresent and relay a private conversation” without her knowledge.By Sophie Quinton

Workers at Volkswagen’s U.S. plant in Chattanooga, Tennessee. Like many automobile manufacturing facilities, the plant operates within a foreign trade zone. Some communities have created such zones in order to attract and retain businesses. Erik Schelzig/The Associated Press

LIMON, Colo. — This tiny truck-stop town, 90 miles southeast of Denver and home to fewer than 2,000 people, is flanked on all sides by endless, undulating hills. Limon’s busiest areas are its two interstate exits, where truckers and road-trippers pull over to grab gas or fast food.

There’s no major airport here, nor are there big companies that depend on international trade. Yet civil leaders believe they can boost the local economy by thinking big: Limon recently set up its own foreign trade zone, or FTZ, a designation that can help domestic and foreign-owned companies lower their customs duties and fees.

Hundreds of cities and counties have created foreign trade zones since the 1930s in a bid to attract and retain employers. As President Donald Trump announces new tariffs and threatens to scrap longtime free trade agreements, the zone program may attract more interest from companies and communities.

“In a world where trade barriers increase, foreign trade zones become more valuable,” said Matt Gold, a former U.S. trade negotiator and adjunct professor of international trade law at Fordham University School of Law in New York City.

But for many communities that have set up a zone recently, the designation has not amounted to much.

About half the 80 zones created in the past two decades didn’t have a single company using them in 2016, according to a Stateline analysis of federal data. Nationwide, 195 zones are currently active, about two-thirds of the total zones created since the program began.

Although hundreds of thousands of people work in these zones, the program’s impact on the economy isn’t clear. While supporters say the zones help U.S.-based companies compete with international rivals, critics say the zones hurt domestic suppliers by making it easier for companies to source components from overseas.

The lack of evidence didn’t stop Limon. “We see this FTZ project as not only beneficial but a practical necessity,” Mayor Julie Coonts wrote in support of Limon’s zone application to the federal Foreign-Trade Zones Board, which was approved in 2015. Without a zone, she wrote, Limon would be at a disadvantage compared to communities that already have one.

There are no real costs to having the designation, aside from the money spent on the staff time required to pull together and submit an application.

In tiny Limon, civic leaders are watching the headlines. No companies have officially joined the foreign trade zone so far. Hopefully, the zone will attract warehouses to the trucking corridor, said Troy McCue, executive director for the Lincoln County Economic Development Corporation.

“You have to buy into the long-term vision that it might be eight, 10 years before we see something, but we’ll see it,” he said.

Uncertain Payoff

The foreign trade zone program was created during the Great Depression to help companies compete with overseas rivals in an era of high tariffs. Trade barriers are much lower today, but the zones can still be cost savers for some companies — particularly automotive manufacturers, electronics manufacturers and oil refiners. And they might become more attractive if Trump’s tariffs spark a trade war.

Foreign trade zones work by being a type of customs limbo: Foreign and domestic companies that import goods into a zone can delay paying duties until the goods leave the zone. Manufacturers that operate in a zone choose whether to pay duties on their imported components or on their final product, and don’t have to pay duties on imported goods that are later re-exported.

Companies that rely on imports can realize big savings from the program. And companies that handle frequent, high-value shipments can also benefit, as zone users can streamline their paperwork and reduce customs fees.

Unlike free trade zones overseas, which usually have a geographic boundary near a port or city, U.S. foreign trade zones and subzones can be anywhere, and the geography doesn’t have to be contiguous. A company that has foreign trade subzone status through Denver’s zone, for example, has a facility in Pueblo, more than 100 miles away.

Supporters say that having a trade zone can help a community land a major employer, though it can take a while. “I’ve seen time and time again where six, nine years down the road a huge manufacturer comes in and changes the lives of the whole community,” said Craig Pool, co-founder of the Foreign-Trade Zone Corporation, a company based in Mobile, Alabama, that administers foreign trade zones and offers consulting services.

Having a foreign trade zone helped Chattanooga, Tennessee, land a Volkswagen plant in the 2008, for instance. Volkswagen only considered sites within foreign trade zones, said Steve Hiatt, director of business development for the Chattanooga Chamber of Commerce.

When it applied to the Foreign-Trade Zones Board for permission to manufacture in the Chattanooga zone, Volkswagen said being there would cost $300,000 a year in inventory management and fees but would save $1.9 million a year in reduced paperwork and customs charges.

The United Auto Workers union opposed the zone application and argued that zone authority would hurt American car companies and domestic suppliers, according to the Chattanooga Times Free Press.

Today over 2,000 people make cars and sport utility vehicles at Chattanooga’s Volkswagen plant. “The utilization of the Foreign Trade Zone helps increase our products’ competitiveness in the U.S. and abroad,” said Keith King, a spokesman at Volkswagen Chattanooga, in a statement.

There’s little research on whether foreign trade zones help or hurt the economy, or encourage companies to employ more workers than they otherwise would. Academic papers on the subject tend to present theoretical arguments about the zones rather than hard evidence, according to a 2017 Government Accountability Office review of the research.

The success of foreign trade zones may depend on community attributes beyond the mere existence of a zone, some zone managers say. Colorado relies less on exports than many other states. The cities of Denver, Colorado Springs and Limon all have zones, but only Denver’s is active.

About six companies are approved to use Denver’s zone, but fewer may be actively using it, said Abdul Sesay, the international business development representative for the city’s Office of Economic Development.

Most companies that have joined the zone are not new to Denver or came to the area for another reason, he said, such as the qualities of the area workforce or its location. Zones are common enough — and easy enough to establish — that their presence doesn’t drive corporate decisions, he said.

Colorado Springs’ experience shows that foreign trade zones don’t insulate users from broader economic trends. Apple made computers in the Colorado Springs zone in the 1990s before shifting production overseas. Quantum Corporation made data storage products there in the 2000s before it outsourced.

Pool said some companies insist on setting up a facility in a foreign trade zone but then never apply to use the zone designation. From an economic development perspective, he said, a new company benefits the community even if it doesn’t officially use the zone.

Troy McCue, executive director for the Lincoln County Economic Development Corporation, stands surrounded by gas stations, fast-food restaurants and hotels close to Limon, Colorado. Local economic development officials such as McCue hope that the foreign trade zone will attract new businesses to the area. Sophie Quinton/The Pew Charitable Trusts

Rural Communities Hold Out Hope

Kicking back in one of Limon’s fast-food restaurants on a recent day, McCue outlined the economic challenges faced by the rural community.

“Limon can’t be the next Parker,” McCue said, naming a booming Denver suburb. “We can’t do that because we don’t have the water.” It’s so dry out on Colorado’s eastern plains that Lincoln County likely can’t support more than double, maybe triple, the 5,000-odd people who live in the county now, he said.

Towns in the area have always been small, and they’re shrinking as farming jobs vanish. Their size puts limits on their growth: Limon doesn’t have sufficient electricity, water or wastewater infrastructure to recruit many companies, McCue said.

Limon isn’t the only rural community or small town to seek a foreign trade zone designation. In recent years counties have established zones in upstate New York, Mississippi and Vermont, as have economic development organizations in northwest Iowa and coastal Maine. Some of those zones are active, some are not.

No businesses have joined the zone that Brunswick, Maine, created in 2012, for instance. There are some international manufacturers in the college town, but they may be too small to take advantage of the zones, said Jeff Jordan, deputy director of the Midcoast Regional Redevelopment Authority. “If it’s a real small operation, it’s probably not worth it.”

Joe Kiely, Limon’s foreign trade zone director, has received the application for the zone’s first company. It’s a manufacturer he declined to name that supplies parts to Vestas, a Danish wind turbine maker with four facilities in Denver’s foreign trade zone. Unfortunately for Lincoln County, the supplier is based near Denver on the far western side of the five-county zone.

Kiely purposely drew the boundaries of Limon’s zone to brush up against the Denver metropolitan area, reasoning that it made more sense to touch the state’s largest city and coax users eastward than to plop a zone in the middle of Lincoln County, McCue said. Some county commissioners have mixed feelings about the strategy, which likely will mean many zone users are far away, he said.

Kiely said it cost about $35,000 in public funds for Limon to get the foreign trade zone designation. There was little opposition: While several members of Congress, local economic development groups and businesses lent letters of support to Limon’s foreign trade zone application, no organizations filed comments against the proposal, according to the International Trade Administration, which oversees the Foreign-Trade Zones Board.

The long-term plan for Limon’s zone is to attract warehousing and distribution companies to the county, with its cheap real estate and traffic-free highways, McCue said. He has spoken with a wind turbine company that’s interested in using a foreign trade zone to store some equipment, for instance.

While there aren’t any wind turbine makers in Lincoln County, there are wind farms all over the place. Truckers that stop in Limon can see rows of turbines lazily turning on the horizon.

The mixed record of Colorado’s foreign trade zones hasn’t stopped more communities in the state from trying to get in on the action. The city of Grand Junction and its surrounding counties in Western Colorado are so committed to the foreign trade zone idea that they’re paying $1 million to establish a customs office at the small regional airport — a prerequisite for setting up a zone.

AdvertisementBy David Washburn

The two 9th-grade girls heard the laughing the minute they walked into their third-period class that December morning at Oakland’s Fremont High School. And they knew why: a video of one of the girls being slapped by a classmate had gone viral among students on social media.

It was one of those moments that could have gone bad in a hurry — like so many others had at Fremont High, a school that had more suspensions last year than any other in the Oakland Unified School District.

Both girls (whose names are being withheld to protect their privacy) acknowledged later that their first instinct was to lash out at their snickering classmates. But they didn’t do that. Instead, they left the classroom and walked down the hall to Tatiana Chaterji’s room.

Chaterji is Fremont High’s restorative justice facilitator and among a growing number of educators in Oakland Unified charged with changing the district’s approach to behavioral issues through restorative practices. This work departs from traditional school discipline in that it focuses less on punishment and more on righting wrongs and building healthy relationships within the school.

During the previous period, the two girls had participated in a community building circle, a cornerstone of restorative justice in which students gather in a circle, talk about the difficulties of their daily lives and work on responding to them in a healthier way.

“What would have happened had you stayed (in the classroom)?” Chaterji asked the girls after they had told her their story.

“They would have said some things, then I would have said some things…then things could have gotten ugly,” said the more assertive of the two, who was wearing an ankle monitor from the Alameda County Juvenile Probation Department.

Had things gotten out of hand, punches might have been thrown. That would’ve led to an office referral and perhaps suspensions. Such an outcome would be an unfortunate but not uncommon occurrence at Fremont, which, according to district data, suspended 151 students during the 2016-17 school year.

Tatiana Chaterji, the restorative justice facilitator at Fremont High School in the Oakland Unified School District. David Washburn / EdSource

Fremont High hired Chaterji last summer as part of a larger effort to improve the school’s climate and cut down on suspensions. The school also employs three case managers who work to alleviate conflicts that crop up in classrooms before they become office referrals.

“People’s trust in the process is growing,” Chaterji said. “The leadership has really shifted to prioritize [restorative justice]…we are at an exciting moment, but it’s just the start.”

A new approach to an old problem

Small victories like the one that morning at Fremont High are being won to varying degrees in schools throughout California. Over the past decade, a mountain of research has shown that the so-called zero-tolerance approach to misbehavior, characterized by stringent rules and harsh punishments, largely doesn’t work.

In particular, studies have shown unequivocally that students of color are suspended and expelled at disproportionately higher rates than their white peers, which has forced a reassessment of school discipline in many places throughout the nation.

Teachers and administrators have come to realize that a student’s range of experiences — their home life, their neighborhood and the overall atmosphere of the school — has an outsized impact on their behavior in class. Research shows that by gaining insight into these experiences and building stronger relationships with students, educators can address a number of behaviors without having to resort to suspensions and other punitive methods of discipline.

This awakening, along with intense pressure on districts from the state in recent years to cut down on suspensions, have spawned a number of behavioral support programs under the umbrella of social/emotional learning, including Positive Behavioral Intervention and Supports (PBIS) and Multi-Tiered Systems of Support (MTSS).

Interwoven in these approaches is the idea of restorative justice, which has both captured the imagination of many youth advocates and educators and generated controversy.

In recent years, some of the state’s largest districts have made significant investments in restorative justice:

Oakland Unified budgeted roughly $2.5 million for restorative justice in the 2017-18 school year, which pays for 35 facilitators and a districtwide coordinator.

The Los Angeles Unified School District budgets more than $10 million annually for restorative justice and has a goal of implementing the practices in each of its more than 900 schools by 2020.

Following the lead of Los Angeles Unified, the San Diego Unified School District board last year approved a “School Climate Bill of Rights” that is centered on restorative practices. The board also approved a nearly $800,000 budget for restorative justice in 2017-18, which pays for a districtwide program manager along with several other staff members.

The Santa Ana Unified School District received a multi-year, $3 million federal grant to implement restorative practices in schools throughout the district.

Although the terms restorative justice and restorative practices were largely unheard of in the school setting as recently as a decade ago, the work in many respects builds on conflict mediation strategies that schools have used since the 1990s.

Yet many see restorative justice as groundbreaking because at its core is a repudiation of the punitive model that has been the foundation of school discipline in this country since the days of the one-room schoolhouse.

A community building circle in Tatiana Chaterji's classroom at Fremont High School in the Oakland Unified School District. Tatiana Chaterji

Because their use in the school setting is so new, there is scant research on the long-term effectiveness of restorative practices. But officials in districts that have devoted significant resources to them say they’ve led directly to fewer suspensions and better school climates.

“We have seen a drastic reduction in suspensions and RJ (a commonly used shorthand for the practices) is a big reason for it,” said Deborah Brandy, Los Angeles Unified’s director of district operations, which oversees restorative justice programs.

“We’ve also seen a reduction in truancy rates…and it goes beyond the data. Parents feel more welcome at their school sites; students remarked (in climate surveys) that their teachers seem more caring.”

While awareness of restorative practices is high among school officials statewide, relatively few districts outside major urban centers have well-established programs, EdSource found through interviews and a survey.

The most common sentiment expressed among nearly a dozen superintendents, principals and other officials interviewed was cautious optimism, with the caveat that finding resources to devote to it is a challenge.

“There is certainly an interest and heightened awareness,” said Tamara Clay, who is director of the El Dorado County Special Education Local Plan Area. “And system change can be easier in small rural areas like ours — but it’s harder in that our superintendents don’t have the capacity.”

Too much too soon?

While it is difficult to find anyone — administrators, teachers, students or parents — who disagrees with the core principles of restorative justice, a fair number of critics say it’s been oversold as a quick fix. And, in some instances, they say it’s contributed to more chaotic school environments.

Los Angeles Unified’s efforts have drawn criticism from some teachers’ union officials who say the district has launched an aggressive implementation plan without sufficiently taking into account how the timetable is affecting students and teachers at the ground level.

“The LAUSD idea is that in three years’ time we’ll just train all the teachers and we’ll be done,” said Daniel Barnhart, who is vice president of secondary schools for United Teachers of Los Angeles. “It is a recipe for resentment and for teachers to not make a change they may want to make because there is no real support.”

Belia Saavedra, director of restorative justice in schools for the Long Beach-based California Conference for Equality and Justice (CCEJ), said most teachers she works with embrace restorative justice — but she has encountered pockets of resistance in both Long Beach and Los Angeles schools.

“More than a few teachers will tell you that RJ is the removal of punishment without a replacement for accountability,” Saavedra said, referring to concerns that there aren’t sufficient consequences. “If RJ is coming to their school they see it as the wild, wild West.”

LA Unified’s Brandy does not dispute the reports of pushback, but says the concerns fade once teachers and administrators see the district’s commitment to the approach.

“Because the district has been very steadfast we are getting more and more buy-in,” Brandy said. “In the first year, we received a lot of pushback. In the second year, people started calling me, asking me ‘When am I going to get the RJ training?’”

The restorative justice room at Roosevelt High School in the Los Angeles Unified School District. Jule Leopo

Brandy’s assertions notwithstanding, the issues being raised are real and indicative of the pendulum swinging too quickly away from traditional discipline, argues Max Eden, a senior fellow specializing in education policy for the Manhattan Institute, a conservative think tank based in New York City.

Eden says his research shows that students report feeling less safe when districts issue mandates to reduce suspensions and in their place offer alternatives like restorative justice and PBIS.

“There is more immediate evidence that the reforms are creating a crisis rather than solving one,” Eden said, pointing to studies done in New York City, Philadelphia and Virginia. “If it were being approached as a complement to traditional discipline I would be bullish, but given that it’s being looked at as a substitute, I’m bearish.”

Daniel Losen, who is director of UCLA’s Center for Civil Rights Remedies, takes issue with Eden’s arguments on a couple of levels.

First, Losen said Eden is cherry-picking indicators to make schools seem more unsafe than they actually are. Secondly, he sees in Eden a failure to acknowledge that there is strong evidence showing that suspensions and other isolating punishments are harmful to students, especially students of color.

“No one wants the reform efforts to yield something worse than before,” Losen said. “But we have to reject the status quo. Schools are doing things that are harmful to kids right now, and we need to stop that — their civil rights are being violated.”

A winding road to progress

It is because of disagreements like the one between Eden and Losen that Sonia Llamas, Santa Ana Unified’s assistant superintendent for school performance and culture, spends a lot of her time documenting her district’s success with restorative practices and showing how they help its bottom line.

Five years ago, Santa Ana Unified had nearly 9,800 days of suspensions, Llamas said, which cost the district about $680,000 because state funding is calculated based on average daily enrollment. Since then, thanks to a grant from the federal Department of Education, the district has invested more than $3 million in restorative justice and related programs and seen its suspensions drop by 75 percent.

“People can talk a good talk, but you need strong data to show what’s working,” Llamas said. “It is really hard to cut something that is showing impact.”

That being said, Llamas and other proponents emphasize that transforming a school’s climate and culture often happens in fits and starts and requires commitment and patience from schools and communities.

“The ability to do RJ is based on where a school and its community are at and start from there,” said David Yusem, Oakland Unified’s restorative justice coordinator. “Right now, there are some schools, just like some communities, that are ready for RJ and it can come in really nicely. Then there are other schools that are fractured and it’s tough to implement it.”

John Jones III recently moved to Oakland from Portland and his son, a 9th-grader at Fremont High, has had trouble adjusting to his new school. Jones, who works for a community group as a restorative justice facilitator, said the school’s handling of altercations his son had with a teacher showed the progress Fremont has made as well as how far it still has to go.

“My biggest critique is that I wasn’t notified of the situation until months afterwards,” Jones said. “Once there is the first inkling of a problem, parents should be brought in…the old proverb is true, it does take a village to raise a child — and it’s important that everyone is on the same page.”

While they acknowledge their progress has not gone in a straight line, the staff at Fremont High feel they are slowly getting on the same page. The school is on track to cut suspensions in half from last year, said Co-Principal Tom Skjervheim.

“Part of the challenge is we have lots of students who need support in any given day,” Skjervheim said. “[But] now that we have a system where RJ can live — it is setting us up for more success.”

When asked whether she learns more from being suspended or going through restorative justice when she gets in trouble for fighting, the 9th-grade girl who had sought Chaterji’s counsel after the problems in her third-period class rolled her eyes. “It’s all a waste of time,” she said.

But when pressed further, she gave a clear-headed comparison of the two approaches.

“I could be getting into a fight with someone and get suspended. Then I come back and it could still be a fight,” she said. “If I don’t get suspended and we talk it out, there is a higher chance of there being no more problems.”“The goal is to make sure that those instructional personnel that are in the classroom cannot participate in the program,” Garcia said to the Times. “This is an opt-in program. … It’s dependent on the school district and the sheriff to determine if it participates in the program.”

Senate Bill 7026, also known as The Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School Public Safety Act, will still have to pass in the state’s House and be signed by Republican Gov. Rick Scott before the legislative session ends Friday.

If passed, the bill would allow county sheriff’s offices to establish a Coach Aaron Feis Guardian Program, named for the Stoneman Douglas coach who died shielding students from gunfire.

Guardians would need to complete “132 hours of comprehensive firearm safety and proficiency training, pass psychological evaluation, submit to and pass drug tests; and complete certified diversity training.”

SB 7026 also addresses a number of reforms, including mental health programs, raising the legal age of firearm purchases to 21 and introducing a three-day waiting period for firearm sales.

The bill also includes a provision for more than $25 million to rebuild Building 12 at Stoneman Douglas High, where the shooting took place.

“We can never replace the 17 lives that were lost at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School, and we can never erase the traumatic experience that lives on in the memories of those who survived this horrific attack,” state Senate President Joe Negron (R-Stuart) said in a news release. “However, we will do everything we can to address the failure of government to effectively address the numerous warning signs that should have identified the perpetrator as a danger to others.”Jacob Moore, the first male to publicly accuse former USA Gymnastics team doctor Larry Nassar of sexual abuse, said he hopes his story encourages other male survivors to come forward.

“I hope he rots in hell,” Moore, 18, said of Nassar on NBC News’ “Today” show on Tuesday.

Nassar has been accused of abusing over 260 young girls and women during decades as team doctor for USA Gymnastics and Michigan State University. He’s now serving three concurrent sentences of up to 175 years on child sexual abuse and child pornography charges. Moore became the first male to accuse Nassar in a federal lawsuit filed last week alleging the former doctor molested him in 2016.

Moore, now a freshman at the University of Michigan, said Nassar abused him under the guise of treatment for a shoulder injury when he was 16 years old.

“I wasn’t a dumb kid, I knew kind of what medical practices were and that one was out of the ordinary,” Moore said Tuesday. “Coming out of the treatment, I felt very uncomfortable.”

Moore said he “kind of freaked out” when abuse allegations against Nassar became public, and he couldn’t find an explanation for the treatment he received.

Moore’s sister, who also has accused Nassar of abusing her, testified during a January sentencing hearing for the doctor in which she mentioned her brother had been victimized. Both siblings are gymnasts.

“My whole family was fooled by you, but I know now who you really are,” Kamerin Moore told the serial predator.

Jacob Moore said his entire family has been affected by Nassar’s abuse.

“Me and my sister shouldn’t be able to relate over the fact that we’ve both been abused,” he said. “That’s just really sickening to me, that he would violate our trust like that … the things that he did were just awful.”

President Donald Trump recently signed a bill that aims to protect amateur athletes from sexual assault in the wake of the Nassar scandal.Last weekend, U.S. President Donald Trump reportedly said that North Korea had “called up a couple of days ago and said 'We would like to talk.'” He was apparently referring to a call he'd had with South Korea's president. Jonathan Ernst/Reuters

The National Security Council clarified on Monday that President Donald Trump did not have a call with North Korea last week, but rather, was referencing another interaction he’d had with the president of South Korea, a longtime ally of the United States.

At a media dinner on Saturday, Trump spoke about North Korea and said he would not rule out direct talks with the country’s leader, Kim Jong Un. Tensions with Pyongyang have appeared to cool in recent weeks, and both North Korean and American officials have said they would be willing to open diplomatic channels.

But Trump suggested that such talks had already begun, telling those gathered at the Gridiron Dinner in Washington, D.C., on Saturday that the North had “called up a couple of days ago and said, ‘We would like to talk.’”

“And I said, ‘So would we, but you have to de-nuke, you have to de-nuke,’” Trump added.

But he was apparently referencing the wrong Korea when he made those comments.

U.S. President Donald Trump attends a state dinner hosted by South Korea's President Moon Jae-in in Seoul on Nov, 7, 2017. Jonathan Ernst/Reuters

An unnamed official on the National Security Council told South Korea’s Yonhap News Agency that “President Trump did not have a call with the North Koreans.” Rather, the official said Trump was referencing a call with South Korean President Moon Jae-in on March 1.

A source provided the same clarification to Agency France-Presse. The White House did not immediately reply to HuffPost’s request for comment.

It wouldn’t have made any sense for Trump to tell South Korea to “de-nuke” ― Seoul abandoned its nuclear weapons program decades ago ― so it’s not clear why the U.S. president would have presented his conversation that way.

An official readout of the phone call said Trump congratulated Moon on the hosting of the 2018 Winter Olympics and said that Trump was briefed “on developments regarding North Korea and inter-Korean talks.”

“President Trump and President Moon noted their firm position that any dialogue with North Korea must be conducted with the explicit and unwavering goal of complete, verifiable, and irreversible denuclearization,” the release states.

Some U.S. policy experts on North Korea expressed their frustration with the clarification on Twitter, including Jeffrey Lewis, the director of the East Asia Nonproliferation Program at the Middlebury Institute, who simply said “JFC.”Not only does John Boyega play Finn in “Star Wars,” but he’s also pulling double duty producing and starring in the upcoming “Pacific Rim Uprising.” So he doesn’t have time for nonsense — in fact, he doesn’t know how anybody does.

The actor has some advice for them.

“I would say that they need to definitely get job applications to utilize their time for a much more suitable thing. I think they’re too bored. We need to get more people working for their jobs, man. I think like, don’t you have a family? And time? I don’t understand it.”

He continued, “I don’t really think it’s that deep. I think ‘Black Panther’ has done what it’s done because of the creativity and great work. And I think a few people saying they’re going to [mess] with Rotten Tomatoes marks ain’t gonna do nothing, man. We give too much attention to those who don’t deserve it.”

“Black Panther” director Ryan Coogler was similarly unfazed when speaking with HuffPost about the group’s potential threat earlier this year.

“For me, I’m looking forward to everybody seeing the film,” Coogler said. “I’m really looking forward to sharing the film with audiences regardless of what their political views are … that’s kind of where I [stand on that].”

Rotten Tomatoes vowed to crack down on any hate speech in response to the group’s “Black Panther” threat, and at this point it seems any potential attack has been effectively thwarted. Though the film’s audience score initially dipped into the low 70s, it’s up to 79 percent as of press time.

Regardless of the score, the movie has trounced box office expectations, already passing “Beauty and the Beast” to take its spot as the ninth highest-grossing film of all time.

One reason the group took aim at “The Last Jedi” and planned to attack “Black Panther” was because of the films’ diverse characters, a concept you’ll also find in “Pacific Rim Uprising.”

Like in the first “Pacific Rim,” the new installment features a range of characters from different backgrounds coming together to help save mankind from annihilation at the hands (claws?) of giant monsters called Kaiju.

Boyega said having a diverse cast was only natural.

“The fact is, is that our world isn’t trying to be inclusive. It just is. What it is and what it would be if there would be a giant attack against our planet — it wouldn’t be one race involved, so it’s common sense,” Boyega said.

That actor added that he’s “sick of having to explain common sense” to people who don’t want to listen.

“The world in which we live in isn’t just one shade, so people want to see the world and the reality of the world on-screen as it relates to the story. And as it relates to our story, it’s a world war in which the world has to come together against a Kaiju attack,” he said. “Race isn’t a forefront player in our world because there are bigger issues, and I think sometimes stories like this expose how stupid we all are running around trying to work things out with people who don’t understand common sense.”Johnson, who was vice president when Abraham Lincoln was assassinated in 1865, was accused of “high crimes and misdemeanors” after he fired prominent Cabinet members. He was acquitted and served out the remainder of his term and later served in the U.S. Senate, but his legacy remains as the first president to be impeached.Donya Fiorentino, who accused actor Gary Oldman of domestic violence in 2001 when they were married, said she’s disappointed the Academy Awards rewarded her alleged abuser.

“Congratulations, Gary and congratulations to the Academy for awarding not one but two abusers with Oscars,” Fiorentino told TMZ in an article published Monday. “I thought we had evolved. What happened to the #MeToo movement?”

Oldman won an Oscar for Best Actor on Sunday night for his role in “Darkest Hour.” Former NBA star Kobe Bryant, who was accused of rape in 2003, also won an Oscar for his animated short “Dear Basketball.”

Fiorentino accused Oldman in 2001 of choking and beating her in front of their children, describing their four-year marriage as a “car crash.”

“As I picked up the phone to call the police, Gary put his hand on my neck and squeezed,” she said in court papers, according to the New York Daily News. “I backed away, with the phone receiver in my hand. I tried to dial 911. Gary grabbed the phone receiver from my hand, and hit me in the face with the telephone receiver three or four times. Both of the children were crying.”

Police investigated Fiorentino’s claims, but no charges were filed.

AdvertisementNashville Mayor Megan Barry (D) has resigned from office after pleading guilty on Tuesday to felony theft of property over $10,000 after being accused of misusing public funds during an affair with a former police bodyguard.

Barry’s plea came with an agreement to reimburse the city $11,000 and serve three years’ unsupervised probation for the misuse of city funds between March 2016 and January 2018, prosecutors said. If she completes the agreement, the charges can be dismissed and expunged.

Former Metropolitan Nashville Police Department Sgt. Robert Forrest, who was accused of financially benefiting from the affair with Barry and resigned shortly after, also pleaded guilty to criminal theft on Tuesday, the Tennessean reported. He agreed to pay $45,000 restitution to the city.

A charging document, obtained by the Tennessean, did not detail how Barry’s restitution was calculated. The couple’s relationship, however, had sparked concern on whether Forrest’s six-digit overtime pay over the last three years was legitimate and whether their affair factored into her decision not to support a civilian review board of the force.

Nashville Mayor Megan Barry, seen in 2017, pleaded guilty on Tuesday to felony theft of property over $10,000. Rick Diamond via Getty Images

Prior to Tuesday, the mayor’s office had denied any suggestions that she misused travel time or taxpayers’ money because of their relationship.

At a morning press conference, Barry thanked her supporters who reached out to her “during these many difficult and trying months,” as well as Nashville’s citizens and her staff.

“I sincerely hope and believe that my own actions will not tarnish or otherwise detract from all of the great work that they do,” she said in a statement.

It has been the honor and it has been the privilege of my entire professional life to have had the blessing of this opportunity to be your mayor. I love you, Nashville. https://t.co/19DmJnJG0C — Megan Barry (@MayorMeganBarry) March 6, 2018

Vice Mayor David Briley is expected to be sworn into office as her replacement.

This development comes roughly a month after she admitted to an affair with Forrest.

News of the scandal led Nashville’s City Council to create a special committee to determine whether she had misused public funds as a result of the affair.

The Tennessean’s editorial board encouraged her resignation in a piece published last week. It followed an earlier editorial by the news outlet titled: “Megan Barry betrayed Nashville.”

Barry became the city’s first female mayor when sworn into office in 2015.