Texas holds the nation’s first primaries of the year on Tuesday, previewing whether reinvigorated Democrats will turn out in big numbers for the November midterms.

Early voting in Texas, which lasted 11 days and ended on Friday, is way up since the last midterm elections ― a nearly 50 percent increase. In fact, Texas’ 15 largest counties have broken records for early turnout in a non-presidential election year.

The increase was driven by Democrats.

More than 465,245 early votes were cast in the state’s Democratic primaries this year, compared to over 420,329 in the Republican races. In 2014, by contrast, Republicans outpaced Democrats in early voting ― 365,423 voters to 226,730.

Breaking: in TX's 15 largest counties, early voting in Dem primary spiked 105% (!) vs. 2014 midterm, vs. just 15% in GOP primary. Enthusiasm gap should be major warning for GOP. — Dave Wasserman (@Redistrict) March 3, 2018

“After the 2016 election, Texas became a single-digit state,” Texas Democratic Party spokesman Tariq Thowfeek said, referring to Donald Trump carrying it by 9 percentage points, whereas for decades GOP presidential candidates won it by double digits.

“We watched that progressive energy grow into a record-breaking number of candidates and an incredible excitement around the March primary,” Thowfeek said. “It’s clear that folks are fired up, exceeding all expectations, and voting in force. Texas Democrats are poised to have to the best midterm of our lifetime.”

Rep. Beto O'Rourke (D-Texas) is running to unseat Sen. Ted Cruz (R-Texas). William Philpott/Reuters

In many previous campaign cycles, Democrats failed to even field a candidate in some Republican-held districts. But not this year.

According to NPR, 111 Democrats are running for the U.S. House in Texas, with contenders on the ballot in all 36 of the state’s congressional districts. It’s the first time this has happened in 25 years.

A particular target for Democrats are districts that voted for Hillary Clinton in the 2016 presidential election but are currently represented by a GOP congressman ― seats like the 7th District, held by Rep. John Culberson, and the 32nd, held by Rep. Pete Sessions.

Such a high number of Democratic candidates means there are some crowded primaries ― four districts have seven running ― which has led to a bit of intra-party fighting.

Laura Moser, a Democrat running for her party's nomination in Texas' 7th U.S. House District, faces opposition from the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee. Michael Stravato/For the Washington Post

In the race in Culberson’s district, the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee has inserted itself into the primary by publicly releasing opposition research on digital activist Laura Moser. The DCCC, which focuses on electing Democrats to the House, has such research on its website against just two people: Moser and a Republican running in a Pennsylvania special congressional election next week.

The DCCC hasn’t endorsed any of Moser’s six opponents, but it argues that she won’t be able to win in the general election. EMILY’s List, the pro-choice Democratic women’s group, is backing corporate attorney Lizzie Pannill Fletcher in the district.

The establishment getting involved so heavily has upset many activists and highlights the potential for future splits in a party that has stood relatively unified in post-Trump resistance work.

Republicans traditionally have an advantage in midterm elections, making a potential Democratic surge on Tuesday even more significant.

In the battle for state legislative seats in Texas, Democrats aren’t playing in every district, but the party does have a larger presence than in recent years.Allison Janney holds up her Oscar during the 90th Academy Awards in Hollywood. Photo: Frederic J Brown/AFP/Getty Images

It’s fun to imagine the lucky few who took home Oscars on Sunday sipping bubbly with their fabulous friends at ritzy parties late into the night. They’re glam Hollywood stars, so what else would they do? Well, Allison Janney, who won the Best Supporting Actress trophy for her turn in “I, Tonya,” shattered any illusions of that when she showed up to work Monday morning, Oscar in tow.

At least she had the opportunity to share her joy with her “Mom” co-workers, including her TV daughter, Anna Faris. (And it’s not like she went straight home after the ceremony, so surely there was some time for celebration.)

Another “Mom” actress, Mimi Kennedy, was just as happy for her co-star. She was also just as impressed by the weight of the award — 8.5 pounds.

In fact, the entire cast and crew applauded when Janney arrived, "Mom” producer and writer Adam Chase shared on Twitter.

Just as fun as the excitement of Janney’s co-stars is the T-shirt that she wore for her first day as “Oscar winner Allison Janney,” the way she will always be identified in movie trailers from here on out. Her shirt read, “I Survived Awards Season and All I Got Was This Lousy T-Shirt.” Of course, it was also adorned with a colorful bird, like the one that sat on her shoulder throughout much of awards season, and, of course, a notice about her award winning-performance as Tonya Harding’s mother.

Looks like her Oscar will become her new accessory.

AdvertisementWhite House counselor Kellyanne Conway, seen on Feb. 23, violated the Hatch Act twice in late 2017, according to a report released Tuesday from the U.S. Office of Special Counsel. Cheriss May/NurPhoto via Getty Images

On at least two occasions last year, Kellyanne Conway, a close White House aide to President Donald Trump, violated a law that prohibits government employees from engaging in political campaigns, according to a report published Tuesday by the U.S. Office of Special Counsel.

In a letter to Trump, OSC special counsel Henry Kerner said Conway violated the Hatch Act in two television interviews granted in her “official capacity” in November and December. Kerner wrote that Conway “impermissibly mixed official government business with political views about candidates in the Alabama special election.”

The OSC, which is unrelated to an ongoing investigation by special counsel Robert Mueller, recommended that the president take “disciplinary action” against Conway for ethics violations.

The White House did not immediately respond to a request for comment.

In a statement to NBC News, however, the White House denied that Conway had broken any laws, and claimed that her on-air comments “actually show her intention and desire to comply with the Hatch Act ― as she twice declined to respond to the host’s specific invitation to encourage Alabamans to vote for the Republican.”

The OSC’s report concerns interviews that Conway gave to Fox News’ “Fox & Friends” and CNN’s “New Day” in November and December, respectively. Conway delivered both interviews from the grounds of the White House and was introduced as “counselor to President Trump.”

During the interviews, Conway discussed Alabama’s special election for U.S. Senate and expressed support for Roy Moore, the Republican candidate in that race.

Moore, a former judge, ran against Democrat Doug Jones, who ultimately won the election as Moore faced allegations of child molestation.

In her November interview with “Fox & Friends,” Conway attempted to deter Alabamans from voting for Jones, calling him “weak on crime, weak on borders.”

“He is strong on raising your taxes,” Conway said of Jones in that interview. “He is terrible for property owners.”

Trump, who is not subject to the Hatch Act as president, endorsed Moore for Senate in early December. In a statement to the OSC, the Office of White House Counsel argued that Conway “intended [her] remarks to serve as policy commentary in the context of a broader discussion of the prospects of the President’s agenda in Congress, not as advocacy for or against a candidate.”

The OSC said Conway has yet to respond to the allegations.

Conway was previously found to have violated federal ethics rules in early 2017 when she endorsed Ivanka Trump’s clothing line during an appearance on “Fox & Friends.”

“I’m going to give a free commercial here: Go buy it today, everybody. You can find it online,” she said.

White House social media director Dan Scavino also violated the Hatch Act last year when he tweeted at Trump supporters to help defeat Republican Rep. Justin Amash (Mich.) in a primary. The OSC said it issued Scavino a warning.Nyle DiMarco, a model and deaf activist, is shedding a little light on a big problem with inclusion.

And he used the Marvel Cinematic Universe as a jumping off point.

In April, the website Mic published an article about how MCU has a diversity problem.

The article discusses at length how Marvel tends to put white men at the forefront of its stories. But like many other articles and conversations about diversity, it neglects to mention people with disabilities.

So when the story popped up in DiMarco’s feed, the extremely vocal disability advocate wasn’t going to let that significant detail slide.

“Disability is also a part of diversity, @mic,” DiMarco, the winner of Cycle 22 of “America’s Next Top Model” and Season 22 of “Dancing With the Stars,” wrote on Twitter. “HawkEye is actually Deaf and MARVEL Cinematic Universe made the character hearing.”

Disability is also a part of diversity, @mic.



HawkEye is actually Deaf and MARVEL Cinematic Universe made the character hearing.



https://t.co/xjNmv2vmMu — Nyle DiMarco (@NyleDiMarco) April 23, 2018

Mic ’fessed up to its oversight and invited DiMarco to join in a lengthy and candid conversation on Tuesday about disability.

“So many times people forget the disability conversation in diversity,” DiMarco told Mic. “They think diversity has to do with race [and] gender, but there’s so much more to it. We are part of diversity as people with disabilities and the danger is that we get excluded.”

During the conversation, DiMarco said Hollywood has made some small strides in disability representation, but added that the film industry has quite a way to go and used the Avengers film franchise again as an example.

“There are a couple of issues where specifically Hawkeye is deaf,” DiMarco said, referring to the comic books. “And so they brought in an actor who can hear instead. I think it would have made [better movies]… if they brought a deaf person in to play a deaf Hawkeye.”

“I mean, no offense, but Hawkeye in the Avengers is boring. A lot of people don’t even like him… Let’s have a deaf actor in there instead, why not?”This “Bachelor” finale, the first part of which aired on Monday night, was heavily promoted by ABC as the most stunning in franchise history. Of course, “The Bachelor” can be so insistent that each finale is the most heartbreaking, the most dramatic, and the most shocking yet ― in its 22-season run ― that most fans of the show have learned to roll their eyes at host Chris Harrison’s tantalizing teases.

But for once, Harrison wasn’t over-promising. Last night, fans of “The Bachelor” were united on one issue: The show’s season finale was, to use contestant Becca Kufrin’s word, utterly “brutal.”

Bachelor Nation was transfixed on Monday night when Arie Luyendyk, Jr. proposed to Becca ― then, just a couple months later, sat her down on a couch during a weekend getaway and told her that he wanted to end their engagement so he could pursue his runner-up, Lauren Burnham.

This switcheroo isn’t unprecedented in “Bachelor” history ― Jason Mesnick famously did the same, and is now married to his runner-up, Molly Malaney.

But this time, the breakup wasn’t relayed to the audience through a stiff studio sit-down with Harrison. Instead, production played uncut footage of Arie dumping an unsuspecting Becca, who apparently had little to no idea that a breakup might be in the offing. The encounter stretched on for nearly an hour, cameras held close to the couple’s anguished faces, as Becca struggled to take in her fiancé’s words.

The result: An extremely realistic, and utterly compelling, episode of television.

The co-hosts of HuffPost’s “Here to Make Friends” podcast recapped the tortuous finale with Jacqueline Trumbull, who also dated Arie before her own teary departure several weeks earlier in the show.

One thing we could all agree on: It was an utterly gut-wrenching three hours of TV ― for many reasons. Here are five moments that hit us particularly hard:

Our mood for this entire episode. Paul Hebert via Getty Images

1. Arie sends Lauren home without shedding a single tear.

Claire Fallon: This was the [Jason] Mesnick 2.0 season. Jason sends Molly [Malaney] home before his proposal [to Melissa Rycroft], and is so distraught that it’s hard to imagine how he could have gotten himself back together enough to propose to someone else that same day.

Emma Gray: He’s sobbing over a balcony.

Claire: Arie sends Lauren home, and I see NO emotion. That was surprising to me. I thought we were going to see a little Mesnick, a little tear ― the most distraught we see him is when she’s giving her pre-proposal to him, talking about how he’s the only man in the world for her, he sort of grimaces and shakes his head. That is the most emotion we see from him.

Jacqueline Trumbull: He’s an emotional person, too. He was very emotional during our breakup.

Emma: That’s why I’m very confused! We almost saw more emotion from him during that breakup than anything last night.

Claire: And Lauren seemed quite emotional, but in a very restrained way. She was crying, but not sobbing. She doesn’t yell at him. She says she’s very confused. “Why did you do that?” And finally gets in the limo and leaves, and says, “I don’t know how he could,” as he just told her, “not be sure who he’s picking until that morning and then be ready to propose that same day.”

Emma: She made some really valid points in her exit. She said, “Are you really getting on one knee if you didn’t know until three hours ago?” To me, that was a Lauren with a little more edge, a little more personality than perhaps we’ve seen the whole season.

Claire: This is what they did with Lauren. They were like, “She’s a little more reserved; let’s crack her open emotionally and see what comes out.” I was so pissed at Arie, the way that he coaxed her open and found out about all of her fears, and then almost used them as a justification for why she wasn’t ready enough for him to propose, and let her go when he had finally gotten her to feel confident and comfortable. It just seemed gratuitously cruel. I know that’s not what he was doing on purpose, but it was really hard to watch.

Emma: We also saw him say, “I feel a little bit like a monster. All I want is to tell Lauren that I love her, and instead I’m saying goodbye.” And he does, he does say “I love you” after he has broken up with her.

2. Arie proposes to Becca by saying he’ll choose her every day.

Emma: Arie looked like he was on the verge of throwing up the whole time.

Claire: He tells her that his love for her is “unmeasurable,” and that they’re a team, and that she is beautiful and elegant. It was a very detached declaration of love.

Emma: And yet we see this unbridled giddiness [from Becca]. Afterwards, he says, “We should start having children tonight ... ” And he says, “I choose you today, and I will choose you every day.” Which is just, if you didn’t know if you wanted to propose to either of them until three hours ago, don’t make declarations like that.

Claire: It almost feels like he is telling himself what he is going to do rather than declaring what he believes he wants to do. He’s like, “Here’s what I’m going to do. I will continue choosing you. One day at a time. Can’t be that hard. Just going to keep putting one foot in front of the other.”

Emma: I appreciate the immense pressure he was under, but if you are that unsure, do the harder thing, and the truer thing, and say, “I’m not proposing to either one of you. I need more time.”

3. Becca shows off her engagement ring to the cameras, just minutes before getting dumped.

Claire: The breakup happens at a “Happy Couple” weekend. There are film crews there. [Becca is] doing in-the-moment interviews.

Emma: She must be slightly confused.

Claire: She seems completely unfazed by it… Maybe if I’m Becca, I’m like, “Oh this probably always happens but they just don’t use the footage. Gotta go through the whole routine.” So she’s saying, “Arie’s not here yet. Look at this ring, it’s so big, he did such a good job.”

Emma: Oh, the fact that they asked her about the ring just to prime her ... it was [Pauses] UGH.

Claire: And [the ring] was enormous, by the way.

Emma: Poor Neil Lane just did not get the romantic promo he normally gets on this show.

Claire: Maybe that’s why they had her talk about how great the ring was. They were like, “Uh oh, Neil’s gonna be upset. At least Becca thinks the rings are cool.”

Emma: Now his rings are cursed.

Arie and Becca, moments before their breakup. Hulu / ABC

4. Arie tells Becca that “hanging out” with her took him further away from pursuing a relationship with Lauren.

Emma: I need to call out one of the lines that Arie said twice that made me so furious. He said, “I think for me, the more I hung out with you, the more I felt like I was losing the possibility of maybe reconciling things with Lauren.” As though that’s the justification, like, “by pursuing our relationship, I wasn’t pursuing the other relationship ― and I kept realizing that. Don’t you get it now?” Why would you ever say that to another person?

Jacqueline: I loved how he goes, “You don’t deserve for me to only be half in.” And [Becca] goes, “Well, are you gonna be half in with Lauren?” Like, this logic doesn’t make sense.

Claire: Whenever he clarified in any way, it was always insulting. He was like, “The thing is I’m trying to give my all to you, but I can’t because I’m conflicted.” And she was like, “So you’re gonna be conflicted with her?” And he’s like, “No, I’m gonna be totally sure.”

Emma: “I gave it a lot of thought.”

Claire: For him, a lot of thought is, like, 20 minutes.

Emma: I love that she essentially calls out, yeah, that is the premise of a relationship.

Claire: Yeah, the longer you spend on a relationship, the further you are from starting a different relationship. And that was the end of his little opening speech.

5. Becca tells Arie to leave — repeatedly — and he stays.

Claire: She says, “Please leave.” He leaves, he comes back, he knocks on the door, “Hey, are you OK?” No, she’s not OK!

Emma: You don’t get to be told what you did is OK when when you hurt another person. Breakups happen. People get hurt. That other person isn’t OK and it is not on them to reassure you. When you have the control in a relationship, what you give up is the ability to be comforted by that other person.

Claire: I would’ve been so angry, if I were her, that I had managed to stay calm and collected until he left, and then he ambushed me crying. No. That’s one thing that I wanted you to not get from me ― watching me crying over you. And [Arie] just casually saunters in, like, “Hey, I see you’re crying over me.”

Jacqueline: She even said that, like, “Well, you’ve finally seen me cry.”

Emma: During this second round of conversation, she says, I think five different times, “Please leave.”

Claire: And he keep saying “OK, I’m leaving. OK.” Motionless.

Emma: I get one time. But when you’ve been asked to leave five times, get the fuck out of there.

Jacqueline: The only thing I can say in his defense, ’cause I have to do this ― it is probably very difficult to walk away from an engagement, even if you are the one ending it. And you just seek out those last few seconds of togetherness and being in that relationship. And it’s hard also to walk away from someone who’s hurting.

Emma: Absolutely. You want to reach the conclusion that feels conclusive. And he did not get that from her.

Claire: I relate to that. I would not want the conversation to be over after 10 minutes. I’ve always been the person who has breakups that last 7 hours.

Jacqueline: I got so much criticism for kissing Arie during our breakup, but those are the moments where you seek intimacy, is when you’re severing.

Claire: There’s a thing called breakup sex. [All laugh.] But Becca did not want breakup sex. She did not want to be touched.

Emma: It’s not that I don’t understand why he wouldn’t want to leave. And I do empathize with him not wanting to leave another person that he cares for, who is hurting. At the same time, at a certain point it becomes a disrespect of her boundaries. What she needed was for him to leave her presence so she could process. And he did not do that.

Claire: Especially ’cause she is sort of moving through this home trying to get away from all of these intrusions on her emotions, and he is following her.

Jacqueline: It’s amazing. She came off as such a badass. It was like the whole weight of male disappointment was on her shoulders.

*BONUS: Arie didn’t utter the words “I’m sorry” until 49 minutes into his breakup with Becca.

A note to men (and women) everywhere: Be better than this.

To hear more about the most dramatic finale in “Bachelor” history, listen to the full podcast:

AdvertisementGary Cohn, who has served as President Donald Trump’s chief economic adviser since last year, will step down from his position, the White House confirmed Tuesday.

He will leave his role as director of the National Economic Council in “the coming weeks,” according to New York Times, which first reported the news.

Financial watchers expected U.S. stocks to drop in the wake of the announcement. Futures for the Dow Jones Industrial Average were down roughly 1.3 percent on Tuesday evening, while S&P 500 futures were down 1.1 percent.

Cohn had been rumored to be considering leaving the White House over concerns with Trump’s recently-announced tariffs on steel and aluminum imports. Cohn, a free-trade advocate, had lobbied Trump against the tariffs, and in recent days had reportedly planned a meeting at the White House with representatives from the aluminum and steel industries in an apparently unsuccessful attempt to change the president’s mind.

“It has been an honor to serve my country and enact pro-growth economic policies to benefit the American people, in particular the passage of historic tax reform,” said Cohn in a statement. “I am grateful to the President for giving me this opportunity and wish him and the Administration great success in the future.”

“Gary has been my chief economic advisor and did a superb job in driving our agenda, helping to deliver historic tax cuts and reforms and unleashing the American economy once again,” Trump said in a statement. “He is a rare talent, and I thank him for his dedicated service to the American people.”

Cohn previously was reported to have considered resigning in August 2017 over Trump’s response to the white supremacist rally in Charlottesville, Virginia. In an interview with the Financial Times at the time, Cohn criticized Trump for blaming “both sides” for the violence, arguing that the White House “can and must do better in consistently and unequivocally condemning these groups.”

There was also speculation that Cohn might leave the White House following the passage of the GOP tax plan late last year. Trump publicly addressed those rumors in January, calling Cohn himself on stage to address them during a media availability.

Exactly two months ago:



TRUMP: Are you happy Gary? We just passed a very big bill, I think he’s pretty happy.



COHN: Yes, I’m happy. How’s that?



TRUMP: Gary hopefully will be staying for a long time. pic.twitter.com/eita2zg0GP — JM Rieger (@RiegerReport) March 6, 2018

He is the latest in a series of high-profile departures from the White House. Most recently, communications director Hope Hicks, one of the president’s most trusted advisers, decided to step down from her post.

Prior to joining the White House, Cohn was the chief operating officer of investment bank Goldman Sachs.

Advertisement“Take My Wife,” the comedy series created by lesbian comics and real-life spouses Cameron Esposito and Rhea Butcher, is back.

The acclaimed, slice-of-life show ― which starred Esposito and Butcher as slightly exaggerated versions of themselves ― had been facing an uncertain future since last summer.

The series originally aired on NBC’s now-defunct streaming service, Seeso. When the network pulled the plug on Seeso in August 2017, “Take My Wife” was left without a home ― even though the show’s second season had been completely shot and edited by then. (Watch the trailer for the first season above.)

On Monday, Esposito announced that both seasons of “Take My Wife” would be available on iTunes. The show will also be available for viewing on the Starz app on May 1.

Esposito said that she and Butcher were “stoked as hell” to finally debut the second season of their show. The women hope the iTunes and Starz releases will “continue the push for diversity in television,” Esposito told INTO.

Added Butcher, “I’m just really excited that people get to see it. A lot of awesome people worked really hard on this show, and I’m glad their hard work gets to be seen.”

Many of the other performers and artists involved in “Take My Wife” shared Esposito and Butcher’s enthusiasm.

I'm so thrilled that more people get the chance to see this show that I am very, very honored to have been a part of! Two delicious seasons await ye! #TakeMyWife https://t.co/QQq9w5sQko — janet varney (@janetvarney) March 6, 2018

I'm so very excited that Season 2 of #TakeMyWife is here because I love this show lots! Also super honored to have my song featured ["Desire" by @LittleBrutes]. Thank u @cameronesposito, @RheaButcher & crew for your clever, funny, important show. GO WATCH: https://t.co/lDVmuOQewE — Rachael Cantu (@RachaelCantu) March 6, 2018

I had a sweet little cameo on Season 2 of "Take My Wife" that is now available on iTunes and will be streamable on Starz starting 5/1! (And yes, my 10+ years in the restaurant industry prepared me for the barista's backstory) pic.twitter.com/jLNz5ef858 — Brittany Ashley (@britt27ash) March 5, 2018

The first season of “Take My Wife,” which premiered on Seeso in August 2016, made waves as one of the few scripted series to specifically focus on queer women. Both Esposito and Butcher made a point to involve women, people of color and LGBTQ people in all aspects of production.

The second season’s cast, Esposito said, is made up of 83 percent women and 54 percent LGBTQ people. Guest stars include LGBTQ actors and public figures like Jen Richards, Solomon Georgio and indie pop duo Tegan and Sara.

Wanted to tell u what having a show on Seeso allowed us to do. I am so proud of #TakeMyWife. pic.twitter.com/UatqOyrPY7 — Cameron Esposito (@cameronesposito) August 9, 2017

The first season of “Take My Wife” was a critical darling. The A.V. Club said the show offered “a much more real and lively representation of lesbians than the static stereotypes and tropes that dominate television,” while The New York Times praised “Take My Wife” for having “a D.I.Y. charm and a perspective that have long been underrepresented on the small screen.”

Ultimately, Esposito would like “Take My Wife” to be seen as a testament to the possibilities of diversity in Hollywood.WASHINGTON ― President Donald Trump has responded to North Korea’s reported willingness to discuss denuclearization with the U.S., suggesting an opening for negotiations while still “ready to go hard in either direction.”

Possible progress being made in talks with North Korea. For the first time in many years, a serious effort is being made by all parties concerned. The World is watching and waiting! May be false hope, but the U.S. is ready to go hard in either direction! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) March 6, 2018

Trump’s tweet came after North Korean officials on Tuesday reportedly said they would agree to pause nuclear and missile tests if the U.S. would begin negotiating North Korea’s permanent abandonment of its nuclear weapons program, according to South Korean officials who met with the country’s leader Kim Jong Un.

The officials said North Korea and South Korea will hold their first summit in more than a decade in late April, the latest development in a recent thawing of tensions between the two countries.

Trump’s initial response to North Korea’s willingness to hold talks with the U.S. was a noncommittal “we’ll see what happens” tweet earlier Tuesday morning.

We will see what happens! https://t.co/Y1qxoAUfd9 — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) March 6, 2018

North Korea conducted multiple nuclear and missile tests last year, heightening instability in the region and world. Trump responded with threats and forceful rhetoric, mocking Kim as “Little Rocket Man” and inflaming tensions. Kim replied with his own threats, calling Trump a “dotard” and “mentally deranged.”

While North and South Korea have moved to defuse tensions, including a landmark agreement allowing North Korean athletes to compete at this year’s Winter Olympics, the U.S. has continued to ramp up pressure on North Korea.

After North Korea’s overtures to South Korea, Trump targeted the regime with new sanctions. Vice President Mike Pence accused North Korea of trying “to whitewash their murderous regime with nice photo ops at the Olympics.”

Pence, attending the Olympics as the leader of the U.S. delegation, appeared to ignore Kim Jong Un’s sister Kim Yo Jong at the opening ceremony. He said he had been scheduled to meet with her later, but North Korea abruptly canceled the meeting after Pence condemned the regime.Australian Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull (left) and President Donald Trump at the White House on February 23, 2018. Jonathan Ernst / Reuters

Australian media is accusing President Donald Trump of “reneging” on a promise he reportedly made to Australian Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull last year.

Trump “emphatically” promised Turnbull that Australian steel and aluminum would be exempt from any steel and aluminum tariffs imposed by the U.S., the Australian Broadcasting Corporation reported. The agreement, which was reportedly witnessed by several U.S. and Australian officials, occurred during the G20 meeting in Germany last July.

EXCLUSIVE: Donald Trump has broken on "emphatic" promise to Malcolm Turnbull to exempt Aussie steel and aluminium from US tariffs, witnessed by five officials #auspolhttps://t.co/clW7KNBrtm — Andrew Probyn (@andrewprobyn) March 5, 2018

Opposition Leader Bill Shorten says it appears Donald Trump "has dudded Australia" on failing to keep his promise to Malcolm Turnbull to exempt Australian steel exports from planned tariffs in the US #auspol — Tom McIlroy (@TomMcIlroy) March 6, 2018

Turnbull’s government reacted with shock last week when Trump announced that the U.S. would be imposing stiff tariffs on imports of steel and aluminum. In the immediate aftermath, Australian Trade Minister Steve Ciobo told local media that he was “seeking urgent clarification” from U.S. officials to see if Australia would be exempt.

“I’m not going to provide a commentary on the Trump administration’s trustworthiness,” Ciobo said on Saturday when it became clear that Australia would likely not be spared.

Any exemptions would ultimately be a decision for Trump, Ciobo said. However, White House officials have made clear that country-specific exemptions were unlikely.

Although the U.S. is not a major market for Australian steel and aluminum exporters, Australian officials expressed concerns that the tariffs would trigger retaliatory measures that could deeply impact global trade.

“My concern remains that off the back of actions like this, we could see retaliatory measures put in place by other major economies. That’s in no-one’s interests,” Ciobo said.WASHINGTON ― Two top legal experts have told the Senate’s leaders that they see little merit in a Trump administration legal opinion criticizing Senate efforts to debate U.S. involvement in Yemen’s civil war.

“The insinuation... that the President may unilaterally engage the United States in military action to defend presidentially decreed American interests is frivolous,” write Bruce Ackerman, a Yale Law School professor, and Bruce Fein, a Reagan-era Justice Department official, in a letter obtained by HuffPost. “If the law means anything, it means that the Senate should debate and vote on S.J. Res. 54.”

At issue is a bill introduced last week by Sens. Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.), Mike Lee (R-Utah) and Chris Murphy (D-Conn.) that invokes the War Powers Resolution and demands that senators consider whether to end U.S. assistance for a Saudi-led coalition that has been fighting Iran-backed rebels in Yemen since 2015. The Pentagon sent Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.) and Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer (D-N.Y.) a letter criticizing the proposal before it was even officially filed, HuffPost revealed last week.

Scholars on Twitter criticized the reasoning in the letter from the Defense Department’s acting general counsel, which relies on the idea that the U.S. is not actually helping fight the rebels, after HuffPost published the story.

In their five-page response, Ackerman and Fein note that a House resolution passed overwhelmingly last year with Pentagon input acknowledges that U.S. planes are providing aerial refueling to Saudi-led coalition planes bombing the rebel group and that the coalition is receiving American intelligence. They argue that the Defense Department letter justifies unconstitutional executive branch overreach.

Two backers of the House effort, Reps. Ro Khanna (D-Calif.) and Mark Pocan (D-Wis.) of the Congressional Progressive Caucus, solicited the analysis.

The senators are working on their own response, two Hill sources have told HuffPost. And the Trump administration is not backing down from the fight: Officials from the Pentagon, State Department and intelligence community will make their case on Yemen policy to Senate staff on Wednesday morning, two sources said. Movement on the bill is expected next week and may come just as Saudi Arabia’s de facto ruler, Crown Prince Muhammed bin Salman, arrives in Washington to visit President Donald Trump.Maria Contreras-Sweet, seen here in May 2016, was set to buy The Weinstein Company, but the deal fell through on Tuesday. J. Countess via Getty Images

The planned sale of The Weinstein Company to Maria Contreras-Sweet, who ran the Small Business Administration under President Barack Obama, has reportedly fallen through after her investor group got a look at the finances of the multimedia production company.

“We have received disappointing information about the viability of completing this transaction,” Contreras-Sweet said in a statement Tuesday. “As a result, we have decided to terminate this transaction.”

Per Variety, Contreras-Sweet’s group was due to make an initial payment of about $1.5 million on Tuesday. Presumably, that didn’t go through. The contract carried no penalty for its dissolution ― often called a breakup or termination fee ― so there would have been little incentive for Contreras-Sweet and her group to see it through after realizing the numbers were unfavorable.

Rather than buy the company outright, it seems the group plans to acquire TWC assets at a discount in bankruptcy.

“I believe that our vision to create a women-led film studio is still the correct course of action,” Contreras-Sweet said in Tuesday’s statement. “To that end, we will consider acquiring assets that may become available in the event of bankruptcy proceedings, as well as other opportunities that may become available in the entertainment industry.”

The original terms of the deal involved a $500 million bid, plus the assumption of $225 million worth of debt and an $80 million compensation fund for victims of TWC co-founder Harvey Weinstein’s harassment and abuse.Nancy Pelosi will be a guest judge on "RuPaul's Drag Race." VH1

Who said drag isn’t political anymore?

VH1 released photos on Tuesday of the latest special guest to join the girls on “RuPaul’s Drag Race: All Stars” ― none other than the minority leader of the U.S. House of Representatives, Nancy Pelosi.

VH1

Pelosi’s appearance on the show, to be aired Thursday, is brief. But in this clip from VH1 the Democratic powerhouse talks with the queens about resistance and her work with the LGBTQ community. She also commends them for using their platforms to raise awareness for LGBTQ rights.

“You’re an inspiration ― I hope you know ― because you really know your power,” Pelosi says. “It’s about taking pride. And that’s what you do ― take pride in yourselves.”

Pelosi went on the program as a show of solidarity at a time when the Trump administration is attacking the LGBTQ community, a spokesman for the California congresswoman previously told The Washington Post.

It’s lovely to see politicians getting involved in the world of drag. In the words of Trixie Mattel, “Every time you get in drag, you’re making a political statement.”Bloomberg via Getty Images

West Virginia’s governor and state legislators struck a deal with union leaders to end the massive teacher strike that has closed schools across the state for nine weekdays.

Gov. Jim Justice (R) announced early Tuesday that teachers, school personnel and state employees would all receive a 5 percent raise this year. Meanwhile, health insurance costs would be temporarily frozen as the state develops a task force to deal with rising premiums. Workers were demanding the state curb insurance costs and give them significant raises after years of stagnant pay.

The state House and Senate passed the measure Tuesday and Justice signed it the same day. Legislators said schools were expected to reopen Wednesday.

Workers inside the capitol were chanting “Today! Today!” as legislators met to pass the bill.

Justice proclaimed last week that he’d reached a deal to end the strike, only to see rank-and-file workers remain off the job as his pay proposal fell apart in the state Senate. The earlier deal would have provided a smaller raise for state workers than the one detailed on Tuesday.

Initial reaction from union leaders seems to be that they want to see it happen first. Remember, this isn't the first time Justice says he has reached a deal. Several conference committee members still not here in the meeting. — Jake Jarvis (@NewsroomJake) March 6, 2018

Don Scalise, a government and history teacher at Cabell Midland High School, told HuffPost that “everyone seems pretty satisfied” with the deal that was coming together Tuesday.

“It’s a significant pay raise and we’re very happy about that. With the task force on [health insurance], we’re moving in the right direction,” Scalise said. “Teachers are ready to get back to work.”

Jenny Santilli, a Spanish teacher at Bridgeport High School, said she was happy with the outcome and considered it a “good beginning,” noting that she and others planned on holding state leaders to account.

“There are a lot of good things that came out of this,” Santilli said. “We couldn’t have done it without our superintendents and the support of our families.”

The strike was the first of its kind in West Virginia in nearly 30 years. Teachers and school personnel stayed off the job in all 55 counties, flooding the capitol in Charleston each day to protest, often with a line of workers stretching down the street waiting to enter. Workers also set up rallies at schools across the state.

Public-sector workers in West Virginia don’t have a formal process for collective bargaining. The wage scale is determined by the state, and lawmakers pass raises through the legislature.Way to make up your mind, jerk.

Oh, sorry, we’re just relaying some of social media’s sentiments about Arie Luyendyk Jr. and his warped decision-making in Monday’s finale of “The Bachelor.”

In a nutshell, it was nuts.

As finalists vied for his hand in marriage, Luyendyk appeared to make his end-game maneuver. He dumped Lauren Burnham and proposed to Becca Kufrin.

But in reality TV, it’s never over until it’s over, is it? Luyendyk later questioned his choice and broke up with Kufrin in a shattering scene to pursue Burnham again.

People on Twitter were fully engaged:

Luyendyk is pronounced “lyin-dick”, right? #thebachelor — Brynn Tralnberg (@brynn_tralnberg) March 6, 2018

“Raise your hand if you feel personally victimized by Arie for how this season ended” #TheBachelor pic.twitter.com/dtFj80JLbQ — Michaela (@MichaelaLoraine) March 6, 2018

if you’re THIS uncertain at this point about which woman is right for you WHY PREPOSE?! #thebachelor — Kristina Schulman (@kristinaschulma) March 6, 2018

V curious to know how Lauren feels & even tho he went back to her,he STILL CHOSE BECCA over u at 1 point. Id never be ok w that #thebachelor — Raven Gates (@ravengates09) March 6, 2018

This is how you knock on a bathroom door when someone is throwing up or has diarrhea, not when you just broke off your engagement #thebachelor pic.twitter.com/gWMoujfWfL — Michelle Collins (@michcoll) March 6, 2018

While we waited for Ari to leave. #TheBachelor pic.twitter.com/imdIIigLgs — Noka Len Hills (@Noka27505735) March 6, 2018

The kind of “unedited” footage I was hoping for........... #TheBachelor pic.twitter.com/ZsSs8KIilx — katie d (@everydatekate) March 6, 2018

If only Arie was as decisive in relationships as he is in racing... but then again, when was his last win? #TheBachelor — Kristina Schulman (@kristinaschulma) March 6, 2018

A pretty accurate depiction of me during #TheBachelor finale..... pic.twitter.com/tKAW49S7kS — Hannah McKeen (@hannahmckeen) March 6, 2018

The three “discuss the outcome of their journey” in a two-hour show on ABC Tuesday.

Dude, you better have made up your mind.“Magnum P.I.” was rebooted, but the lead actor’s pornstache was not.

A trailer released Wednesday shows Jay Hernandez, who will play the title role made famous by Tom Selleck in the ’80s series, sporting some facial hair. But it’s nothing like the hirsute caterpillar that covered Selleck’s upper lip.

The new Magnum appears to still love revving up his red Ferrari and courting danger in Hawaii ― but doesn’t seem keen on 21st-century ride-sharing.

After his Ferrari gets wrecked in the preview, he says he needs a car.

To which the new Higgins (British actress Perdita Weeks) replies, “Call an Uber.”

“What am I, 19?” the PI fires back.

“Magnum P.I.” is slated for Mondays on CBS’ fall schedule.Bumble was founded with safety in mind. From the start, our mission has been to build a social network rooted in respect and kindness.



Online behavior can both mirror and predict how people treat each other in the real world. Bumble has a responsibility to our users and a larger goal to encourage accountability offline.

In the past, when we’ve had an opportunity to make our platform safer, we’ve taken action, banning hate speech and inappropriate sexual content from the Bumble app.



As mass shootings continue to devastate communities across the country, it’s time to state unequivocally that gun violence is not in line with our values, nor do these weapons belong on Bumble.

From today on, we will begin the process of moderating all new and previously uploaded photos for the presence of guns.* Our terms and conditions will be updated to reflect this decision.



Bumble is also making a $100,000 donation to March For Our Lives, the organization founded by the brave young survivors of the Parkland tragedy. We stand with them, and join them in working towards a non-violent future.

*This excludes users in military or law enforcement in uniform.DENVER ― On Monday morning, around 400 mothers organized by the Colorado chapter of Moms Demand Action for Gun Sense in America gathered under the state capitol rotunda to support common-sense gun control policy.

“We’re a group of moms whose primary concern is our children,” said Jen Clenahan, who has an eight-year-old daughter she calls the love of her life. That’s who she had in mind on Monday when she walked into the capitol ― like most of the members who have children, she imagined.

“It matters to show up,” she said. “[Our legislators] need to see us.”

Not all Colorado lawmakers are listening, however. The state Senate passed a bill on a party-line vote Monday morning that would scrap the state’s licensing process for concealed carry permits, instead allowing anyone “who legally possesses a handgun” to carry a concealed firearm. Another bill would repeal limits placed on high-capacity magazines after the 2012 theater shooting in Aurora, Colorado.

Neither of the bills is likely to make it past the Democrat-controlled state House, but members of Moms Demand Action aren’t taking any chances. After briefly gathering for a photo, they fanned out through the marble hallways to find their representatives and express their opposition to the bills in person.

Great turnout here at the CO State Capitol, as we make voices heard meeting with our representatives. @MomsDemand #ExpectUs #coleg #GunSense pic.twitter.com/UsFuY1w25k — Mike Massé (@mikemasse) March 5, 2018

Moms Demand Action is hoping to maintain the momentum for gun control that started last month after the high school shooting in Parkland, Florida. Clenahan said there’s a palpable energy after the shooting that’s different from the aftermath of other mass shootings, and she attributes it to the affected teenagers: “The kids are taking the lead,” Clenahan said. “They’re not just grieving; they’re angry.”

Melody Connett, another member of Moms Demand Action, said she couldn’t understand why it’s taking so long for politicians to pass sensible gun control laws. She would know ― her daughter survived the school shooting at Columbine High School in 1999.

The America Connett knows learns from its mistakes, she said, listing off a number of examples: We take our shoes off at the airport in response to the terrorist who tried to take down an airplane with a shoe bomb; in the 1980s, we changed consumer packaging laws after someone laced Tylenol with cyanide; our cars have seat belts and airbags now thanks to increasing federal standards.

“We’re not going to 100 percent stop gun violence,” she conceded. “But we can make it better.”

Some of the 400 members of Moms Demand Action at the Colorado State Capitol on Monday. HuffPost

Another mom, Diana Thompson, runs a program for social and emotional learning programs in the state. She gained new appreciation for the pressures educators are under two weeks ago, when she conducted a training for 60 teachers.

“There’s so much stress in our classrooms already,” said Thompson. “Adding guns is just a recipe for disaster.”

Thompson sadly noted that simply preparing children for the possibility that someone could storm into their school with a gun ― and how to react ― is harmful all by itself.Hurricane Irma and Hurricane Maria left a trail of destruction when they swept over the Caribbean last September.

Recovery has been slow in places like Puerto Rico, but it’s well on its way in St. Martin, an island that is controlled by France in the north and the Netherlands in the south.

These GIFs show what the island looked like right after the hurricane and how it looks now.

The transformation is miraculous.

Getty Images Six months after the passing of hurricanes Irma and Maria, St. Martin is slowly rebuilding, but the scars of the most powerful hurricane ever known in the West Indies remain clearly visible. Getty Images This sailing boat ended up beached in the cemetery of Marigot near the Bay of Nettle on Sept. 9. Six months later, the wall remains broken. Getty Images The Mercure hotel in Marigot was surrounded by water and debris on Sept. 6, after Hurricane Irma. The hotel has been reopened, though some rooms are still unavailable for guests as of Feb. 27. Getty Images A street full of debris in Orient Bay on Sept. 7, after the passage of Hurricane Irma. It's now cleaner as of Feb. 27. Getty Images An outside view of Mercure hotel in Marigot on the Bay of Nettle on St. Martin on Sept. 6, after Hurricane Irma, and again on Feb. 28. Getty Images A pool surrounded by wrecked bungalows in Marigot on Sept. 10 and the same pool filled with sand on Feb. 28. Getty Images Waters receded and debris was cleared around Mercure hotel after Hurricane Irma six months ago.The second season of Marvel’s “Jessica Jones” will debut later this week, but fans looking for spoilers should check out these pulp-style tributes to each episode.

In honor of the show, Netflix commissioned 13 female artists to create pulp-style covers for each episode.

Each “cover” features something that happens in each episode, as well as its director and screenwriter.

Observers will notice something “super-empowering” about each cover: All the directors this season are women.Michelle Obama just made a two-year-old’s dreams come true.

On Tuesday, the former first lady met Parker Curry, the little girl who became a viral sensation after seeing Obama’s official portrait in the National Portrait Gallery in Washington, D.C. Another gallery visitor posted a photo of the toddler’s completely awestruck reaction last week.

A number of outlets, including BuzzFeed and CNN, picked up Parker’s photo over the weekend. Parker told BuzzFeed’s AM to DM on Monday that she wanted to meet the former first lady and tell her “she’s a queen.”

Obama posted a video of Parker dancing with her to Taylor Swift’s “Shake It Off” in a tweet and on Instagram on Tuesday.

“Parker, I’m so glad I had the chance to meet you today (and for the dance party)!” Obama wrote on Instagram. “Keep on dreaming big for yourself ... and maybe one day I’ll proudly look up at a portrait of you!”

A post shared by Michelle Obama (@michelleobama) on Mar 6, 2018 at 9:19am PST

Parker’s reaction to artist Amy Sherald’s rendering of Obama highlights the importance of representation for young children of color. Sherald also shared Parker’s image on her Instagram account and recalled that she was inspired to become an artist after seeing black people represented in paintings.

“I don’t remember a lot about my childhood, but I do have a few emotional memories etched into my mind forever and seeing that painting of a man that looked like he could be my father stopped me dead in my tracks,” Sherald wrote.Comedy Stephen Colbert Brings Down The House With His Explanation For Trump’s Actions

The "Late Show" host has an answer for former Trump campaign aide Sam Nunberg.While many Americans are worried about Russia, North Korea or school shootings, President Donald Trump is concentrating on the truly important issue of our time: low Oscars ratings.

The number of viewers for this year’s telecast dropped by almost 20 percent from last year, and the president felt obliged to comment on it early Tuesday morning. He offered a (self-important) reason for the decline.

Lowest rated Oscars in HISTORY. Problem is, we don’t have Stars anymore - except your President (just kidding, of course)! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) March 6, 2018

As you might expect, many Twitter users felt obliged to bust the president’s chops for tweeting about an issue that is comparatively petty to what the leader of the free world normally focuses on.

One of those just happened to be the man who hosted the Oscars, Jimmy Kimmel.

Thanks, lowest rated President in HISTORY. https://t.co/E01UgDaZ3T — Jimmy Kimmel (@jimmykimmel) March 6, 2018

Some not-so-famous people had harsh words for the president as well.

Why is a president tweeting about this? And of course you’re not kidding. — Chris Allieri (@allieri) March 6, 2018

The sad thing is, you’re not kidding! You really think you’re a star and that this whole presidency thing is about ratings! — Bishop Talbert Swan (@TalbertSwan) March 6, 2018

Your ego is disgusting. Why are you attacking American tradition? — Ed Krassenstein 💎 (@EdKrassen) March 6, 2018

Lowest rated fake president in history — Scott Klein MiamiLuxeRealEstate (@ScottEricKlein2) March 6, 2018

I fear dementia is setting in.



Well atleast Trump and the Oscars have the historically low ratings in common 😉 — Gavin Dickerson (@Hadesr66) March 6, 2018

Others suspected the Oscars weren’t really the thing that made Trump so angry.

Trump's world is falling apart and he's tweeting about the Oscars.



Nunberg got you that rattled eh? @realDonaldTrump https://t.co/GqH1S1miV0 — Shane Avery (@ShaneAvery) March 6, 2018

A few people were especially offended by one particular part of the tweet.

Why is a president tweeting about this? And of course you’re not kidding. — Chris Allieri (@allieri) March 6, 2018

At least one guy suspected the tweet was a cry for help.

Awww you want to be invited to sit with the cool kids so bad and it eats you up inside that no one wants you at any party. — Calvin (@calvinstowell) March 6, 2018

Another guy saw a sign of hope in the tweet.

So you accept the fact that you're not liked anymore? — Robert Harmon (@SpecialHarmon) March 6, 2018

One person had a good suggestion for next year’s show.

I'd rather have Alec Baldwin doing this SNL Trump at the Oscars then actual Trump — Connor O'Donnell (@OdonnellConnor9) March 6, 2018

A few people suspected Trump wasn’t even the author of this tweet.

Trump did not write this one https://t.co/gka1rNCZY6 — Jennifer Bendery (@jbendery) March 6, 2018

The "just kidding" part gives it away. — Timmaay (@timmaay) March 6, 2018

This reads like Trump died in his sleep last night and his staff are frantically trying to maintain the illusion that he's still alive because they are all terrified of having Commander Pence as a boss. https://t.co/GGx1s6Zba3 — Ian Millhiser (@imillhiser) March 6, 2018

And the tweet inspired one guy to bring up this blast from the past.I think fashion is all about self expression and I chose to wear what I wore on the red carpet because I felt cool AF. Everyone should take risks, be bold, and not give a 💩. It’s LOTS of fun. Huge thanks to my team for dressing me and make me feel like a sexy MF. pic.twitter.com/gimDFyJPYdWashington Gov. Jay Inslee (D) has signed a law safeguarding net neutrality in the state, ensuring a likely showdown with the Federal Communications Commission, which ordered the open-internet provisions to end in April.

The law, signed Monday and effective on June 6, will prohibit internet service providers from blocking legal content, applications, services or non-harmful devices. It will also prevent them from impairing internet traffic.

“Washington will be the first state in the nation to preserve the open internet,” Inslee said Monday. “We’ve seen the power of an open internet. It allows a student in Washington to connect with researchers all around the world — or a small business to compete in the global marketplace. It’s allowed the free flow of information and ideas in one of the greatest demonstrations of free speech in our history.”

The FCC scrapped the Obama-era rules in December, saying its decision heralded “the light-touch regulatory scheme that enabled the internet to develop and thrive for nearly two decades.”

A total of 22 states sued the FCC in response, and Montana and a few others issued executive orders that would reinstate net neutrality. Six tech companies also announced plans to sue the FCC on Monday.Bear movies that make you cry are all the rage ― seriously, if you haven’t seen “Paddington 2,” what are you doing? ― so it’s the perfect time for Winnie The Pooh to return to the big screen.

The teaser trailer for Disney’s “Christopher Robin” dropped Tuesday and features a first look at the not-so-little boy (Ewan McGregor) and his beloved bear.

The part-live-action and part-animation film is directed by Marc Forster, who has helmed similar material with “Finding Neverland.” It takes place in the late 1940s, with the storyline picking up after the title character has returned from World War II.

He’s living with his wife (Hayley Atwell) and daughter while working at a company selling luggage ― and basically, his life needs a bit more whimsy. This prompts his childhood bear, Pooh (voiced by Jim Cummings), to reappear and shake things up.

Other characters from the original Winnie-The-Pooh book by A.A. Milne don’t appear in the clip, but expect all your favorites from the Hundred Acre Wood to stop by, including Tigger (Chris O’Dowd), Owl (Toby Jones), Kanga (Sophie Okonedo), Piglet (Nick Mohammed) and Eeyore (Brad Garrett).WASHINGTON ― The Senate on Thursday confirmed Gina Haspel to be President Donald Trump’s CIA director after a number of Democrats facing tough reelection fights this year announced they would support her nomination.

Haspel, a former clandestine officer with more than 30 years of service at the agency, was confirmed by a narrow 54-45 vote. Sens. Joe Manchin (D-W.Va.), Joe Donnelly (D-Ind.), Mark Warner (D-Va.), Heidi Heitkamp (D-N.D.), Bill Nelson (D-Fla.) and Jeanne Shaheen (D-N.H.) joined nearly every Republican in voting to approve her nomination.

Haspel’s appointment to the CIA capped a contentious debate over the George W. Bush-era enhanced interrogation program ― which included torture techniques like waterboarding. The issue became relevant again after Trump pledged during his presidential campaign to revive torture.

Human rights advocates and even some Republicans, like Sens. John McCain (R-Arizona) and Sen. Rand Paul (R-Ky.), objected to Haspel because of her involvement in the torture program after the 9/11 attacks and her role in the subsequent destruction of videotapes that showed interrogations of certain suspects.

McCain’s opposition to Haspel, in particular, weighed heavily on the minds of his colleagues. The Arizona senator was tortured while in captivity during the Vietnam War and has long been an influential voice on the issue. Sen. Jeff Flake, the junior GOP senator from Arizona, also opposed Haspel because she had “not adequately answered” questions about her role in the destruction of interrogation tapes.

But McCain’s prolonged absence from the Senate ― he has been battling brain cancer in Sedona ― could be felt as well. It’s one thing to read a statement from McCain ― it’s entirely another thing to look into his eyes and tell him you intend to oppose him when it comes to the issue of torture.

Democrats had the power to block Haspel’s nomination. But a key moment heralding their defeat came when Warner, the top Democrat on the Senate intelligence committee, announced he would back her. The Virginia Democrat, whose state is home to CIA’s headquarters, cited Haspel’s written disavowal of the interrogation program as sufficient to gain his endorsement. His announcement gave several other moderate Democrats cover to back her as well.

In remarks on the Senate floor ahead of the vote, Warner said he wished Haspel had been more forceful in denouncing the program during her confirmation hearing. Ultimately, however, he said that private assurances from Haspel about her views on torture and her long list of bipartisan endorsements from the intelligence community had won him over.

“I will feel safer knowing the CIA has Ms. Haspel leading it,” Warner said Thursday. He added that he was confident that Haspel would stand up and refuse an order from Trump if he tells her “to do something illegal or immoral, like torture.”An “openhearted” meeting between South Korean envoys and North Korean leader Kim Jong Un this week yielded an unexpected development in one of the world’s most charged nuclear standoffs: After spending decades establishing a nuclear arsenal, Pyongyang is reportedly willing to negotiate its denuclearization with the United States.

“North Korea made clear its willingness to denuclearize the Korean Peninsula and the fact there is no reason for it to have a nuclear program if military threats against the North are resolved and its regime is secure,” announced Chung Eui-yong, South Korea’s national security chief.

The news elicited a cautiously optimistic response from U.S. President Donald Trump, whose administration has repeatedly threatened to use force against North Korea if a diplomatic solution to curb its rapidly advancing nuclear program cannot be reached.

“For the first time in many years, a serious effort is being made by all parties concerned,” Trump tweeted hours later. “May be false hope, but the U.S. is ready to go hard in either direction!”

Kim’s stunning change in posture ― which comes after months of escalating threats between Washington and Pyongyang, and just days after America’s special representative for North Korean policy unexpectedly retired ― has fostered a mixture of hope and skepticism in the U.S. Experts believe it’s a strategic, carefully timed move to ease international pressure on the regime.

Will North Korea really give up its nukes?

North Korea’s nuclear ambitions date back to the fallout of World War II, after the U.S. detonated nuclear bombs over the Japanese cities of Hiroshima and Nagasaki. Supreme Leader Kim Il Sung, Kim Jong Un’s grandfather, started considering his options to deter a U.S. attack at the outset of the Korean War. With encouragement from the Soviet Union, Pyongyang began its decadeslong pursuit of a nuclear weapons program.

The North has made remarkable improvements to its internationally-condemned nuclear program over the past year ― including conducting a purported hydrogen bomb test in September ― and Kim has fiercely reaffirmed his vows to strike the U.S. with a nuclear-tipped missile. So why would he be willing to back down now?

“I think that the North thinks it’s negotiating from a position of strength.” - Matthew Bunn, Harvard University

Pundits suspect he may be capitalizing on thawing tensions on the Korean Peninsula since North Korea participated in the Winter Olympics in Pyeongchang, South Korea, last month.

“I think North Korea does want to reduce the sanctions that it’s suffering under, and may be willing to make some modest compromises in order to achieve that goal,” said Harvard University professor Matthew Bunn, a nuclear proliferation expert. “I think they have progressed far enough in their weapons effort that they want to take a little bit of a pause and see what they can get out of the South Koreans and out of the Trump administration and out of the Chinese.”

The U.S. has placed tremendous pressure on South Korea and China to help rein in the North. Washington has also issued increasingly harsh sanctions against North Korea and its trading partners.

“I think that the North thinks it’s negotiating from a position of strength,” added Bunn, who doubts the current regime will surrender its nuclear arms.

“I think that they made a lot of progress on their missile program and the nuclear weapons program in 2017 ― much more than most people had expected, and they think they’re now in a position where they can consolidate their gains and negotiate to see what they can get while holding off the pressure for the time being through this charm offensive.”

Athletes from North Korea and South Korea during the closing ceremony of the 2018 Pyeongchang Winter Games on Feb. 25, 2018. Murad Sezer/Reuters

How should the U.S. and its allies respond?

William Tobey, a senior fellow at the Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs, believes the announcement from North Korea poses risk as well as opportunity. He, too, is unconvinced that Pyongyang will commit to denuclearization.

“I don’t think this development will change at all North Korea’s trajectory on its nuclear and ballistic missile programs,” Tobey said.

Instead, Kim’s apparent willingness to negotiate with the U.S. could push “a wedge into a crack that’s already appeared between Washington and Seoul,” he added. “I think that this is an attempt by the North to split the United States from its ally.”

The U.S., which still lacks an ambassador in South Korea, is particularly alarmed by North Korea’s numerous claims that it can target any American city with a nuclear intercontinental ballistic missile. This concern has been a prominent factor in shaping Washington’s approach to denuclearizing North Korea, and prompted Trump’s threats to unleash “fire and fury” and “totally destroy” the isolated nation.

“I think that this is an attempt by the North to split the United States from its ally.” - William Tobey, Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs

Seoul, on the other hand, is mainly focused on diplomacy and avoiding any kind of military confrontation. Its priority is to continue minimizing tensions on the Korean Peninsula, which is technically still torn by an unresolved conflict (the Korean War led to a 1953 ceasefire, not a peace agreement).

South Korea’s diplomatic efforts are “aimed at lowering that level of tension, but will likely do nothing about North Korea’s nuclear ballistic missile capabilities,” Tobey said. “I think there was urgency in Seoul to try to get diplomacy underway to head off any moves by the United States.”

South Korean officials who attended the recent meeting with Kim relayed the North’s agreement to halt its nuclear tests while proposed talks are underway, and said the two nations will hold their first summit in more than a decade in late April.

Despite Seoul and Washington’s varying motives and stakes in the North Korean crisis, experts agree it is imperative for the allies to work together to achieve a lasting resolution.

“The last thing we should want to do is undermine the South Korea initiative. South Korea is the country on the front line; they are a very, very important ally for the United States in this situation. You really can’t do anything about North Korea without South Korean support,” said Bunn.

“I think for better or for worse, the Trump administration needs to work with the South Koreans on this diplomatic opening, and I think that the Trump administration needs to back off the insistence that we’re not talking about anything short of denuclearization,” he added.