Sam Nunberg says he’s mad as hell and he’s not going to take it anymore. Special counsel Robert Mueller may have other ideas.

The former senior campaign aide to President Trump launched a bizarre media blitz Monday in response to a subpoena from Mueller seeking Nunberg’s appearance before a grand jury and records of years of correspondence with people associated with Trump. Nunberg spent several hours giving a series of fiery interviews that left observers questioning his mental state and sobriety. The unconventional press tour culminated in an expletive-filled phone conversation with Yahoo News in which Nunberg addressed his critics and explained what drove him to air his grievances.

“What my point is, is that I’m sick of this s***,” Nunberg said.

Nunberg could be an important witness in Mueller’s investigation. He was one of Trump’s first campaign staffers, having been an associate of longtime Trump confidante Roger Stone. Stone is a central figure in the allegations of collusion with Russia because of his interactions with WikiLeaks, which published emails that hackers linked to Russian intelligence stolen from Trump’s Democratic rivals.

Sam Nunberg and Robert Mueller. Photo illustration: Yahoo News photos: file AP

Nunberg kicked things off with a Washington Post interview in which he disclosed that he’d been served with a subpoena and that he did not intend to comply. Nunberg subsequently repeated that assertion in interviews with outlets including CNN, MSNBC, the website Vox and a local New York City news channel.

Yahoo News reached Nunberg as he sped through Manhattan in a taxi after leaving CNN’s studios.

“Have you ever seen anything like this?” Nunberg asked.

Nunberg entered Trump’s orbit in 2010, when Stone was mounting one of his infamous political stunts — managing a quixotic gubernatorial bid that had a pro-pot, pro-prostitution platform. In a 2016 interview with Yahoo News, Stone said Nunberg, who was 30 at the time, approached him with some ideas for the campaign.

“He comes on a bit strong, as you know,” Stone said of Nunberg. “I mean, within a week of my meeting him he was going around telling people I was his mentor. He’s got chutzpah, as they say.”

Nunberg stuck with Stone, and when Trump launched his presidential campaign in June 2015, Nunberg was one of the top advisers on a skeleton crew. He helped write many of Trump’s early speeches, strategy memos and tweets. He claims that he and Stone came up with Trump’s signature policy proposal — the wall on America’s southern border.

In his conversation with Yahoo News on Monday evening, Nunberg suggested his media blitz was inspired by Stone and Trump’s smashmouth style of politics.

“Like, how ballsy is this?” Nunberg asked. “This is like Donald Trump Roger Stone. Right?”

Much of the call with Nunberg consisted of him seeking reassurance about his performance in interviews but not pausing to listen to responses.

“Notice how I go on TV and say, ‘I hate Trump?’”

Nunberg and Trump have had a tumultuous relationship. The ex-aide was hired and fired by Trump multiple times before the election. In early 2014, he was ousted after encouraging Trump to cooperate with a BuzzFeed article that proved highly critical of the real estate mogul. He rejoined Trump’s circle and was dismissed again shortly after Trump formally began his campaign in 2015, when Business Insider uncovered a series of racially charged Facebook posts Nunberg had written. In July 2016, Trump sued him for $10 million, alleging that Nunberg had violated a confidentiality agreement. Nunberg claimed that the lawsuit was settled “amicably.”

During his conversation with Yahoo News, Nunberg brought up comments he had made about White House press secretary Sarah Sanders in one of his many Monday media appearances.

“Do you like how I said that she should shut her fat mouth?”

Yahoo News reached out to Sanders for reaction to Nunberg’s comments. Sanders and other White House staff members did not respond to our request.

“She should stop talking s***,” Nunberg said of Sanders. “They’ve been putting out all day that I’m a drunk and a drug addict.”

Yahoo

In an interview with CNN earlier in the evening, host Erin Burnett told Nunberg that someone she described as “a Trump ally” had suggested to her that Nunberg was “drunk “ or “off his meds.” Burnett claimed that other CNN reporters had received similar accusations about Nunberg’s sobriety from sources close to the White House. Later in their conversation, Burnett told Nunberg that she “smelled alcohol” on his breath. Nunberg, who has been candid about his past struggles with alcohol, said he was not drunk and had taken “antidepressants” only as prescribed.

Nunberg told Yahoo News that Stone was the main factor behind his decision to take to the airwaves after being subpoenaed.

“I’m doing this to defend … Roger,” Nunberg said. “I’m not going to let them just hurt Roger for no reason.”

Nunberg said that he had first heard from Mueller’s team in January, when they asked to interview him. He said their questions focused on Stone.

“They asked about if I knew about Roger’s business, what Roger does, which I didn’t like,” Nunberg said. “I don’t think it’s fair.”

Stone did not respond to multiple requests for comment on this story.

Nunberg said Mueller’s team had also asked him “s*** about Trump.” He said he had not personally witnessed any inappropriate actions by Trump during his time on the campaign, although in some of his earlier interviews Nunberg did say he believes Mueller has “something” on the president.

In response to a question, Nunberg acknowledged to Yahoo News that some of Mueller’s questions had concerned the firing of FBI Director James Comey and a meeting Trump’s son and other top aides had with a Kremlin-linked lawyer in the run-up to the election.

In one of the more eye-popping comments from his media blitz, Nunberg told CNN’s Jake Tapper that he believes another former Trump campaign adviser, Carter Page, “was colluding with the Russians.” Page did not respond to multiple requests for comment on this story.

Nunberg told Yahoo News that he was refusing Mueller’s document request because it came with an unrealistic deadline, considering the large amount of material requested. Nunberg said he had extensive correspondence with former chief White House strategist Steve Bannon.

“Here’s the other thing I didn’t find fair — they sent it to me on a Friday and they wanted it by Monday at 3 p.m. And I’m sitting there, I’m trying to earn a living,” said Nunberg, who now works as a consultant. “What do I have to go over? … Do you know how many emails I email with Steve Bannon? I didn’t think it was fair. Do you think it was fair?”

Bannon did not respond to a request for comment on this story.

Yahoo News asked Nunberg whether he or his lawyer had tried to get an extension on the document request before he decided not to cooperate. Nunberg indicated that he hadn’t pursued an extension.

“My lawyer is so pissed,” he said.

Nunberg said he hadn’t cleared the interviews with his lawyer and declined to say when he had last spoken to his attorney. Nunberg’s lawyer could not be reached for comment.

Nunberg denied speculation that he had been drinking or taking drugs, which he attributed to White House officials seeking to undermine him, or to his former mentor, Stone.

“Do you think I was high and drunk?” Nunberg asked. “You saw the interview. What did you think? I’m not high and drunk. I was not high and drunk. What I’m doing is what nobody else has ever done.”

Yahoo News asked Nunberg to characterize his relationship with Stone.

“He always treats me like s***, and he hates me,” Nunberg said.

Commentators made the obvious point that in the context of a serious criminal investigation, giving interviews without checking with a lawyer seemed at the very least self-defeating. CNN editor at large Chris Cillizza skewered Nunberg as a “D-list” political talent who is not “sophisticated.”

“My response is Chris Cillizza can go f*** himself and he dresses like s***,” Nunberg told Yahoo News. “I’m not having a meltdown. In fact, I’m the first person ever standing up for themselves.”

About the Trump campaign and administration, Nunberg declared: “They treated me like s***.”

“Didn’t I say that Trump was a disloyal a**hole tonight?” he asked.

Nunberg said he’s made no recent attempts to contact the president.

“I despise him,” Nunberg said of Trump.

Nunberg blatantly contradicted himself at points in his marathon series of interviews with Yahoo News and others. Minutes before getting on the phone with Yahoo News, he suggested to the Associated Press that he would most likely cooperate with Mueller after all.

Yahoo

However, near the end of his conversation with Yahoo News, Nunberg said he wasn’t worried about Mueller having him arrested for contempt.

“He’s not going to arrest me,” he said. “You know how stupid it is if he arrests me? It’ll be the funniest thing. … I’ll make a spectacle out of it. No justice no peace!”

About an hour later, Nunberg told MSNBC’s Ari Melber that he did not plan to comply with the request to testify.

Yahoo News asked Nunberg how he thought he would fare in jail. He repeated the question.

“How would they treat me?”

Nunberg paused briefly and suddenly said he had run into someone on the street.

“Let me talk to somebody, a friend of mine,” he said.

Yahoo News could overhear Nunberg speaking to another man, whose voice was muffled.

“How awesome was this? You ever see anything like this?” Nunberg asked.

Nunberg left the phone on for several minutes, transmitting scraps of his conversation. Shortly before he hung up, he proclaimed his status as a trending topic on social media.

“No. 1 on Twitter!” Nunberg yelled.

_____A monthly Illinois gun show may have become the first in the nation to ban sales of AR-15 rifles following complaints in the wake of the deadly Parkland, Florida, school shooting.

Vendors were told they could not sell the AR-15 or any other assault-style rifles, or the bump stocks that boost the firepower of such weapons, CBS2-TV in Chicago reported. Organizers of the gun show also halted a raffle offering an AR-15 as a prize.

Dozens of demonstrators at the DuPage County Fairgrounds, where the sales are held, traded barbs with counter-protesters at the show Sunday.

The decision by the Pioneer Valley Sportsman’s Association was in response to complaints following the Feb. 14 shooting in which a gunman with an AR-15 killed 17 people at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School.

“We did the ban to try to calm the situation down and show them we are willing to work with” the protesters, Frank Cesare of the sportsman’s group told The Washington Post. He said the ban will remain in effect for the April show, and the organization will decide later on future shows depending on the “mood,” the Post reported.

Cesare told the Post that he has “no problem” with the protesters. “They’re very frustrated with what’s going on; it’s awful; they’re doing what they think is right. I’m frustrated, too,” he said.

In a statement on its website, the organization said it “strongly condemns the actions of the individual in Florida and other tragedies across the nation.” The statement also noted that its members support “commonsense laws to keep firearms out of the hands of criminals and those that may harm our citizens.” The website, however, also urges visitors to join the National Rifle Association, which has taken a hard line on any change in gun laws.

Gun shows from South Carolina to New Mexico have become targets of protesters since the Parkland massacre. Unlicensed private sellers at such events can take advantage of the “gun show loophole” in which they can skirt federal laws that must be followed by licensed dealers and stores. Federal law does not require unlicensed private sellers at gun shows to check a buyer’s identification, perform any background checks or even record sales.

Several retailers are now reining in gun sales. Dick’s Sporting Goods stores will no longer sell AR-15s. Kroger-owned Fred Meyer superstores and Walmart will no longer sell guns or ammunition to anyone younger than 21.

REI has suspended its relationship with Vista Outdoor, which supplies some of its most popular brands, including CamelBak and Giro, because the conglomerate also manufactures guns and ammunition.

Several corporate entites, including airlines and rental car chains, have ended partnerships with the National Rifle Association.Lisdeth Arguello holds her 3-month-old grandson, Jesus, who was born with microcephaly, at their home in Guarenas, Venezuela, in October 2016. The Zika virus, which is linked to microcephaly, was originally identified in Uganda in 1947. Marco Bello/Reuters

ZIKA FOREST, Uganda ― In a tangle of trees by the shores of East Africa’s mighty Lake Victoria, the soaring metal tower poking out of the forest canopy looks like a giant Olympic diving platform.

“It is where the scientists do the testing,” said Gerald Mukisa, forest guardian at the research site of the nearby Uganda Virus Research Institute, which carries out critical work to identify, trace and understand emerging diseases.

“Monkeys are placed at different heights and blood samples are taken,” Mukisa said, pointing to boards jutting out of the frame. The dozens of mosquito species in the forest here live and bite at different heights, so the boards help monitor their preferences.

Scientists used the 118-foot tower way back in 1947 to first identify a virus that, in 2015, became a global health emergency due to its ability to cause brain-related birth defects. They named the virus Zika, after this 30-acre forest in southern Uganda.

A 118-foot-high tower in Zika Forest, used for collecting mosquitoes and blood samples from monkeys to test for viruses. Peter Martell for HuffPost

Zika never caused the panic in Uganda that it did when it swept across the Western Hemisphere several years ago. Indeed, it was thought of as relatively harmless at first. But experts believe Zika has mutated since its discovery.

The virus did not originate in Uganda, but was only identified here. The virus that caused concern in the Americas is believed to have migrated from a strain from Southeast Asia, moving via an infected traveler, or on boats with mosquitoes carrying the virus.

Now experts from the UVRI are hunting for the next mosquito-borne virus they fear could sweep around the globe.

“The world is a global village. Any disease that is here today can be anywhere else within 24 hours,” said virologist Dr. Julius Lutwama. He heads the team that searches for emerging infections at the Ugandan government-backed UVRI center. They focus on arbovirology, the study of insect-borne viruses.

“I can leave here having been bitten by a mosquito but not be sick, but a few days later I could have taken a virus to an area far away,” he added.

Researchers from the Uganda Virus Research Institute sort out samples of mosquitoes collected from the Zika Forest in Entebbe, south of Uganda's capital Kampala, in March 2016. James Akena/Reuters

The scientists who first described Zika here found it during a study into another virus, the acute viral hemorrhagic disease yellow fever. It is just one in a long line of over 60 new viruses identified by the center since its founding in the 1930s.

In Uganda, people had developed immunity to the virus, but elsewhere it would be a major problem.

As the virus traveled through communities without immunity, it rapidly multiplied and its nature evolved. Scientists believe that was due to a mutation around 2013, roughly the time the medical community began to blame the virus for horrific birth defects.

Three years ago, when the virus hit Latin America, the Caribbean and the southern United States, it put the whole world on edge because of its links to microcephaly (causing babies to be born with unusually small heads, physical disabilities and cognitive impairments) and Guillain-Barré syndrome (an autoimmune disorder that can cause paralysis).

Brazil – the country hardest hit – recorded its first cases in 2015 of babies born with microcephaly. More than 2,000 cases of Zika-related birth defects were reported in Brazil over the next two years.

A researcher from the UVRI collects insect traps at the Zika Forest. James Akena/Reuters

The old research suddenly became vital.

Panic caused by the Zika threat has eased a little as people cannot become infected twice. Meanwhile, researchers are working hard to develop a vaccine.

Yet it was the research done over half a century ago into what was then an obscure virus ― at this virology center in the sleepy lakeside town of Entebbe ― that gave scientists a crucial head start.

“The science and research that has been done at UVRI has helped us understand the viruses that are circulating in Uganda and the African region, but also has global importance,” said Lisa Nelson, the Uganda country director for the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC).

Researchers sort out samples of mosquitoes collected from the Zika Forest. James Akena/Reuters

The CDC is a key backer of the Ugandan center, providing some $23 million of funding since 2013, supporting research into HIV, hemorrhagic fevers and other infections.

Rising global traffic means the wider and faster spread of viruses. That includes both the easy movement of people and of mosquitoes, with their eggs accidently carried across the globe in shipping containers.

As scientists warn of changing global temperatures, mosquito species are expected to move into new areas.

Lutwama, who is UVRI’s deputy director, heads surveillance teams that spend half their time in remote lands researching insect-borne diseases. They collect mosquitoes, then return to analyze samples and to map and monitor the spread of the viruses.

Ugandan virologist Dr. Julius Lutwama is an expert in arbovirology, the study of insect-borne viruses. Peter Martell for HuffPost

“Which is the most likely next disease outbreak? For me, it is going to be an arbovirus,” said Lutwama, who has been hunting mosquito-borne viruses for over three decades.

“Invasive species of mosquito are moving into Europe and into the Americas, and as they do that more of the viruses will spread,” he said.

As viruses meet with new communities without immunity ― especially in dense, urban populations ― they multiply unhindered, changing rapidly.

“Now when there is an outbreak, it spreads easily,” he said. “If it comes to a city, the mosquito moves within small areas but among many people.”

Uganda hosts 224 mosquito species alone, Lutwama noted, with some 77 different arboviruses carried by insects, including West Nile virus and Dengue fever.

Back in the Zika forest ― which means “overgrown” in the local Luganda language ― twisting paths vanish in the bush. But the forest is shrinking. Once, trees grew all along the lake’s edge, but construction of new homes has encroached onto ancient forest lands.

Zika Forest in Uganda, where the Zika virus was first identified in 1947. It remains a research site. Peter Martell for HuffPost

Globally, Lutwama said, there are staggering numbers of organisms still unknown to science.

“We know that there are up to 15 million species of living things that have not been identified yet, and the majority of these are microorganisms,” Lutwama said. “Many of these are living in areas we have not encroached upon yet, but we are starting to enter their territories. The likelihood that these become a problem to us is increasing every day.”

Indeed, the next big disease might already be waiting to be identified.

“Most viruses in Africa go undiagnosed,” he said.

So the race is on to find it and study it before the next outbreak.

In the depths of the trees, there is a thin, high whine of mosquitoes, and then up in the treetops, the laughing chatter of monkeys enjoying the breeze.

“We have to be prepared for all eventualities,” Lutwama said, glancing up at the trees. “We have to look for them, before they get to us.”Jennifer Garner might not have walked away with an award at the Oscars on Sunday ― give her a couple years, OK? ― but she did come out as a winner.

Not only did the “Love, Simon” star stun on the red carpet, but she became the subject of the night’s most viral meme when the internet captured her in the midst of what looked like a sudden, profound epiphany.

What realization did Jennifer Garner just come to? pic.twitter.com/pWtycEDEVs — bobby finger (@bobbyfinger) March 5, 2018

The video quickly ricocheted around social media, with everyone advancing their own theory on what was behind Garner’s expression.

Luckily, the “Alias” star, a recent convert to Instagram, caught wind of the meme and jokingly “revealed” what she was thinking when the video was taken.

“Congrats to ‘Shape of Water’! Maybe I should date a fish?” the actress says on her Instagram story, over a video loop of herself at the Oscars.

Garner, of course, filed for divorce from fellow actor Ben Affleck in 2017, and hasn’t been linked to anyone since.

Jennifer has responded on her Instagram story. pic.twitter.com/MkDUFhi0Gl — bobby finger (@bobbyfinger) March 6, 2018

“Hey Jimmy Kimmel, what’s in your wallet? Wait, where is my wallet?” she says as the video plays again, referencing her own commercials with Capital One.

On the third and final loop, she says: “Can’t wait to work with Lena Dunham! Wait, did I sign a nudity waiver?”

Garner recently signed on to star in the HBO comedy series “Camping,” helmed by “Girls” creators Dunham and Jenni Konner. Dunham, as “Girls” viewers know, has a penchant for going nude on screen.

In her first series regular role since “Alias,” the actress will play “a controlling LA mom who is far less cheerful than her Lululemons imply,” according to HBO’s description.Katy Perry got quite a surprise Monday on “Jimmy Kimmel Live!”: an old friend who shared some funny memories of the singer.

In a game to set up the exchange, Kimmel showed Perry a grid of six faces and asked her to identify which one was a person from her past. The new “American Idol” judge chose correctly on the second try ― sort of. She called her middle-school friend “Erica” instead of “Ahnika.”

It got funnier from there. Ahnika told two anecdotes, both of which involved bras and one of which involved young Perry showing off to prove a point.President Donald Trump’s former campaign aide Sam Nunberg spent Monday afternoon sitting for a series of interviews on cable news shows, bombastically stating that he would not comply with a subpoena he received to appear before a federal grand jury regarding Russian meddling in the 2016 election.

Before wrapping his appearance on Erin Burnett’s show, the CNN host said she could smell alcohol on his breath and asked Nunberg if he had been drinking.

Here's CNN's Erin Burnett telling former Trump aide Sam Nunberg that she can smell alcohol on his breath. He says he hasn't been drinking. pic.twitter.com/tryye9AiqA — Jim Dalrymple II (@Dalrymple) March 6, 2018

“We talked earlier about what people in the White House were saying about you ― talking about whether you were drinking or on drugs or whatever had happened today,” she said. “Talking to you, I have smelled alcohol on your breath.”

Nunberg said he had not had a drink and had only taken his medication ― antidepressants ― earlier Monday.

The former Trump aide, who was fired from the campaign after racially charged social media posts he allegedly wrote surfaced, told The Washington Post on Monday that he would not cooperate with special prosecutor Robert Mueller’s investigation into Russian meddling into the 2016 election.Cody Riley (left), LiAngelo Ball and Jalen Hill speak at a Nov. 15, 2017, press conference at UCLA after flying back from China. Lucy Nicholson / Reuters

In the days after three UCLA men’s basketball players were arrested in China for allegedly shoplifting during a November visit, emails and letters poured in to university Chancellor Gene Block from angry fans, alumni and people with no connection to the school at all. There were hundreds and hundreds of messages, some written with perfect grammar and sober typefaces, others screeching and incoherent and laid out in Comic Sans. One author, a self-identified former UCLA crew letterman, somberly informed the chancellor that he was enclosing his old varsity sweater.

The three players ― LiAngelo Ball, Cody Riley and Jalen Hill ― are black. Was the furious reaction about race? Not at all, said one correspondent, a little unconvincingly: “My decision is not based on the color of the skin of these thieves. Of my six grandchildren four are biracial.”

Very much so, said another: “Don’t surprise me you LOOK LIKE A FUDGPACKING FAGGOT !@ YOU SHOULD BE SO PROUD, 3 MONKEYS GETTING FREEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEE RIDE AND EMBARRASS YO SCHOOL BY ACTING LIKE THE NIGGERS THEY APPARENTLY ARE !”

And on and on they went, the emails nearly universal in their disdain for the athletes. Many of them were clearly spurred on by the involvement of President Donald Trump, who was just then initiating a feud with LaVar Ball, father of LiAngelo. HuffPost obtained the emails via a public records request, and in them the whole modern American backlash is on display. Expressions of lofty disapproval, bloodthirsty formalism, coded racism, frank racism — hey, hey, the gang’s all here.

“They have embarrassed their country as well as their race,” read one note. “They put shame on UCLA, their race and our country,” read another. “3 JERKS — DISGRACED THE COLLEGE — OUR COUNTRY AND THEIR RACE!” read a third, this one a handwritten letter.

The full collection of emails and letters, all 637 pages, appears at the bottom of this post.

First, some background: Ball, Riley and Hill, all freshmen, were arrested on Nov. 7 during the UCLA team’s early-season trip to China to play Georgia Tech. The players, according to Chinese authorities and later by their own admissions, had stolen sunglasses and other merchandise from three department stores in Hangzhou.

On Nov. 15, Block and UCLA suspended the players indefinitely. Ball has since left the program to play professionally overseas. Hill and Riley are serving one-season suspensions.

The arrests became a national story in part because of Trump, who claimed credit for helping the players avoid a possible 10-year prison sentence in China. Some of the emails sent to Block took their cues from Trump’s version of events. “Never again should anyone be allowed to commit a crime where President Trump has to come to UCLA’s rescue. It is absolutely disgusting,” one correspondent wrote. “The man who probably stands against just about everything the UCLA community defends comes to the rescue of people who unfortunately are associated with UCLA.”

ESPN has since reported that UCLA officials had resolved the issue with Chinese authorities before they heard from Trump or White House Chief of Staff John Kelly.

One handwritten message sent to UCLA Chancellor Gene Block after three UCLA men's basketball players were arrested in China in November 2017. Screenshot via public records

It was a simple case of minor theft, but from the wailing of the emails you might have thought the players had rampaged through the Forbidden City. Nothing short of the total annihilation of the young men’s academic and professional lives would suffice in the eyes of many of the emailers. The players deserved the full force of American (and perhaps even Chinese) law for having swiped and ultimately returned a few pairs of sunglasses and other merchandise. One emailer told Block to “recommend that they not be rewarded with any professional contracts.”

Time and again, emailers returned to the theme that the players were “entitled” athletes who didn’t truly belong in college, especially not one as prestigious as UCLA. This racist exceptionalism ― the idea that black men can only earn their way into college through athletic talent ― flows in part from the reality of the school’s population. Black men make up only about 3 percent of the male student body at UCLA, and a majority of them are athletes. As a viral video produced by students noted, the university has had more national sports championships in its history than it had black male freshmen in 2013’s enrollment class.

In the emails, the usual racial code words were frequently deployed. The athletes were called some variation of “entitled” or “spoiled” nearly 50 times. “Stupid,” “arrogant” and “above the law” also appeared regularly. There were at least 18 uses of “thug,” as in “entitled millionaire thugs,” in 14 separate emails. The players were also labeled “ingrates,” “fucking embarrassing morons,” “miscreant prima donnas” and “reprobates.”

More than a dozen times, emailers explicitly referenced their own status as “taxpayers,” as if to suggest (in one writer’s view) that they were tired of “subsidizing” athletes like Ball, Riley and Hill.

And sometimes, the emailers dispensed with the racial coding altogether. One subject line: “Black Basketball Thieves.” Another message declared that what the players did was “Super-Idiocy!” It went on: “And you’re going to let these morons earn a college degree at UCLA? Looks like they fulfill the stereotype of a ‘simpleton black athlete.’”

The batch of emails included one that seemed to link the players to Michael Brown, the teenager shot and killed by a police officer in Ferguson, Missouri, in 2014. “It’s when people like them get away with stealing from shops that people like [redacted] feel just as entitled to do the same in Missouri.”

In the documents provided to HuffPost, UCLA appears to have redacted the players’ names and any specific identification of them, as a way of formally protecting their identities. But you don’t need a decoder ring to figure out what these passages are trying to say (sic throughout):

UCLA must send a strong message on what it expects from such role models ― let’s not lie to ourselves, that’s what they are to millions of young [redacted] males. It’s when people like them get away with stealing from shops that people like [redacted] feel just as entitled to do the same in Missouri. Then he gets angry when someone tries to stop him, and he charges at the cop ― and gets shot. It all starts when responsible institutions like UCLA give up on their responsibilities. Expel the thugs!

Stealing designer sunglasses from Louis Vuitton in China while our president Trump is visiting is NOT who we are as a nation, but it is definitely who they are, a bunch of knuckleheads, lowlifes, thugs, and [redacted] with attitude.

Why would you ever let trash like that out of the country?? It aint no big deal! No other country in the world would take the crap that we do from a minority 13% of a population for the majority of crime and other A-Z Any other minority in the US seem to be able to make it along with a moral compass. Not to excuse slavery but for decade’s now [redacted] that wants to half way follow the program will make it. Its time to not hear any more excuses and crutching!

These three should not get a pass, just because of the color of their skin.

If they are attending your university on scholarships I strongly suggest they loose them. They can turn to their hero Colin Kaepernick, GQ’s Citizen of the Year for help.

What they did was not just stupid, it was ghetto and criminal, and we have no doubt that if there is another LA riot that they will be looting and vandalizing with their brothers.

Congratulations for continuing to show China what American atheltes exist in this country. China reads about the NFL players disregard to the American Flag and police that proudly give their life everyday to protect them, to this display of disrespect of China, America and the UCLA basketball program and school.

To some emailers, it was clear that the three players were experienced criminals ...

I can only assume they have never been held accountable because they can shoot a ball into a basket.

For these athletes to steal with the comfort level displayed showed they clearly had done this before.

Pampered puss ants who probably let their trouser snakes out on campus screwing anything they see! FUCK EM!!

... and that they weren’t good enough students to be at UCLA in the first place:

Two of the fellows could hardly speak english.

And did you notice that your student athletes had trouble reading their prepared statements? Shame on UCLA.

How did these students get into UCLA in the first place? I bet it probably wasn’t scholastics. … Dumber than a 2nd coat of paint!

I am embarrassed when your student athletics, like your arrested basketball players and even last year’s player [redacted] give interviews and use the word “ain’t ”. Children at age four learn that “ain’t” is not proper grammar and unacceptable. This example simply proves you have no regard for even teaching you student-athletics basic English grammar. Stop the nonsense.

It is an embarrassment to our country and your so called “education system” (what in the world are you teaching them anyway?) to have such reprobates representing us in foreign countries.

For too long California taxpayers have been subsidizing free education for questionable athletes/students. ... There needs to be more vetting of these student athletes, background checks, and general review of their understanding of civics and ethics, before California Taxpayers continue to subsidize these people.

At a minimum, remove them from the basketball team. Of course this really means remove them from UCLA as they have no other use to be there since they can’t play basketball.

I’m sick of paying for a full SCHOLARSHIP for future wifebeater/ drug dealing, criminal scum who get away with stuff that have a normal person in jail for 20 years, but they are “Great ballplayers”, so they get to skate free.

Some even suggested the players were indicative of everything wrong with American culture by comparing them to Harvey Weinstein and other famous people implicated in sexual harassment and assault cases:

[T]hey are toxic to the school and the sport just like serial sex predator Harvey Weinstein who is now a Hollywood pariah”

UCLA cannot stand by and turn a blind eye to this disgrace...it is akin to the many in the entertainment industry whom allowed Harvey Weinstein and his ilk to victimize individuals in the name of money and fame. … I must insist - no, demand - that these disgraceful, criminal thugs be permanently expelled from UCLA for their heinous behavior and criminal acts.

I’m particularly troubled by what appears to be the emerging excuse – that they’re young men, who made a very foolish mistake. To me, that’s a bit like Kevin Spacey coming out as gay when he’s charged with sexual misconduct.

Look at the news; Harvey Weinstein, Kevin Spacey and Louis C.K. The time to say enough is enough is now.

For UCLA, if these young men are allowed to continue to be students there, at a time when entitlement is under such scrutiny because of the misdeeds in Washington, in Hollywood, news agencies, workplaces, academia and homes throughout the country, giving these players a pass adds insult to injury. Our moral and ethical scales are calibrated today to benefit the powerful over the ordinary. If they stay on campus, it may appear that UCLA is putting a thumb on the scale promoting star power at a time when we are at a moral crossroads.

And some who emailed Block said that he and UCLA should have left the players in China to face legal proceedings and potential jail time there:

I find it shameful that our President brought the thieving basketball players home.

Hopefully they will go to jail in China.

They rightfully deserved to be tried and punished under Chinese law.

They deserve to be in a Chinese prison.

Our country now owes a Communist country a favor. This is serious.

This is one of the few times we have disagreed with the actions of the President. In our opinion, the young men should have received Chinese legal proceedings and suffered the consequences.

Like a bubble gum chewer in China they should have been left to face a bamboo whip.

Only a handful of the emails sent to Block suggested that the appropriate punishment for the petty crimes the players committed in China wasn’t to ruin their entire lives.Mohandas K. Gandhi was a key leader of India's independence movement. Time Life Pictures via Getty Images

A private buyer in the U.S. has purchased a historical letter in which Indian independence leader Mohandas K. Gandhi muses about his personal relationship with Jesus and Christianity.

The typed document, which contains Gandhi’s handwritten signature, sold to a buyer in the Northeast for $50,000 on Friday, according to Nathan Raab, president of the historical document dealer Raab Collection in Ardmore, Pa. The company told HuffPost it does not disclose the identity of its buyers or sellers.

In 1926, an American Christian religious elder, Milton Newberry Frantz, wrote to Gandhi, inviting the Hindu leader to read an article Frantz had written about Christianity. On April 6 of that year, Gandhi wrote back to Frantz from an ashram in Gujarat.

Gandhi wrote that he felt Jesus was “one of the great teachers of mankind.” However, he couldn’t subscribe to the Christian belief that Jesus was more than that.

The letter from Mohandas K. Gandhi to Milton Newberry Frantz, dated April 6, 1926. Nathan Raab / Raab Collection

Gandhi tells Frantz:

Dear Friend, I have your letter. I am afraid it is not possible for me to subscribe to the creed you have sent me. The subscriber is made to believe that the highest manifestation of the unseen reality was Jesus Christ. In spite of all my efforts, I have not been able to feel the truth of that statement. I have not been able to move beyond the belief that Jesus was one of the great teachers of mankind.

Gandhi goes on to state that it’s important to respect all people’s faith traditions, since all religions are based on a “common thread of love and mutual esteem.”

He writes:

Do you not think that religious unity is to be had not by a mechanical subscription to a common creed but by all respecting the creed of each? In my opinion, difference in creed there must be so long as there are different brains. But who does it matter if all these are hung upon the common thread of love and mutual esteem?

Gandhi grew up in a Hindu family that was primarily devoted to the worship of the god Vishnu. He was also introduced at a young age to Jainism, a religion that emphasizes nonviolence.

For much of his adult life, Gandhi earnestly studied the religions of the world. He read the Quran, Jesus’s Sermon on the Mount and the writings of Leo Tolstoy on Christianity. He was deeply influenced by the Bhagavad Gita, one of the core religious texts in Hinduism, and remained a committed Hindu for the rest of his life.

By the time he wrote the letter to Frantz, Gandhi had already emerged as a leading figure in India’s movement for independence from British rule. He had inspired thousands of followers to boycott British institutions and encouraged many to replace imported British goods with items produced in India.

Mahatma Gandhi marches to a coastal village in 1930 to collect salt, in violation of British law in India. Bettmann via Getty Images

After being arrested and jailed for sedition in 1922, Gandhi retreated from political prominence for a few years. The letter to Frantz was written during this time.

Gandhi reemerged as a political leader by late 1928 and in 1930 launched the Salt March, a massive nonviolent protest against the British salt tax.The staff of the Trump Organization was ejected Monday from the Trump International Hotel and Tower in Panama City after a tense 12-day standoff with hotel owners that erupted into violence. The name “Trump” was quickly stripped off the building’s facade by a worker wielding a hammer and a crowbar.

Trump personnel were escorted out of the building Monday by more than a dozen police officers and a Panamanian judicial official, ABC News reported. But Trump Organization officials said they’ll continue to battle in court to return as the managers of the 70-story building.

Orestes Fintiklis, managing partner of Miami-based Ithaca Capital Partners, which owns most of the units in the hotel-condo complex, ordered Donald Trump’s company out last year, accusing the operation of “abysmal management” and a “brand tarnished beyond repair” that was hurting business. But the Trump Organization refused to surrender its role. Executives said they wouldn’t succumb to “mob-style tactics” and expected to be paid through the company’s 2031 management contract.

Police were called to the building a number of times to keep the peace in recent days, ABC News reported, and a shoving match, with some punches thrown, between hotel and management security guards was captured on tape.

Video obtained by ABC News shows a scuffle break out between Trump Organization security and building security at the Trump International Hotel in Panama, amid an escalating legal dispute between Trump's company and the building's majority owner. https://t.co/opUo0lycxc pic.twitter.com/sfe2X5FGBn — ABC News (@ABC) March 1, 2018

“I am the owner,” said Fintiklis, who declared victory Monday. “Panama has made us proud.”

Fintiklis, a Cyprus national, celebrated by playing a Greek anti-fascism song, “Accordeon,” on a piano in the main tower office.

The Miami-based majority owner of the Trump Ocean Club hotel in Panama, Orestes Fintiklis, celebrated the apparent eviction of Trump’s management group by playing a Greek folk song on the hotel lobby piano. pic.twitter.com/z5zA2JXvGR — David Adams (@dadams7308) March 5, 2018

Tourists posed for photos in front of the newly altered Panama hotel sign with only a ghostly impression of the Trump name.

Getty/AFP Rodrigo Arangua

Trump-branded hotels in Toronto and Lower Manhattan have also removed the Trump name since he became president of the United States.

The Panamanian confrontation sparked renewed criticism from ethics experts, who say Trump’s continued ownership of his businesses is a serious conflict of interest. Trump still owns the Trump Organization through a trust, even though he has turned over management of it to his older sons. The Panamanian confrontation could have erupted into something bigger, with the American president both playing a role in the financial clash and also being in a position to respond as a head of state.Anti-gun violence protesters in Colorado on Feb. 21, 2018. Boulder, Colorado, voted unanimously this week to ban assault weapons and high-capacity magazines. Aaron Ontiveroz/Getty Images

Despite angry protests and the threat of a looming lawsuit, the city of Boulder, Colorado, took a bold stand for gun control this week.

The city council unanimously passed an ordinance on Tuesday to ban the sale and possession of assault weapons, bump stocks and high-capacity magazines — becoming one of a handful of cities nationwide that have taken action to change its gun laws in the wake of the Parkland, Florida, shooting massacre.

City Council voted unanimously last night to approve an assault weapons ban and a two-year extenstion of a moratorium on oil and gas applications. Meeting info: https://t.co/G6ptO2VotF pic.twitter.com/WWld1cW6GS — City of Boulder (@bouldercolorado) May 16, 2018

According to Colorado Public Radio, the new law requires people to dispose of or sell bump stock devices and magazines that hold 10 or more rounds of ammunition by July 15.

Owners of assault weapons, defined by the ordinance as “semi-automatic firearms designed with military features to allow rapid spray firing,” have until December 31 to relinquish or destroy their guns. But a grandfather clause also allows residents who currently possess an assault weapon to apply for a permit proving prior ownership.

The permit will only be granted to gun owners who pass a background check and are not prohibited by law from owning a gun. The owner must also agree to store the firearm in a safe place and report a loss of the weapon to law enforcement within 48 hours.

Members of law enforcement and military personnel are exempt from the new restrictions.

Councilman Sam Weaver told the Daily Camera that the grandfather clause ― which applies to people who legally obtained assault weapons prior to June 15, 2018 ― was included as an “olive branch” to gun owners.

Opponents of the measure, however, were not assuaged.

Hundreds of pro-gun activists lined the streets of Boulder last month to condemn the ban.

“It is not a party issue, it is a people issue and a right issue,” one demonstrator told CBS 4 at the time.

Attorneys from the Mountain States Legal Foundation pledged to challenge the ban in court on the grounds that it violates “the Second, Fifth and 14th Amendments [and] the Colorado Constitution.”

Councilwoman Jill Adler Grano was reportedly the first to suggest the ban back in February, in the aftermath of the shooting in Parkland, Florida that left 17 people dead.

“It felt like a no-brainer to propose this,” Grano said at the time, according to the Daily Camera. “Each time we have a shooting, it is a reminder of the fact that we are failing miserably at protecting our citizens ... It’s time for municipalities to take the lead on this, and while just the city of Boulder alone, with our 100,000 people, may not move the needle, if other municipalities follow suit and this becomes a national trend, that’d be really important.”WASHINGTON ― With support from Senate Democrats, Congress is on track to pass a bill that would enrich banks but slightly raise the odds of a financial crisis like the one that tanked the economy 10 years ago.

Seventeen members of the Democratic caucus joined nearly all Republican senators on Tuesday in voting to advance the Economic Growth, Regulatory Relief, and Consumer Protection Act, a bill that was co-sponsored by Senate Banking Committee Chair Mike Crapo (R-Idaho) and committee member Sen. Jon Tester (D-Mont.). The legislation garnered support from a mix of centrist and red-state Democrats, who argued it would help small community banks and make it easier for Americans to buy a home by increasing access to capital.

“We’re talking about smaller banks, regional banks. They didn’t cause the financial crisis to begin with,” Sen. Gary Peters (D-Mich.) said Tuesday.

Democrats Jon Tester (left) and Mark Warner, both members of the Senate Banking Committee, support the bill. Tom Williams via Getty Images

That the legislation would also increase the risk of a financial crisis isn’t a criticism from some far-left interest group, however ― it’s the conclusion of the Congressional Budget Office, which produces independent, nonpartisan analysis of budgetary issues.

In looking at the legislation’s costs, the CBO considered the odds of a systemically important financial institution failing or a broader financial collapse. “CBO estimates that the probability is small under current law and would be slightly greater under the legislation,” the budget scorekeeper said in a cost estimate published this week.

The 2010 financial reform law, commonly known as Dodd-Frank, imposed a range of new regulations on financial institutions, including increased capital requirements that force banks to hold more capital relative to their assets. Dodd-Frank also subjected banks with more than $50 billion in consolidated assets to stricter scrutiny by regulators, requiring annual “stress tests” and “living wills” in order to prevent widespread disruption in case a bank fails.

The Senate bill would relax longstanding capital requirements for small banks and raise the threshold for enhanced prudential regulation from $50 billion in assets to $250 billion, exempting 25 of the 38 largest banks in the U.S.

The CBO report warns that subjecting fewer assets to enhanced regulation would “increase the likelihood that a large financial firm with assets of between $100 billion and $250 billion would fail.” The report cites academic literature suggesting that a 1 percent decrease in a bank’s capital-to-assets ratio can increase the risk of failure by between 5 and 60 percent.

Democrats often cited the CBO’s work in last year’s debates over repealing the Affordable Care Act, but now some seemed skeptical about the agency’s analysis.

“I can tell you that I think [the risk of financial crisis is] very, very small, because as [Federal Reserve Chair Jerome] Powell said the other day, if they’ve got a risky business plan, we’re going to regulate them,” Tester said. “Doesn’t matter what the number is. And so I feel fairly confident that the Fed will continue to do their job.”

Sen. Michael Bennet (D-Colo.), who also voted to advance the bill, said he agreed.

“I don’t think we’re boosting chances of a financial crisis. I think we’re responding to the concerns of smaller banks in America that haven’t been able to serve their customers well,” Bennet said.

Although the bill is supposed to benefit small banks, the CBO said it’s possible that JP Morgan and Citibank, specifically, would benefit from changes to the way that regulators measure capitalization for banks that are “predominantly engaged in custody, safekeeping, and asset servicing activities.”

The bill would allow such firms to omit assets held by central banks, like the Federal Reserve, for the purposes of calculating the supplementary leverage ratio (SLR), which is one measure that regulators use to determine sufficient capitalization for large firms. Not counting those assets would mean large financial institutions didn’t have to hold as much capital. Bank of New York, State Street and Northern Trust are the three banks that would clearly benefit, according to the CBO.

“CBO assumes that there is a 50 percent chance that regulators would allow two other financial institutions ― JP Morgan and Citibank, with combined assets of $4.4 trillion ― to adjust their SLRs under the terms in the bill,” the agency wrote.

But Tester didn’t seem to believe that either, disputing the notion that large banks might be able to take advantage of the carveout.

“Who said that?” he asked HuffPost on Tuesday. “Citibank? No, I don’t agree with that at all. I don’t know where they got that information at all.”

It would be easy for the bill’s authors to clear up the confusion by adjusting the legislative text, said Mike Konczal, a fellow with the liberal Roosevelt Institute. He added that senators shouldn’t be picking regulatory winners and losers.

“The whole point of Dodd-Frank was to get away from the mindset of micromanaging carveouts for this or that kind of financial firm and instead apply strong rules across the financial sector,” Konczal said.

The Crapo bill contains a host of other provisions, including one that would reduce data collection used to detect discriminatory lending practices and others that Democrats say would protect consumers.

The Senate is expected to vote on final passage of the bill later this week. It’s unclear whether the House would vote to pass it as is or amend it with other changes, such as provisions undermining the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau. That agency, created under President Barack Obama, is a favorite target of congressional Republicans.

“If they do [make changes], it’ll probably kill the bill,” Tester told reporters on Tuesday.

Sen. Sherrod Brown (D-Ohio), the ranking Democrat on the Banking Committee, said the CBO’s analysis validated his opposition to the bill.Constance Wu has been using her platform to draw attention to the differences in the Asian-American experience frequently as of late. Presley Ann via Getty Images

When it comes to Asian representation on the big screen, Constance Wu has a “blanket statement” she’d like to make.

The “Fresh Off the Boat” breakout is gearing up for a banner summer, with a starring role in the much-anticipated comedy, “Crazy Rich Asians,” due out in August.

But as her Hollywood career reaches new heights, the actress said she’ll continue to take on roles that require her to use accents, even if some people may interpret such characters as perpetuating Asian stereotypes.

Wu, who is of Taiwanese heritage, explained her decision in a March 2 Facebook post.

“To turn down a role simply bc of an accent actually reinforces that biased culture,” she wrote. “And I will never make career choices that reinforce a non-Asian person’s ridicule of what is simply a product of immigration.”

She continued: “I think we should have pride in selecting those roles and not just blindly apply the word ‘stereotype’ to anything that has an accent.” ‬

Wu has never been one to bow to Asian-American stereotypes. At January’s Women’s March in Los Angeles, she delivered an impassioned speech that called for better portrayals of Asians in media.EAST LANSING, Mich. — Fights broke out and authorities made multiple arrests as white supremacists clashed with hundreds of anti-fascist protesters outside the Michigan State University building where white supremacist Richard Spencer was set to speak on Monday.

Members of the so-called alt-right, including members of the Traditionalist Worker Party, fight with protesters outside of a Richard Spencer speech on the campus of Michigan State University on March 5, 2018. Stephanie Keith/Reuters

MSU students are on spring break, but many still turned up, as did members of antifa and other anti-fascist groups. They all began demonstrating against the event hours before it started, as a large contingent of police looked on.

When the largest group of white nationalists — led by Traditionalist Worker Party members Matthew Heimbach and Johan Carollo — tried to walk into the building, protesters repeatedly beat them back.

This was the first fight. Matt Heimbach and Johan Carollo from Traditional Workers Party involved. Carollo had a shiner on his cheek after this pic.twitter.com/n0QPdi8ToI — Christopher Mathias (@letsgomathias) March 5, 2018

Looks like protesters are beating back the Nazis at Michigan State. A TON of fights breaking out. Nazis can't get in yet. pic.twitter.com/4SkKkpJn26 — Christopher Mathias (@letsgomathias) March 5, 2018

Carollo, sporting a fresh bruise on his cheek, yelled “Race traitors!” at the protesters before leaving. Neither he nor his crew appeared to make it inside to hear Spencer speak. Gregory Conte, director of operations at the white nationalist think thank National Policy Institute, was arrested during the melee for unclear reasons.

More clashes broke out as other white nationalists arrived. Police scrambled to establish formations to prevent the two sides from fighting — often to little avail — and successfully escorted some of the white nationalists inside the building.

HuffPost counted at least 12 arrests. At one point, cops charged through a crowd of protesters, using their bicycles as battering rams.

According to multiple anti-fascist protesters, somebody threw horse feces at a white supremacist, hitting him. HuffPost couldn’t independently verify that this happened.

Cops using bikes as battering rams to push back protesters pic.twitter.com/7y3L04SeOK — Christopher Mathias (@letsgomathias) March 5, 2018

Aiden, a 24-year-old from Lansing who declined to give his last name for fear of retaliation, protested as a member of the anti-fascist group Solidarity and Defense. He said it was important to confront Spencer and his white nationalist cohorts.

“I think we’ve seen throughout history that ignoring them has never worked,” he said. “The only way to destroy genocidal exterminationist fascist movements is to physically confront them and shut down their organizing and their recruiting.”

J.D. Torok, 27, stood outside the pavilion holding a sign that read “Advocating genocide is not free speech.” Torok, who resides in Lansing, marched to show support for minorities, immigrants and LGBTQ folk.

Spencer “made a career out of making genocide sound reasonable. And we’re here to show him that it’s not, that it’s a threat to all of us,” Torok said.

Members of the various anti-fascist groups and other protesters lock arms together on the campus of Michigan State University outside of a Richard Spencer speech in East Lansing, Michigan, on March 5, 2018. Stephanie Keith/Reuters

Police officers escort a man through protesters to the Richard Spencer speech on March 5, 2018. Stephanie Keith/Reuters

Spencer is president of National Policy Institute, listed by the Southern Poverty Law Center as a hate group. NPI, despite its shrill invocations of free speech, would not issue press credentials to HuffPost and a host of other local and national media outlets seeking to report on Spencer’s speech from inside the public university.

HuffPost managed to get inside anyway. There, Spencer stood in a largely empty auditorium often used for livestock auctions, speaking to just 30 or 40 people, despite claiming to having issued 150 tickets for the event. He blamed the unrest outside for the paltry attendance. A livestream camera focused tightly on him, never panning out across the small crowd.

He rambled on about wanting to create ethno-states and “re-immigrating” people back to their homelands. This (undoubtedly violent) vision of ethnic cleansing would involve creating an ethnostate for “African-Americans who can not simply go back to Africa,” Spencer said.

After talking for over an hour, he and the white other white nationalists left the auditorium.

In an adjoining room, about a dozen protesters arrested during the day’s chaos sat in folding chairs, handcuffed and guarded by police. They seemed in a good mood, at one point singing “Solidarity Forever” and then “Part of Your World” from Disney’s “The Little Mermaid.”

Wow. About a dozen arrested protesters in handcuffs inside the building where Richard Spencer spoke. They're singing "Solidarity Forever." pic.twitter.com/nyXaMTC7hN — Christopher Mathias (@letsgomathias) March 5, 2018

Spencer’s event will likely cost Michigan State University — and by extension, taxpayers — a pretty penny. The university is legally on the hook for security costs. “Right now everything is fluid, so I don’t think there’s a final cost available yet,” Police Cpt. Doug Monette told MLive.com.

The University of Florida spent half a million dollars — roughly equal to the yearly tuition for 78 in-state undergraduate students — to host Spencer and his fellow travelers at the school in October, all for Spencer to throw a hissy fit on stage when protesters in the audience disrupted his speech. (Afterwards, three Spencer fanboys were arrested for shooting a gun at counter-protesters.)

Spencer — who is most famous for getting punched in the face on Inauguration Day — has had help litigating his way onto college campuses across the country to recruit young members to the so-called “alt-right.”

Since the white supremacist rally in Charlottesville, Virginia, in August — which ended with an alleged neo-Nazi driving a car into a crowd of protesters, killing 32-year-old Heather Heyer and injuring a score more — Spencer crony Cameron Padgett and white nationalist attorney Kyle Bristow have been busy suing or threatening to sue state universities that have refused to allow Spencer to speak.

A protester in Gainesville, Florida, demonstrates against Richard Spencer's speech on the University of Florida campus on Oct. 19, 2017. Shannon Stapleton / Reuters

Last year, Michigan State University refused Padgett’s request to reserve a room for Spencer at the school, citing security concerns after the violence in Charlottesville. Padgett and Bristow sued, and in January, the school settled: Spencer would get to speak, and the university was on the hook for whatever security costs the event would incur.

Padgett has also sued or threatened to sue the University of Cincinnati, Ohio State University, Penn State University, and Kent State University over those schools’ apparent refusal let Spencer speak on campus.

But Bristow, the white nationalist lawyer, threw this planned college tour into disarray this past weekend, when he announced he was stepping away from politics and quitting his position at the Foundation for the Marketplace of Ideas, or FMI. Bristow had founded the FMI and billed it as a kind of American Civil Liberties Union of the far-right.

He had also planned an FMI conference for Sunday night in Detroit, which was set to feature Spencer and other white nationalist figures. But someone leaked the conference’s itinerary to The Detroit Metro Times on Sunday morning. The venue, the Carpathia Club in the suburb of Sterling Heights, canceled after finding out who was coming and consulting with police.

Meanwhile, anti-fascist protesters gathered outside a Holiday Inn Express in the Detroit area where they had heard the white nationalists were staying. (A white nationalist organizer who asked not to be named confirmed to HuffPost that they were, in fact, staying at the hotel.)

An anti-fascist protester on March 4, 2018, outside a hotel near Detroit where neo-Nazis had reserved rooms. Christopher Mathias

A 26-year-old using the name Ouija, who identified as an antifa member from South Bend, Indiana, said he and a group of other anti-fascist activists traveled to Michigan to “show the community and people of color in this community that they have people watching their back and that they have people who care.”

“Racists always exist, but now they’re more comfortable, now they’re coming out of the woodwork, and we’re here to put them back into the woodwork and destroy them with every chance that we get,” Ouija said.

Two times, people screaming “Heil Hitler” and “Sieg Heil” drove by, disrupting the rally outside the hotel. A man inside another vehicle simply yelled, “Trump!”

The white supremacists eventually found a new location for their conference Sunday night: Ann Arbor, about an hour’s drive away.

But first, they met in a parking lot outside a sports store, where they coordinated travel to this new secret location.

One young white man, 23, who asked not be identified, told HuffPost this was his first time coming to a white nationalist event. He had been “redpilled” — alt-right lingo for awakening to white supremacist teachings — about three years ago, he said. He added that he’d struggled with drugs and alcohol for a while, but found some solace in the racism and fascism of the alt-right.

“Basically, it makes me feel part of something bigger than myself and it doesn’t make me feel so alone and so … atomized.”

“My future isn’t taken into any consideration in politics or basically anything you see in movies and academia, and I kinda really want to see that change, and these are the only people spouting that message,” he said.

The time came for the white nationalists to move. They got in their cars and drove to their secret location.

A few hours later, anti-fascist activists claimed to have found them at a private residence in Ann Arbor.

The anti-fascist coalition Stop Spencer at MSU issued a statement claiming victory. “They can’t run,” the group said of the white supremacists. “They can’t hide.”

Andy Campbell contributed reporting.

CORRECTION: A previous version of this story misstated the last name of J.D. Torok as Took.