Washington state's legislature passed a bill on Saturday that would ban therapists from forcing gay conversion therapy upon a minor. paul mansfield photography via Getty Images

Washington state is one signature away from banning licensed therapists from trying to convert a minor’s sexual orientation.

The state’s Senate passed a bill on Saturday that will impose sanctions on licensed therapists should they attempt to perform gay conversion therapy on someone under the age of 18.

Senate Bill 5722, which passed on a 33-16 vote, now goes to Washington Gov. Jay Inslee (D) for his signature. Inslee is expected to sign it, according to Tacoma’s News Tribune.

Those found guilty of breaking the law could face fines, medical license revocation or suspension.

Conversion therapy involving a minor is already banned in nine states ― California, Connecticut, Nevada, New Jersey, Oregon, Illinois, Vermont, New Mexico and Rhode Island ― as well as the District of Columbia. New Hampshire’s House of Representatives last month passed a similar bill that bans the practice. That bill is slated to go before the state’s Senate, which rejected a similar bill in January.

It’s estimated that 698,000 LGBTQ adults in the U.S. have received treatment to change their sexual orientation or gender at some point in their lives, according to a recent report by the Williams Institute on Sexual Orientation and Gender Identity Law and Public Policy at UCLA School of Law. Of that estimate, 350,000 received treatment as adolescents.

In states that don’t have such protections, the report states that an estimated 20,000 LGBTQ minors will be affected by the practice.

The Human Rights Campaign, a LGBTQ organization, celebrated the Washington Legislature’s decision and called upon Inslee to “sign this crucially important” bill.The world record was gradually being whittled down and a number of athletes were considered capable of crashing the four-minute barrier.

Australia’s great miler, John Landy, recorded a four minutes 2.1 seconds mile in December 1952 and Bannister cut this to four minutes two seconds in June 1953.

With American Wes Santee trying to lower his U.S. record of four minutes 2.4 seconds, the pressure was on and four-minute-mile fever was mounting. To Bannister, the challenge was not only to break the barrier but to be the first man to do so.

The Oxford University versus Amateur Athletics Association fixture of May 6 was the first competition of the British season of 1954. Bannister, by then a medical student at a London hospital, set that day for his attempt.

He enlisted the aid of his training companions and friends Chris Chataway and Chris Brasher, top athletes in their own right, as pacemakers.

May 6 was cold, wet and windy - not ideal for a record-breaking attempt. Bannister thought of calling it off but after a short rain shower and with a drop in the wind, he said:“Right, I’ll try.”

MEDICAL CAREER

After a false start by pacemaker Brasher, the field of six got away. Bannister urged Brasher to go faster and at the halfway mark called on Chataway to take over from the tiring Brasher.

Then 210 meters from the tape he pulled out from behind Chataway to immortalize himself as the first sub-four-minute miler.

Seven weeks later Landy beat Bannister’s record with a mile in three minutes 57.9 seconds and in August, Bannister lowered his own time to three minutes 58.8 seconds, beating Landy at the Commonwealth Games in Vancouver, Canada.

In August 1954, Bannister captured the European 1500 meters crown. Having qualified as a doctor, he retired from active athletics at the end of 1954 to pursue his medical career.

By 1963 he was established in his profession as a consultant in nervous diseases at three hospitals and a year later became a member of Britain’s Advisory Sports Council.

In 1971, aged 42 and a father of four, he was appointed by the government as the first chairman of the Executive Sports Council designed to finance and promote British sport.

He was awarded a knighthood in 1975. He became president of the World Sports Council in 1976 and in 1977 was the first Briton to win West Germany’s Hans-Heinrich Siegbert prize for his services to sport.

Oxford University elected him Master (head) of its Pembroke College in 1985.

Bannister gave up his medical practice after a serious car accident and devoted himself to research. He became director of National Hospital for Nervous Diseases in London and edited a textbook on nervous system disorders.

His prediction that the mile record would be progressively lowered was born out in subsequent years. In 1999, Moroccan Hiram El Guerrouj became the 13th record holder since Bannister, lowering the time to 3:43.13.

(Editing by Sonya Hepinstall and Toby Davis)This weekend, Marvel Studios’ blockbuster “Black Panther” made another $65 million. The film has now raked in over $500 million after just 17 days in theaters, making it the 10th highest-domestic-grossing movie in history.

The film is sure to eclipse the ninth spot on the list, 2017′s “Beauty and the Beast,” which made $504 million domestically. The superhero film could even pass “The Avengers,” which made $623 million domestically in 2012 and is the highest-grossing Marvel film of all time.

The film has already notched several box office feats. It brought in $242 million domestically in its four-day opening weekend — just behind “Star Wars: The Force Awakens.” Those numbers make “Black Panther” the fifth largest opening of all time, and the top February opening weekend.

With a black director — Ryan Coogler — at the helm and a nearly all-black cast, “Black Panther” is striking a chord with fans, especially African-American audiences. With a 97 percent rating on Rotten Tomatoes, the film is a hit with critics as well.Pete Marovich via Getty Images

WASHINGTON ― The Justice Department’s top oversight official is set to release a report slamming an FBI official President Donald Trump has portrayed as a Hillary Clinton stooge — for allegedly authorizing leaks of information that hurt Clinton’s campaign.

Trump and his supporters have used the fact that former FBI Deputy Director Andrew McCabe’s wife ran for a state Senate seat as a Democrat to paint him as a Democratic partisan out to get Trump. Despite irrefutable evidence that the bureau’s public actions before the election actually hurt Clinton, Trump defenders on Capitol Hill and on Fox News have spun up a narrative alleging that the FBI leaked information ahead of the election to damage Trump.

The long-anticipated report from the Justice Department’s inspector general ― likely to be released this month or next ― could further undermine that already ridiculous claim. Trump and his allies have suggested that McCabe leaked information that hurt Trump and helped Clinton. But the IG’s forthcoming report is set to reveal the opposite: McCabe authorized leaks that damaged Clinton and aided Trump.

The IG, who has been looking into the FBI’s handling of the probe since before Trump’s inauguration, will criticize McCabe for authorizing discussions with a Wall Street Journal reporter for an Oct. 30, 2016, story that suggested President Barack Obama’s Justice Department was improperly pressuring the FBI to drop a probe of the Clinton Foundation, The New York Times reported on Thursday night.

The Oct. 30, 2016, WSJ story portrays McCabe as caught between FBI agents who wanted to push the Clinton Foundation investigation and Justice Department officials upset the probe was being pursued so close to the election.

In the story, a person “close to Mr. McCabe” ― likely bureau lawyer and senior McCabe adviser Lisa Page ― revealed that a Justice Department official called McCabe on Aug. 12 and was “very pissed off” that the New York office was pursuing the Clinton Foundation investigation:

“Are you telling me that I need to shut down a validly predicated investigation?” Mr. McCabe asked, according to people familiar with the conversation. After a pause, the official replied, “Of course not,” these people said.

FBI texts disclosed to Congress revealed the backstory for this piece that the public doesn’t often get to see. The texts show that Page talked to then-Wall Street Journal reporter Devlin Barrett, a well-sourced reporter on the DOJ beat who is now at The Washington Post. It was clear from the texts that their conversation had high-level authorization within the bureau, as the FBI’s top spokesman was on the call along with Page and Barrett. The call was likely arranged as part of an effort to push back on a prior WSJ story McCabe was upset about. That article had raised questions about his oversight of the Clinton probe because his wife’s failed state Senate campaign had received money from Clinton ally Terry McAuliffe at a time when McCabe had no involvement with the Clinton investigation.

Trump and his allies had quickly seized upon that Oct. 24 WSJ story about the 2015 political campaign of McCabe’s wife, Dr. Jill McCabe. At a campaign stop in Florida on Oct. 25, 2016, Trump said it was a “disgrace” that “the man who was in charge of the investigation of Hillary Clinton accepted essentially from Hillary Clinton $675,000 that went to his wife.” (The president’s comment was an inaccurate portrayal of the situation.)

Given the attacks against him, it would make sense that McCabe, who voted in the 2016 Republican primary, would want to push back on the notion that he was in the tank for Clinton. But it would be odd if the IG report faults Page for talking with a reporter with the permission of her boss in a phone call that was monitored by the FBI’s chief of public affairs. Criticizing McCabe for authorizing Page to talk about an ongoing investigation seems like a logical outcome of the IG probe.

Although it’s tempting to try and read any actions taken by the FBI ahead of the election in a purely political light, the chief ideological commitment of many FBI employees ― despite the bureau leaning conservative overall ― is to the organization, its image and its prerogatives.

The chief motivation for disclosing information on the Clinton Foundation investigation likely wasn’t damaging Clinton or helping Trump, but protecting the FBI and McCabe from Justice Department interference. Top bureau officials, like most people at the time, believed that Clinton was going to win the election. But they didn’t want the public, and Republicans on Capitol Hill, thinking they let Clinton off the hook easy.

They just didn’t see Trump coming.“Saturday Night Live” host and NBA legend Charles Barkley played Ned the exterminator whose sights are set on cockroaches in a comedy sketch on the program — but he was aiming for the National Rifle Association.

“Ned’s Roach Away” has an innovative way to eliminate roaches: Arm the good roaches with teeny AR-15s to take out the bad ones.

“The only way to stop a bad roach is a good roach with a gun,” Barkley explains in the sketch. That’s the constant refrain from NRA CEO Wayne LaPierre, heard most recently at the Conservative Political Action Conference last month: “To stop a bad guy with a gun, it takes a good guy with a gun.”

A horde of really bad roaches might require good bugs toting AR-15s with bumpstocks, notes Barkley’s Ned, who wears a cowboy hat.

Don’t worry, the armed roaches in “Ned’s Roach Away” are all “good character,” God-fearing bugs who regularly attend their tiny church. “And none of my roaches are gay,” says “Ned.”

Fans reactions were mixed on Twitter. Some found the sketch hilarious, while others thought it was insensitive so soon after the shooting at a high school in Parkland, Florida, that killed 17 people.

Check out the video above.

SNL nailed it. Funny n sad but stone cold truth. NRA going away — Michael Langan (@righthooker) March 4, 2018

Wow. Lethally funny. Uncomfortably funny. — NotABot (@NotABot7238) March 4, 2018

We get this point but that context is not funny and too soon. Laughing about rapid gunfire fr AR-15s and bump stocks is not cool at all. I’ve watched for 20 years and this is tasteless. — Smandymandy (@smandymandy) March 4, 2018

I thought it was actually very politically risqué. The framing of gun-users as vermin, passing on their gun culture genetically, bred into them... Uncharacteristically direct — David McKay (@dmgrand514) March 4, 2018President Donald Trump took a dig at George W. Bush during a speech to Republican donors on Saturday, calling the former president’s decision to invade Iraq in 2003 “the single worst decision ever made.”

“Here we are, like the dummies of the world, because we had bad politicians running our country for a long time,” Trump said. He went on to mock fellow Republican Bush, sarcastically calling him a “real genius” over his decision to invade Iraq.

He also scorned the CIA over its flawed information about Iraq dictator Saddam Hussein harboring weapons of mass destruction.

“That turned out to be wonderful intelligence. Great intelligence agency there,” Trump joked.

Former President George W. Bush and his wife, Laura Bush, arrive at the Capitol for the inauguration of Donald Trump last year. Getty Images

Though Trump repeatedly insisted during his presidential campaign that he’d long been opposed to the Iraq War, even saying in June 2016 that he was among its “earliest” critics, the record suggests otherwise.

In a much-reported exchange with with radio host Howard Stern in September 2002, Trump expressed tepid support for the war, saying “Yeah, I guess so” when asked if he supported the impending invasion of Iraq.

In March 2003, one day after the invasion, Trump told Fox News that the conflict appeared to be “a tremendous success from a military standpoint.”

Trump’s excoriation of Bush wasn’t the only part of his fundraiser speech that made headlines. He also praised Chinese President Xi Jinping’s recent power grab in his remarks.

Advertisement“It’s offensive for anyone to manipulate the history of the Holocaust to score political points,” the Jewish civil rights organization tweeted earlier this week at U.S. Rep. Don Young (R-Alaska), who had made the same argument as Simmons.

On Saturday, student activists who survived the Stoneman Douglas shooting and have taken on the National Rifle Association voiced their displeasure with Florida lawmakers on Twitter. They also had another message: They know the Republicans who voted down the amendment, and they won’t forget.Education Secretary Betsy DeVos came under the scrutiny of “The Daily Show” on Wednesday night.

Host Trevor Noah shone a light on how fraudulent for-profit universities are “poised to make a comeback” after DeVos dismantled the Department of Education team dedicated to investigating fraud.

“So Betsy DeVos is stopping the people who are stopping the fraud,” said Noah. “She is like a reverse superhero. You know, flies into a bank robbery to help the robbers.”

He then recruited regular contributor Roy Wood Jr. to make a “more accurate” spoof ad promoting a fictional version of one of these “shady schools.”“In times like this we look to our leaders for guidance,” says Cooper, played by Alex Moffat. “But instead, we’ll hear from Donald Trump.”

The scene switches to the White House, where “Trump says “I hear you and I care,” referring to the Parkland, Florida, school shooting and reading from his crib notes. “We have to take a hard look at mental health — which I have so much of. I have one of the healthiest mentals. My mentals are so high,” says Baldwin’s Trump.

He floats the idea of taking take guns away from everyone ... “even whites,” as Beck Bennett’s Mike Pence sobs next to him. (He’s flanked on the other side by Cecily Strong’s Dianne Feinstein.) But then “cha-ching, it’s all good,” the president changes his mind because the National Rifle Association “gave me 30 million good reasons not to change a thing.”

“I can only run into so many schools and save everybody ... I’m actually a very fast runner ... The guy with the gun wouldn’t know what hit him; bing bing ding dong dang, he’ done” says “Trump.” But he then imagines running all the way to North Korea, confronting “Little Rocket Man,” and mopping up there.

He laments that he has to do “everything” because everyone is quitting on him — even Hope Hicks, who is like a daughter to him: “So smart, so hot.” Jared Kushner is “basically the hottest chick left in the place, but he’s probably going to jail soon.”

“I said I was going to run this country like a business; that business is a Waffle House at 2 a.m.,” says Baldwin’s Trump. “Crazies everywhere, staff walking out in the middle of their shift, managers taking money out of the cash register to pay off the Russian mob.”

Someone not resigning: Kate McKinnon’s Jeff Sessions. “I’m not going anywhere,” “Sessions” tells a nervous Trump. At the attorney general’s recent Justice Department meeting “your name popped up more than a weasel in a pumpkin patch,” McKinnon tells the “president.”Rep. Devin Nunes (R-Calif.) said Saturday that Stephen Colbert’s jokes about him are a “danger” in this country.

Colbert traveled to the Capitol on Friday’s episode of “The Late Show” in a spoof mission to tease information out of congressmen about possible collusion between President Donald Trump’s campaign and Russia. Colbert was armed with his own memo stating: “Devon Nunes is a [redacted].”

Colbert managed to crack a smile from stone-faced Sen. Mark Warner (D-Va.) when he asked him if he was “jealous” that Rep. Adam Schiff (D-Calif.) gets to work with Nunes.

“This is the danger that we have in this country,” Nunes said when Fox News’ Neil Cavuto asked how he felt about the jokes.

“The left controls not only the universities in this country, but they also control Hollywood in this country, and the mainstream media, so conservatives in this country are under attack ... they attack people who are trying to get to the truth,” the head of the House Intelligence Committee added.LOS ANGELES (Variety.com) - David Ogden Stiers, best known for his role as the arrogant surgeon Major Charles Emerson Winchester III on “M*A*S*H,” died Saturday. He was 75.

His agent, Mitchell K. Stubbs, tweeted that he died of bladder cancer at his home in Newport, Ore.

For his work on “M*A*S*H,” Stiers was twice Emmy nominated for outstanding supporting actor in a comedy or variety or music series, in 1981 and 1982, and he earned a third Emmy nomination for his performance in NBC miniseries “The First Olympics: Athens 1896″ as William Milligan Sloane, the founder of the U.S. Olympic Committee.

The actor, with his educated, resonant intonations ― though he did not share Major Winchester’s Boston Brahmin accent ― was much in demand for narration and voiceover work, and for efforts as the narrator and as of Disney’s enormous hit animated film “Beauty and the Beast,” he shared a Grammy win for best recording for children and another nomination for album of the year.

He voiced Dr. Jumba Jookiba, the evil genius who created Stitch, in 2002′s “Lilo & Stitch” and various spinoffs; once he became part of the Disney family, Stiers went on to do voicework on a large number of movies, made for TV or video content and videogames.

In addition to serving as narrator and as the voice of Cogsworth in “Beauty and the Beast” in 1991, he voiced Governor Ratcliffe and Wiggins in Disney’s 1995 animated effort “Pocahontas” and voiced the Archdeacon in Disney’s “The Hunchback of Notre Dame.” He also contributed the voice of the grandfather for the English-language version of Hayao Miyazaki’s 1992 animation “Porco Rosso” and of Kamaji in Miyazki’s classic “Spirited Away” in 2001. From 2011-15 he recurred on Cartoon Network’s “Regular Show.”

Indeed, it was his voice that earned him his first screen credit ― as the announcer in George Lucas’ 1971 film “THX 1138.”

Actors Jason Scott Lee (L) and David Ogden Stiers, the voices of David Kawena and Jumba respectively in the animated motion picture "Lilo & Stitch," pose during the premiere of the film at the El Capitan Theatre in the Hollywood section of Los Angeles June 16, 2002. Reuters Photographer / Reuters

Stiers was also known for the eight Perry Mason TV movies he made between 1986-88 in which his prosecuting attorney invariably lost to Raymond Burr’s Mason, and more recently he had recurred on the USA Network series “The Dead Zone” from 2002-07 as the Rev. Eugene Purdy, the chief antagonist to star Anthony Michael Hall’s Johnny Smith.

In addition Stiers worked repeatedly for director Woody Allen, appearing in “Shadows and Fog,” “Mighty Aphrodite,” “Everybody Says I Love You” and “Curse of the Jade Scorpion” (in which he played a mysterious hypnotist).

On “M*A*S*H” Stiers’ Major Winchester was witty where Frank Burns had been vapid ― with his Harvard education, a match for Alan Alda’s Hawkeye in the operating room and, unlike Frank, a worthy adversary in the ongoing battle of the pranks in the Swamp. So it was always poignant when an emotional crack opened in his self-satisfied mien.

In the season eight episode “Morale Victory,” Winchester is proud of saving a wounded soldier’s leg, only to learn that the minor injury to the young man’s hand is all that matters to him, as he is a concert pianist. The soldier feels he has no reason for living, but in a powerful performance byStiers, Winchester provides him with piano music written for a single hand and shows him the empathy necessary to save him.

Another time the audience saw a different side to Stier’s Winchester came in the ninth-season episode in which he swallows his pride and attempts to curry favor with a general who can send him back to the comforts of Tokyo ― but in the end, when the general asks him to testify unjustly against Margaret Houlihan ― Winchester declares, “I will not ― even for a return to that pearl of the Orient Tokyo ― lie to protect you while destroying a friend’s career!”

In the busy year of 1985, Stiers also played the father to John Cusack’s hero in the ’80s teen movie “Better Off Dead” and the bitter enemy to Peter O’Toole’s eccentric scientist in “Creator,” while also appearing in ABC miniseries “North and South” as Congressman Sam Greene.

The next year would bring more work in the form of “North and South Book II” ― and Stiers would begin a long series of “Perry Mason” telepics in which he played the always-fated-t0-lose prosecuting attorney. There were two of these NBC movies in 1986 and eight overall through 1988.

He played Franklin D. Roosevelt twice: in “J. Edgar Hoover” and in Emmy-winning 1989 telepic “Day One,” about the Manhattan Project. In another esteemed telepic that year, “The Final Days,” about the Nixon White House, the actor played Gen. Alexander Haig.

In addition to his work for Woody Allen, he played a wealthy railroad magnate in the live action Disney film “Iron Will” in 1994, a judge in the 1995 CIA thriller “Bad Company,” starring Ellen Barkin and Laurence Fishburne, and appeared in Frank Darabont’s Jim Carrey vehicle “The Majestic” in 2001.

The actor also continued appearing on television, guesting on shows including “Murder, She Wrote” and recurring on ABC’s “Two Guys, a Girl and a Pizza Place” in 1998 as the eccentric Mr. Bauer, who relayed the plots of movies as if they were stories of what had happened to him. He was a series regular on the brief CBS series “Love & Money” in 1999. In 2003 he memorably guested on an episode of “Frasier” in which Stiers played a former research associate of Frasier’s who is so like him and Niles, it has Martin questioning whether he is really their father.

David Allen Ogden Stiers was born not in New England but in Peoria, Illinois, though the family moved to Eugene, Oregon, while he was in high school. He briefly attended the University of Oregon, began his professional career at the Actors Workshop in San Francisco, the California Shakespeare Festival and improv group the Committee before heading East and, starting in 1968, attending New York’s Juilliard and then joining at launch the Houseman Acting Company, where he was mentored by John Houseman.

Stiers made his Broadway debut with simultaneous 1973 revivals of Chekhov’s “The Three Sisters,” in which he played Kulygin; “The Beggar’s Opera,” in which he played Peachum; “Measure for Measure,” in which he played the Duke; and Moliere’s “Scapin,” in which he played Geronte. Kevin Kline and Patti LuPone were also among those who appeared in the three productions. In 1974 he appeared in “Ulysses in Nighttown,” which was briefly staged on the Rialto starring Zero Mostel. Also that year he had a role in the original Stephen Schwartz musical “The Magic Show.”

In 1971 he made his first bigscreen appearance, in the Jack Nicholson-directed “Drive, He Said.”

He soon had a recurring role on the brief Barnard Hughes sitcom “Doc” and guested on “Kojak,” “Charlie’s Angels,” “Phyllis,” “Mary Tyler Moore” and “Rhoda” before being cast as Major Winchester on “M*A*S*H.” Even during his years on the hit show, he appeared in movies including “Oh! God,” starring John Denver and George Burns; “The Cheap Detective,” with Peter Falk; ventriloquist horror movie “Magic” with Anthony Hopkins; and TV movies including “Breaking Up Is Hard to Do” (1979), “The Oldest Living Graduate” (1980), “Father Damien: The Leper Priest” (1980) and “The Day the Bubble Burst.”

In 2009 he returned to Broadway after an absence of many decades to appear in “Irving Berlin’s White Christmas.” The following year he appeared in a Shakespeare Center of Los Angeles production of “Much Ado About Nothing.”

Stiers had his musical side, conducting orchestras around the world.Two years after he was fatally shot by a police officer in Minnesota, Philando Castile is still helping students afford lunch.

A charity created in Castile’s honor has paid off the lunch debt for every student in the 56 schools in the St. Paul Public School District, including the school where Castile worked as a cafeteria supervisor.

“That means no parent of the 37,000 kids who eat meals at school need worry about how to pay that overdue debt,” a charity organizer wrote on the “Philando Feeds the Children” fundraising page.

Castile had worked as a cafeteria supervisor at the J.J. Hill Montessori Magnet School in St. Paul for two years at the time he was killed.

Families said students at the school took his death especially hard.

In 2017, around the anniversary of Castile’s death, families of children at J.J. Hill told the Pioneer Press that Castile often high-fived students and helped them with their lunches.

“It’s one thing to say he was a good guy, and it’s another thing to know he was a good guy,” Eisen Ramgren, a student’s parent, told the St. Paul newspaper.

Pam Fergus, an educator who launched the charity, told CNN she delivered a $35,000 check to the St. Paul Public School District this week. The charity, which had an original goal of raising $5,000, now has more than $117,000 in donations, according to the YouCaring page. The funds will continue to pay for student lunches “for years to come,” Fergus wrote in a fundraising update.

Fergus told Fox 9 News that Castile was known at his school for paying for students’ lunches when they couldn’t afford it.

“Philando was famous for that,” she said. “His mother told me that every day he would call her after leaving his job at J.J. Hill and talk about the kids. Another kid didn’t have the money in his account, so Philando would take $3 out of his pocket and buy that kid’s lunch for the day.”

In July 2016, St. Anthony Police Officer Jeronimo Yanez shot and killed Castile after pulling him over for a broken taillight in a St. Paul suburb.

Yanez maintained that he thought Castile was reaching for the weapon, while Diamond Reynolds, Castile’s girlfriend who filmed the traffic stop from the passenger seat, said he was reaching for his wallet.

Footage of the incident from a police dash cam and Reynolds’ camera shows Castile calmly telling Yanez he had a firearm. After the shooting, Reynolds said Yanez had just asked Castile for his license and registration, adding that Castile was licensed to carry.

Castile’s death sparked nationwide protests against police violence after the shooting and again after Yanez was found not guilty of manslaughter.

Now that the charity has reached well over its fundraising goal, Fergus hopes it can continue to raise money for more schools in Minnesota.Under her Dalichov Twitter handle, Volitich stated that Islam “legitimizes” terrorist behavior and that terrorist attacks will continue “until we eradicate [Muslims] from the face of the earth.” She also retweeted and commented on tweets posted by neo-Nazis, anti-Semites, and white supremacists, including Kevin MacDonald, David Duke, Arthur Jones, Patrick Casey, Mark Collett and Mike Peinovich, aka Mike Enoch.

The superintendent’s statement noted that a reporter at HuffPost alerted the district to Volitich’s actions, and the Human Resources department “initiated an investigation immediately.”

Volitich has not responded to repeated HuffPost attempts to contact her. She did provide a statement to television station WFLA News Channel 8 on Sunday, in which she claimed her actions were “satire”:Illustration: Gabriela Landazuri/HuffPost. Photo: Getty Images

Shortly before “Good Will Hunting” hit theaters in December 1997, Matt Damon bought two duffel bags from Walmart. The movie’s buzz had escalated. Its benefactor, Harvey Weinstein, was plotting an awards campaign, and Damon was suddenly spending a lot of time in hotel rooms, with access to four-star room service and fitted suits.

As almost any profile of Damon will tell you, the scrappy 27-year-old from Boston had spent the decade before clawing his way into Hollywood. And then, a short six months after “Good Will Hunting” opened, he would need those duffel bags for more nights spent in hotel rooms while promoting “Saving Private Ryan,” a Steven Spielberg epic that would earn him another ticket to an Oscar ceremony.

This contrast — between Walmart luggage and Spielberg-flanked red carpets ― encapsulates Damon’s archetypal movie-star narrative: a persevering outsider heads to Tinseltown, sleeps in low-rent apartments, works odd jobs to foot the bills and accepts whatever roles he can find, hoping somehow to land a so-called break. It’s the American Dream, fed to the masses in pithy interview anecdotes and packaged for big screens across the country.

And it’s the narrative that, 20 years ago, in conjunction with the Oscar he and Ben Affleck won for their “Good Will Hunting” script, turned the little-known Damon into the primo good guy next door ― an image that defined him, without fail, until Weinstein’s sexual misconduct scandal and a few unwoke gaffes reframed the Matt Damon Persona we’ve long accepted.

The thing is, that persona was heavily produced and reliant on a collective nostalgia for a star who, just like us, totes around duffle bags and dresses in blue jeans. Damon’s rise to fame was so clean and simple that he never needed to update his image even as the times changed — and that’s exactly why now we’re wondering just how much we didn’t know about Mr. Matthew Paige Damon.

Ben Affleck and Matt Damon accept their awards for Best Original Screenplay at the 1998 Oscars. TIMOTHY A. CLARY via Getty Images

To understand the Matt Damon Persona, we have to consider the ubiquity of polished celebrity images. Any well-regarded celebrity embodies a distinct ideal that informs how we relate to ― or at least envy ― them and what makes them a marketable brand. Usually, that image is born out of the thing that first drove the person’s fame, though nothing crystallizes without the help of savvy agents and publicists. An image can be reshaped or refracted with time, but it never escapes its origins entirely.

Audrey Hepburn is still plastered on dorm-room walls as the personification of classic, elegant beauty. Viola Davis will forever be the actress who bolted onto the screen in one scene-stealing “Doubt” showdown with Meryl Streep. Even when Tom Cruise makes oddities like “Eyes Wide Shut” and “Magnolia,” he’s still the energetic blockbuster hero. Winona Ryder can star on a Netflix juggernaut, but she’ll always be the edgy outsider we met in “Beetlejuice” and “Edward Scissorhands.” Warren Beatty can settle down with Annette Bening, but only as a commentary on his years of Lothario notoriety.

That said, few Hollywood luminaries hit the mainstream with an image as clearly outlined or as beloved as Matt Damon, which is a large part of why he hasn’t changed much in our eyes over the years. Revisiting coverage of Damon from the late ’90s, every piece frames him as a hard-working tenderfoot who’d determined that if he had any hope of a career in movies, he’d have to write one himself. That narrative of gumption was further solidified with his and Affleck’s shouty, wide-eyed Oscar speech, which they so happened to deliver during the “Titanic” year, aka the most-watched telecast in the awards’ history.

Steven Spielberg, Matt Damon and Ben Affleck arrive at the 1999 Oscars, where "Saving Private Ryan" was nominated for Best Picture. Jim Smeal via Getty Images

The story goes: After dropping out of Harvard in 1992, Damon hustled for parts, attempting to earn his Serious Actor credentials by shedding 40 pounds for a supporting gig in the 1996 thriller “Courage Under Fire.” Meanwhile, he grew tired of going on endless auditions (“Primal Fear,” “Batman & Robin”) and reading scripts that Chris O’Donnell (LOL) and Leonardo DiCaprio had passed on. Lucky for him, Francis Ford Coppola wanted to cast an unknown in 1997′s “The Rainmaker,” right around the time that such John Grisham adaptations were guaranteed box-office gold. Damon and Affleck had already sold the “Good Will Hunting” screenplay to Miramax, but progress stalled as Weinstein, the distribution company’s tempestuous overlord, squabbled over which director to hire and whether to boot Damon and Affleck in favor of stars like DiCaprio and Brad Pitt.

But the minute Damon booked “The Rainmaker,” everything changed. Weinstein “took a chance” on the “Hunting” boys, and Damon quickly segued into hot projects like “Saving Private Ryan,” “Dogma” and “The Talented Mr. Ripley” (even though DiCaprio had turned down the latter).

Combined, those four movies form one of the most auspicious breakthroughs in modern cinema, a perfect blend of commercial appeal and art-house prestige. Suddenly, Damon was trying on Calvin Klein suits he’d never imagined wearing; eyeing the type of career Ed Harris had (read: not super Hollywood); ogling the fantasy of $10 million paychecks (in 2004, he would be paid a reported $26 million for the first Jason Bourne sequel); refraining from quoting “Forrest Gump” upon meeting Tom Hanks; appearing in tabloids for relationships with Winona Ryder, Minnie Driver and Gwyneth Paltrow; telling Oprah he slept on a Walmart air mattress after his Oscar victory; grinning about how “lucky” he was; and charming the pants off the media, which continually wrote about his killer smile, attractive-but-not-too-attractive looks, down-home wardrobe and exemplary manners.

None of this alone is all that striking. Most Hollywood newcomers arrive with some version of an outsider tale, and there’s no reason to believe Damon’s ingenuity was inauthentic. But Weinstein, who was just finding his own footing as award season’s most cutthroat campaign guru, took Damon’s debut a step further, presenting him as the platonic ideal of an everyman, enterprising liberal who proves just how well the white male celebrity machine can work.

Charlize Theron, Matt Damon and Will Smith attend the New York premiere of "The Legend of Bagger Vance." Jeff Christensen / Reuters

In Peter Biskind’s revealing book Down and Dirty Pictures, Weinstein is quoted as inducting Damon and Affleck into the “Miramax family,” a small stable of talent whom Weinstein ushered to fame and turned into his mouthpieces (other members: Gwyneth Paltrow, Quentin Tarantino, Kevin Smith). Soon enough, Weinstein was carting Damfleck to Camp David to meet President Bill Clinton and first lady Hillary Clinton. (Only the good ones get to meet the prez!)

Later, when Damon felt he’d done enough photo shoots and media appearances to promote “Good Will Hunting,” Wesintein pushed him to do more, despite telling USA Today in 1999 that “to Matt, it’s not about the whole movie-star thing.”

It was the early 2000s when Damon’s cachet became seemingly indestructible. Even a couple of significant misfires ― “The Legend of Bagger Vance” (directed by Robert Redford) and Miramax’s “All the Pretty Horses” (directed by Billy Bob Thornton) ― couldn’t diminish that initial introduction. It didn’t hurt that Affleck, his ride-or-die with whom Damon was still customarily associated, suddenly made him look spotless by comparison.

Between 1998 and 2001, Affleck toplined “Armageddon,” “Forces of Nature,” “Bounce,” “Reindeer Games” and “Pearl Harbor” ― a stellar sequence, popularity-wise. But the attention had an adverse effect: Between 2001 and 2005, Affleck went to rehab for alcohol abuse, endured a tabloid-splashed breakup with Jennifer Lopez, starred in a series of critical and commercial disappointments (including the infamous “Gigli”), hit the cagey celebrity poker scene, and called his life a “slow-motion train wreck” during a “Saturday Night Live” monologue.

As Affleck’s reputation dipped, Damon landed the “Ocean’s” trilogy and headlined the never-ending Bourne series, married a non-celebrity in 2005, and earned another Oscar nomination for the 2009 drama “Invictus” ― all while maintaining a clean-cut media presence. Even though his salary had outgrown Miramax’s coffers, he still subscribed to the Weinstein playbook: Find a sweet spot between serious cinema and wholesale crowd-pleasers, and then schmooze, schmooze, schmooze.

“Matty and Ben are two people that Harvey strives every waking moment of his life to be in business with,” Kevin Smith told Biskind.

The fact that Damon no longer needed to be a member of Weinstein’s “family” made him seem cool, and yet the Matt Damon Persona remained something of a Weinstein production. Miramax paid the actor “a whole lot of money” for a cameo in Smith’s 2001 comedy “Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back.” Weinstein wanted to splash Damon on the poster and include him in the television ads, but according to Down and Dirty Pictures, Damon commanded him not to. Knowing how to retail his worth, the actor wanted his appearance in the movie to be a surprise.

Weinstein reportedly acquiesced until the last minute, deciding he needed Damon to help drive business. He called Damon, told him the news of his cameo had leaked and added him to the marketing ― building on the idea that this craftsman who wrote an Oscar-winning screenplay was affable enough to appear in something as frivolous as “Jay and Silent Bob.”

Matt Damon hangs on in "The Bourne Identity," which launched the franchise in 2001. Archive Photos via Getty Images

So it has continued throughout recent years: Matt Damon is so kind and so famous that being the butt of a bawdy Jimmy Kimmel joke is a badge of honor! He founded a nonprofit to give developing countries access to clean water! He’s a spokesman for a hunger relief organization! His liberal sensibilities let him pal around with Barack Obama!

But in 2015, the Matt Damon Persona started to show cracks, one after the next. During a controversial exchange on his HBO reality show “Project Greenlight,” he interrupted a black female producer to imply that diversity behind the camera is unimportant. The internet erupted with accusations of whitesplaining and mansplaining. Two weeks later, he lightly suggested that gay actors should stay in the closet so as to maintain a certain “mystery.” And a few months after that, he came under fire for misunderstanding the whitewashing accusations lobbed at the bonkers movie “The Great Wall,” in which European mercenaries descend upon China to fight a swarm of monstrous creatures.

That wasn’t enough to shatter him, though. A July 2016 GQ piece still likened him to ultimate nice guy Jimmy Stewart. “Matt Damon is, scientifically, the most liked man in Hollywood,” the first sentence read.

And then Weinstein re-entered the picture in late 2017, and the Matt Damon Persona went from cracked to shattered. After The New York Times published a career-ending investigation detailing allegations of Weinstein’s long-rumored sexual misconduct, former Times reporter Sharon Waxman said Damon had called her in 2004 to defend one of Weinstein’s accomplices, effectively helping to kill her investigation. Even though Waxman corroborated Damon’s claim that he had no knowledge of Weinstein’s misdeeds, the actor couldn’t avoid putting his foot in his mouth.

“I do believe that there’s a spectrum of behavior,” he said in an interview with film critic Peter Travers. “And we’re going to have to figure — you know, there’s a difference between, you know, patting someone on the butt and rape or child molestation, right? Both of those behaviors need to be confronted and eradicated without question, but they shouldn’t be conflated, right?”

It’s not that Damon is wrong, per se, but his flippant tone struck an unwelcome chord right amid the Me Too groundswell. And he took it a step further, going soft on alleged harasser Louis C.K. by saying, “I imagine the price that he’s paid at this point is so beyond anything that he ― I just think that we have to kind of start delineating between what these behaviors are.”

If nothing else, this reflected his wealthy-white-male privilege, something no one was talking about during Damon’s Weinstein-assisted rise to fame. The actor soon found himself apologizing on the “Today” show: “I really wish I’d listened a lot more before I weighed in on this. Ultimately what it is for me is that I don’t want to further anybody’s pain with anything that I do or say. So for that, I am really sorry. A lot of those women are my dear friends and I love them and respect them and support what they’re doing and want to be a part of that change and want to go along for the ride — but I should get in the backseat and close my mouth for a while.”

Closing his mouth for a while was a fine idea. But apologies and clarifications are increasingly hard to live down in the internet age, when an infinite loop of headlines and tweets can redefine a person’s polished image overnight.

Matt Damon and his wife, Luciana, attend the "Downsizing" premiere at the 2017 Venice Film Festival. Alessandro Bianchi / Reuters

Will Damon recover from these blunders? Sure, probably. But now his box-office power is in flux. In October, the misguided racial satire “Suburbicon,” directed by George Clooney, was eviscerated by critics and ignored by audiences. In December, “Downsizing,” the disappointing Alexander Payne dramedy once thought to be an Oscar contender, did so-so business at best. The only forthcoming project on Damon’s docket is June’s female-fronted “Ocean’s 8,” in which he is very much not the center of attention. In fact, nearly 30,000 people have signed an online petition to have him removed from the film because of his comments on sexual harassment.

And therein lies the boomerang that is the star-making machine. Weinstein helped construct the Matt Damon Persona, and he inadvertently helped tarnish it, too. Damon’s signature trait ― being normal, even boring ― became his detriment: He was so middlebrow that he didn’t really think critically about race or gender politics or what it means for public figures to own their sexuality.

For my money, the conversation isn’t about whether Matt Damon’s time in Hollywood should come to an end. We’re all learning how to rework the patriarchal power dynamics that have governed society for far too long. What Damon proves, instead, is how fallible the celebrity engine is. Hollywood images are constructed in implicit coordination among studio honchos, calculating publicists, an ever-evolving media and the public’s appetite for stars who offer some magical blend of the relatable and the aspirational.

No matter how much we think we know a famous person, there is always an artificial quality to what he or she presents to the world ― one that doesn’t fit into budget-priced duffel bags.It has been five months since a pair of explosive exposés destroyed Harvey Weinstein’s film career, and people are still coming out with more allegations of dark and monstrous behavior by the disgraced Hollywood mogul.

A “Frontline” investigation, which aired on PBS on Friday, chronicled the once-powerful producer’s fall from the top, with new accusers coming forward with more details on how Weinstein reportedly continued his abusive ways for decades.

The revelations about Weinstein sparked a massive cultural shift, now known as the Me Too movement. Since then, more than 80 women have accused Weinstein of harassment or abuse, and dozens of other powerful men ― including CEOs, celebrities and congressional lawmakers ― have been ousted from their posts.

Here’s what “Frontline” uncovered about Weinstein five months after the collapse of his career.

Another Woman Told Her Story

The one-hour program followed the accounts of six of Weinstein’s female accusers, including Suza Maher-Wilson, who was speaking publicly for the first time.

Wilson worked on one of Weinstein’s early films, “The Burning,” according to “Frontline.” During a wrap party for the 1981 movie, Wilson said Weinstein invited her to his hotel room and asked for a massage.

“I agreed, being a 23-year-old, naïve, trusting, young woman,” Wilson said.

Weinstein excused himself to go to the restroom, she said. When the producer returned, she said, “he was naked with a towel. It was a little shocking.”

“I just said, ‘I’m sorry, this isn’t what I signed on for,’” Wilson recalled. “And I left the room immediately.”

Weinstein’s Former Executives Spoke Out

Two of Weinstein’s male colleagues provided accounts of his inappropriate behavior and bad reputation to “Frontline.”

Tom Prince, the Weinstein Company’s former vice president of physical production, spoke out for the first time against his former boss.

“Those of us that heard about it and read it looked at each other. I don’t think anybody was too surprised,” Prince said about his reaction to the news in 2015 that Italian model Ambra Battilana Gutierrez had filed a police report against Weinstein alleging sexual abuse.

“I think we were all enablers. I think we were all complicit.” - Paul Webster, former Miramax executive

Paul Webster, Miramax’s former president of production, told “Frontline” that working for Weinstein’s company felt like being in “the cult of Harvey.”

“It was common knowledge, everybody knew, what a brutal regime it was,” Webster said of Weinstein’s aggressive leadership style.

“I knew I was making a deal with the devil,” he added. “But I knew also that he was at the epicenter of where I wanted to be.”

Webster also said he knew that Weinstein was a “serial womanizer.” He didn’t have “the guts to do anything about it,” he said, although he warned his own assistants against being alone with Weinstein.

“It didn’t take too much brainpower to put it together that a man that was so bullying in every aspect of his life would bring that abuse into the sexual arena,” Webster said.

“I think, looking back, I did know and I chose to suppress it. I think we were all enablers. I think we were all complicit.”

Private Investigators Made An Exception For Him

A former employee of K2 Intelligence spoke to “Frontline” about Weinstein’s mission to discredit Gutierrez, who had helped New York police obtain a recording of the producer admitting to sexually abusing her.

Weinstein hired K2 to dig up dirt on the model’s past in Italy. The firm accepted the job, even though the employee said they didn’t typically take on cases from those who were accused of sexual misconduct.

“Nobody likes to develop information on somebody who’s accusing a client of sexual misconduct ― but [with] Harvey Weinstein being Harvey Weinstein, exceptions were made,” said the former employee, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because of the nature of his job.

Weinstein Cried Before A New Yorker Reporter

Ken Auletta, a longtime writer for The New Yorker, interviewed Weinstein while working on a 2002 profile of him, eventually titled “Beauty and the Beast.”

After hearing that the producer had a number of non-disclosure agreements with his alleged victims, Auletta told “Frontline” that he reached out to Weinstein’s former assistant Zelda Perkins, who was also featured in the documentary.

Perkins said she was terrified after she answered Auletta’s phone call in 2012 and accidentally revealed to him that she had a non-disclosure agreement with her former boss.

“I just knew that one thing I was absolutely, in fear of death, not allowed to do was talk to a journalist,” she said.

When Auletta brought up Perkins’ name in an interview, he said Weinstein broke down in tears.

“I thought he was going to throw a punch at me, so I stood up and at that point Harvey started to cry. It was extraordinary,” Auletta told “Frontline.”

“What he said was, ‘Ken, you’re going to ruin my marriage,’” the reporter recalled. “‘These were consensual relationships. And if you publish this, you’re going to destroy my family.’”

"I didn't think that my story meant anything to anybody." Two women speak about encounters with Harvey Weinstein that help trace his alleged predatory behavior back to his career's early days. Our investigation begins at 9 p.m. on the West Coast: https://t.co/sUTpsBFZ1V pic.twitter.com/zzkyWEhwdV — FRONTLINE (@frontlinepbs) March 3, 2018

Weinstein’s long list of accusers include Rose McGowan, Mira Sorvino, Ashley Judd, Gwyneth Paltrow, Asia Argento, Uma Thurman, Angelina Jolie and Kate Beckinsale.

And they’re not alone. A USA Today study found that 94 percent of women who work in Hollywood have experienced some level of sexual harassment or assault.

On Friday, a group of investors led by a former Obama official reached a deal to buy the faltering Weinstein Company. Maria Contreras-Sweet, who ran the Small Business Administration under President Barack Obama, said in a statement that the deal will ensure that “victims will be adequately compensated, employees will be protected moving forward, and those who were responsible for misconduct at [the Weinstein Company] will not be unjustly rewarded.”UPDATE: March 13 ― The University of California, Los Angeles published full video of a public event featuring Treasury Secretary Steve Mnuchin on Friday after the Treasury Department gave the university permission to do so.

UCLA uploaded the video online in response to a public records request from BuzzFeed reporter Steve Reilly.

Mnuchin addressed hissing from the audience during his opening remarks, reminding them, “You guys get to hiss at me, I don’t get to hiss at you.” He continued to field more hissing from protesters and answer questions that were critical of the Trump administration’s economic policies from the audience for the remainder of the event.

The Treasury Department initially declined to provide its consent for the video’s release. On Friday, the department reversed its original consent withdrawal, according to BuzzFeed.

“Our prior objection was providing a platform for the non-student protestors, who sought to disrupt the event, at the expense of the otherwise thoughtful discussion,” a department spokesperson said in a statement to BuzzFeed.

PREVIOUSLY:

Treasury Secretary Steve Mnuchin doesn’t want you to see what happened when he spoke at the University of California, Los Angeles on Monday.

The Burkle Center for International Relations invited Mnuchin to speak with “Marketplace” public radio host Kai Ryssdal for an open discussion on the Trump administration, its policies and the U.S. economy at the university. The public event went so poorly, however, that Mnuchin asked UCLA not to publish any video of it, The Wall Street Journal reported Wednesday.

But with so many people in attendance ― at least 400, according to the Los Angeles Times ― video of the treasury secretary dueling with the crowd inevitably leaked.

“Marketplace” published a full audio recording and transcript of the discussion, in which the audience can be heard hissing and criticizing the secretary.

At one point, Mnuchin deflects the hecklers by dismissing them as students.

“Well, I think they’re going to get more tired than I am,” he said in response to hissing from the crowd, according to “Marketplace’s” transcript. “So, you know, that’s kind of — oh, yeah, I’m dealing with students, I forgot. There’s a lot of students.”

As seen in the footage shared with The Washington Post and on social media, young people in the audience ― including at least one boy who said he was in the sixth grade ― openly criticized the Trump administration’s tax cuts, which many said benefit only the very wealthy.

Many people can be heard hissing at the treasury secretary during the event, while others yell loudly at him. Campus police officers arrested three people, two students and a former student, who loudly denounced Mnuchin during the event.

ABC 7 reporter Josh Haskell filmed video that shows the officers physically picking up these protesters from their seats and carrying them away. The Daily Bruin campus newspaper identified the three as members of The Revolution Club of UCLA. In the videos, a voice can be heard telling one of the protesters that she would be removed if she did not stop speaking.

Protesters shouting at Steve Mnuchin, have now stopped lecture. They’re being taken out @ABC7 pic.twitter.com/3hKTw4MeQ0 — Josh Haskell (@abc7JoshHaskell) February 27, 2018

Me getting carried out like a baby after confronting Steve Mnuchin at UCLA



pic.twitter.com/oWFFEVHy2D — Albert Beer NFL🅥 (@TheFakeAlbert) March 1, 2018

One video from the event shows a young boy confronting Mnuchin over President Donald Trump’s tax overhaul, which he says “cut taxes for the wealthy, which makes them even richer.”

The boy, who said he was in sixth grade, received encouragement and applause from the audience.

“The middle-class tax cuts are small and lasts for just eight years, but the corporate tax cuts were permanent,” the boy said. “How is that just?”

A person who was at the event has sent me a clip. Here's some of the video Mnuchin doesn't want the public to see: pic.twitter.com/RpYZP6Zn7m — Catherine Rampell (@crampell) March 1, 2018

Mnuchin also took issue with Ryssdal’s questions during the discussion.

When asked by Ryssdal about how the administration’s tax plan is going to improve economic growth to 3 percent in the U.S., Mnuchin said the host seemed “to have a bias” because of his choice of words.

Here’s the exchange, according to the transcript:

Ryssdal: Help me understand then with some specificity how you’re going to do that. Because the numbers that were engineered by the White House and the Council of Economic Advisers that went into the tax plan were, “We’re going to get 3 percent. Here’s how,” as opposed to, “These are our policies, which is going to get us to 3 percent.” Mnuchin: Well, you must seem to have a bias because you’re using the words “engineered,” so you obviously think that it was the policy the policies were created. Again, what I would say is we fundamentally believe that we will have economic growth ... . And we’re already seeing this. By the way, we’re seeing companies give millions and millions of workers bonuses all as a result of this. And for people who are getting these thousand-dollar bonuses, these are not crumbs.

Mnuchin, a former partner at Goldman Sachs, faced bad press last year after an investigation revealed that he and his wife, actress Louise Linton, used taxpayer money to charter private planes for seven official trips. In one instance, Mnuchin had requested to use an Air Force jet to fly him and his wife to France, Italy and Scotland for their honeymoon.

The Burkle Center said it originally had an agreement with the Treasury Department that gave the university permission to publish video of the event on the center’s website, according to the L.A. Times.

After the event, the Treasury Department withdrew its consent.

A spokeswoman for Mnuchin told The Wall Street Journal that the treasury secretary “welcomed the chance to speak and discuss important economic issues.”

She added: “He believes healthy debate is critical to ensuring the right policies that do the most good are advanced.”Brennan was asked by Nicolle Wallace on MSNBC if he thought Trump was “too unstable” to possess the nuclear codes that would allow him to launch an attack. Brennan responded that he was rattled by the president’s strange focus on Baldwin the morning after Russian President Vladimir Putin boasted of his nation’s nuclear capabilities to strike anywhere in the world, including the U.S. A simulated video presented by Putin appeared to depict next-generation nuclear missiles striking Florida.

Trump has yet to respond to Putin. Instead, he ranted against the actor in an error-riddled tweet early Friday morning (the tweet was later reposted with corrections).

“When I hear what Vladimir Putin was saying about the nuclear capabilities he has [and] then the president of the United States is tweeting about Alec Baldwin this morning, I mean, where is your sense of priorities?” Brennan asked. “I think a lot of Americans are looking at what’s happening with a sense of: This is surreal.”

There’s “deep, deep worry and concern for this country’s national security,” he added.

Twitter screenshot

“Our country needs strong leadership now. If we have somebody in the Oval Office who is unstable, inept, inexperienced and also unethical, we really have rough waters ahead,” he said.

Brennan added that he hoped that “those in Congress, as well as the 30 percent of Americans out there who still believe in what Mr. Trump is saying, will look past that and say: ‘Are we really doing what we need to do as a country to protect ourselves and ensure that our children and grandchildren are going to be remain safe, secure and prosperous in the future?’ And I have my serious, serious doubts. The longer this goes on, the worse it’s going to get.”

Check out the rest of the tape above. Brennan talks about what “keeps him up at night” and responds to the nuclear codes and Trump’s instability beginning at the 6:45 mark.As we saw with last year’s Best Picture debacle, the Oscars can be unpredictable. There’s really only one thing you can guarantee when it comes to an Academy Awards broadcast: It’s going to be a long show.

But that doesn’t mean it can’t be enjoyable. As with any event that starts to drag, just add alcohol!

Here’s a drinking game you can play while watching Sunday’s Academy Awards that, we would argue, is the only true way to keep the show moving.

Take a sip if Jimmy Kimmel jokes about last year’s Best Picture incident.

Take a gulp if Jimmy Kimmel brings out the envelope in question.

Take a shot if a presenter opens an envelope and jokes “La La Land — just kidding!”

Finish the bottle if “La La Land” somehow actually does win something.

Take a sip if at some point the firm that tabulates the Oscar voting is introduced.

Take a gulp if a representative of that firm comes out with a briefcase holding the voting results.

Take a shot if the person has the briefcase attached to them with handcuffs.

Finish the bottle if the briefcase is handcuffed to a part of their body that is not their hand.

PricewaterhouseCoopers partners Martha Ruiz and Brian Cullinan attend the 88th Academy Awards at the Hollywood & Highland Center on Feb. 28, 2016, in Los Angeles. Kevin Mazur via Getty Images

Take a sip when a female nominee is announced (outside actress-only categories).

Take a gulp if that female nominee doesn’t win (outside actress-only categories).

Take a shot if that female nominee does win (outside actress-only categories).

Finish the bottle if even the Lead Actress and Supporting Actress categories are somehow all men.

Take a sip if you’ve seen one of the films in the Foreign Language category.

Take a gulp if you’ve seen more than one.

Take a shot if you’ve seen all of them.

Finish the bottle if you were unaware this category is a thing.

Take a sip if the music starts playing during someone’s speech.

Take a gulp if the person is still talking after the microphone is shut off.

Take a shot if the person is still talking when the next winner comes to the stage.

Finish the bottle if the person is still talking when Jimmy Kimmel closes the show.

Take a sip if someone forces a smile when they lose.

Take a gulp if someone loses and still claps, but doesn’t smile at all.

Take a shot if someone loses but doesn’t smile or clap.

Finish the bottle if someone loses, but runs up to the stage anyway, pries the Oscar from the presenter’s hand, and is tackled by security trying to escape.

Take a sip if Meryl Streep is praised during the show.

Take a gulp if Meryl Streep wins for Lead Actress.

Take a shot if Meryl Streep loses for Lead Actress but the winner specifically mentions Streep in her acceptance speech.

Finish the bottle if the winner for Lead Actress singles out Meryl Streep because Streep owes her money.

Take a sip if someone gets political while speaking on stage.

Take a gulp if President Donald Trump is mentioned by anyone.

Take a shot if the president tweets about the Oscars during the broadcast.

Finish the bottle if the tweet is nice.

NurPhoto via Getty Images

Take a sip if anyone mentions how long award shows tend to run.

Take a gulp for every 10 minutes the show goes over three hours (about the normal run time).

Take a shot if the broadcast actually finishes ahead of schedule.

Finish the bottle if, during the broadcast, humanity discovers that reality is just an elaborate simulation and time has no meaning.

Take a sip for every person in the room where you’re watching the broadcast.

Take a gulp if these are also your friends.

Take a shot if your friends are a collection of stuffed animals and action figures.

Finish the bottle ― no, seriously, you need this.