The Human Rights Campaign and other LGBTQ advocacy groups are launching a television ad campaign across the nation Friday demanding that “impulsive president” Donald Trump drop his attempt to ban transgender service members in the military.

The 30-second spot will run on morning shows on CNN, MSNBC and Trump’s go-to network, Fox News.

The total ban on transgender troops demanded by Trump last summer is currently blocked by federal court rulings and has been criticized by military leaders.

The ad, titled “Patriots,” features quotes from officials slamming the ban as unconstitutional and harmful to national security. “An impulsive president tweets that transgender Americans won’t be allowed to serve,” the ad says. “But decorated military leaders say there’s no reason to single out these brave heroes.”

Matt Thorn, president and CEO of OutServe-SLDN, one of the sponsors of the ad, said in a statement that trans service members “deserve a commander-in-chief who values their commitment, their honor, their courage to this country, and their willingness to risk their lives in defense of its freedoms.”

Trump’s plan had been set to go into effect March 23, but its future is uncertain in light of the court rulings.

Defense Secretary Jim Mattis last month delivered his recommendations concerning trans troops to Trump, but details have not been revealed.

“The secretary of defense made his recommendation to the White House,” Pentagon spokesman Maj. Dave Eastburn told HuffPost. “The recommendation was a private conversation between the secretary and the White House, and the contents of the conversation will remain private.”

Reports have suggested that Mattis would urge Trump to allow transgender troops to remain in the U.S. military. Trump’s announcement took the Pentagon by surprise. The Pentagon had lifted the ban on transgender service members in 2016 after completing an exhaustive review of its military readiness policies.

After consultation with my Generals and military experts, please be advised that the United States Government will not accept or allow...... — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) July 26, 2017

....Transgender individuals to serve in any capacity in the U.S. Military. Our military must be focused on decisive and overwhelming..... — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) July 26, 2017

....victory and cannot be burdened with the tremendous medical costs and disruption that transgender in the military would entail. Thank you — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) July 26, 2017

The Pentagon said in December it would again accept openly transgender recruits Jan. 1 because of the court rulings — but reluctantly.

“This policy will be implemented while the Department of Justice appeals those court orders,” a Pentagon spokesperson said in a statement. “The Department of Defense and the Department of Justice are actively pursuing relief from those court orders in order to allow an ongoing policy review scheduled to be completed before the end of March.”Many of America’s top trade partners bristled at the news that President Donald Trump plans to impose tariffs of 10 percent on aluminum and 25 percent on steel imports next week.

Trump announced the new measures during a meeting with industry executives at the White House Thursday.

Canada called the tariffs “unacceptable” and “inappropriate,” saying it hoped to receive an exemption from the policy, though the president plans to offer zero exemptions, according to The New York Times.

Mexico is considering slapping tariffs of its own on the United States in retaliation, the Financial Times reported. Brazil’s industry ministry expressed its “enormous concern,” threatening “multilateral or bilateral” action.

The European Union also plans to retaliate.

“We strongly regret this step, which appears to represent a blatant intervention to protect U.S. domestic industry and not to be based on any national security justification,” said European Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker in a statement. “The EU has been a close security ally of the U.S. for decades. We will not sit idly while our industry is hit with unfair measures that put thousands of European jobs at risk,” said Juncker.

Australia’s trade minister Seven Ciobo, who said his country was also seeking an exemption from the tariffs, warned that these types of retaliatory measures from the U.S. were not the solution as they could hurt the global economy.

“If we see a break out of action and reaction from major economies the only thing that will arise from that will be a slow down of economic growth and over time if it got bad enough, ultimately we could see for example, a recession, and we know the consequent impact of that,” he said.

A Japanese trade official cautioned that the measures could spark an all-out trade war. “If trade restrictions are being put in place one after another, you’re opening a Pandora’s box and that’s the scariest part,” said Kosei Shindo, head of the Japan Iron and Steel Federation, earlier this week ahead of Trump’s announcement.

China, the country Trump has attacked the most for being unfair to the U.S. on trade, urged “the United States to show restraint in using protective trade measures, respect multilateral trade rules, and make a positive contribution to international trade order,” according to Chinese Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Hua Chunying.

Trump himself seemed to relish the looming international confrontation over the policy shift, tweeting Friday morning that “trade wars are good, and easy to win.”

The U.S. currently imports 90 percent of the aluminum it uses and is the world’s largest steel importer.

One apparent impetus for Trump’s policy announcement was a Commerce Department study released last month claiming that the state of aluminum and steel imports could endanger national security.

In announcing the new tariffs on Thursday, Trump focused his remarks on the current state of international trade not being beneficial to the U.S.BERLIN (Reuters) - German authorities registered at least 950 attacks on Muslims and Muslim institutions such as mosques in 2017, the Neue Osnabrueckner Zeitung reported in Saturday editions, citing data provided to lawmakers by the Interior Ministry.

The ministry said 33 people were injured in the attacks, of which 60 were directed against mosques, some involving pig’s blood, the newspaper reported.

No data were available for comparisons since the ministry only began separately collecting data about anti-Islamic attacks - as opposed to anti-migrant attacks - in 2017.

Nearly all those responsible for the attacks were right-wing extremists, the data showed, according to the newspaper.

Aiman Mazyek, who heads the Central Council of Muslims, told the paper the number of attacks on Muslims and Muslim facilities was likely much higher given that many authorities were not yet monitoring anti-Islamic incidents specifically and victims often failed to make police reports.John Moody, who also served as an executive vice president, made headlines last month when he wrote that the USOC “would like to change” the Olympics slogan from “Faster, Higher, Stronger” to “Darker, Gayer, Different.”

He added, “If your goal is to win medals, that won’t work.”

The column was written in response to the USOC celebrating that Team USA’s Winter Olympics delegation of athletes was the most diverse in the county’s history. The team was overwhelmingly white and far less diverse than the 2016 Summer Olympics team.

The column was posted for about a day before Fox News retracted the article and removed it from the website. A spokesperson told HuffPost at the time: “John Moody’s column does not reflect the views or values of FOX News.”

CNN reported that Fox News said Moody had retired, which the network said he was planning to do before he wrote the column and it received so much negative reaction.Civil rights groups filed a class action suit on behalf of dozens of Vietnamese refugees who were detained by U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement. Spencer Platt via Getty Images

Dozens of Vietnamese refugees who were rounded up by U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement and held despite not being eligible for deportation are challenging their detentions.

Several Asian-American civil rights groups filed a nationwide class action suit last week on behalf of the refugees, who were detained as part of several raids that began last year.

The organizations argue that, with many of the refugees being held indefinitely or for prolonged periods of time, ICE is violating federal law.

“By detaining refugees without due process, ICE is acting illegally and arbitrarily, a hallmark of authoritarian regimes similar to the one in Vietnam,” Phi Nguyen, litigation director at Asian Americans Advancing Justice-Atlanta, said in a statement released Wednesday. “The courts must step in to affirm the rule of law. That’s what this lawsuit seeks to do.”

While about 40 refugees are involved in the lawsuit, the legal document states that many more could be undergoing similar detention situations. About 8,000 to 10,000 Vietnamese refugees have orders of removal and are at risk for detention.

In March 2017, the U.S. government began large-scale roundups of Vietnamese refugees who had contact with the criminal justice system in the past. Most received final orders of removal years ago after committing the crimes and faced deportation. They were detained but were later released on orders of supervision. Since then, many of the detainees have been regularly checking in with ICE, and decades have gone by since they’ve committed any crimes. The raids and detentions last year were largely unexpected.

What’s more, the detentions run counter to an agreement that was struck between the U.S. and Vietnam that puts restrictions on who can be deported. Prior to the agreement, Vietnam did not accept any deportees in part because of America’s role in attempting to overthrow the Vietnamese administration during the Vietnam War, the Pacific Standard points out.

Policies changed in 2008 when the countries signed a memorandum of understanding that allowed for Vietnamese nationals who arrived in the U.S. on or after July 12, 1995, and had orders of removal to be deported to Vietnam. However, those involved in the lawsuit came to the U.S. before that date. The memorandum has not been changed or negotiated since it was signed, though experts say the Trump administration is pushing for an update.

“The only thing that has changed is our administration wants the Vietnamese government to completely abandon the repatriation agreement,” Nguyen said at a Wednesday news conference. “However, the Vietnamese government is rightfully resisting.”April Reign, the creator of the #OscarsSoWhite movement, launched a multicultural media resource directory on Friday for marginalized people searching for work in creative industries.

Akuarel, as the directory is called, “allows creatives and journalists to self-identify in various categories, and allows studios, networks and media outlets to search those categories and find talented individuals from traditionally underrepresented communities,” Reign told HuffPost by phone.

Creatives can peruse opportunities at no cost, while studios and industry professionals must pay a subscription fee to use the service. The directory provides an alternative to traditional talent agencies, enabling recruiters to search for a diverse set of applicants for interviews and auditions. Creative professionals can identify themselves in the directory by race, sexual orientation and disability.

Creative industry professionals can sign up to demo the platform on Akuarel’s MailChimp site. Reign told HuffPost she expects the full service to be up and running as early as next week.

“We don’t want the site to crash and we’re trying to manage the demand,” she said of the soft launch on Friday.

“I want people to start getting work as soon as possible ... I’m working with software developers now. We want this to happen as soon as possible.”

She added, “It’s clear from the response that this is a resource that was needed ... People were waiting to be seen.”

Hollywood is facing growing backlash as studios continue to whitewash roles originally meant for people of color, or to put white people at the center of stories set in non-white cultures. Recently, Natalie Portman, who is white, was cast to play a character of Asian descent in the sci-fi film “Annihilation.” Last year, white actor Finn Jones was cast as Danny Rand, a white man who becomes a martial arts master, in “Iron Fist,” and white actor Zach McGowan was cast to portray a Native Hawaiian man in the film “Ni’ihau.” Those are just recent examples, but the practice has gone on for decades.

Reign said Akuarel aims to amend that, so “Hollywood and news outlets will never again be able to say ‘We want to work with marginalized communities, we just can’t find them.’”

Ahem. Is this thing on? Because on the first day of Women’s History Month, in the year of our Lord Bast, my dream is coming true. Walk with me. pic.twitter.com/43bdFMPeiL — April (@ReignOfApril) March 1, 2018

In January 2015, I created #OscarsSoWhite, a clarion call to increase diversity and inclusion in the entertainment industry. We have seen some progress, but there’s much more work to be done. I’ve talked about the problem for 3 years. It’s time for a solution. Meet Akuarel™️. pic.twitter.com/OJGnb08Owk — April (@ReignOfApril) March 1, 2018

#OscarsSoWhite illuminated the lack of inclusion in media industries and made clear the need to amplify voices from marginalized communities throughout news and entertainment. The challenge, in part, is to access qualified talent from within these communities. #Akuarel pic.twitter.com/Si6YOMpF1Z — April (@ReignOfApril) March 1, 2018

#Akuarel provides the solution: a centralized directory in which those who work on both sides of the camera or curtain and those who hold a pen, a computer, or a microphone can self-identify in the same #OscarsSoWhite categories: race, sexual orientation, disability, etc. pic.twitter.com/FJEqMcGfdQ — April (@ReignOfApril) March 1, 2018

#Akuarel Subscribers (studios, networks, theater companies, and media outlets) can then search by a cross-section of these categories and other criteria and reach talented candidates directly for an interview or audition. #OscarsSoWhite pic.twitter.com/xH9IPQXUxs — April (@ReignOfApril) March 1, 2018

Media Diversity is not just a Hollywood problem. The negative societal impacts from the economic concentration, stifling of diverse voices and perpetuation of divisive cultural narratives makes it a national problem that must be addressed. #Akuarel #OscarsSoWhite pic.twitter.com/i4OvWCfGNj — April (@ReignOfApril) March 1, 2018

One of #Akuarel’s goals: Develop viable recommendations for media diversity best practices that will increase the percentage of marginalized communities creating, owning, controlling and distributing entertainment and news content. #OscarsSoWhite pic.twitter.com/ov4QousB4q — April (@ReignOfApril) March 1, 2018

“Our main objective now is to get Akuarel populated by the talent and the stakeholders themselves,” Morgan said. “The value to the studios will be once it’s sufficiently populated. A lot of the studios were already partnering with us on sponsorship arrangements.”

Reign told HuffPost that in addition to current collaborators, she’s happy to collaborate with “anyone who is interested in providing opportunities for marginalized communities.”

She also discussed the pay scale for partners and studios looking to use the directory, noting that she’s “working through the pay scale now” and that it’s going to depend on their scale.

“For example, independent filmmakers ― some woman who wants to shoot a film and is looking for a cast and crew ― we’re not going to charge her the same as we charge HBO,” Reign said.

“Hollywood and news outlets will never again be able to say ‘We want to work with marginalized communities, we just can’t find them.’” - April Reign

It’s not a coincidence that Akuarel’s launch will correspond with the 90th Academy Awards ceremony on Sunday.

Reign launched #OscarsSoWhite in January 2015, when all 20 actors nominated for an Academy Award in the lead and supporting acting categories were white ― and the movement saw a massive resurgence the next year, when the same thing happened again. Many stars spoke out against the lack of representation, and others boycotted the show entirely. A week after the nominations were released in 2016, the Academy’s governing board announced it would be doubling female and minority members by 2020.

The awards show has gone through a plethora of changes, and Reign says Akuarel was born of that shift. “We have seen systemic change since I created #OscarsSoWhite ― but there’s still much more work to be done,” she told HuffPost.

“I’ve been talking about the problem of the lack of diversity and inclusion... Akuarel provides that solution. It’s a natural trajectory,” she added.

Oscar acting nominees announced in January 2016, prompting the revival of the #OscarsSoWhite hashtag. Reuters Staff / Reuters

Reign noted that the Academy’s membership is now the largest and most diverse it’s ever been. She also said that she believes newer members are being “very thoughtful in the performances and films they nominate.”

“A spotlight is shown on their work that did not exist previously,” she said.

Akuarel may have just begun, but Reign has her sights set to expanding the brand soon.

“Our intention is to build Akuarel at scale,” she said. “We will have an app so studios will able to ping interested creatives when they are casting in their city.”Gina Rodriguez, who currently stars in the movie "Annihilation." Tommaso Boddi via Getty Images

Looks like someone got their audition.

The show is being tight-lipped on details about Rodriguez’s character, but there’s a strong possibility the “Jane the Virgin” actress will play the girlfriend of Detective Rosa Diaz (Stephanie Beatriz).

Earlier this season the character Rosa came out as bisexual, and in January Beatriz said during an interview that she would love to see the “Annihilation” star play her lady love. “[I] love Gina Rodriguez, and think she would be fantastic,” she said.

In response Rodriguez tweeted:

“Um...can I get an audition @Brooklyn99FOX ?!? *applies lip gloss and puckers lips* @iamstephbeatz you know I’m ready and on the sidelines like Go Rosa Go!”

Um...can I get an audition @Brooklyn99FOX ?!? *applies lip gloss and puckers lips* @iamstephbeatz you know I’m ready and on the sidelines like Go Rosa Go! https://t.co/MMsY5MUvfs — Gina Rodriguez (@HereIsGina) January 25, 2018

EW also has a screen grab from a now-deleted Instagram post by Terry Crews that features a photo of him, Beatriz and Rodriguez.

“Amazing time today hanging with my sistas from different mistas,” he wrote.

Of course there is a slim chance the show will surprise audiences and Rodriguez will not play Rosa’s love interest, but let’s just hope she doesn’t end up playing a nun ...The National Park Service has refused a permit for the March for Our Lives anti-gun rally at the National Mall in Washington so that part of the space can be used instead for a student talent show.

Organizers of the March 24 protest are now seeking a permit to use Pennsylvania Avenue on a route that would take them from the Capitol to Trump International Hotel, NBC-4 reported.

The massive anti-gun rally, spearheaded by survivors of the Feb. 14 Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School shooting in Parkland, Florida, that killed 17 people, is expected to draw 500,000 marchers. It was planned for an 11-block stretch of the mall, with sound systems, 14 Jumbotrons, 2,000 chairs, 2,000 portable johns and 14 tents, according to the permit application the group filed Feb. 20. Students and other speakers, musicians and video tributes are planned for the event.

“March for Our Lives is created by students across the country who will no longer risk their lives waiting for someone else to take action to stop the epidemic of mass school shootings that has become all too familiar,” organizers wrote in the application.

But another application, written by hand, was filed earlier for the space for the same day. That group sought permission for a “student project” related to “filming for a talent show,” according to the paperwork. The name of the school was redacted by the Park Service. The event will require jump ropes, two bikes and two tables. The project “takes a day to finish. Games will be the main activity for filming,” according to the application.

National Park Service spokesman Mike Litterst said permits are granted on a first-come, first-served system, regardless of what the space is used for.

“By regulation, when there is a conflict of time and location for events, precedence is established by the order in which the permit application was received,” Litterst told National Public Radio.

Litterst said the Park Service typically works with organizers of displaced events to find an alternative space. He suggested West Potomac Park and Pennsylvania Avenue.

The stretch of Pennsylvania Avenue now being eyed by the marchers —3rd Street NW to 12th Street NW — is within the District of Columbia’s jurisdiction, not a federal agency’s.

Anti-gun marches are planned for the same day at other locations across the country, as well as in other countries.

A message on the March for Our LivesFacebook page reads: “On March 24 we will take to the streets of Washington, DC and our communities across the country. We will be the last group of students who have to stand up for fallen children due to senseless gun violence. March with us.”

“My message for the people in office is: you’re either with us or against us. We are losing our lives while the adults are playing around,” says Cameron Kasky, a junior at Marjory Stoneman Douglas HS who survived the shooting https://t.co/23UcS7BvpW https://t.co/ERSSNzMPbu — CNN (@CNN) February 18, 2018

George and Amal Clooney, Oprah Winfrey, Ellen DeGeneres and Steven Spielberg have donated hundreds of thousands of dollars to the march. Several celebrities plan to attend.Amy Schumer Axelle/Bauer-Griffin via Getty Images

The royal wedding sounds like a royal pain to Amy Schumer.

On Wednesday, hosts of the podcast “Fitzy and Wippa” asked the star of “I Feel Pretty” if she was excited about Meghan Markle’s upcoming wedding to Prince Harry. And Schumer, who threw a low-key wedding in February when she married chef Chris Fischer, had quite a bit to say about it. Especially in regard to Markle.

Prince Harry and Meghan Markle will wed on Saturday, May 19. Samir Hussein via Getty Images

“This poor girl,” the comedian said about the future duchess. “Like, your wedding, everyone says it’s your day. It’s your day. She’s like, no it’s not. She has to meet all these foreign dignitaries she’s never met before, it’s so much pressure.”

“Can you imagine having a worse wedding? That would suck,” Schumer added.

The star’s wedding was impromptu and a surprise to many of her celebrity guests such as Jennifer Lawrence, Larry David and Jennifer Aniston. Many fans were also shocked when the 36-year-old revealed she had gotten married on Instagram after the incredibly private affair.

A post shared by @amyschumer on Feb 15, 2018 at 8:53am PST

Schumer imagined what Markle’s wedding experience must be like in comparison to her carefree one.

“It’s like, her girls from high school aren’t going to be there. All my friends were high and drunk at my wedding,” she told the podcast. “It’s like a parade, it’s like the Westminster Dog Show. It’s all pomp and circumstance.”

The royal wedding has also been entangled with family drama, especially since Markle confirmed Thursday that her father Thomas Markle will not be attending.

Thomas had planned to walk his daughter down the aisle this Saturday but after a recent heart attack — and admitting that he staged paparazzi photos in the lead-up to the big day — on Monday he revealed that he would be a no-show.

Hopefully Markle and Harry will have some fun — and much needed privacy — on their honeymoon.Syrian director Humam Husari, right, and cameraman Sami al-Shami, center, film a scene in the rebel-held besieged town of Zamalka, Syria, on Sept. 19, 2016. BASSAM KHABIEH/REUTERS

It’s exactly 3:00 p.m. in eastern Ghouta when Humam Husari calls. “I’m in the basement,” says the 31-year-old Syrian, speaking by phone to HuffPost Germany. The connection is poor, but it doesn’t break up. There is still internet in the rebel enclave near Damascus, which has been under siege by the Syrian regime for five years. WhatsApp is the only link to the outside.

Syrian President Bashar Assad’s army is trying to bleed out the area, where about 400,000 people are said to be trapped. Despite a United Nations resolution on Saturday calling for a 30-day ceasefire, Syria’s government continued to bombard the region on Sunday and Monday.

“It’s the eighth day in a row that the bombs have been falling,” Husari tells HuffPost. The filmmaker, who has been based in Ghouta for five years, pauses for a moment as if to make sure that the air raid is over. “The bombing just got too intense,” he says.

In desperation, the people of Ghouta have sought refuge in their basements. But since reports of renewed chlorine gas attacks have started making the rounds, even the basements don’t feel safe anymore.

Smoke rises from besieged eastern Ghouta in Damascus, Syria, on Feb. 27, 2018. Bassam Khabieh / Reuters

Drones Over The City

It’s Sunday evening, less than 24 hours after the international community agreed to a ceasefire. Even Russia, Assad’s closest ally in the fight against the rebels, voted in favor.

Airplanes, helicopters, and even drones take to the skies, Husari says. They register every movement that someone makes on the street. “Then artillery fire starts immediately,” he explains.

According to a few shaky mobile phone videos and photos that spread on Twitter on Monday, the attackers used chlorine gas. Even at a low concentration, the gas can be corrosive, damaging the skin and the respiratory tract.

According to the pro-opposition Observatory for Human Rights, one child died, a woman is in critical condition, and at least 13 others are injured.

A boy is treated at a medical center in Saqba, Syria, on Aug. 21, 2013, after government forces fired rockets that released deadly fumes over the rebel-held Damascus suburbs. Bassam Khabieh / Reuters

The Darkest Day Of The War

People in Ghouta have been victims of toxic gas attacks before. The chemical attack on Aug. 21, 2013 not only ended the lives of more than 1,000 people in southwest Syria, it also became the turning point in the war.

U.S. intelligence quickly pinned the operation on Assad, and U.S. President Barack Obama announced the beginning of a military intervention. The Kremlin increasingly started to take the side of its Middle Eastern ally, turning the Syrian conflict into a playground for international hostilities.

For the people of Ghouta, Aug. 21 is probably the darkest day of this war. “I’ve seen 1,500 people die of the toxic gas sarin,” says Husari, who made a short movie about the survivors of the attack.

He knows that the Syrian regime denies carrying out the attack. So does Russia. On Monday, Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov referred to “nonsense stories from East Ghouta, which cite an anonymous source claiming that chlorine gas was used.”

But Husari does not remain anonymous. He knows what’s happening in his region, and how absurd the regime’s accusations are that the rebels are using the banned weapons themselves.

“It makes no sense. Why would the opposition target their own people?” he said.

A child is treated in the besieged city of Douma, Syria, on Feb. 25, 2018. BASSAM KHABIEH / REUTERS

Heavy Artillery And No Way Out

While families persevered in the basements of the settlements, several battles occured on the streets on Monday between different rebel groups that are involved in armed resistance against Assad in Ghouta. In this part of the country, they are almost the last to stand in the way of the Damascus-Moscow-Tehran axis.

Also among the rebels are Salafists, jihadis and former al Qaeda cadres. In the city of Douma, the jihadi militia Jaysh al-Islam is in charge, and in the western part of the region, it’s the Failaq al-Rahman group, belonging to the Free Syrian Army. New videos allegedly show fighters from the Salafist group Ahrar al-Sham firing on Assad forces in the region with heavy anti-tank missiles.

Any attempt to break through the government’s blockade on humanitarian access seems futile, just as the government’s repeated promises of an evacuation seem improbable. “That is not an option. It just won’t happen,” Husari tells HuffPost.

Then there is a bang in the background. Briefly, things are quiet. “Artillery,” Husari says, before swiftly continuing to speak, almost as if nothing had happened. If people can’t even leave their basements, how could an evacuation be possible?

A man sifts through trash in Douma, Syria, on Aug. 8, 2015, amid the Assad regime's blockade on food and medicine in eastern Ghouta. NurPhoto via Getty Images

Running Out Of Food And Diapers

Staying in basements, shelters, and hiding places is all about persisting, especially for children and their mothers. “There are 10 to 20 births in Ghouta every day,” Husari says. “In terrible conditions — in the basements.”

There are no more diapers, and food is scarce. “People are trying hard to find some more grain or flour to bake bread down here,” he explains.

People are very hungry, which is becoming increasingly life-threatening, especially for the youngest children. Most mothers no longer have milk for their babies and don’t know how to keep them alive.

Doctors, surgeons and medical assistants have also fled underground. Since the beginning of the bombing, the Assad regime has been targeting hospitals ― a treacherous strategy that Damascus and Moscow deployed during the siege of Aleppo. Thirteen hospitals have been severely damaged in recent days, according to Doctors Without Borders.

“Those still working have been set up underground. But care is very poor,” Husari says.

‘The Last Thing People Here Think About’

Husari seems calm. Only his frequent sighing reveals how worried he is. He knows the war is far from over. That there will be more attacks ― possibly with poison gas.

He reports that people are preparing and collecting water, vinegar and towels to be able to protect their mouths and noses in an emergency. But these resources are also becoming scarce.

The International Committee of the Red Cross has not yet been able to initiate the delivery of relief supplies for the civilian population because of the ongoing lack of security guarantees, a spokeswoman for the German Press Agency said.

Most urgently needed are medical products, but also food. The U.N. ceasefire is supposed to create a window of opportunity for aid deliveries. But the people of Ghouta have long since stopped believing in such promises.

Nevertheless, Husari does not want to talk about politics. “That’s the last thing people here think about. For the world, it’s all politics; for us, it’s the struggle for survival,” he says.President Donald Trump is famously sensitive about the size of his hands so this conservative columnist’s attempt to flatter him probably won’t go over very well.

At first, Miranda Devine gushed about Trump’s physical attributes after a recent meeting with him.

“He is actually ― you won’t believe it ― taller, slimmer and better-looking, normal-looking, in real life,” Devine said on Sky News.

But then the conversation took an unexpected turn.

“Does he have little hands?” Perrett asked. “Is there something that’s right in the caricature?”

“He does still have little hands,” Devine conceded.Get ready to see Reese Witherspoon in yet another high-profile adaptation of a popular novel.

Oscar winner Witherspoon, who starred in HBO’s successful “Big Little Lies” adaptation, and “Scandal” actress Kerry Washington are set to star and executive produce a limited series based on Celeste Ng’s 2017 best-seller Little Fires Everywhere, Deadline reports.

Witherspoon also dropped the news on her Instagram page.

A post shared by Reese’sBookClubxHelloSunshine (@reesesbookclubxhellosunshine) on Mar 2, 2018 at 10:24am PST

The two women will develop the project through their respective production companies (Witherspoon’s Hello Sunshine and Washington’s Simpson Street) with ABC Signature Studios. The show will be written by “Casual” writer Liz Tigelaar, who will also executive produce and serve as showrunner. Ng will be involved as well and act as a producer.

Though the show has yet to find a home, The Hollywood Reporter has learned that it is being shopped to streaming and premium cable networks.

Ng’s sophomore novel is about the wealthy town of Shaker Heights, Ohio, being torn apart after a white couple adopts a Chinese-American infant and the baby’s birth mother wants her child back.

A post shared by Reese Witherspoon (@reesewitherspoon) on Sep 12, 2017 at 8:43am PDTThe Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences spent the past year putting new processes in place to avoid the infamous Best Picture envelope screw-up of 2017 ― except for one thing.

Warren Beatty and Faye Dunaway are returning to present the same award, according to multiple outlets.

An accountant from PricewaterhouseCoopers gave Beatty the wrong envelope last year, which led the actor to announce that "La La Land" had won Best Picture when in fact "Moonlight" had won. Kevin Winter via Getty Images

The two stars were spotted attending rehearsals for the big show at the Dolby Theatre in Los Angeles, TMZ reported Thursday. According to a source who spoke with TMZ, Beatty and Faye exchanged a few lines before presenting a joke about the debacle last year.

For those who may have forgotten, the 2017 Academy Awards ended in chaos. An accountant from PricewaterhouseCoopers gave Beatty the wrong envelope as the actor, along with Faye Dunaway, his co-star in 1967′s “Bonnie and Clyde,” went out to present the Best Picture award at the end of the show.

PwC partner Brian Cullinan (who was tweeting during the ceremony) mistakenly handed Beatty the envelope for Lead Actress, which went to Emma Stone for her performance in “La La Land.” Beatty was confused and paused when he saw her name, but Dunaway thought he was playfully delaying the announcement, so she took the envelope and quickly read the movie title she saw on the card.

The only problem was that “Moonlight” was, in fact, the winner of the night’s top honor.

Host Jimmy Kimmel, who is returning to the broadcast this year, made fun of the mess-up in a promo leading up to Sunday’s show, so there will surely be jokes about the flub throughout the evening.However much you tip your Uber driver, it’s probably not enough. And however much Uber pays its drivers, it’s almost definitely not enough, either.

Those are two big takeaways from a new working paper by a group of researchers led by Stephen Zoepf, executive director of the Center for Automotive Research at Stanford University and a researcher at the MIT Center for Energy and Environmental Policy Research, which found that a substantial percentage of drivers for ride-hailing companies probably earn less than they think they do, though their wages are padded thanks to per-mile tax deductions.

As a working paper, it’s important to note the figures haven’t been peer-reviewed and are subject to change. Nevertheless, it offers interesting insight into an industry where driver pay has been the subject of much scrutiny.

Unlike previous economic analyses that report drivers’ gross profits without factoring in operational costs, the MIT paper takes into account how much drivers spend on things like insurance, maintenance, repairs, fuel and the car’s depreciation in value, using data from Edmunds, Kelley Blue Book and the Environmental Protection Agency.

Once those costs are accounted for, the working paper found, 74 percent of ride-hailing drivers make less than the minimum wage in their states, and 30 percent of drivers actually lose money for every mile they drive.

A graph shows revenue versus expenses per mile by drivers for ride-hailing services. Drivers above the line are losing money for every mile they drive. Zoepf et al.

In the survey of 1,121 drivers, the median driver earned $0.59 per mile and paid out $0.30 per mile in vehicle costs, leading to a median hourly profit of $3.37.

Notably, a choice few drivers with the most efficient vehicles and running the most profitable routes were able to turn out revenue of $1.50 per mile. Zoepf told HuffPost the Toyota Prius, a gas/electric hybrid, was drivers’ vehicle of choice by a factor of two.

More than 80 percent of the drivers surveyed said they work less than 40 hours per week.

It isn’t all bad news for drivers, however. The paper found nearly half of all drivers can declare a loss for tax purposes at the federal tax deduction rate of roughly $0.54 per mile. Per the researchers, that drastically decreases the amount of taxable income drivers need to report, to the extent that an estimated 74 percent of driver profit ― representing billions of dollars ― is going untaxed.

“At an average of $661/month in net profit per driver and with hundreds of thousands of drivers in the U.S. alone, the standard mileage deduction facilitates billions of dollars of untaxed income, and hundreds of millions of unrealized tax revenue,” the paper notes. “This untaxed profit represents a social subsidy for the ride-hailing business model.”

“While the paper is certainly attention grabbing, its methodology and findings are deeply flawed.” - Uber spokesman

Lyft didn’t respond to a request for comment from HuffPost, but a spokesman for Uber vigorously disputed the paper’s methodology and findings.

“While the paper is certainly attention grabbing, its methodology and findings are deeply flawed,” the spokesman said. “We’ve reached out to the paper’s authors to share our concerns and suggest ways we might work together to refine their approach.”

Zoepf didn’t immediately respond to followup questions about his methodology.

Compared to other studies that used different methodology, the MIT paper is indeed an outlier. A National Bureau of Economic Research study in November 2016 found drivers in six major metropolitan areas earned around $18 an hour, not taking into account hourly costs varying from $2.94 to $6.46 per hour depending on the hours they worked and the vehicle they drove.

The paper also received some scrutiny from Harry Campbell, founder of The Rideshare Guy, an industry blog. Campbell’s 2017 Reader Survey provided the hard data the researchers used for their paper.

Using the same data, Campbell came up with an average hourly rate of around $16 an hour, not taking drivers’ operational costs into account. But, he said, even if MIT’s methodology needs to be tweaked ― which is possible, since it’s a working paper ― its fundamental finding is spot on: Drivers aren’t making enough money.

“Many drivers are doing this job part time and really only looking to make a few hundred bucks a week,” Campbell said, “but figuring out how much they are actually earning can be quite challenging."I think that it’s more important now than ever to go to Pride parades," Troye Sivan said. Santiago Felipe via Getty Images

Singer-songwriter Troye Sivan is set to bring a troubling aspect of the queer experience to the big screen this fall in “Boy Erased.” The movie, in which Sivan acts alongside Lucas Hedges, Nicole Kidman and Russell Crowe, is based on author Garrard Conley’s experiences with “conversion therapy,” a harmful and scientifically discredited practice that claims to change people’s sexual orientation through counseling.

But there’s one movie role that Sivan ― who is no stranger to incorporating LGBTQ themes into his music and performances ― would’ve loved to play: Elio, the lovelorn protagonist of 2017′s Oscar-nominated gay romance, “Call Me by Your Name.”

“It was such a beautiful book and movie,” Sivan told Pop Crush in a Feb. 22 interview. “I really feel like that was the first time, pretty much ever, that I’ve looked at a character and been like, ‘I 100 percent relate to that person.’”

Sivan said his connection to the character was aesthetic, too, “even down to his body type and the way that he looks.”

“I look at his body and I’m like, ‘That’s my body.’ Like skinny, small little nipples, pale,” he added. “Like everything down to the nipples, it’s me.”

Rest assured, however: Sivan is not bitter that another young star landed the part ― and earned an Oscar nomination for his efforts.

“I think that it 100 percent was made for Timothée Chalamet,” he said.

“I really feel like that was the first time, pretty much ever, that I’ve looked at a character and been like, ‘I 100 percent relate to that person.’” - Troye Sivan

Nonetheless, he’s still thrilled by his upcoming appearance in “Boy Erased,” calling his character, Gary, “very exciting” to play. Gary, he explained, “becomes a catalyst for change” at the film’s conclusion.

“I read the script and I was just floored,” he said. “And I saw the cast that was attached and saw that Joel Edgerton was directing, and just really, really fell in love and became obsessed with the idea of becoming a part of this project.”

Sivan has also kept busy on the music front. He offered fans their first taste of his as-yet-unnamed second album with the singles “My My My!” and “The Good Side.” The sophomore effort will also include a collaboration with Ariana Grande.

He acknowledged that his relationship with his LGBTQ fan base in the U.S. has changed “a little bit” since President Donald Trump’s election, and promised that his new album will be “some sort of sonic relief, and be reminded that we’ve been through shit in the past and we’re going to continue to go through shit, but we’re always going to be OK.”

“Anger and sadness are all completely valid and effective emotions in this kind of situation, but I also really believe that joy and unity are equally as important,” he said. “I think that it’s more important now than ever to go to Pride parades. And it’s more important than ever to go out to clubs and celebrate our diversity and our differences and everything.”WASHINGTON ― At least 14 members of the House want Attorney General Jeff Sessions to investigate the Al Jazeera media network, a colossus that reaches more than 300 million people and is funded by the government of Qatar.

The request, in a letter being finalized this week and shared with HuffPost by a Hill source, comes amid a controversy over Al Jazeera’s filming of a documentary on the pro-Israel lobbying community in the U.S. The network used an undercover operative to secure months of footage in 2016, revealing private interactions with various advocacy groups, lawmakers and officials. But despite promising to release the film last year after British regulators OK’d a similar project in the U.K., Al Jazeera has yet to publish the documentary.

Meanwhile, Qatar has become embroiled in a fight with a group of its neighbors led by the United Arab Emirates and faced heavy criticism from pro-Israel groups for anti-Semitic content in Al Jazeera’s Arabic programming. (The network runs separate channels in English, Arabic and a host of other languages.)

Qatar has won international praise by saying it stands by the award-winning network’s right to publish content, including to release the documentary, and called some of its opponents anti-democratic. But the new pressure from Capitol Hill suggests the issue remains hot ― even as President Donald Trump prioritizes an end to the regional Qatar spat and Qatar’s ruler prepares for a trip to the U.S. in April.

“Al Jazeera’s record of radical anti-American, anti-Semitic, and anti-Israel broadcasts warrants scrutiny from regulators to determine whether this network is in violation of U.S. law,” the congressional letter reads. “Such an investigation should cover the full range of activities undertaken by Al Jazeera in the United States, including reports that it infiltrated American 501(c)(3) and (c)(4) nonprofit organizations.”

The message to lawmakers and staff being asked to co-sign the letter specifically talks about the Israel lobbying documentary. The letter notes that the Justice Department directed RT, a Russian government-funded news organization, to register as a foreign agent last year and asks Sessions to explain whether Al Jazeera should do so as well. Only a handful of the many state-backed news organizations operating in the U.S. have done so. Outlets like the BBC and the German broadcaster Deutsche Welle have not. The Committee to Protect Journalists has condemned the order.

Lawmakers pushing the measure include those who have signed a number of letters seeking to boost pressure on Qatar in recent months, such as Reps. Josh Gottheimer (D-N.J.) and Ron DeSantis (R-Fla.), and others who have not previously been very vocal on the issue, including Rep. Thomas Suozzi (D-N.Y.). It appears most signatories are Republicans. The conservative outlet Washington Free Beacon reported last week on initial efforts to organize the letter by Gottheimer and Rep. Lee Zeldin (R-N.Y.).

The question of the documentary has become especially important for pro-Israel groups and donors, complicating Qatari outreach to American Jewish leaders. Qatar had reportedly previously assured the groups that the film would not be released. Last week, Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu told the Conference of Presidents of Major Jewish Organizations he does not believe they should engage with Qatar.

U.S. officials have expressed concern about Al Jazeera’s content in the past, but have also said Qatar should remain a top partner and warned that too much pressure on it might push it closer to Iran or Russia. The country currently hosts more than 10,000 American troops.Dick’s Sporting Goods and Walmart have also said they would stop selling guns to anyone under the age of 21. Dick’s also banned the sale of assault-style rifles and high-capacity magazines in its stores.

Other companies, including Delta, Hertz, Avis, Enterprise and MetLife, have expressed support for gun control by ending their partnerships with the National Rifle Association.UPDATE: March 2 ― Sen. Orrin Hatch (R-Utah) has issued an apology for his comments regarding Obamacare supporters. The tweet appears below.

Senator Hatch has just issued an apology an off-color joke he made yesterday about supporters of the Affordable Care Act. #utpol pic.twitter.com/d1WybXtld3 — Senator Hatch Office (@senorrinhatch) March 2, 2018

PREVIOUSLY:

Sen. Orrin Hatch (R-Utah) is apparently sick of people who support affordable health care.

On Thursday, the Republican politician called supporters of the Affordable Care Act, otherwise known as Obamacare, “the stupidest, dumbass people I’ve ever met,” according to Salt Lake City station KSTU.

Hatch made the comments during a speech about the recent GOP tax overhaul that repealed the health care law’s individual mandate, according to The Hill.

The insult came after Hatch referred to “that wonderful bill called ‘Obamacare.’”

“Now, if you didn’t catch on, I was being very sarcastic,” he said.

Hatch then called the Affordable Care Act “the stupidest, dumbass bill that I’ve ever seen.”

He added:

“Now, some of you may have loved it. If you do, you are one of the stupidest, dumbass people I’ve ever met. This was one of them — and there are a lot of ’em up on Capitol Hill from time to time.”

Hatch’s comments came the same day the Kaiser Family Foundation released a poll saying the Affordable Care Act was popular with 54 percent of the population.

That’s the highest level of support since the law was enacted in 2010, according to The Hill.

Hatch spokesman Matt Whitlock tried to put a Band-Aid on the senator’s Obamacare insults.

“The comments were obviously made in jest, but what’s not a joke is the harm Obamacare has caused for countless Utahns,” Whitlock told KSTU.

In January, the 83-year-old Hatch announced he would retire from the Senate at the end of 2018. He has served in the office since 1977.Donald Trump may appear to be siding with Democrats on the gun control debate. But on Thursday’s broadcast of “The Daily Show,” host Trevor Noah said the president’s apparent flip should be taken with utmost caution.

“Before you get too excited for your new gun-grabber-in-chief, just remember what happened with DACA not too long ago,” said Noah.

Trump agreed with Democrats on immigration and then “two days later Africans were from shithole countries and the whole thing fell apart,” said Noah.Michael Keaton in "Batman." Sunset Boulevard via Getty Images

Actor Michael Keaton ended his commencement address at Kent State University’s graduation ceremony with two words: “I’m Batman.”

Keaton could have gone the more dramatic route and yelled “Beetlejuice! Beetlejuice! Beetlejuice!” at the Class of 2018 crowd during Saturday’s ceremony. But he went with his memorable line from the 1989 film “Batman,” and 1992′s “Batman Returns.”

“I’ve got two words that I want you all to remember. They’re very important, and if I leave you with anything, I’m going to leave you with these two words,” Keaton said in a clip of the speech that has now gone viral.

“And those two words are: I’m Batman.”

Michael Keaton closed his commencement speech at Kent State with "I'm Batman."



And this is why Michael Keaton is the best. pic.twitter.com/20H1B99aCl — TODD SPENCE (@Todd_Spence) May 16, 2018

Many in the crowd (and the internet) celebrated the “I’m Batman” ending.

But some Kent State students were less than thrilled at Keaton’s commencement speech. Some wondered whether he was drunk:

Michael Keaton gave a drunk speech at my college graduation. How was yours? lol — Mike Castenir (@Casty06_m) May 12, 2018

The biggest thing I learned from commencement today is that Kent is a fraud because Michael Keaton never even graduated and yet we consider him alumni and just gave him an honorary doctorate degree — KT (@kattrimper) May 12, 2018

Kent State just spent $100,000 on Michael Keaton to give a speech on an attic, hitchhiking, his one pair of shoes, and how he never finished college 👏🏼 Kent read, Kent write, Kent give speeches. — Rachel Pickering (@RachelPick3) May 12, 2018

Is Michael Keaton wasted right now??? @KentState — Grace (@fftyshdsofgrace) May 12, 2018

Graduation took so long today that I left before I even walked. Peace out Kent State, and btw Michael Keaton’s speech sucked!!!!! — Amanda Baldasare (@ItsMeMannyB) May 12, 2018Outspots

This article originally appeared on Outsports

Two New York high school basketball coaches have been suspended after their teams participated in an LGBTQ Pride Game hosted at a nearby college. Now one of the coaches, who is gay, is wondering what role homophobia may have played in the suspensions.

Outsports has confirmed through multiple sources that openly gay Saunders High School coach Anthony Nicodemo and Somers High School coach Chris DiCintio have both been suspended by the Section One Athletic Council to start the 2018/19 season. Section One represents the lower part of the Hudson Valley in the New York State Public High School Athletic Association.

The issue stems from a Jan. 20 Pride On The Court event, hosted by Nicodemo and the athletic department of Div. III Sarah Lawrence College. Section One leadership allegedly claimed Nicodemo’s athletic director, Jim Rose, did not submit the proper paperwork to host the event at the college and have it supported by Nike.

Nicodemo said that Rose received verbal approval from Section One executive director Jen Simmons prior to the event.

“My athletic director is tremendous with rules and regulations,” Nicodemo said. “So having [Simmons] tell him he doesn’t have to put in any paperwork, and then a month later says he had to put in paperwork, that puts us into a difficult spot here.”

The extent of the allegations against the coaches appears to be this clerical oversight committed by someone else.

Simmons did not respond to multiple attempts to reach her for comment.

The event raised $800 for the Hudson Valley Chapter of GLSEN, which seeks to build safe school environments for LGBTQ students. Former NBA player Jason Collins, who came out publicly in 2013, attended the game and a Friday event where he spoke to the student-athletes and coaches about LGBTQ inclusion.

Henry Sassone, athletic director at North Salem Center School District and member of the Section One Athletic Council, was at the meeting and voted against suspending the coaches because, he said, they were not at fault.

“There are plenty of rules coaches know, like the number of practices you need before your first game of the season,” Sassoon told Outsports. “But this rule that apparently was not followed is a rule that the coach is not responsible for.”

Sassone felt a more appropriate action by Section One would have been sending a notice sent to the superintendents and principals ensuring this clerical oversight didn’t happen again.

“I don’t think anyone was trying to misguide Section One,” Sassone said.

Nicodemo said that neither of the now-suspended coaches nor their athletic directors were allowed to present their case to the Council. The Council has also allegedly refused to identify the anonymous source that filed a complaint.

The transparency of Section One leadership has been under scrutiny in recent months after a controversial decision to move basketball playoff games out of the County Center. Nicodemo and Somers athletic director Roman Catalino have been two of the most vocal opponents of the move. In addition, Nicodemo has legal action still pending against Simmons and Section One.

That lawsuit by two basketball coaching associations, one of which Nicodemo runs, filed in January, claims that “Defendant, Section One, Inc., is a dysfunctional organization which operates in the dark through a culture of fear and intimidation, refusing to disclose to the public, who it was created to serve, and its member schools basic facts underlying its decisions.”

Now Nicodemo, along with Catalino’s boys basketball coach, have been suspended for failing to provide paperwork they were not responsible for, to hold an event supporting LGBTQ inclusion.

Nicodemo questions the motives behind targeting an LGBTQ event like this, and hitting it with such a severe punishment. Given Section One’s refusal to share the source of the complaint or to present his case, he fears an anti-LGBTQ hate group, or an anti-LGBTQ individual, may be behind the action.

“This event was a pioneering event,” Nicodemo said. “It was special for everyone involved. there was zero negativity about any of this event. So for the section to choose to attack this particular event, which was so positive, it sends a really bad message.”

Nicodemo claims there are “dozens” of different events that are not officially sanctioned, and that the Section One athletic council chooses not to pursue with punishment.

“Next year when I try to host this event again, am I going to have schools say ‘no thank you’ because they’re worried they’re going to be targets of Section One?” Nicodemo asked. “That’s the chilling effect here.”

Sassone hopes that this action by local leaders spurs a conversation about responsibility and punishment, as he insists the coaches were not responsible for the failure in paperwork.

“I think it’s time this athletic council looks at the penalties,” he said. “I think it’s difficult to censure a coach over a process that the coach has no part of.”by Kevin O’Keeffe

Right on schedule, the eliminated queens sashay their way back into the workroom this week on “RuPaul’s Drag Race All Stars” Season 3. We witnessed this back in “All Stars” Season 2’s “Revenge of the Queens,” which saw the eliminated queens fighting to get back into the competition. But unlike in that season, where the only real conflict was a surprised Alyssa Edwards versus an angry Phi Phi O’Hara, nearly every eliminated queen (save the patron saint of chill, Chi Chi DeVayne) has a bone to pick with the queen who eliminated her.

Who won each showdown? Let’s quickly run them down.

VH1

ROUND 1: Thorgy Thor vs. Shangela (vs. Trixie Mattel)

This is the conflict with the most tension in it, largely because Thorgy and Shangela are very different types of communicators, and kept cutting each other off. It also involves a very reticent Trixie, who is still paying for hanging up Thorgy’s note about Shangela in her workspace. Trixie mostly wants it to stop, while Thorgy wants to clear the air, and Shangela wants to defend herself and her decision to send Thorgy home. It’s ultimately just a lot of noise.

Winner: Shangela, though I was tempted to say no one. But Thorgy agrees that her problem was being in the bottom two, not being sent home, and Shangela didn’t put her there.

ROUND 2: Morgan McMichaels vs. BenDeLaCreme

Morgan’s beef with Ben comes down to one thing: She feels Ben was a hypocrite in talking about eliminating the weakest competitor, but then sending her home over Chi Chi. While Ben momentarily tries to argue that Morgan was worse than Chi Chi during the first episode’s variety show, Morgan quickly shoots that down, and goes on the offensive. The result is a very righteous Morgan and a very rattled Ben.

Winner: Morgan, thanks to a perfect mixture of aggression and clarity. Though she apologizes for said aggression later, I honestly thought she was perfectly in the right. Ben was hypocritical in eliminating Morgan, and the reason it affected her so much was because deep down, I’m sure she knows she did contradict herself.

VH1

ROUND 3: Aja vs. Bebe Zahara Benet

Though she didn’t remember this confrontation in our chat, Aja did have the chance to call Bebe out for not crediting her help with Bebe’s Warhol Ball look. Bebe tries to roll her eyes at this problem, and insists in her confessional that credit wouldn’t have affected anything. But Aja plants her heels and stands firm.

Winner: Aja, easily. This was such an easy problem for Bebe to fix, and her unwillingness to see Aja’s side is a bad look on her. She’s lucky Aja didn’t come for her harder.

ROUND 4: Kennedy Davenport vs. Milk

This is maybe the most personal of the conflicts. Kennedy seems furious with Milk for discrediting her drag, and Milk’s insistence on knowing why Kennedy sent her home only opens old wounds. It’s an especially bad look when Kennedy explains her decision-making, but Milk seemingly doesn’t listen and instead insists Kennedy only sent Milk home to save Chi Chi.

Winner: Kennedy, but it’s not the cleanest win. She seems somewhat insensitive to Milk as there are tears streaming down her face — though considering how much the model queen has cried this season, I might be skeptical, too. Ultimately, Kennedy looks pissed, if rightfully so, while Milk just seems oblivious.

ACT 2: The War

After a sustained bit of arguing — seriously, the confrontations go on for 10 minutes — the queens finally break off into their subgroups for the challenge. The task is a modified version of the season-ending rap challenge from the last two seasons: Queens must write their own verses to a song, then perform them as a supergroup. The top five form one team, performing the Spice Girls parody “Drag Up Your Life,” while the eliminated girls perform the Drag Race reference-heavy “Sitting on a Secret.”

Much ado is made about Ben’s dour attitude during recording with guest judge Adam Lambert. She seems really shaken by what’s happened with Morgan, and questions whether this kind of drama is good for her at all.

“Am I compromising my personal ideals about not wanting to be part of unnecessary conflict?” she asks while preparing for the runway. “[That’s] kinda been gnawing at me since even before I got here. … Competition itself is not something I got into this game to be a part of. I’m competitive with myself.”

“All Stars” is a war. I’ve said previously that Ben seems good at “Drag Race” (and at drag as a whole), but doesn’t flourish in this format. It’s too toxic for her; what someone like Shangela thrives on only makes Ben uncomfortable. She may be a great drag queen, but she’s not really a drag soldier. This war isn’t good for her, and it’s been tough to watch her get so beaten up by it even as she’s won a record number of challenges.

VH1

Speaking of, the top five are the winning team, and Ben wins top honors alongside Bebe. They’re both great choices, though I suspect Trixie and Shangela fans will be annoyed, considering they both slay as well. But Bebe brings a bizarre energy that is attractive to the judges, while Ben wins on camping up her goth, Wednesday Addams-esque character. Had Bebe not performed well on stage, or had Ben’s attitude not improved after a come-to-Jesus talk with Morgan, one could easily have imagined Trixie and Shangela winning instead. The only one who doesn’t perform at the top of her potential is Kennedy, and even she’s not bad. She’s just the worst of the five.

Winning is a mixed blessing for the top two, though. Unfortunately, because of the challenge’s rather convoluted rules, they still have to bring back one of the eliminated queens, and they still have to send home one of their teammates. It’s an odd setup, considering it means a member of the losing team is getting a reward, while a member of the winning team is being sent home. It does a number on Bebe and especially Ben, too, because they’re having trouble fathoming exactly what to do.

ACT 3: The Treaty

The lip sync is a fantastic one, with all the theatrics and belting to Deborah Cox’s “Nobody’s Supposed to Be Here.” Even before the lip sync, you can see that Ben has a trick up her sleeve: “I have made my choices. I feel strong in my conviction about these choices. I have to win this lip sync.” Sure enough, she does win, and the smile that flashes across her face is unlike anything we’ve seen from her before. This is a woman with a plan, and her spooky makeup only ups the dramatic ante.

Ben chooses Morgan to return to the competition, completing the full circle of their arc. Now, the first-eliminated queen has another chance to show her stuff, while Ben gets to fix a choice deemed hypocritical and inconsistent. Frankly, it’s hard to imagine Ben’s arc getting any better than this.

But imagine we’ll have to, because in a gag-worthy shocker, Ben chooses to eliminate herself. She was right: She’s competitive with herself, and no one else. Quite frankly, after winning five challenges, no one was going to beat her in “All Stars” Season 3. So instead of making them try, Ben does perhaps the most charitable thing possible, and eliminates herself. It’s a gag, and by choosing to go out on her own terms, Ben has made a mark unlike anything we’ve ever seen on “RuPaul’s Drag Race.” The war is over for her. She has signed her treaty and found peace within herself. She exits without a crown, but with all the satisfaction she could want.

VH1

EPILOGUE: The Final Thoughts

So if the other team won, I assume the top two would have lip-synced for their chance to stay, a la Tatianna and Alyssa Edwards in “Revenge of the Queens”? And the winner would have chosen which of the top five to eliminate? We can assume, but it’s weird that the show itself doesn’t explain it. Though it’s a decent challenge that gives the queens a chance to show both their brains and performance skills, the rules really do feel held together with paper clips and Scotch tape.

Don’t mind me, I’m just once again expressing my love and respect for Chi Chi, who makes clear she doesn’t want to be brought back. “I don’t wanna be the Roxxxy of All Stars 3,” she says. Self-aware icon, we stan, etc.

Also: Bless Chi Chi for finally calling it what it is on Milk, who seems like a good sport but lacks perspective. “Everybody praises him for being a hot guy, and I think he kinda thinks that translates into being a hot Milk. But it doesn’t.” Someone had to say it!

Bebe would’ve absolutely won the lip sync had she not removed her wig. That move honestly feels the most “Season 1” of her output on “All Stars” so far — a reminder that what was once acceptable on “Drag Race” no longer is.

This is petty and ultimately not that significant, but just to be clear: Shangela, Kennedy, and Trixie are not in the bottom three this week. They just don’t win. No one refers to them as the bottom three during the course of the show. I’m saying that so no one tries to make an argument in a couple of weeks that Shangela and Trixie have been in the bottom twice, because that’s inaccurate.

Lots to quibble with this week, but not the guest judges! Adam Lambert and Emma Bunton are perfection. Adam’s work with the contestants during their recording session is assertive without being aggressive. He genuinely gets a rise out of a couple of them. I’d love to see him back again.

Hand to God, I’d say the team of eliminated queens deserve to win the challenge. The choice between the two feels pretty arbitrary, to be frank, and I think their lyrics and performance are stronger on the whole.

Honestly, this episode is a disappointment. “Revenge of the Queens” is one of the best TV episodes of all time, of any genre. This feels like a shallow retread with a Handmaid’s Tale theme slapped onto it. Were it not for Ben’s decision, I don’t think there’d be much to talk about, except how arbitrary some of the decisions feel. I’ve been more positive generally about “All Stars” Season 3 than most, but after this swing-and-a-miss, I’m starting to grow restless. The season has two more episodes to deliver a real, genuine twist that impresses. I hope it makes good on the promo image theme and gives us gold.