Lawyer Robin Rosenzweig and her husband, investor Elliott Broidy, are accused of trying to scuttle a Justice Department investigation into money laundering. Allen Berezovsky via Getty Images

Emails and documents an anonymous group leaked to HuffPost this week appear to show a Los Angeles lawyer asking for more than $80 million to scuttle a Department of Justice investigation into a multibillion-dollar scandal involving Van Gogh paintings, the movie “The Wolf of Wall Street,” the prime minister of Malaysia — and the lawyer’s husband, a Republican National Committee deputy finance chair Elliott Broidy, trying to use his influence with the Trump administration to help.

Broidy and his wife, attorney Robin Rosenzweig, deny any wrongdoing.

“It’s definitely a hack,” Rosenzweig said of the emails, which were first reported by The Wall Street Journal. “They’ve hacked attorney-client privileged documents.”

Broidy’s assistant also said that “Mr. Broidy has been a victim of a hack.”

HuffPost has not been able to identify the people who leaked the documents, who call themselves L.A. Confidential. “We expose people associated with hollywood,” the group said in an email. It’s not clear what the group’s motivations are.

After HuffPost provided Rosenzweig with the leaked emails and documents, she said she didn’t recognize some of them — although she did not identify which ones looked unfamiliar. Rosenzweig (who also goes by Robin Broidy) and her husband are conducting a personal investigation, she said.

The “dossier,” as the leakers called it, demonstrates Broidy’s clear and continued fascination with a topic of great financial interest to his wife and one of her prospective clients.

The story starts in July 2016, when the Justice Department filed civil forfeiture complaints seeking to recover more than $1 billion in assets allegedly acquired with funds misappropriated from 1Malaysia Development Berhad (1MDB), a state-owned development company established by Malaysian Prime Minister Najib Razak. The Justice Department’s complaint stated that Low Taek Jho, a Malaysian businessman, had laundered in the U.S. more than $400 million stolen from 1MDB. The 1MDB funds was allegedly used to buy real estate, Van Gogh and Monet paintings, and a private jet, and to finance “The Wolf of Wall Street.”

Malaysian investigations into 1MDB found no wrongdoing on the part of the company or Najib, the prime minster, according to The Wall Street Journal. Najib, Low and 1MDB have denied any wrongdoing, and 1MDB has said it will cooperate with any investigations into its business.

But the Justice Department was still pursuing Low, and he needed help.

HuffPost

It’s not entirely clear how Low and Rosenzweig first got in touch. On March 12, 2017, shortly after President Donald Trump took office, Rosenzweig wrote up a draft agreement in which she would agree to work for Low.

“Please feel free to call or email me or Elliott with any comments or concerns you have,” she wrote in an email, referring to her husband.

In the draft agreement, Rosenzweig proposed that Low would pay her and her firm, the Colfax Law Office, $8 million upfront. The deal would also give her and the firm an incentive to work fast: Low would pay an additional $50 million if the firm succeeded in “settling the Matter” — the DOJ investigation — within a year. That figure jumped to $75 million if the firm succeeded within 180 days.

HuffPost

HuffPost

Rosenzweig later adjusted the draft agreement to provide for a flat fee, after learning that “success fees” and a “non-refundable retainer fee” are not legal in New York, she wrote to her husband and a consultant working on the case.

The emails given to HuffPost do not indicate whether Rosenzweig’s firm ever finalized an agreement to provide services to Low.

HuffPost

Although Broidy pleaded guilty in 2009 to giving New York public pension officials nearly $1 million worth of illegal gifts to help his venture capital firm make a deal with the pension fund, it’s easy to see how Low could have benefited from working with the couple. Broidy has close ties to Trump and the Republican Party. During the 2016 presidential race, he served as a vice chairman for the Trump Victory Fund. He gave more than $160,000 to the Republican National Committee last year. One month after Rosenzweig wrote the draft agreement with Low, the RNC announced that Broidy had been named a national deputy finance chairman, along with Michael Cohen and Louis DeJoy.

In May, Rosenzweig indicated that her law firm would need to enter into a contract with Pras Michel, a friend of Low’s and a member of hip-hop group The Fugees. According to the emails, Low wanted to pay Rosenzweig through Michel. Michel and his publicist did not immediately respond to a request for comment.

After Rosenzweig started working on an agreement with Low, her husband began circulating talking points that described efforts to convince the Justice Department to halt the Malaysia investigation.

In August 2017, Broidy sent an assistant at his investment firm an email titled “Malaysia Talking Points *Final.*” The email does not note who wrote the talking points or who was expected to deliver them, but they appear to be drafted from the perspective of a Malaysian official in preparation for a meeting with a U.S. official. Secretary of State Rex Tillerson visited Malaysia two days later as part of a Southeast Asia tour. And Trump hosted Najib, the Malaysian prime minister swept up in the 1MDB scandal, at the White House in September.

HuffPost

The talking points email laid out four priorities ― the first three being North Korea, counterterrorism cooperation and the economy. The fourth, however, was 1MDB, and it included five main points (emphasis ours, misspelling theirs):

1. 1MDB message on all levels this is being handles by Saudia Arabia and Abu Dhabi, and Malaysia. 2. Malaysian Attorney General has publically announced that no American has been harmed by any 1MDB transaction 3. The involvement of US prosecutors [in 1MDB] has caused unnecessary tension American, and could cause a negative reaction among Malaysians 4. Malaysian Attorney General have publically announced no harm has been caused to any investors 5. Finally, I will send Malaysian Attorney General ahead of my visit to the US in September to meet President Trump. I would like an introduction to Attorney General Sessions.

The person who drafted the talking points also wrote, “Secretary Tillerson may mention Elliott Broidy’s name. If he does, I will confirm that I know Elliot [sic] and that he wants a closer relationship between the USA and Malaysia.”

At the time, the Justice Department was escalating its efforts to go after Low and the development fund. Prosecutors asked the federal court to stay the department’s civil lawsuits and announced a criminal probe into 1MDB in August.

HuffPost

Months later, Broidy was still focused on the matter ― and appeared to be upping the pressure. On Jan. 5, 2018, Broidy sent himself an email titled “Rick Gates: Talking Points,” a possible reference to a former Trump campaign aide, who pleaded guilty last month in an unrelated conspiracy case. The email includes an explicit description of an effort to persuade the Justice Department and the White House to reverse course on the Malaysia graft case (again, emphasis ours):

1. We are working with the DoJ to counter the previous Administration’s case against 1MDB in Malaysia. I have put a strategy in place to contact parties both at the DoJ and the NSC [National Security Council] to find a resolution to this issue. 2. I am in the process of scheduling a meeting with the assistant attorney general who has the oversight for the Malaysia case. She is a Trump appointee and can be helpful. [Broidy may be referring to Rachel Brand, who was the associate attorney general at the time, not an assistant attorney general.] 3. As I informed you earlier, in my discussion with the President, he committed to getting this issue resolved. It is important that I take his lead but will continue to communicate the importance of this issue. 4. The President very much wants to see you re-elected and wants this issue to be resolved. He has reiterated that to me. 5. It is also helpful to know that a new attorney will be confirmed shortly that will also have some jurisdiction over the matter, and was formerly the #2 general counsel at Boeing. [This is presumably a reference to John Demers, then the nominee to head the Justice Department’s National Security Division.] It will be easy to brief him on the matter and get his involvement. 6. I am working on this issue from several angles and we will work to get this done as quickly as possible.

Those points were similarly to five laid out in another document created by an unknown author and shared with HuffPost.

“I am in the process of scheduling a meeting with Associate Attorney General Rachel Brand who has the oversight for the Malaysia case,” the document reads in part. “She is a Trump appointee and viewed as the only true Trump appointee currently at DoJ.”

Brand resigned from her position last month and could not be reached for comment.

“In addition, the National Security Division of DoJ is involved and President Trump has appointed John Demers (formerly of Boeing) to that position,” the document continues, referring to the man who became assistant attorney general for the National Security Division last month. “He is awaiting his confirmation but will be confirmed shortly. I will also meet with John. He will be an instrumental figure in the resolution of the Malaysia issues.”

HuffPost

A representative for Broidy and Rosenzweig told HuffPost that neither of them wrote the text in the emails describing interactions with Trump and Justice Department officials. Chris Clark, the couple’s lawyer, told The Wall Street Journal that the couple did not discuss Low’s case with Trump, his staff or anyone at the Justice Department. The Justice Department declined to comment and the White House did not respond to a request for comment.

The investigation into 1MDB — and Low — continues. Just this week, at the request of U.S. authorities, Indonesian police seized a luxury yacht in Bali tied to the scandal.

Low’s location is currently unknown, according to Reuters. His company in Hong Kong did not respond to a request for comment.Peter Dazeley via Getty Images Don't be this person.

Traveling is probably the most universally agreed upon stressor there is. Nobody enjoys swapping all of their liquid toiletries for solid alternatives, rushing to the airport several hours early, fighting through obnoxiously long TSA lines, or running through terminals to make last-minute gate changes.

One thing that can make the experience even a tiny bit better? Luggage that’ll keep up with the headache. Ditch the tiny weekender duffel bag and instead invest in a smart carry-on that can attach to your suitcase through what’s called a “trolley sleeve” or a “pass-through pocket.” Whatever you choose to call it, we call it genius.

Be prepared for your next trip with these 10 carry-on bags that’ll attach to your luggage:

1. Vera Bradley Iconic Weekender Travel Bag

Vera Bradley

Get the Vera Bradley Iconic Weekender Travel Bag.

2. Dagne Dover Weston Laptop Bag

Dagne Dover

Get the Dagne Dover Weston Laptop Bag.

3. Target’s A New Day Weekender Bag

Target

Get the Target A New Day Weekender Bag.

4. The Everywhere Bag from Away

Away

Get the Everywhere Bag from Away.

5. Dagne Dover Ryan Laptop Bag

Dagne Dover

Get the Dagne Dover Ryan Laptop Bag.

6. The Mover Pack From Everlane

Everlane

Get The Mover Pack from Everlane.

7. Skyline 13.5″ Carry On Suitcase

Target

Get the Skyline Carry On Suitcase.

8. Made By Design Duffel Bag

Target

Get the Made By Design Duffel Bag.

9. Briggs & Riley Baseline Tote Bag

Zappos

Get the Briggs and Riley Baseline Tote Bag.

10. SwissGear 17″ Scan Smart TSA Laptop Business Backpack

Target

Get the SwissGear Scan Smart TSA Laptop Business Backpack.A former model who accused George Takei (above) of sexual assault says the New York Observer mischaracterized comments he made recently about the incident. Tara Ziemba via Getty Images

UPDATE: May 26 ― Scott R. Brunton, a former model who has accused George Takei of drugging and groping him without consent 36 years ago, says he is not walking back his allegations against the “Star Trek” actor.

Brunton accused the New York Observer of mischaracterizing his comments in an article published this week, headlined, “Exclusive: George Takei’s Accuser Has Changed His Story of Drugging and Assault.”

“I’m not a liar,” Brunton told HuffPost. “I am sticking to my story.”

One key detail that the Observer construed as Brunton changing his story, Brunton said, was really a matter of semantics.

The piece casts doubt on Brunton’s allegation that Takei “groped” him by highlighting that Brunton said he did not specifically remember Takei “touching [his] genitals.”

But Brunton told HuffPost the details he does remember certainly qualify as groping.

“My pants were down around my ankles, my shirt was pulled up,” Brunton said. “I’m in this bean bag chair that George had guided me to. He’s on top of me, he’s trying to wrestle my underwear down off of me.”

He added, “His hands were all over me trying to get the underwear off. And to me, that’s groping.”

Brunton was dismayed that the media had been treating the Observer story as vindication for Takei.

“It’s as if there’s a trial, and he’s been proven not guilty,” he said.

PREVIOUSLY:

Months after George Takei was accused of sexual assault, former model Scott R. Brunton, who said the “Star Trek” actor drugged and groped him without his consent 36 years ago, is walking back certain parts of his story.

In a lengthy interview with The New York Observer‘s Shane Snow published Thursday, Brunton recounts the night at the actor’s home where the alleged incident occurred but admits he didn’t remember Takei touching his genitals.

He previously accused the actor of “groping my crotch and trying to get my underwear off” as he came to after having a drink Takei provided, which left him feeling dizzy and led him to pass out.

After the allegations surfaced, Takei flatly denied Brunton’s account ― he maintains that he doesn’t even remember them meeting ― and said he was “shocked and bewildered” by the allegation.

“Right now it is a he said / he said situation, over alleged events nearly 40 years ago,” Takei wrote on social media in his one and only statement. “But those that know me understand that non-consensual acts are so antithetical to my values and my practices, the very idea that someone would accuse me of this is quite personally painful.”

In addition to parsing out the details of the alleged groping, Snow notes various inconsistencies in accounts Brunton shared with numerous outlets, including his alcohol consumption that night, his weight at the time, whether Takei was wearing a shirt during their interaction and whether the two met for coffee years later.

As for the accusation that Takei drugged Brunton’s cocktail, toxicologists interviewed for the story “immediately ruled out a spiked drink,” as the drugs available at the time would have impaired his ability to drive home after the incident or remember that it occurred at all.

“There are drugs today that may do this, but they did not exist [in 1981],” one toxicologist says in the piece.

George Takei gives the Vulcan salute on a red carpet in 2016. Jared Siskin via Getty Images

While Snow describes Brunton as “a sympathetic and well-intentioned man,” he concludes that the model altered “key details and let slip that, in his effort to be listened to, he’d fabricated some things.”

Snow adds: “This and other evidence would indicate a hard-to-swallow conclusion: We ― both public and press ― got the George Takei assault story wrong.”President Donald Trump has called for Congress to pass laws that would make it easier to detain and deport more immigrants. Olivier Douliery / Bloomberg / Getty Images

Immigration and Customs Enforcement is arresting more immigrants, and increasingly they have not been convicted of crimes, according to data released on Thursday by the agency.

About two-thirds of those arrested by ICE from October 2017 to the end of March had no criminal convictions — up from 21 percent during the same period the year before and only 13 percent the year before that. ICE officials noted that some of the arrested immigrants had been charged with a crime but not convicted.

The new figures, which reflect the first two quarters of the 2018 fiscal year, demonstrate that ICE is carrying out the crackdown on unauthorized immigrants that President Donald Trump promised. That means ICE officers are picking up more people with clean records, even if they were previously allowed to remain in the country.

“If somebody has violated our immigration laws, they are priorities now,” Corey Price, the assistant director for enforcement at ICE, told reporters on a conference call, adding that in the final years of Barack Obama’s administration, the agency’s “scope was significantly narrowed.”

Immigrants in the U.S. without authorization or those who violate the terms of their visa are subject to deportation, regardless of whether they have a criminal record. (It is a civil violation, not a criminal one, to be in the U.S. without authorization.)

ICE arrested nearly 80,000 people from October to the end of March, compared with about 63,000 in the same period the year before. By comparison, the agency arrested about 54,000 people in the first half of the 2016 fiscal year, when Obama’s priority enforcement policies and instructed agents to focus on undocumented immigrants with criminal histories.

While ICE’s arrests were up, deportations were slightly down ― from about 126,000 in the first half of the 2017 fiscal year to about 117,000 in the same period in fiscal year 2018. For both periods, about 54 percent of those removed were convicted criminals.

While most deportations originated with arrests by Customs and Border Patrol, ICE’s share rose for the most recent period; ICE arrested 39 percent of the people deported, up 10 percentage points from the previous year.

Trump vowed as a candidate to take constraints off ICE and allow agents to have more discretion on whom to arrest. The president and his administration have taken steps to remove protections that allow more than 1 million people to stay in the U.S. ― which could expose more immigrants to risk of deportation.

He typically frames his immigration comments around crime. During a meeting at the White House with leaders from California on Wednesday, after a question about MS-13, a gang started in the U.S. by Salvadoran immigrants, he praised his administration for “taking people out of the country.”

“You wouldn’t believe how bad these people are,” Trump said. “These aren’t people. These are animals. And we’re taking them out of the country at a level and at a rate that’s never happened before.”The National Gay and Lesbian Human Rights Commission (NGLHRC) is one of the groups that petitioned the court to repeal sections of a colonial era Penal Code, which it says violate constitutional rights to equality, dignity and privacy.

LGBT campaigners, Christian and Muslim groups and the office of the attorney general testified at the three-day High Court hearing. The court said on Thursday that it would on April 26 announce the date that it will deliver its ruling.

The government said that decriminalization of gay sex would lead to the legalization of same-sex marriage, which is not allowed anywhere on the continent apart from South Africa.

“There is a legitimate expectation some of those unions might end up in marriage,” said Jennifer Gitiri, a lawyer with the attorney general’s office.

“In the event that would happen, it would be a violation of the constitution,” she told the court.

AFRAID

NGLHRC director Eric Gitari said the law was used daily to discriminate against LGBT people - from getting a job or a promotion, to renting housing or accessing health and education.

“If the law is repealed, people will be able to fight from a point of legal confidence,” he said.

Same-sex acts are illegal in 32 of 54 African countries, and can lead to imprisonment or even the death penalty, according to the International Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Trans and Intersex Association.

There are no accurate figures on the size of Kenya’s LGBT community, rights groups said, because many people are afraid to disclose their orientation for fear of being targeted.

Kenya prosecuted 595 people under the Penal Code between 2010 and early 2014, the government reported.

“This law places so much power in the hands of the police and prosecutor,” said Gitari, whose organization provides legal support to people facing prosecution.

“If the law is repealed, all the criminal cases against people will collapse or will be void.”

Despite vehement opposition from powerful bodies, Mathenge remained hopeful.

“Even if the courts rule against our favor, we will still continue to fight,” he said.“Maybe this case will be an eye-opener and people will realize that there are gay men in Kenya.”As mass shootings continue to plague the U.S., Australia has called upon its citizens to voluntarily hand in their firearms.

A gun amnesty program that ran last year from July to September compelled people to turn in 57,324 firearms and 2,432 parts and accessories, plus more than 80,000 rounds of ammunition, the country’s Department of Home Affairs announced Thursday.

The program enabled people to register their firearms, sell them to a licensed dealer or have them destroyed, according to the department. It also provided protection from prosecution for people who aren’t criminals but still had unregistered firearms from what Australia calls the “grey market.”

“It’s critical to get them off this grey market … so they don’t end up in the black market,” said Angus Taylor, the country’s federal law enforcement minister. “Taking these unregistered firearms off the streets means they will not fall into the hands of criminals, who might use them to endanger the lives of innocent Australians.”

Leading Senior Constable Steve Batten destroys a rifle at the Victoria Police Forensic Services Centre in Melbourne, Australia, as Police Minister Lisa Neville watches on Aug. 11, 2017. Robert Cianflone via Getty Images

Some grey market weapons have been found to have been passed onto the black market and used in several recent attacks in Australia, including a siege on a cafe in Sydney in 2014.

But the country hasn’t experienced a mass shooting since 1996, when a gunman wielding AR-15 and L1A1 rifles killed 35 people during the Port Arthur massacre in Tasmania. Then-Prime Minister John Howard implemented a series of gun control measures, which banned certain types of firearms and created a registry for gun owners. He also introduced the idea of a government buy-back program, in which gun owners handed in hundreds of thousands of firearms between October 1996 and September 1997.

Australia has been cited as a potential model for the U.S., where calls for gun reform typically go unheeded.

“I have no doubt that a debate will be raised again about United States gun laws,” foreign minister Julie Bishop told “Sunrise” morning show in the wake of the mass shooting in Las Vegas last fall. “Each state has different laws. What Australia can do is share our experience.”

Yet gun control advocates in Australia are concerned about the hundreds of thousands of firearms that remain in the hands of private citizens, as well as about insufficient enforcement of gun laws. A 2017 review of the National Firearms Agreement, the law put in place following the Port Arthur shooting, determined that most states had significantly loosened their gun laws since 1996.A major Canadian outdoor retail chain said Thursday it will stop selling products from a U.S. company that manufactures guns and ammunition.

Mountain Equipment Co-op, known as MEC, said it would stop carrying products from Vista Outdoor, a sprawling outdoor sports and recreation company that manufactures gun products, including assault-style rifles. MEC, based in Vancouver, sells neither firearms nor ammunition, but said it would quit selling five brands owned by Vista, including CamelBak, Bollé and Bushnell, in an effort to distance itself from the U.S. gun-maker.

“The issue of gun violence and questions surrounding responsible gun use, ownership and manufacturing have made headlines around the world,” David Labistour, the Canadian chain’s CEO, wrote in a statement. “While these issues are seemingly unrelated to MEC, it has recently come to light that several brands MEC sells are owned by a corporation that has holdings in the manufacture of assault-style weapons.”

MEC joins several major U.S. retailers, including Dick’s Sporting Goods and Walmart, in revising their policies in the wake of the Feb. 14 mass shooting at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Florida.

Labistour said thousands of the co-op chain’s members pressured the company to ditch Vista following the Parkland massacre. He acknowledged some customers felt the company should let them decide whether to buy from certain brands.

“On a very personal note, many of us come from parts of the world where we have witnessed the use and impact of guns first-hand,” Labistour wrote. “I include myself in that community. I have proudly served in the military and grew up in a rural area where hunting was commonplace. I can readily identify with our members who are on all sides of this debate.”As criticism against President Xi Jinping’s power grab has surfaced on Chinese social media, censors have been busy removing content from the web to maintain an illusion of mass support for the Chinese leader and his ruling Communist Party.

Victims of the purge range from the somewhat expected (George Orwell books and the word “disagree”) to the more bewildering (the letter “N” was one that even took China experts by surprise).

The Chinese government on Sunday announced plans to scrap a constitutional clause limiting presidential service to two terms, which would pave the way for Xi to rule the country indefinitely. Many Western observers condemned the move, as did many people in the country. The Chinese internet “was flooded with complaints” soon after the announcement, wrote Victor Mair, a University of Pennsylvania professor and Sinologist.

Mair said censors “took quick, drastic action” to silence critics.

China Digital Times published a list of terms and phrases that have been censored on Weibo, a popular Chinese social media platform, since Sunday. The list includes phrases such as “incapable ruler” and “I oppose,” as well as words including “shameless,” “disagree” and “emperor.”

It also includes the names of Orwell classics Animal Farm and 1984; the term “Xi Zedong,” a portmanteau of Xi’s name and Mao Zedong’s; and Winnie the Pooh, a cartoon that critics have used to mock Xi.

Various terms relating to the end of two-term limit Xi Jinping as of now no longer searchable on Weibo. pic.twitter.com/TZSoduSytL — Manya Koetse (@manyapan) February 25, 2018

Well, at least we can look look forward to many more years of subversive Winnie the Pooh memes. Here's a retrospective from 2013 to this week: pic.twitter.com/pqgW02gTqe — Megha Rajagopalan (@meghara) February 26, 2018

The English letter “N” was also briefly censored, but the Digital Times said it was no longer blocked as of Monday.

It’s not entirely clear why the letter was singled out, but Mair suggested that censors may have been targeting a mathematical expression of disapproval. Critics may have used the term “N > 2,” he explained, with N (a signifier for an unknown quantity) referring to Xi’s possible terms in office.

N (possibly > 2) terms in office? — Jichang Lulu (@jichanglulu) February 25, 2018

N = Infinity — C.A. Yeung (@WLYeung) February 25, 2018

The sheer scope of this week’s censorship effort suggests Xi was surprised by the pushback to the government’s decision, according to a co-founder of GreatFire.org, a group that helps internet users circumvent Chinese censorship. The co-founder goes by the pseudonym Charlie Smith.

“The response from Chinese netizens indicates that Xi may have miscalculated how this would be received by the general public,” he told The Guardian. “Hence, he has asked the censors to put in overtime and things like the letter ‘N’ end up as collateral damage.”

Smith also said the online crackdown may intensify if protests continue.Roberta Jacobson will resign from her post as U.S. ambassador to Mexico after just over two years on the job, she announced Thursday.

Her last day will be May 5, according to The New York Times. The Trump administration has not named a successor.

In a statement on Twitter, Jacobson said confirmed the news and said that the ambassadorship ― her most recent role in a 31-year career with the U.S. State Department ― has been “an honor and a pleasure.”

“This decision is all the more difficult because of my profound belief in the importance of the U.S.-Mexico relationship and knowledge that it is at a crucial moment,” Jacobson said in a memo circulated to U.S. Embassy staff in Mexico and provided to the Times.

Former President Barack Obama confirmed Jacobson in April 2016 after senators, including Marco Rubio (R-Fla.), delayed her nomination for months, objecting to her support for the Obama administration’s efforts to normalize relations with Cuba.

U.S. relations with Mexico have been strained under President Donald Trump. Most recently, a combative phone call with Trump prompted Mexican President Enrique Peña Nieto to scrap a planned meeting. The two leaders discussed Trump’s promised border wall, disagreeing over which side they would say would foot the bill, the Washington Post reported.Seth Meyers poked fun at another one of President Donald Trump’s rambling addresses on Wednesday’s broadcast of “Late Night.”

As Trump babbled during a White House meeting about the pros and cons of “hardening schools” to prevent further mass shootings, it all became too much for Meyers.

“Trump talks less like he’s in a White House meeting, and more like he’s at a rewrite table for a new ‘Die Hard’ movie,” he said, before imagining Trump in such a scenario.President Donald Trump made a striking admission about America’s drug policy on Wednesday. MANDEL NGAN via Getty Images

In an apparently off-the-cuff remark Wednesday, President Donald Trump seemed to admit that banning drugs actually complicates enforcement efforts by creating a black market that’s even harder for authorities to control.

The candid statement came as Trump discussed gun policy proposals during a roundtable session with lawmakers at the White House. The president noted that there are always people willing to violate firearms restrictions. Then he drew an unprompted parallel to drug policy.

“You have that problem with drugs,” Trump said. “You make the drugs illegal and they come ― you’ve never had a problem, we’re fighting it hard, but you’ve never had a problem like this.”

Trump didn’t specify what “problem” he was referring to, but his administration has struggled with an effective response to the raging opioid crisis that now claims tens of thousands of American lives each year. So far, most of the policies he’s put forth have centered on law enforcement, including increasing sentences for drug dealers and users, and enhancing interdiction operations. Trump has also reportedly spoken in private about implementing the death penalty for drug traffickers.

Many drug policy experts say these efforts alone can’t combat the problem of drug abuse and addiction. As Trump noted on Wednesday, simply making things illegal ― or more illegal ― does little to address the demand for those things. Resources could be better allocated on treatment and prevention initiatives, experts say.

There’s a specific challenge in the opioid epidemic that underscores Trump’s point. Banning certain synthetic opioid analogs has led to the emergence of newer, more potent and therefore more lethal substances ― a predictable response known as the iron law of prohibition.

It’s probably not worth probing Trump’s comments any further, but here goes. If people, including the president, have reservations about the effectiveness of drug prohibition, should we be applying a similar skepticism to gun laws? Perhaps, but what’s really being discussed is a balance between freedom and control of dangerous things.

Among the wide variety of possible approaches to legalizing drugs, many proposals also call for the creation of a robust regulatory regime. In other words, it wouldn’t just be a free-for-all on many now-banned drugs. People might be able to purchase them at the pharmacy, but the quality of those substances would be rigorously checked. People with substance abuse problems might also be offered resources to get into treatment or, at least, safe spaces to use.

As for gun policy, the conversation doesn’t typically revolve around outright prohibition (despite the fears raised by some pro-gun advocates). If it did, it might be fair to argue that any such laws would not eliminate all gun violence and would surely lead to a black market for dangerous weapons that would be difficult for authorities to control.LONDON (Reuters) - Wild bees and honeybees are put at risk by three pesticides from a group known as neonicotinoids, Europe’s food safety watchdog said on Wednesday, confirming previous concerns that prompted an EU-wide ban on use of the chemicals.

The European Food Safety Authority (EFSA) report, which covered wild bees and honeybees and included a systematic review of scientific evidence published since EFSA’s 2013 evaluation, is seen as crucial to whether the European moratorium on neonicotinoid use remains in place.

The EU has had a moratorium on the use of neonicotinoids since 2014 after lab research pointed to potential risks for bees. Heinz-Peter Bader / Reuters

The updated risk assessment found variations due to factors such as species of bee, exposure and specific pesticide, “but overall the risk to the three types of bees we have assessed is confirmed,” said Jose Tarazona, head of EFSA’s pesticides unit.

The European Union has since 2014 had a moratorium on use of neonicotinoids - made and sold by various companies including Bayer and Syngenta - after lab research pointed to potential risks for bees, which are crucial for pollinating crops.

EU nations will discuss a European Commission proposal to ban three neonicotinoids next month in the Plant Animal Food and Feed Standing Committee.

“This is strengthening the scientific basis for the Commission’s proposal to ban outdoor use of the three neonicotinoids,” a spokeswoman for the EU executive said.

Crop chemical companies have argued that real-world evidence is not there to blame a global plunge in bee numbers in recent years on neonicotinoid pesticides alone. They say it is a complex phenomenon caused by a number of factors.

The industry lobby said that while it allows that there may be a risk to bees, EFSA has overstated it. It argued that any risk can be managed and a ban would cause further harm by forcing farmers to extend agricultural lands.

“Farmers need access to a broad range of tools to protect their crops,” Graeme Taylor of the European Crop Protection Association said.

Two major field studies in Europe and Canada published last year that sought to examine real-world effects gave mixed results. They found some negative effects after exposure to neonicotinoids in wild and honeybee populations, and also some positives, depending on the environmental context.

Environmental campaigners said the study confirmed regulators should act to ban the use of neonicotinoids.

“National governments must stop dithering ... to prevent the catastrophic collapse of bee populations,” said Franziska Achterberg, Greenpeace EU food policy adviser.

Wednesday’s EFSA report looked in detail at three specific neonicotinoids - clothianidin, imidacloprid and thiamethoxam –and assessed bee exposure to them via three routes: residues in bee pollen and nectar, dust drift during sowing or application of treated seeds, and water consumption.

Some scenarios, such as when the pesticides are used on crops inside glass greenhouses, present a low risk to bees, Tarazona told Reuters. But others, such as using neonicotinoids on flowering field crops that attract bees, are high risk.“The White House I worked in, the Trump administration, was troubling. It was very difficult. My analogy of it being a plantation, meaning an ecosystem where people feel oppressed, is pretty clear,” she told host Stephen Colbert.

The former director of communications for the Office of Public Liaison was frank about her latest sojourn into politics. So when Colbert prepared to list some of Trump’s most controversial quotes and actions and asked her to raise her hand when he mentioned something that she thought Trump shouldn’t have done, Newman said, “I should start now because most of them he shouldn’t have done.”Alberto Carvalho speaks at the opening of the Phillip Frost Museum of Science in Miami on May 8, 2017. New York City Mayo Bill de Blasio announced Wednesday that Carvalho would be the new leader of the city’s schools, but Carvalho publicly declined the job on Thursday. Sergi Alexander via Getty Images

New York City Mayor Bill de Blasio announced Wednesday that Alberto Carvalho would be the new leader of the city’s schools. It seemed like a done deal ― until Carvalho backed out on live television the next day.

The de Blasio administration starting looking for someone to fill the position of city schools chancellor when Carmen Fariña announced in December that she would be stepping down. Carvalho, who is currently superintendent of schools for Miami-Dade County Public Schools, is largely seen as a rising star in education. De Blasio’s decision to tap him was widely praised.

But Carvalho has had a change of heart, he said Thursday at a televised meeting with the School Board of Miami-Dade County. The first three hours of the meeting had been dedicated to board members and community members making emotional pleas for Carvalho to stay.

Carvalho said the promise he had made to the children of Miami was more important than his agreement with de Blasio’s administration.

“I underestimated the emotional tug, the level of commitment, the power that crying members of the community have had on me,” he said. “Madam Chair, against probably my personal best interest, I am making a decision and announcing a decision today. After speaking with the Honorable Mayor Bill de Blasio that I shall remain in Miami-Dade as your superintendent.”

De Blasio had released a statement the day before, in which he called Carvalho “a world-class educator with an unmatched track record of success.”

“I am very confident that our extensive, national search has found New York City the best person to lead the nation’s largest school system into the future,” de Blasio said in a statement, per The New York Times.

The mayor’s press secretary reacted to Carvalho’s announcement with shock.

Give us a minute, folks. We’re also sorting through the weirdness. — Eric Phillips (@EricFPhillips) March 1, 2018WASHINGTON (Reuters) - U.S. Justice Department Special Counsel Robert Mueller has issued two subpoenas to a social media expert who worked for longtime Donald Trump adviser Roger Stone during the 2016 presidential election campaign.

The subpoenas were delivered late last week to lawyers representing Jason Sullivan, a social media and Twitter specialist Stone hired to work for an independent political action committee he set up to support Trump, Knut Johnson, a lawyer for Sullivan, told Reuters on Tuesday.

The subpoenas suggest that Mueller, who is probing Russian meddling in the 2016 U.S. presidential election, is focusing in part on Stone and whether he might have had advance knowledge of material allegedly hacked by Russian intelligence and sent to WikiLeaks founder Julian Assange, who published it.

Stone appeared before the U.S. House of Representatives Intelligence Committee last September and denied allegations of collusion between the president’s associates and Russia during the election. “I am aware of no evidence whatsoever of collusion by the Russian state or anyone in the Trump campaign,” Stone told reporters at the time.

According to sources familiar with the ongoing investigation, Mueller also has been probing whether anyone associated with the Trump campaign may have helped Assange or the Russians time or target the release of hacked emails and other social media promoting Trump or critical of Democratic candidate Hillary Clinton.

A spokesman for Mueller declined to comment. Russia has denied interfering in the election. President Trump has repeatedly denied his campaign colluded with Russia.

Sullivan told Reuters that he heads Cyphoon.com, a social media firm, and “worked on the Trump campaign serving as Chief Strategist directly to Roger J. Stone Jr.”

“Welcome To The Age of Weaponized Social Media,” said a strategy document Sullivan prepared for Stone and seen by Reuters. He described a “system” he devised for creating Twitter “swarms” as “an army of sophisticated, hyper-targeted direct tweet automation systems driven by outcomes-based strategies derived from REAL-TIME actionable insights.”

For example, at 6:43 a.m. local time on Election Day in 2016, Trump tweeted, “TODAY WE MAKE AMERICAN GREAT AGAIN”. Trump’s message soon was retweeted more than 343,000 times, and in an interview last year, Sullivan told Reuters that the swarm helped overcome a surge in pro-Clinton social media postings and boost voter turnout for Trump.

Stone on Tuesday repeated his public denials that he had an inside track to WikiLeaks or others who hacked or published Democratic Party and Clinton-related emails and said no one from Mueller’s team has tried to contact him.

One of the two subpoenas delivered last week requests that Sullivan appear before a grand jury on May 18 at the Federal Courthouse in Washington, D.C. The other orders Sullivan to bring documents, objects and electronically stored information.But Kimmel revealed he won’t be addressing the Me Too or Time’s Up movements, which have prompted many people to talk about sexual harassment and assault in the entertainment industry.

“This show is not about reliving people’s sexual assaults,” he told ABC News’ Paula Faris in an interview that aired this week.

Kimmel said the awards show was “for people who have been dreaming about maybe winning an Oscar for their whole lives” and that “the last thing” he wanted to do was “ruin that” for them by “making it unpleasant.”

“That’s not what I want to do,” he added. “I’m not going to stop any bad behavior with my jokes.”Steve Bannon, alt-right icon and former White House chief strategist, says the Time’s Up movement is a force to be reckoned with ― and it’s only growing stronger.

In an interview with GQ published Wednesday, Bannon said he’s studying Time’s Up, the movement to end inequality and sexual misconduct in the workplace, as he assembles a new group focused on pushing his right-wing populist agenda.

“You see here something that’s in a very early, raw stage, but I’ve never seen such potential power in something,” Bannon said of Time’s Up.

Bannon, who was forced to resign his position as one of President Donald Trump’s top aides in August, and who was pushed out as executive chairman of the far-right Breitbart News in January, called Time’s Up the “anti-patriarchy movement.”

“I respect it. I don’t agree with it, but I respect it,” Bannon said. ”[It’s] going to become powerful, and I’ll tell you why. They had a million people in the streets throughout the nation [for the second Women’s March].”

“The most powerful thing to this movement is not Oprah Winfrey,” he continued, referring to the media mogul’s speech in support of Time’s Up at the Golden Globes in January. “The most powerful thing is a million people [in the streets] on a Saturday. That’s power.”

In February, during an interview with Bloomberg, Bannon suggested the growing “anti-patriarchy” momentum could be a serious political threat to Republicans.It’s a surprise these “Black Panther” fans will never forget.

On Wednesday, “The Tonight Show” asked people who loved Marvel’s new superhero movie to explain what it meant to them in front of a promo poster of star Chadwick Boseman.

Unbeknown to them, however, Boseman and host Jimmy Fallon were waiting behind a nearby curtain and listening to their every word.

When the pair eventually walked out, the fans’ reactions were priceless:

Boseman appeared to enjoy himself:

Check out how it went down in the clip above.by Kate Sosin Oeser

Last year was the deadliest on record for LGBTQ people, but you wouldn’t know that based on news coverage.

According to a new report from press watchdog Media Matters, cable and broadcast news spent less than 40 minutes across seven networks covering anti-LGBTQ violence, despite a year of unprecedented attacks.

“How are people going to know that this is a problem, not just so that they know that LGBTQ rights and safety is at risk but there are people who rely on this kind of information to be able to survive to know hey I might get targeted if I got on a dating app right now?” asks Media Matters’ LGBT Program Director Brennan Suen.

The National Coalition of Anti-Violence Programs (NCAVP) reported an 86 percent spike in anti-LGBTQ homicides in 2017, the worst the organization ever recorded. (The Pulse Nightclub shooting is not included in the tally.)

Over the course of the entire year, ABC, CBS, NBC, Fox Broadcasting Co., CNN, Fox News and MSNBC only discussed anti-LGBT violence 22 times, according to the report.

Fox News topped the list with 10 minutes and 21 seconds devoted to coverage of anti-LGBTQ violence. But most of that coverage (7 and a half minutes) was actually a segment that featured former Los Angeles Police Detective Mark Fuhrman defending the police officer who shot and killed nonbinary Georgia Tech student Scout Schultz, the report notes. CBS devoted 8 minutes and 29 seconds to coverage of anti-LGBTQ violence. Fox fell to the bottom of the list none at all, while other networks hovered in-between.

But networks largely covered just two stories related anti-LGBTQ violence. Schultz’s death was one. The other was the slaying of transgender Iowan Kedarie Johnson, which got attention after Attorney General Jeff Sessions’ assigning a prosecutor to investigate the murder.

“The lack of coverage for anti-LGBTQ violence also comes at a time when acceptance for LGBTQ people is reportedly declining.”

For the most part, networks discussed isolated incidents, failing to link them to a growing threat of anti-LGBTQ violence.

“Speakers contextualized their subjects as part of an overall trend of increasing violence against the LGBTQ community in only seven of the 22 discussions,” the report notes.

ABC hosted just one discussion of anti-LGBTQ violence. CNN did four times, but only linked it to a trend of violence against LGBTQ people once. The report comes amid the most shocking NCAVP anti-LGBTQ violence numbers to date. NCAVP reported 52 hate-related homicides last year alone. Transgender people accounted for 27 of those murders. People of color made up two-thirds of the victims in the report.

The lack of coverage for anti-LGBTQ violence also comes at a time when acceptance for LGBTQ people is reportedly declining. Suen also notes that anti-LGBTQ hate groups have been mainstreamed over the last year. President Trump keynoted the annual event of an anti-LGBTQ hate group last year when he spoke at the Values Voters Summit, and he has championed a rollback of LGBTQ rights.MOSCOW, March 1 (Reuters) - President Vladimir Putin unveiled an array of new nuclear weapons on Thursday, in one of his most bellicose speeches in years, saying they could hit almost any point in the world and evade a U.S.-built missile shield.

Putin was speaking ahead of an election on March 18 that polls indicate he should win easily. He said a nuclear attack on any of Moscow’s allies would be regarded as an attack on Russia itself and draw an immediate response.

It was unclear if he had a particular Russian ally, such as Syria, in mind, but his comments looked like a warning to Washington not to use tactical battlefield nuclear weapons.

His remarks were greeted with skepticism in Washington, where officials cast doubt on whether Russia has added any new capabilities to its nuclear arsenal beyond those already known to the U.S. military and intelligence agencies.

The Pentagon, which recently unveiled a nuclear policy revamp based partly on the bellicose posture from Moscow, said it was not surprised by Putin’s presentation.

“We’ve been watching Russia for a long time. We’re not surprised,” said Pentagon spokeswoman Dana White.

“These weapons that are discussed have been in development a very long time,” she said, without addressing any of Putin’s specific claims of new capabilities.

Putin has often used militaristic rhetoric to mobilize support and buttress his narrative that Russia is under siege from the West. His 2014 annexation of Ukraine’s Crimea boosted his ratings to a record high and he has cast his military intervention in Syria as a proud moment for Moscow.

On Thursday, he sought to back his rhetoric with video clips of what he said were some of the new missiles. The images were projected onto a giant screen behind him at a conference hall in central Moscow where he was addressing Russia’s political elite.

“They have not succeeded in holding Russia back,” said Putin, referring to the West, which he said had ignored Moscow in the past, but would now have to sit up and listen.

“Now they need to take account of a new reality and understand that everything I have said today is not a bluff.”

Among weapons that Putin said were either in development or ready was a new intercontinental ballistic missile “with a practically unlimited range” able to attack via the North and South Poles and bypass any missile defense systems.

Putin also spoke of a small nuclear-powered engine that could be fitted to what he said were low-flying, highly maneuverable cruise missiles, giving them a practically unlimited range.

The new engine meant Russia was able to make a new type of weapon - nuclear missiles powered by nuclear rather than conventional fuel.

“Nothing like it in the world exists,” Putin told the audience. “At some point it will probably appear (elsewhere) but by that time our guys will have devised something else.”

Other new super weapons he listed included underwater nuclear drones, a supersonic weapon and a laser weapon.

In one of his video clip demos, a weapon appeared to be hovering over what looked like a map of the state of Florida.

The audience, made up of Russian lawmakers and other leading figures, frequently stood up and applauded his presentation, which culminated with the Russian national anthem being played.

Earlier in the speech, he had struck a very different tone, ordering officials to halve the number of Russians living in poverty by sharply boosting social and infrastructure spending in an obvious pre-election pitch to voters.

NATO MEASURES “USELESS”

Putin, who has dominated his country’s political landscape for the last 18 years, said the technological advances meant that NATO’s build-up on Russia’s borders and the roll-out of a U.S. anti-missile system would be rendered useless.

“I hope that everything that was said today will sober up any potential aggressor,” said Putin.

“Unfriendly steps towards Russia such as the deployment of the (U.S.) anti-missile system and of NATO infrastructure nearer our borders and such like, from a military point of view, will become ineffective.”

Steps to contain Russia would also become unjustifiably expensive and pointless, he forecast.

Russian Defence Minister Sergei Shoigu said in a statement after the speech that the new weapons Putin had unveiled meant that NATO’s missile defense shield, in Poland, Romania and Alaska and planned elements in South Korea and Japan was like an umbrella that was full of holes.

“I don’t know why they would now buy such an ‘umbrella’,” Shoigu said, referring to Seoul and Tokyo.

NATO declined immediate comment.

The United States has long asserted that U.S. missile defenses are incapable of halting a large-scale attack by a major nuclear power, like Russia or China, due in part to the limited number of U.S. missile interceptors.

Instead, the technology is aimed at what the U.S. views as “rogue” states, like Iran or North Korea.

“They know very well that it’s not about them. Our missile defense has never been about them,” White said.

She added that the U.S. focus in addressing Russia’s nuclear modernization was strengthening America’s own nuclear forces to serve as a deterrent.

Lisbeth Gronlund, senior scientist and co-director of the Global Security Program of the Union of Concerned Scientists, said Putin’s announcement of a missile with a nuclear-powered engine, even if true, would change little when it came to the Russian threat since Russia already has large numbers of ICBMs.

Douglas Barrie, a senior fellow for military aerospace at the IISS think-tank in London, said he was skeptical about some of Putin’s statements.

“It’s a mix of things that are still in the lab, things that are in tests, and things we knew they had. We’ll have to unpick a lot of this to sort out what is really new.”

Putin also voiced concerns about a new U.S. nuclear doctrine, saying Russia’s own doctrine was defensive and only envisaged the use of nuclear weapons in response to an attack.

Russia has repeatedly said it is keen to hold talks with the United States about the balance of strategic nuclear power and Putin put Washington and other nuclear powers on notice.

“We will view any use of nuclear weapons against Russia or its allies, be it of small, medium or any force, as a nuclear attack on our country,” he said.

“Our response will be immediate. Nobody should have any doubts about that.”

Putin said that Russia did not plan to attack anyone, however. Russia’s growing military might was a guarantee of world peace, he said, designed to preserve a strategic balance of power on the planet.Supporters of the Equal Rights Amendment hold a sign as they are introduced in the gallery of the Virginia House earlier this month. The fight for the constitutional amendment is drawing momentum from the 2016 election and the #MeToo movement. Steve Helber/The Associated Press

By Marsha Mercer

Scott Surovell was a baby in a stroller when his mother took him to hearings on the Equal Rights Amendment in the early 1970s, and growing up, he often heard stories about the need for the ERA.

Now a Democratic state senator in Virginia, the 46-year-old has introduced a bill to ratify the ERA for the last six years, three when he was a member of the Virginia House and three in the Senate. Surovell has fallen short every time — most recently Feb. 9, when House and Senate committees quashed it. The Republican committee chairmen said floor votes were improper because the time limit for ratification set by Congress expired in 1982.

This year’s loss came despite a spirited demonstration by more than a hundred supporters in the Capitol, who sang “We Shall Overcome” and shouted “Shame! Shame!”

Many Americans either think the ERA is already part of the U.S. Constitution or that it has gone the way of John Travolta’s white leisure suit in “Saturday Night Fever.” But the fight goes on, and it is drawing fresh momentum from the 2016 election and the #MeToo movement.

The Constitution says an amendment must be approved by three-fourths of the states. But it does not mention a deadline, so supporters argue that Congress can extend the 1982 ERA deadline again, or waive it. The 27th Amendment on congressional pay raises, for example, was ratified 203 years after Congress proposed it.

Nevada last March became the 36th state to approve the ERA, meaning that supporters need only two more states to reach the 38 required for ratification. Before Nevada, the last state to ratify had been Indiana in 1977.

“The votes have all been hair-breadth losses — until Nevada,” said Roberta W. Francis, ERA education consultant for the Alice Paul Institute, a nonprofit in New Jersey that advocates for women. “This is a time when there’s a lot more energy under the ERA.”

Besides Nevada and Virginia, the states that did not ratify by the 1982 deadline are: Alabama, Arizona, Arkansas, Florida, Georgia, Illinois, Louisiana, Mississippi, Missouri, North Carolina, Oklahoma, South Carolina and Utah.

Equal Rights Amendment supporters voice their disapproval of the Florida Senate’s defeat of an ERA ratification bill in 1982. The Associated Press

Twenty-three states have added equal rights amendments to their state constitutions, mostly during the years the national ERA effort was moribund. Oregon added an equal rights guarantee to its Constitution in 2014, and legislators in Delaware and Vermont are working on state ERAs this year.

“We’re seeing a sea change where it’s becoming much harder to deny the truths of women’s voices,” said Georgia state Sen. Nan Orrock, a Democrat who has worked to ratify the ERA during 31 years in the Legislature. “There’s a palpable sense of women on the move.”

Nevada Surprise

The federal ERA’s main provision states that “equality of rights under the law shall not be denied or abridged by the United States or any State on account of sex.”

An ERA was first introduced in Congress in 1923, and Congress approved it in 1972, sending it to the states for ratification with a deadline of 1979, and extending it in 1978, to 1982.

In the current Congress, U.S. Sen. Ben Cardin, a Maryland Democrat, and U.S. Rep. Jackie Speier, a California Democrat, have proposed removing the deadline, allowing the ERA to become part of the Constitution as soon as a 38th state ratifies it. U.S. Rep. Carolyn Maloney, a New York Democrat, would start over with new language in a “fresh start” amendment.

One question mark is how to count the five states — Nebraska, Tennessee, Idaho, Kentucky and South Dakota — that later rescinded their ratifications. Courts have not ruled whether rescission is lawful.

In Nevada, the ERA’s prospects were bleak until just recently. Democratic Nevada state Sen. Pat Spearman got nowhere when she pushed for ERA ratification in 2015.

“People would tell me it was nothing more than a stunt, it didn’t mean anything, and we shouldn’t be wasting people’s time,” she said.

But when Democrats won control of the Nevada Legislature in 2016, Spearman saw her chance. Another advantage: Female lawmakers now make up about 40 percent of the Nevada Legislature, as much as any state.

Last March, the Nevada Senate passed the measure 13-8, with all Democrats and one Republican female senator voting in favor. In the Nevada Assembly, the vote was 28-14, again with all Democrats and one Republican woman voting for passage.

“If you had called me in mid-2016, I would not have said Nevada would ratify,” said Bettina Hager, Washington, D.C., director of the ERA Coalition and Fund for Women’s Equality, an advocacy group.

“What happened was everything was lined up,” Hager said. “You need three things to be in play: a strong lead sponsor, advocates working on the ground, and the makeup of the Legislature. Nobody was expecting it to go that well.”

Illinois as Epicenter

Illinois, long the epicenter of the Stop ERA movement, is poised to be a battleground once again.

State Sen. Heather Steans, a Democrat, said a number of Republicans who support the ERA but fear a challenge from the right have told her privately they will vote for it in April, after the March 20 primary.

Pro-ERA groups have formed a coalition that is sponsoring screenings around the state of a documentary about women, “Equal Means Equal.”

Michelle Fadeley, the Illinois chapter president for the National Organization for Women, said for the last six months she has been speaking at least four times a month to large audiences at screenings. “We are highly hopeful it’s going to happen this year in Illinois.”

Phyllis Schlafly, leader of the effort to defeat the Equal Rights Amendment, in 1976. The Associated Press

Phyllis Schlafly, who was born in St. Louis and lived in Alton, Illinois, was the face of the national fight against the ERA during the 1970s and early ’80s. Schlafly argued that the amendment would lead to coed bathrooms, require women to be drafted into the military and taxpayers to pay for abortions, among other things.

Over the years, the kinds of changes in society Schlafly warned about have come to pass — without the ERA. Same-sex marriage and adoption by gay couples are legal, women voluntarily serve in combat, and mothers can be required to pay child support.

Schlafly died in 2016 at 92, but the Eagle Forum she founded continues the fight, using many of her arguments.

“You could compel women to be drafted and put into combat,” said Elise Bouc, chairwoman of Stop ERA Illinois. “Now they have a choice, but they’d have to be drafted in equal ratios to men and placed in equal ratios in front-line combat.”

The Catholic Conference of Illinois, which lobbies on behalf of church members in the state Capitol, also plans to oppose the ERA, said Bob Gilligan, conference executive director. The conference did not take a stand the last two legislative sessions, when it was focused on tax issues involving church schools.

“This issue has been around since 1972, and many believe the clock has expired with the time allotted to pass the ERA,” Gilligan said. “We’re also opposed because the language should more accurately reflect current issues.” He said his group is worried that courts might use the ERA to mandate publicly funded abortions, or force Catholic hospitals to perform gender reassignment surgeries.

Stuck in the ’70s?

But some legal scholars have the opposite worry: that the 1970s ERA isn’t expansive enough.

“My idea for the ERA today is we should not be stuck in the 1970s,” said Julie C. Suk, professor at Cardozo School of Law at Yeshiva University, who has studied equal rights measures around the world.

“We need to start thinking about remaining inequalities — persistent pay inequity, lack of accommodation for pregnancies, and lack of paid parental leave,” she said. “Will the ERA help us solve these problems or stand in our way?”

The current ERA language prohibits discrimination by states and the federal government but not corporations. Judges could decide what the amendment covers, Suk said, adding that for judges to understand the amendment’s intent, supporters need to be loud.

In Virginia, Surovell is planning his strategy for next year.

“I’m going to find a Republican chief sponsor,” he said, noting that the ERA has bipartisan support in the General Assembly, and two Republicans on the Senate Rules Committee voted in favor.

Advertisement