SZA says she was “mad as hell for a little while” after not winning a Grammy at the 2018 awards show despite five nominations.

In an interview with GQ, the “Love Galore” singer shared her thoughts on her career, keeping her ego in line, and showing gratitude.

SZA opens up about the #Grammys: “You just have to move over and be grateful for the shit that did happen in your favor” https://t.co/F8JSut9XAB pic.twitter.com/nEQSHJjDNE — GQ Magazine (@GQMagazine) March 1, 2018

SZA was nominated for Grammys in the categories of best new artist, best urban contemporary artist, best R&B song, best R&B performance and best rap/sung performance for her critically acclaimed debut studio album “Ctrl.”

But she was beaten out for every award.

“You feel like you’re really falling short and you fucking failed [your fans],” she said in the interview.

“We reached a billion streams on Spotify. The United States fucks with my songs. We’re changing little girls’ lives across the world, and we didn’t even know what we were doing when we started. This is something much bigger than me and a fucking trophy. I’m appreciative of the opportunity. But shit happens.”

Presley Ann via Getty Images

SZA said she had a hard time facing the defeat publicly because she “just didn’t know how to take it.”

“I didn’t say anything, I didn’t post, because I’ve never had to deal with anything I really believed in wholeheartedly, or invested in, and went through something that publicly before,” she said. “I wanted to be honest as fuck, and if today I’m just mad as hell, I don’t want to say something that reflects me being mad as hell. But I definitely feel blessed now. I also don’t feel compelled to explain myself.”

The St. Louis–born and New Jersey–raised singer went on to say that she didn’t make her album with the Grammys in mind, and won’t make her second record for awards, either.

“I’m just gonna make really good fucking music and just try to touch people,” she said.

AdvertisementWASHINGTON ― President Donald Trump convened lawmakers at the White House for something unusual in today’s politics: a substantive, unscripted discussion of a contentious issue in which the president broke with party orthodoxy, all on camera.

In the made-for-TV event on Wednesday, Trump struck a moderate tone and encouraged a group of Republicans and Democrats to act quickly on a comprehensive gun reform package. He chided Republicans in the room for their unwillingness to stand up to the National Rifle Association, the nation’s top gun lobby group. He even expressed support for ideas like universal background checks and raising the minimum age at which one can purchase an assault weapon.

Flanked by Senators John Cornyn (R-TX) and Dianne Feinstein (D-Calif.) U.S. President Donald Trump meets with bi-partisan members of Congress to discuss school and community safety in the wake of the Florida school shootings Kevin Lamarque / Reuters

Trump’s move to the middle, which comes nearly two weeks after the horrific school shooting in Parkland, Florida, elicited smiles and fist pumps from several Democratic senators in the meeting. It even took some Republicans by surprise.

“I thought it was fascinating television, and it was surreal,” Senate Majority Whip John Cornyn (R-Texas), who sat next to the president, told reporters afterwards.

Yet as positive as the meeting sounded, Democrats warned there is reason for skepticism. Trump’s behavior, for example, was strikingly similar to a sit-down he held with lawmakers in January over what to do about undocumented young people who came to the U.S. as children, also known as Dreamers. During that time, he also spoke in platitudes but ultimately turned against a bipartisan compromise.

“It was like watching a rerun of the immigration meeting. Hopefully the follow-through will be different,” a senior Democratic Senate aide told HuffPost.

Supporters of stricter gun control laws are hoping that Trump will help them push through measures that conservatives would typically oppose. They hope to take advantage of the president’s own squishiness on policy and the calls for swift congressional action after the shooter in Parkland killed 17 people.

When Sen. Amy Klobuchar (D-Minn.) suggested Wednesday to add more protections against gun violence for domestic violence victims, Trump quickly agreed. To the surprise of many in his party, Trump rejected the idea of including GOP-supported measures to allow concealed carry permit holders to carry from one state to another. Overall, Trump’s message was that he wanted to sign “one great piece of legislation” into law, even if he did not explicitly spell out what that should look like.

The question now will be whether the passionate Trump at the Wednesday meeting will still be around in days to come. The immigration debate offers plenty of reasons to be skeptical.

“Everyone’s coming up to me, saying, ‘We just went through the same thing you went through on DACA.’” Sen. Dick Durbin (D-Ill.) told HuffPost on Wednesday.

“Why would you believe [the president]?” he added.

During the televised immigration meeting in January, Trump laid out four immigration pillars for a bill for the 700,000 Dreamers he put at risk of losing deportation relief when he rescinded the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program. But he indicated he was willing to be flexible about what Congress could put together.

“I’m not saying I want this or I want that. I will sign it,” Trump said at the time.

It all fell apart quickly. Two days later, Trump held an off-camera meeting with several lawmakers, during which Durbin and Sens. Lindsey Graham (R-S.C.) pitched a bipartisan proposal to give Dreamers legal status, ramp up border security and make some tweaks to the legal immigration system. Trump rejected their proposal and reportedly made his infamous ”shithole countries″ jab during a meeting discussing Haiti, El Salvador and African countries. (He denies the remark, although Durbin publicly confirmed it.)

Graham began to talk about “Tuesday Trump” and “Thursday Trump,” referring to the president’s reversal on the issue in between the days each meeting took place.

Trump later hardened his stance on what he was willing to accept in exchange for helping Dreamers, including by insisting that it include his exact demands for dramatic changes to the legal immigration system. His administration went on the attack on other proposals, holding White House calls with reporters to anonymously bash bipartisan plans. It also issued a highly unusual Department of Homeland Security statement that accused senators of supporting policies that would put American lives at risk.

When the Senate finally voted on Dreamer-related bills, none of them got to the 60-vote threshold needed for passage. The bipartisan proposal introduced by Sens. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) and Angus King (I-Maine) that the White House fought against received 54 votes. Trump’s preferred measure got only 39.

Klobuchar told reporters after the meeting that she was cautiously optimistic about the chances of some kind of gun legislation passing this time around in Congress because Trump appeared to more clearly spell out his position.

“I don’t know how much clearer he could have been,” she said.

But Sen. Chris Murphy (D-Conn.), a top gun control advocate in Congress, said that only time would tell whether the president is serious in tackling the issue.

“If he comes up here and sends his people up here to forcefully lobby for universal background checks, they will pass,” Murphy told reporters on Capitol Hill.Trevor Noah went to town on Housing and Urban Development Secretary Ben Carson on Wednesday’s broadcast of “The Daily Show.”

Noah took aim at Carson’s “bullshit” pledge to save his department money following reports he had spent more than $31,000 on a new dining set for his office. He joked that the spending spree wasn’t “the biggest scandal yet,” before airing footage of Carson farting during a recent Fox News interview.

“But let’s not let this hilarious moment distract us from the real issue,” said Noah. “While supporting deep budget cuts to his department, Carson is spending lavishly on dining sets and lounge furniture and $5,000 chairs, which is not OK.”The House Oversight Committee requested documents Wednesday on Housing and Urban Development Secretary Ben Carson’s expensive office redecoration.

Rep. Trey Gowdy (R-S.C.) signed a letter requesting the documentation after a complaint was filed against Carson’s department with the federal Office of Special Counsel. Former HUD employee Helen Foster alleged that she was retaliated against for refusing to “abet exceeding a spending cap” on redecorating the secretary’s office.

Carson reportedly spent more than $31,000 in taxpayer money on a custom dining set, The New York Times reported Tuesday. The expensive furniture prompted Foster’s complaint that Carson’s wife had pressured employees to somehow find the money to pay for it.

Foster claimed in her filing that she was demoted after acting HUD Director Craig Clemmensen requested she find the additional funds for the renovations, The Guardian reported. Clemmensen continued to pressure her on behalf of Candy Carson even after Foster cited a statutory limit of $5,000 for office furnishings without congressional approval.

“$5,000 will not even buy a decent chair,” Clemmensen allegedly told Foster.

In its letter, the House Oversight Committee requested documents and communication regarding Foster, as well as those referring to furnishing the office since Jan. 1, 2017, including receipts. The letter goes further in requesting all documents and communication on redecorating the secretary’s office dating as far back as 1998.

Carson is not the first official in President Donald Trump’s administration accused of abusing taxpayer money.Trump: "Hope Hicks, you admitted to telling lies for me, which is against your loyalty pledge. You must now commit...sudoku!"



Hicks: "...seppuku?"



Trump: "I know what I said."



Hicks: "I think...I think I'm just going to go."Shoppers in the Netherlands can now take low-impact living a step further after Dutch supermarket chain Ekoplaza launched the world’s first plastic-free aisle in one of its Amsterdam stores on Wednesday.

Customers can choose from almost 700 plastic-free products, including fruit, vegetables and grains, as well as more unlikely suspects such as meat and dairy. Those products that are packaged are either wrapped in compostable biomaterials or come in more conventional plastic alternatives such as glass, metal and cardboard.

An estimated 8 million tons of plastics enter our oceans annually — the equivalent of dumping one New York City garbage truck full of plastic into the ocean every minute of every day for an entire year, according to Ocean Conservancy.

Campaigners have been calling for supermarkets to do more about plastic waste as awareness of the toxic problem of plastics pollution has grown. Here, we go beyond Amsterdam to look at what else is happening to packaging in some of the more forward-thinking grocery stores around the world.

Vancouver, Canada: Nada

A post shared by Nada (@nadagrocery) on Nov 14, 2017 at 12:13am PST

As a marine biologist, Brianne Miller was constantly reminded of the harm plastic packaging does to our oceans. So she decided to do something about it. The result is Nada, a packaging-free grocery pop-up in Vancouver that will be opening a 2,400-square-foot permanent store in the city in April.

Miller admits going packaging-free isn’t always straightforward, particularly when it comes to the shelf life of products. But Nada is finding solutions to that, Miller told HuffPost, for example by featuring a small cafe at the new shop which will turn the store’s surplus fruit and vegetables into soups and smoothies.

Nada also prioritizes local sourcing, shortening the supply chain to help keep food fresh, and works with community organizations such as Food Stash Foundation to redistribute food nearing the end of its shelf life.

“I don’t think [zero waste] is just a trend, I think this is a movement here to stay out of necessity,” said Miller. “We’re a large amount of people on a planet with finite resources.”

Totnes, U.K.: Earth.Food.Love

The Eckersley family in their packaging-free shop in Totnes. EarthFoodLove

After Richard Eckersley retired from professional football, he and his wife, Nicola, invested their savings to open Earth.Food.Love in the town of Totnes in southwest England. “Packaging-free shops make sense, so we couldn’t understand why we couldn’t find any wherever we went,” Richard told HuffPost. “That’s when we decided to do it ourselves.”

As the 100 percent vegan and organic store approaches its first anniversary, Eckersley says the most rewarding thing has been the satisfaction he sees shoppers get from choosing how much they want, filling their own containers and weighing it all.

“Our customers realize they can have more control over their food [...] People are so used to just grabbing a packet of something. We’re here to help them slow down. There haven’t been any upsets so far — we’re going with the flow. As I always tell people, it’s just about really listening to what the customer wants.”

Berlin, Germany: Original Unverpackt

Original Unverpackt co-founder Milena Glimbovski. Original Unverpackt

A pioneer of zero-waste shopping, Berlin-based supermarket Original Unverpackt has taken its love of packaging-free shopping a step further by offering an online course (190 euros/$230) to teach others everything there is to know about opening a zero-waste store. To date, more than 200 people have signed up to the program, and several zero-waste projects have started as a result, according to co-founder Milena Glimbovski.

“The zero-waste movement was very small when we started [in 2014],” Glimbovski told HuffPost. “Now it’s growing hour by hour, and not just in Europe but around the world.”

Glimbovski believes it’s not surprising that the “not-so-sexy topic of trash” has become so pressing. “It makes sense — people feel an urgency to do something about it. A few years ago supermarkets wouldn’t even think about plastic-free aisles. Now consumers are asking questions and they’re asking for change. If consumers are active, industry will change,” she said.

Austin, Texas: in.gredients

A post shared by in.gredients (@in_gredients) on May 25, 2016 at 7:39am PDT

The in.gredients grocery store in Austin, Texas, opened its doors to the public in the summer of 2012 thanks to three brothers eager to establish a zero-waste grocery store in the city.

More than five years on, it now also includes a cafe, playground and event space, as well as a small garden plot out front which is tended by a local farmer. The produce grown there is then sold back to the store at low cost, and free of packaging.

About half the products the grocery store sells today – many of which are locally sourced — are packaging-free, with the store encouraging shoppers to bring their own containers to fill up on everything from granola to shampoo.

“We try to make it as easy as possible for customers to reduce their waste, and even donate five cents to a nonprofit for every container they fill up,” marketing director Grayson Vreeland told HuffPost.

And the word is spreading. Vreeland added that the store is regularly contacted — often several times a week — by people wanting to know how to set up a zero-waste store in their own town.Recent controversy surrounding director Quentin Tarantino apparently hasn’t affected the casting for his next film.

Brad Pitt is set to join Leonardo DiCaprio in Tarantino’s “Once Upon A Time In Hollywood,” Sony Pictures announced Wednesday. The long buzzed-about project will take place in 1969 and involve Charles Manson clan murder victim Sharon Tate. It’s slated for an Aug. 9, 2019, release.

Brad Pitt has been cast to play a struggling stuntman in Quentin Tarantino's new movie. Paul Bruinooge via Getty Images

DiCaprio, whose casting was reported in January, is set to play former Western star ― and Sharon Tate’s neighbor ― Rick Dalton. Pitt was cast as longtime stunt double Cliff Booth. Both men “are struggling to make it in a Hollywood they don’t recognize anymore,” Tarantino said in a press release.

“I couldn’t be happier about the dynamic teaming of DiCaprio & Pitt as Rick & Cliff,” the Oscar-winning filmmaker said.

Director Quentin Tarantino arrives for Sundance NEXT FEST Opening Night in Los Angeles on Aug. 10, 2017. A 2003 radio interview in which he said Roman Polanski's teen rape victim "wanted to have it" has recently resurfaced, and Tarantino apologized to the victim. Gabriel Olsen via Getty Images

Tarantino’s reputation had taken a hit recently after several negative news stories broke about him, including one that indirectly involved Tate. The model and actress was once married to director Roman Polanski, who was charged with raping a 13-year-old girl in 1977. He pleaded guilty to unlawful sex with a minor and fled the country before sentencing. A 2003 interview of Tarantino telling radio host Howard Stern that the teen “wanted to have it” went viral last month, and Tarantino later apologized to Polanski’s victim.

Tarantino admitted in October that he knew Harvey Weinstein was preying on women and didn’t do enough to stop it.

Advertisement“Saturday Night Live” might have to update its caricature of embattled Attorney General Jeff Sessions when the show returns this weekend.

The Washington Post reports that President Donald Trump has taken to referring to Sessions as “Mr. Magoo,” the bumbling and nearly blind classic cartoon character:

Citing unnamed sources, the Post said Trump has complained that he’s hired the best lawyers all his life but now is now stuck with Sessions, who he does not believe is loyal enough.

Trump on Wednesday renewed his attacks on Sessions, calling his actions “disgraceful” in an angry tweet:

Why is A.G. Jeff Sessions asking the Inspector General to investigate potentially massive FISA abuse. Will take forever, has no prosecutorial power and already late with reports on Comey etc. Isn’t the I.G. an Obama guy? Why not use Justice Department lawyers? DISGRACEFUL! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) February 28, 2018Obama-era White House photographer Pete Souza threw some shade at President Donald Trump for referring to immigrants as “animals.”

Trump made the comment during a roundtable with California leaders on Wednesday.

“We’re taking people out of the country. You wouldn’t believe how bad these people are. These aren’t people. These are animals,” Trump said.

Souza responded by posting this photograph of zebras to Instagram:

A post shared by Pete Souza (@petesouza) on May 16, 2018 at 7:59pm PDT

Souza regularly uses the social media platform to take aim at Trump. Recently, he poked fun at the president’s anger over White House news leaks with a throwback snap of former President Barack Obama’s pet dog Bo.

A post shared by Pete Souza (@petesouza) on May 16, 2018 at 11:02am PDT

Earlier this week, Souza also called out the Trump administration for failing to apologize for White House aide Kelly Sadler’s insensitive comment about Sen. John McCain’s (R-Ariz.) battle against an aggressive form of brain cancer:

AdvertisementThe anticipation for the 10th season of “RuPaul’s Drag Race” has been building ― and it reached a boiling point on Thursday, when it was announced that none other than Christina Aguilera would be the season’s first guest judge.

Xtina’s appearance on the massively successful reality show will follow pop diva Lady Gaga guest judging the first episode of Season 9.

Fans were quick to express their joy ― and also ask a few questions of the princess of pop.

I'M SHAKING — T. Kyle (@tkylemac) March 1, 2018

finally rupaul is giving the gays everything they want — clara como a luz do sol (@clarakct) March 1, 2018

you sending this tweet pic.twitter.com/WetGWjwfnd — Brian A. Hernandez (@BAHjournalist) March 1, 2018

right but where's the album — tyler oakley (@tyleroakley) March 1, 2018

“While preparing for season 10, I realized that one of our contestants was 11-years-old when we first launched ‘Drag Race,‘” executive producer and two-time Emmy Award-winning host RuPaul said previously. “The fact that we’re still here and still going strong is because of our talented queens. They are the heart and soul of the series. And as they continue to evolve and push the boundaries of drag, so does ‘Drag Race.’”

Head here to meet the 14 queens competing this season.When White House Communications Director Hope Hicks resigned on Wednesday, she was only the the latest of a series of high-profile departures from President Donald Trump’s administration.

She’s also the fourth person to vacate that specific role in a little more than a year, following Anthony Scaramucci, Sean Spicer, and Mike Dubke. It’s not unusual to have some turnover after a president’s first year in office, but this White House’s revolving door is far more active than any recent administration.

Here’s a partial round-up of those who’ve left ― either gracefully or with an escort ― since Trump took office.

Michael Flynn ― National Security Adviser

Trump’s former National Security Adviser, Michael Flynn, resigned last February following revelations about conversations he had with then-Russian ambassador Sergey Kislyak.

Flynn has since been cooperating with Special Counsel Robert Mueller’s ongoing investigation into Russian meddling in the 2016 presidential election. In December, he pled guilty to lying to the FBI about his contacts with the Russian government.

Mike Dubke ― Communications Director

Mike Dubke served as Trump’s communications director for three months between February and May, 2017 before his resignation. He wasn’t an especially public figure, rarely appearing on television or talking to reporters on the record.

Former White House press secretary Sean Spicer became the subject of a widely-popular spoof on SNL. Jonathan Ernst / Reuters

Sean Spicer ― White House Press Secretary and Communications Director

Spicer became one of the most ridiculed members of the Trump White House during his tenure as press secretary, including several notable spoofs on Saturday Night Live that made his lectern antics household knowledge. He abruptly resigned last July.

Reince Priebus ― Chief of Staff

Reince Priebus, the former chairman of the Republican National Committee, spent a little more than six months as White House chief of staff before he quietly submitted his resignation. Priebus continually butted heads with other powerful voices in the West Wing, including then-Chief Strategist Steve Bannon and the short-lived communications director Anthony Scaramucci.

Then-Homeland Security Secretary John Kelly, a retired Marine Corps general, took over the role in July.

Anthony Scaramucci ― Communications Director

Scaramucci served in the White House for a mere 10 days after joining the administration. His tenure was heaped in controversy, including a profanity-laced interview with New Yorker reporter Ryan Lizza. As the gregarious Long Island native’s departure was announced, Trump sent out a tweet reading “No WH chaos!”

Steve Bannon's comments in a book about the Trump administration launched a high-profile feud with the president. Carlos Barria / Reuters

Steve Bannon ― Chief Strategist

Former Breitbart News chairman Steve Bannon, once considered an untouchable confidant of the president, left the White House last August after spending the first half of the year helping shape Trump’s “America First” agenda. While the administration wished him the best at the time, he quickly became a political pariah after a very public feud with the president centering around quotes in a book where he declared actions by Donald Trump Jr. as “treasonous.”

The fallout was swift and far-reaching, and Bannon was ousted from his role at Brietbart in January, though GQ reported earlier this week that he still spends time at the company’s Washington, D.C. headquarters.

Tom Price ― Health and Human Services Secretary

Price resigned following a firestorm over his extravagant use of private and military planes for official travel. A series of flights cost American taxpayers more than $1 million, according to Politico, and despite his attempts to quash the controversy, he resigned the post a week after the expenses were first disclosed.

Omarosa Manigault Newman ― Director of Communications, Office of Public Liaison

Newman, a former reality television star who first rose to fame on “The Apprentice,” resigned from her role in December “to pursue other opportunities.” Her sudden departure was followed by reports that she was escorted from the property, although she has maintained that she resigned and was not fired.

She went on to criticize the Trump administration during an appearance on “Celebrity Big Brother” and even said she wouldn’t vote for the president again “in a million years.”

Newman has used her time post-White House to blast the Trump administration in various television appearances. Carlo Allegri / Reuters

Sebastian Gorka ―Deputy Assistant

Gorka was an early addition to the administration after having served as an adviser during Trump’s presidential campaign. He quickly became one of the most vocal defenders of Trump’s policies, including the controversial travel ban.

Gorka, a U.K. native with alleged ties to an anti-Semitic Hungarian group, left his White House job in August. He claimed he resigned from the role, but an unnamed administration official suggested in a statement to multiple media outlets that he was either fired or forced out.

Rob Porter ― Staff Secretary

Porter left the White House under a cloud of controversy after two of his ex-wives said that he had physically and emotionally abused them. The former staff secretary was able to serve in the White House for months with an interim security clearance that allowed him to view some of the nation’s most sensitive secrets, even though the claims of abuse had stalled his FBI background check.

The revelations have prompted Chief of Staff John Kelly to revamp security clearance procedures, and 30 top aides were recently stripped of their own interim clearances, including the president’s son-in-law, Jared Kushner.

Hope Hicks ― Communications Director

Hicks’ resignation marks the departure of one of Trump’s most trusted advisors. The enigmatic 29-year-old has worked for the president for years, despite having no previous political experience.

She recently spoke with Mueller as part of his ongoing probe, and reportedly said she sometimes tells “white lies” for the president. CNN reported on Wednesday that comments made by Hicks in 2016, just days after Trump was elected, have been the subject of questions by the special counsel.President Donald Trump has reportedly taken to calling Attorney General Jeff Sessions Mr. Magoo, causing the classic bumbling cartoon character’s name to trend on Twitter late Wednesday.

The report in The Washington Post led to some decidedly mixed feelings on social media. Some said the comment was was just more bullying by the president while others ― even some critics ― admitted to laughing at the insult:“I absolutely support this cause unequivocally and applaud all the brave souls who have come forward to share their stories,” the statement read.

“Sadly, last fall I became one of the accused, which I promptly revealed proactively to the network involved and to the public. And to be equally clear, those accusations were then investigated by an independent third-party over the course of a two-month process and involved dozens of interviews that included me, the accuser and countless others.”

“I eagerly participated in the investigation in order to demonstrate my innocence because I know my truth, and I believe in due process,” he said.

E! has confirmed that Seacrest will be at the award show come Sunday, while speculation abounds that certain actresses will avoid interviews with the talk show host on the red carpet.

Jennifer Lawrence expressed some hesitation when recently asked if she would speak to Seacrest before the ceremony, saying, “I don’t know about the Ryan Seacrest thing.”

“He has not been to trial for anything. I am not a judge. I am not a jury … that is where this stuff gets tricky,” Lawrence said.

Watch a clip from Thursday’s episode below.Jennifer Roach, 47, is speaking up about the sexual abuse she faced as a teen from a clergy member at an evangelical church in California. Jennifer Roach

A Washington woman is claiming she was molested by an evangelical youth pastor decades ago ― and that even though she told church leaders about the abuse, the man has enjoyed a long career in ministry ever since.

Jennifer Roach is a 47-year-old Anglican deacon and mental health therapist from Seattle. She said that in the mid-1980s, she was sexually abused by a pastor at the former First Baptist Church in Modesto, California. Roach said that when she brought up the accusations to the church community, she was first met with doubt and then pressured into forgiving her abuser.

Years later, Roach said she’s been inspired by the viral #MeToo movement and the related #ChurchToo movement, hashtags that people have used to demonstrate the prevalence of sexual assault and harassment.

“Seeing that anybody even understood or cared about this issue is incredible,” Roach told HuffPost about the #MeToo movement. “Those people were so few and far between for my entire adulthood, and it’s probably been that way forever.”

Roach hopes that speaking up about her experience now will contribute to the ongoing conversation about how allegations of sexual abuse are handled in American Protestant churches.

Because Roach spoke out about her experiences at the First Baptist Church, the accused pastor was placed on administrative leave from his current church.

“I feel like this was a dirty little secret in the nice evangelical or mainline churches that people haven’t been talking about,” she said. “I am thrilled that it’s getting talked about now.”

A Vulnerable Child

Roach, who first told her story to The Modesto Bee, said that the abuse began in 1986, when she was 14 years old. Her father had just died and she didn’t have a good relationship with her mother at the time. Then a youth pastor at the evangelical First Baptist Church, which changed its name to CrossPoint Community Church in 2010, began to take an interest in her. The married pastor, Brad Tebbutt, reportedly invited the young girl to stay at his apartment to get away from a difficult situation at home.

At first, Roach said, she thought it was “wonderful” that an adult like Tebbutt was showing her so much attention and care. Then, Tebbutt began to take advantage of her vulnerability by sexually assaulting her, Roach said.

“It was a disorienting experience,” she told HuffPost. “He’d kiss me and say he was worried and that it would never happen again, but of course it does.”

The abuse lasted for about two and a half years, Roach said. She would go back and forth between living at her own house and the pastor’s house.

“Sometimes, I would just feel like it was from the frying pan into the fire, which one do I want,” Roach said about deciding where to stay.

Then, a few months before Roach started her senior year of high school, Tebbutt and his wife moved away from Modesto. (Attempts to contact Tebbutt for this story were unsuccessful.)

In December 1988, Roach decided to tell an intern at First Baptist, Scott Mills, about the abuse. Mills reported the allegations to his supervisor, and from that point on, Roach said, church leaders failed to give her the kind of support she needed.

Mills, who is now a freelance marketer living in Medford, Oregon, confirmed to HuffPost that he was an intern at First Baptist Church from 1986 to 1991. He said that Roach told him in 1988 about the abuse she faced from Tebbutt. He reported it to pastors in charge of the youth group at First Baptist.

He said he now feels the church should have reported the abuse to police. He also said he wishes he had done more for Roach.

“Knowing what I know now about abuse, I wish I would have followed up more with Jennifer to see how she was doing to [ensure] she was getting the support she needed,” Mills told HuffPost in an email. “And I wish I would have done more to hold Brad responsible for his actions.”

Mills said he hopes others are encouraged by Roach’s decision to speak up.

″​I hope it ​gives other victims of abuse courage and that it helps change policies at churches and nonprofits — or ANY organization — for how they handle cases of abuse,” he said.

The Church’s Response

Roach said that leaders at First Baptist Church didn’t report the incident to her mother or to the police. (Members of the clergy weren’t added to California’s list of mandated reporters of suspected child abuse until 1997.)

The leaders initially doubted her story, she said, and asked if she was just seeking attention. Then, they reportedly told her she was “never allowed to speak about this” and that it would ruin the church’s reputation if she did so.

At one point, Roach said, she was placed alone in a room with about five adult men who asked her to describe the abuse in graphic detail. She was only 17 at the time.

“I didn’t have anybody with me,” she said about that meeting. “It was probably the most intimidating thing I’d ever had to do.”

According to The Modesto Bee, Bill Yaeger, the senior pastor at First Baptist Church at that time, died in 2005. Another person involved in the church’s response to Roach’s claims, Marvin Jacobo, continued working as a youth pastor in Modesto for years. Since 2014, he has been working as the executive director of the Modesto’s City Ministry Network, a religious nonprofit.

Roach claimed that Jacobo was the one who directed the church’s response to her allegations.

Jacobo didn’t respond to HuffPost’s requests for comment. He told The Modesto Bee that he reached out to Tebbutt after Roach came forward and that Tebbutt confessed that he had in fact abused the teen. Jacobo said he contacted Tebbutt’s wife and employer at the time.

However, he said he didn’t approach police because Roach “did not want to press charges. We wanted to honor her wishes in that and begin her process of healing.”

First Baptist leaders also reportedly arranged a meeting between Tebbutt and Roach a few years after the abuse ended. During that meeting, Tebbutt apologized about the abuse.

Jacobo told The Modesto Bee that Roach “seemed satisfied with the process and the results. I feel like we did everything we knew to do in addressing it. If she now feels this was insufficient, then we sincerely apologize.”

But Roach told HuffPost that First Baptist pastors pressured her into accepting Tebbutt’s apology.

“They kept saying, ‘We’re doing this for you, you’re going to be able to move on after this, you’re going to be able to forgive after this,’” Roach said. “So of course, I played my role too and accepted the apology. They had already told me what was expected of me. And I was in a frame of mind where doing what was expected of me was important.”

Roach told HuffPost that she felt First Baptist and its leaders were mainly focused on “protecting their own reputation.”

“There was a lot of heavy-handedness, and compulsion to get me to forgive him and move on,” Roach said. “They tried to tie a nice pretty bow on this story, make it a story of redemption and goodness. But in order to do that, you have to go through the bad part first, you can’t just sidestep.”

A Pastor’s Long Career

Roach said that Tebbutt sent her a detailed apology letter in 2005, as part of a Christian therapy program. She said the letter, which she forwarded to HuffPost, was Tebbutt’s attempt to take responsibility for his actions.

“A lot of victims of sexual abuse really long for a letter like that, really want an apology, really want it to be recognized. I kind of thought that was going to be my situation, too,” she said.

But she said that ultimately, the letter was not satisfying to her.

“I appreciate that he sent it, but it doesn’t change anything,” she said. “It doesn’t change any of my reality.”

After moving away from Modesto, Tebbutt continued to work in Christian churches. According to his bio, he was involved in youth ministry for over 30 years.

He now works at the International House of Prayer of Kansas City, an evangelical organization and worship center in Missouri. At IHOPKC, he leads the Simeon Company Internship, a mentoring community for Christians 50 years and older.

A screenshot of Tebbutt's bio from IHOPKC's website. wwwihopkcorg

Roach was hesitant to say whether she wants Tebbutt fired from his current job. She said she’s not looking for a specific outcome for Brad because she doesn’t want “anything to do with him.”

But generally, she said she believes anyone who commits sexual abuse should be immediately disqualified from being able to care for vulnerable people in any capacity.

“I think anybody who has done what he has done shouldn’t be in ministry,” she said.

IHOPKC told HuffPost that it is “firmly committed” to the safety of its members.

“In light of the recent accusations against one of our staff that took place over 30 years ago, as is typical in situations of these type of accusations, the staff member is on administrative leave while the veracity of these accusations is ascertained,” a representative for the church told HuffPost in an email.

Roach told HuffPost that she hopes that the organization is taking the accusations seriously. For her, that doesn’t mean investigating what happened more than 30 years ago. It means focusing on Tebbutt’s record at IHOPKC and what kind of contact he’s had with young people there.

“I hope they spend time looking at who he had contact with, young women especially, and whether that might have been inappropriate,” she said about IHOPKC.

The Way Forward

In the wake of the #MeToo movement, survivors of sexual abuse in church communities began to come forward with their own stories on social media. Using the hashtag #ChurchToo, women discussed being mentored and groomed for abuse by church leaders ― then censured and ostracized by their spiritual communities when they came forward with their experiences.

Over and over again, women spoke about how an emphasis on grace and redemption in Christian theology was often weaponized against victims, pressuring survivors to quickly offer forgiveness to abusers.

Earlier this month, Rachael Denhollander, the first woman to publicly accuse former USA Gymnastics team doctor Larry Nassar of sexual abuse, turned a critical eye on how sexual abuse allegations are handled in evangelical communities. The advocate said she believes church is one of the “worst places” for survivors to go for help.

″[Christians] can tend to gloss over the devastation of any kind of suffering but especially sexual assault, with Christian platitudes like God works all things together for good or God is sovereign,” Denhollander, who identifies as evangelical, told Christianity Today. “Those are very good and glorious biblical truths, but when they are misapplied in a way to dampen the horror of evil, they ultimately dampen the goodness of God.” Experts on clergy sexual abuse say it’s important for churches to prioritize the needs of survivors, instead of worrying about the damage the accusations could cause to institution’s reputation. Ashley Easter, an advocate for abuse victims, told HuffPost earlier this month that when victims come forward, churches should immediately get outside professionals involved ― law enforcement, licensed counselors, justice attorneys for victims and unbiased investigators. “For the church to become a safe place for abuse survivors, it must repent of its sin of shielding perpetrators in their ranks,” Easter said. “The church needs to reevaluate its patriarchal shaming and silencing of victims and create an environment where abuse disclosure is encouraged and met with belief and compassion.”

Jennifer Roach is now an ordained Anglican minister and therapist who has worked with sexual abuse victims. Jennifer RoachA former top aide to a Pennsylvania GOP congressman who used taxpayer money to settle a sexual harassment complaint resigned as another lawmaker’s chief of staff after he was targeted by a sexual misconduct probe.

Brian Schubert stepped down Wednesday as chief of staff for Rep. Neal Dunn (R-Fla.) after the House Ethics Committee announced a misconduct investigation of him and his former boss, Rep. Patrick Meehan (R-Pa.). Meehan said in January he wouldn’t seek re-election after admitting telling a decades-younger aide he was her “soul mate.”

It appears the saga gets even more complicated, however. Schubert and Meehan both may be under investigation for harassment of the same woman, Politico reported.

“The Investigative Subcommittee shall have jurisdiction to determine whether Representative Patrick Meehan and/or his former Chief of Staff, Mr. Brian Schubert, who is currently employed by another House office, engaged in conduct that constitutes sexual harassment, retaliation, or misuse of official resources, in violation of House Rules, law, regulations, or other standards of conduct,” the House Ethics Committee said Tuesday in a statement.

The panel announced in January that it would investigate Meehan, then an Ethics Committee member, and would remove him from the committee. He announced a few days later that he would retire.

Politico, citing sources familiar with the situation, reported that Meehan fired Schubert in 2016 after Schubert made romantic advances to a woman in Meehan’s office. Meehan then expressed his own romantic interests in the same woman, the outlet reported.

Meehan admitted writing the staffer a letter professing himself her “soul mate” after he learned she was in a serious relationship. He turned hostile when she didn’t reciprocate, the woman said in a complaint last year.Jennifer Lawrence has a blockbuster franchise, an Oscar win and countless other film awards under her belt. But there’s one role the 27-year-old A-list actress is still “devastated” she didn’t get.

“Emma Stone and I actually had this conversation once because we used to always audition for the same thing, which now seems silly because our careers are so different,” Lawrence said on Howard Stern’s radio show Wednesday.

“But the one thing that really killed me, like the only time I’ve ever been truly devastated by losing an audition ― ’cause most of the time you’re like, ‘Ah, wasn’t meant to be, move on, what can you do?’ ― was Tim Burton’s ‘Alice in Wonderland,’” she told Stern.

Lawrence lost that part to actress Mia Wasikowska, who she admitted was “perfect and amazing” for the movie. She also revealed that Stone once got a role she was “dying for,” but didn’t mention what it was (though Lawrence told The Hollywood Reporter last year that she wanted Stone’s part in “Easy A.”).

Jennifer Lawrence at the NYC premiere of her new movie, "Red Sparrow" on Feb. 26. Taylor Hill via Getty Images

During her conversation with Stern, the “Red Sparrow” actresses also revealed that she auditioned for “Twilight,” but the odds weren’t in her favor at the time (like they later were for Katniss Everdeen).

“I didn’t really know what it was,” she said, laughing. “When you audition when you’re like a run-of-the-mill actor ― you know we’re all auditioning for all sorts of things ― you just get like five pages and they’re like, ‘Act monkey.’ When it came out, I was like, ‘Hot damn! Whoa!’”

The actress said she wasn’t jealous she didn’t land the “Twilight” part.

If she did, the “Hunger Games” series would be entirely different, as would Lawrence’s life. That’s the role that changed the actresses’ career trajectory forever, and inspired her to speak up about the pay disparity between men and women in Hollywood.

“I knew it was gonna be a life-changer,” Lawrence told Stern. “I knew.”

Listen to more of Lawrence’s interview with Stern below:Robert Downey Jr. in "Avengers: Infinity War." Marvel

The Avengers are assembling a week earlier than expected.

Marvel Studios announced Thursday that the highly anticipated superhero team-up movie “Avengers: Infinity War” will hit theaters on April 27, instead of its original May 4 premiere date.

The film studio’s official Twitter account revealed the news in a playful back-and-forth with Robert Downey Jr., who plays Tony Stark, aka Iron Man, in the franchise.

After taking the temperature about fans’ excitement for the film on social media, the actor tweeted at Marvel, asking if there was any chance he possibly could see the movie earlier.

On a scale of one to infinity, how excited are you to see #InfinityWar on May 4th? pic.twitter.com/72jYKj2ODG — Marvel Studios (@MarvelStudios) March 1, 2018

Any chance I could see it earlier? — Robert Downey Jr (@RobertDowneyJr) March 1, 2018

Ask and ye shall receive, because what followed was an exchange nailing down when he could see the film and with whom. Turns out, it’s with the entire world and sooner than anyone had anticipated.

Anything for you, Mr. Stark! How’s April 27th? — Marvel Studios (@MarvelStudios) March 1, 2018

Great. With friends? — Robert Downey Jr (@RobertDowneyJr) March 1, 2018

The entire world? — Robert Downey Jr (@RobertDowneyJr) March 1, 2018

Finally, Marvel revealed a new poster for the film confirming the updated release date, which prompted Downey Jr. to tweet in celebration, “You guys wanted it. You got it.”

That’s a FANTASTIC idea! Done.



Avengers: #InfinityWar in theaters everywhere April 27th. pic.twitter.com/n5JhJWpnqc — Marvel Studios (@MarvelStudios) March 1, 2018

You guys wanted it. You got it. See you there April 27th. pic.twitter.com/DsllNH2ko6 — Robert Downey Jr (@RobertDowneyJr) March 1, 2018

Fans of the franchise immediately lost all semblance of chill on social media, relishing in the news that they were that much closer to seeing the film in theaters.

WE GET TO SEE INFINITY WAR ON APRIL 27 INSTEAD AHHHHH pic.twitter.com/g6rS6H5d4f — talia (@spjdeyholland) March 1, 2018

Black Panther in February, A Wrinkle in Time in March, now Infinity War in April?! Let me breathe!!!



jk I wanted this this is exactly what I wanted — Ashley C. Ford (@iSmashFizzle) March 1, 2018

*cancels may 4th plans, cancels prior april 27th plans, also cancels all plans from now until april 27th just in case* https://t.co/DDEYktllbD — Alex Zalben (@azalben) March 1, 2018

It’s unclear exactly why Marvel chose to move up the film’s release date, but it gives the film its best shot at weeks-long box office domination ahead of competing blockbusters “Deadpool 2” and “Solo: A Star Wars Story,” which hit theaters in May.The Utah House of Representatives said Wednesday that some of its lawmakers had “taken the time” to explain how a bill becomes a law by creating a “rap parody” set to the “Fresh Prince of Bel Air” theme song.

Readers may not even have to view the video, which has been described as “embarrassing,” “abysmal” and “a nightmare,” to ask the inevitable question: Why?

Our representatives have taken the time to explain how a law is made...with a surprise twist. Give it a listen and share so all your friends can know how laws are made! #utpol @GHughes51 @BradWilsonGOP @kimfcoleman @NormThurston @mikemckellutah @RepJimDunnigan @JohnKnotwellUT pic.twitter.com/KqaUSqOKtC — Utah House of Reps (@UtahReps) February 28, 2018

Even Salt Lake County’s Health Department seemed to troll the lawmakers.

brb labeling this as a public health hazard pic.twitter.com/ndbwVOy4Cg — Salt Lake Health (@saltlakehealth) February 28, 2018

A spokeswoman for the Utah House told HuffPost that the video grew out of an idea provided by an intern in the chamber’s communications department. The intern thought it would be “a fun and creative way” to make people more aware of the legislative process.

It’s safe to say viewers are likely more aware of Utah lawmakers’ willingness to appear foolish than they are about legislative processes. But if anyone is still curious about the latter matter, this 1976 “Schoolhouse Rock!” segment still does the trick.President Donald Trump held a "listening" session with school shooting survivors and others at the White House on Feb. 21, 2018. Jonathan Ernst / Reuters

Polling in the aftermath of a mass shooting in the U.S. usually follows a well-worn pattern. The first surveys, conducted with the tragedy still flashing across TV screens, show a brief uptick in concern about gun violence, and maybe a spike in the national appetite for tighter firearm restrictions. Then, as soon as the story fades from the headlines, the increase is gone.

This time looks different.

A HuffPost/YouGov survey taken immediately after the Feb. 14 school shooting in Parkland, Florida, found the same familiar uptick. But in the days since, the numbers have continued to shift in favor of congressional action on guns. There’s also a rising belief that Congress could actually take such action.

The deaths of 17 students and staff members Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School ― and the surge of activism that’s followed, led by surviving classmates ― have, the polling suggests, moved the national debate in a way that last year’s shootings at a Las Vegas concert and a Texas church did not.

Americans now say by a nearly a two-to-one margin, 50 percent to 26 percent, that it’s politically possible to pass stricter gun laws ― a high in polling since 2015, and a remarkable swing from less than two weeks ago, when just 38 percent saw it as feasible.

HuffPost

The shift spans political lines and includes both those who favor such a change and those who don’t. The share of Hillary Clinton voters believing new laws can be passed rose by 13 percentage points, while the share of Donald Trump voters rose 17 points.

Active support for making gun laws stricter has increased more modestly in the HuffPost/YouGov poll: It currently stands at 58 percent, up from the 48-to-54-percent range it occupied from last year.

But other questions show more substantial movement in a willingness to accept new restrictions, and in a sense that they’re legislatively achievable.

Sixty percent of Americans now say that mass shootings are something that can be stopped, rather than a fact of life in the country ― up 18 points from as recently as last October. A 51 percent majority say Congress should take action to reduce mass shootings, up 10 points since last year.

And 65 percent, including a majority in both parties, now say that it’s possible to enact some kinds of new gun regulations while still maintaining Americans’ right to bear arms. Immediately after last year’s Las Vegas shootings, just 53 percent said so.

Much of the change on this question appears due to a shift of opinion on the right. A majority of Trump voters, 52 percent, now say gun laws could be tightened without violating the Second Amendment, up from 43 percent immediately after the Parkland shooting and just 33 percent after last year’s Las Vegas shooting. Among Republicans, the number is currently 61 percent, up from 42 percent last fall.

The change in opinion on guns should come with a sizable helping of caveats. Public support for gun control ― and especially for specific measures like background checks, which enjoy near-universal support ― has long outpaced the implementation of actual policy on the issue, in part because opponents of gun restrictions have been more likely to make their views heard to officials.

And though the 21 percent who count gun issues among their top priorities in the HuffPost/YouGov poll is notably higher than it was last year, the topic still ranks behind issues like health care and the economy. It’s also unclear whether the momentum behind this push for gun control will last the months until the midterm elections.

At this moment, however, the political landscape looks more promising for gun control advocates than it has in some time.

Use the widget below to further explore the results of the HuffPost/YouGov survey, using the menu at the top to select survey questions and the buttons at the bottom to filter the data by subgroups:

The HuffPost/YouGov poll is among a slew of recent surveys finding a substantial shift on gun control. A roundup of the latest from other outlets:

CNN: “Support for stricter gun laws has spiked to the highest level since 1993, and almost two-thirds say government and society can take action to prevent future mass shootings, according to a new CNN poll conducted by SSRS. The findings suggest the school shooting in Parkland, Florida, has shifted public opinion on gun laws in a way other recent mass shootings have not.”

Politico: “Support for stricter gun laws has spiked in polls conducted after the fatal South Florida school shooting, hitting its highest level in at least a quarter-century. Roughly 2 in 3 Americans now say gun control laws should be made more strict in the wake of the murder of 17 people at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School, according to a number of polls, including a new POLITICO/Morning Consult poll that shows support for stricter gun laws among registered voters at 68 percent, compared with just 25 percent who oppose stricter gun laws.”

Quinnipiac: “American voters support stricter gun laws 66-31 percent, the highest level of support ever measured by the independent Quinnipiac University National Poll, with 50-44 percent support among gun owners and 62- 35 percent support from white voters with no college degree and 58-38 percent support among white men.”

YouGov: “A majority of the public consistently has supported many gun control proposals: just over half in last week’s Economist/YouGov Polls say they want stricter gun laws in general. But support has not grown beyond that ― until now. ... The movement towards supporting stricter gun laws has taken place across the political spectrum.”

Marist: “Following the tragic shooting at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Florida, 71% of Americans, including 58% of gun owners, agree the laws governing the sale of firearms need to be stricter. This is up from 64% in October 2017. ... Of note, 77% of Americans who say a candidate’s position on gun policy will have a major influence on their vote in this year’s midterm elections assert gun laws need to be strengthened.”

USA Today: “Americans overwhelmingly support tougher gun laws, a new USA TODAY/Suffolk University Poll finds, but they also overwhelmingly agree on this: Congress isn’t likely to act anytime soon.”

CBS: “Sixty-five percent of Americans now say laws covering the sale of guns should be stricter ― an eight-point increase from December. It is the highest number recorded in this poll for stricter gun sale laws. The rise has been primarily among Republicans and independents, with a large increase among Republicans from last December. Democrats remain in favor.”

The HuffPost/YouGov poll consisted of 1,000 completed interviews conducted Feb. 26-28 among U.S. adults, using a sample selected from YouGov’s opt-in online panel to match the demographics and other characteristics of the adult U.S. population.

HuffPost has teamed up with YouGov to conduct daily opinion polls. You can learn moreabout this project and take part in YouGov’s nationally representative opinion polling. More details on the polls’ methodology are available here.Admit it: It’s catchy.

The Backstreet Boys released their first new song in years late Wednesday, lighting up social media.

Considering that Twitter wasn’t even around when these guys were setting young hearts aflutter in the ’90s, that’s an accomplishment.

“Don’t Go Breaking My Heart” (not the Elton John song) has a nice hook, and the group’s choreography in the music video above provides nostalgic comfort ― with some dad-style panache.

Band members AJ McLean, Howie Dorough, Kevin Richardson and Brian Littrell are all in their 40s, and Nick Carter is 38, so give these “boys” credit for working to stay fresh.

“The minute we heard this song, we knew it was special,” Richardson said in a statement, according to Billboard. “I geeked out over the piano and synths. When that groove drops on the second verse, COME ON. Great verse, hook and melodies. Just makes you wanna listen over and over again.”

We won’t argue with that.

Fans on Twitter had their say:

I just listened to the new Backstreet Boys song and.... holy crap I love this pic.twitter.com/PJxhOxrAPk — Saltydkdan (@saltydkdan) May 17, 2018

Can we all just take a moment to appreciate @backstreetboys and thank them for being the amazing people and entertainers that they are? Cause seriously, there is no one else like these boys. I am so proud to be a fan 👏🏻❤️ #DontGoBreakingMyHeart — Rebecca (@xo_Rebecca_xo) May 17, 2018

The group, which has a Las Vegas residency, is celebrating its 25th anniversary this year and last made a studio album in 2013. “In A World Like This” featured a lead single of the same name.

Welcome back, Boys, even if you never really left.

AdvertisementJoshua Roberts / Reuters

The annual Conservative Political Action Conference (CPAC) always attracts its fair share of racists and conspiracy theorists looking to rub shoulders with respected, establishment Republican types.

But at 2018’s CPAC last week, it at times felt like the loons had taken control of the place. The Gaylord National Resort & Convention Center, just outside of Washington, D.C., was crawling with white nationalists. We’re talking open bigots who promote the idea of a white ethno-state and spend a frightening amount of time fretting over anti-Semitic conspiracy theories.

The Southern Poverty Law Center, which tracks extremism, called this year’s gathering akin to “a carnival of conspiracy theorists, white nationalists, and mainstream Republicans all uniting under President Trump.”

“In many ways,” the SPLC wrote, “CPAC has become an annual measure of how far the radical right has moved into the mainstream of the conservative right, especially in recent years as anti-Muslim, anti-immigrant and anti-LGBT groups have found political friends in the United States and Europe.”

President Donald Trump also gave an anti-immigrant, lie-filled speech at CPAC. Here’s some of the people who went to the conference to cheer him on.

The White Nationalists

Richard Spencer, the “alt-right” white supremacist movement figurehead, was banned from CPAC this year. (He reserved a hotel suite nearby, and invited young conservatives to stop by for a chat. It was sad.)

Many of Spencer’s white nationalist compatriots, however, got into the conference just fine.

Nicholas Fuentes

d o n o t b a r r a g e pic.twitter.com/Jo0BBmJscg — Nicholas J. Fuentes (@NickJFuentes) February 22, 2018

Nicholas Fuentes, host of the fashy America First podcast, attended the violent white supremacist rally in Charlottesville, Virginia, last year. Although he denies being a white nationalist, he often parrots their language and hangs out with prominent members of the movement. He believes there’s a “white genocide” going on and thinks a Eurocentric ethno-state would be just swell.

He’s also scheduled to speak at an upcoming conference for American Renaissance, a group founded by white nationalist Jared Taylor, whom Fuentes has praised.

Fuentes was inside CPAC this year, yukking it up with people like Nigel Farage, one of the architects of Brexit and a former leader of the U.K. Independence Party.

Peter Brimelow

Peter Brimelow, second from the right, at CPAC. HuffPost

Peter Brimelow is the suit-and-tie racist behind the group VDARE, whose website serves as a platform for white nationalists and anti-Semites.

According to the SPLC, Brimelow and his mop of white hair were at CPAC this year with Carl Horowitz, a frequent speaker at the annual H.L. Mencken Club conference, a gathering of white nationalists.

Slate caught up with Brimelow at CPAC. “[M]y heart is with civic nationalism, but my head is with racial nationalism,” he said. “Because I think that’s the way things are going — I think the country is precipitating out on racial lines.”

Patrick Casey And Identity Evropa

Executive Director Patrick Casey and other Identity Evropa activists had a successful day discussing immigration, identity, and demographics with #CPAC2018 attendees. pic.twitter.com/RJtWFPJ60n — IDENTITY EVROPA (@IdentityEvropa) February 23, 2018

Identity Evropa is a preppy white nationalist organization known for posting its propaganda on college campuses. Its members want an ethnostate and were at the Charlottesville rally chanting, “You will not replace us.” The group’s current leader, Patrick Casey, wrote on the Identity Evropa site that he “attended CPAC with another member of Identity Evropa leadership on Friday,” passing out business cards and “meeting up with other IE members throughout the day.”

Some Identity Evropa members, Casey wrote, “traveled alone; others attended the conference with their fellow College Republicans; and a few were there in a professional capacity.”

Marcus Epstein

Marcus Epstein, right, at CPAC, with Mike Cernovich standing to the left. HuffPost

Marcus Epstein — an anti-immigrant attorney who co-founded a now defunct white nationalist college organization called Youth for Western Civilization — was charged with assault in 2007 for calling a black woman a racial slur and attempting to karate chop her in the head. (He entered what’s called an Alford plea, in which a defendant doesn’t admit guilt but acknowledges that the prosecution would likely win its case.)

He was spotted at CPAC sitting with a bunch of “alt-lite” conspiracy theorists, including Jack Posobiec and Gateway Pundit’s Lucian Wintrich. He was also spotted chatting with The Daily Caller’s Scott Greer, who has been photographed wearing Youth for Western Civilization paraphernalia while hanging out on the Virginia compound of a white power group.

Far-Right Trolls, Propagandists, Conspiracy Theorists And More!

The so-called “alt-lite” or “New Right” is a loose coalition of far-right activists made up of conspiracy theorists, men’s rights dodos, and obnoxious Twitter celebrities who publicly claim to reject racism and fascism, but nevertheless have deep connections to the explicit racists and fascists of the alt-right.

As we’ve written about before, the alt-lite provides cover for, and acts as a conduit to, the alt-right.

The alt-lite had a big presence at CPAC. Here’s a bunch of them sitting together:

HuffPost

Starting on the left we have Posobiec, the Seth Rich and Pizzagate conspiracy theorist. To his right is Breitbart News tech reporter Charlie Nash, according to multiple reporters who attended CPAC and identified him to HuffPost.

Next is Wintrich, the White House reporter for the deeply disreputable pro-Trump Gateway Pundit. Wintrich recently made headlines for attempting to give an “it’s OK to be white” speech at the University of Connecticut. (“It’s OK to be White” is a meme that grew out of the neo-Nazi fever swamps of the internet message board site, 4chan.)

To the right of Wintrich is Ali Akbar, a New Right activist and MAGA fan. And next to Ali, is Marcus Epstein, the white nationalist described above.

Also among the CPAC crowd (in the photo below) was former alt-right bigot, current alt-lite activist and pro-Trump troll Mike Cernovich, a men’s rights devotee and date rape apologist famous for pushing the Pizzagate conspiracy theory and saying loathsome things about all kinds of things.

Here’s a photo of Will Chamberlain, left, debating the aforementioned Fuentes at CPAC. Chamberlain hangs out with the alt-lite folks and is head of MAGA Meetups, which organizes networking events for Trump supporters.

Screenshot

Right Wing Watch’s Jared Holt reported that members of the Proud Boys — a misogynistic fraternity that attracts racists and fascists, and which was recently designated a hate group by the SPLC — were at CPAC. Here’s Proud Boys founder Gavin McInnes at a recent alt-lite event in New York:

Andrew Kelly / Reuters

HuffPost

Here’s a video of Sebastian Gorka shoving a reporter at CPAC and allegedly telling him to “fuck off.” Gorka, a former White House adviser to Trump, is an anti-Muslim conspiracy theorist. Vitezi Rand, a Nazi-linked Hungarian nationalist group, counts him as a member.

It’s hard to hear, but @calebecarma tells me Gorka told him to “fuck off” and he won’t talk to him because Caleb is “irrelevant.” pic.twitter.com/ewaBsqrqbz — Max Tani (@maxwelltani) February 22, 2018

And here’s a photo of Frank Gaffney at CPAC. Gaffney was a persona non grata at CPAC for years, due to his paranoid assertion that two CPAC board members were secretly working with the Muslim Brotherhood.

Gaffney believes all kinds of people he doesn’t like are working for the Muslim Brotherhood, including Hillary Clinton aide Huma Abedin and conservative activist Grover Norquist. Gaffney is the country’s foremost anti-Muslim conspiracy theorist, often promoting debunked claims about how American Muslims are secretly plotting to take over the U.S. government. This year, Gaffney hosted his very own panel at CPAC. It was about how to get Muslims out of America.

And here’s a video of former Arizona sheriff Richard Mack at CPAC. Mack heads the anti-government extremist group Constitutional Sheriffs and Peace Officers Association, which contends that sheriffs are the highest law enforcement authority in the land, and can defy federal laws. He’s apparently running for Congress.

Luke O’Brien contributed reporting.

This story has been updated with the identification of Charlie Nash.