Khloe Kardashian can’t catch a break.

The pregnant reality TV has always had her critics ― she is a Kardashian after all ― but ever since announcing that she’s expecting her first child with NBA player Tristan Thompson, the internet has been unrelenting.

The Good American designer and sisters Kim and Kourtney are currently traveling in Japan for a girls trip before she’s set to deliver sometime in March. The mom-to-be has been posting photos from the trip of herself cradling her baby bump, which for some reason ignited a backlash.

“People are very opinionated about my bump,” she wrote on Twitter. “I choose to cradle my bump because it’s mine. I’ve waited for this very short moment for years. I have only months to enjoy this phase in my life, so I will touch my bump and love my bump as often as I choose.”

People are very opinionated about my bump. I choose to cradle my bump because it’s MINE. I’ve waited for this VERY short moment for YEARS. I have only months to enjoy this phase in my life, so I will touch my bump and love my bump as often as I choose. Mommy loves you baby! ❤️ — Khloé (@khloekardashian) February 28, 2018

Some also took issue with Kardashian traveling in the first place, especially to such a far-away locale, considering she’s planning on giving birth in Cleveland, Ohio, where Thompson is based most of the year.

She went onto assure her followers that she took every precaution, writing, “I’m allowed to travel according to my dr. Of course before our flight I took all the precautions and got my body checked from my dr and I’m completely healthy.

“I wouldn’t put my baby at risk any way,” she added.

I’m allowed to travel according to my dr. Of course, before our flight, I took all precautions and got my body checked from my dr and I’m completely healthy. I wouldn’t put my baby at risk in any way. ❤️❤️❤️ — Khloé (@khloekardashian) February 28, 2018

There are some risks to flying while expecting if complications surround a pregnancy. But otherwise, the American Pregnancy Association says it is “generally safe” to travel throughout a pregnancy.

Kardashian has long struggled to get pregnant as Kim, Kourtney and now sister Kylie have welcomed new additions to the KarJenner family.

The family’s reality TV show “Keeping Up with the Kardashians” documented her troubles conceiving with ex-husband Lamar Odom. After undergoing fertility treatments, Kardashian seemingly gave up at a certain point, saying she was “fake trying” to get pregnant as her marriage began to crumble.

A post shared by Khloé (@khloekardashian) on Feb 28, 2018 at 2:06pm PST

A post shared by Khloé (@khloekardashian) on Feb 21, 2018 at 8:38am PST

A post shared by Khloé (@khloekardashian) on Feb 4, 2018 at 3:20pm PSTThe Breeders still know how to take a cool publicity photo. Marisa Gesualdi

The Breeders have always sounded like a work in progress, a joyful if at times tumultuous experiment conducted by singer and guitarist Kim Deal. In the early days, Deal deconstructed the Beatles and cooed over wobbly towers of thick bass and guitar fuzz. On the song “Safari,” Deal used her breath to dramatic effect. For their biggest single, “Cannonball,” a song from 1993’s “Last Splash” that’s both totemic and gloriously loopy, Deal blows a whistle over her guitar riffs. None of her ideas ever sounded like novelties. And “Cannonball” made the Breeders stars (or at least earned them main-stage billing on a Lollapalooza tour).

That was in the mid-’90s, way back during President Bill Clinton’s first term, when bands were still expected to release singles on cassette. The Breeders lineup that recorded “Last Splash” ― Kim and her twin sister, guitarist Kelley Deal; bassist Josephine Wiggs; and drummer Jim Macpherson ― eventually disbanded over reasons no one quite remembers; even the date of their split is hazy. The Deal sisters battled addictions. Kim Deal went years before releasing a new Breeders album with a different lineup.

As the Breeders began doing reunion shows to packed clubs in 2013, the band members started thinking about recording a new album ― a belated follow-up of sorts to “Last Splash.” On Friday, the band will release “All Nerve,” an album whose very existence has been treated as big news. In the runup to the album’s release, the band has been profiled in The New York Times and The Guardian, and has had its every promotional twitch covered by the online music press. The album’s release is such an event that the author Neil Gaiman wrote an essay for the occasion.

A few weeks ago, I talked to Kim and Kelley Deal and Josephine Wiggs about their recording process, what inspired their gorgeous, experimental new album, and living in the epicenter of the opioid crisis. As they tell it, even the story of how they got back together to make the album feels like a work in progress.

When did you decide to make a record?

Kim Deal: Do you think, Josephine, [you decided] in an instant like that? Didn’t the idea evolve sort of organically?

Josephine Wiggs: I feel like it was a fairly discrete moment at the end of the reunion tour that we did in 2013. We did eight months of shows all over the place, and actually, we redid places as well, didn’t we? We went back and did the cities that we’d done in the beginning, which was pretty cool.

Kim: We added more material. We started playing all of “Last Splash” and all of [the Breeders’ 1990 debut album] “Pod.”

Josephine: As that was dwindling down, I think my recollection of it is that somebody said, you know, that this had been so much fun, that we enjoyed playing together so much that we’d like to figure out a way to carry on doing it. Maybe some bands just carry on doing nostalgia, but I think we thought it would be more exciting to try and make another album together. That’s my recollection.

Kelley Deal: I’m going to sign on to Jo’s recollection.

Maybe the ideas behind the record were more gradual, the creation of it came together more organically? I read in The Guardian that you, Josephine, decided to move out of your Brooklyn apartment and live with Kim to make the record. How did you make that decision?

Josephine: That’s only partially the truth. Basically I’ve been living in New York since ’93. I’ve been living in the same apartment in Brooklyn for, I don’t know, 15 years or something. It was partly a financial decision, because it’s so expensive to live in New York, and I also felt I knew we were going to be touring the new record ― although I thought we were going to be touring it last year, I have to say... [inaudible in-jokes among the band members] So I somewhat got the timing of it wrong, but my plan, as it was, was to give up my apartment when we were due to leave to tour. But then that kept getting pushed back because the release of the record kept getting pushed back for various reasons.

When I described to Kim what I was intending to do, which was basically travel around and visit all my friends after having given up my apartment ― and being like, “Hey! I was thinking of coming to stay with you!” ― Kim said, “What, like Queen Elizabeth, where basically you move from one stately home to another and eat them out of house and home and then move on to the next one?” And I said, “Yes!”

What was it like living together? How did you acclimate Josephine to the Dayton suburbs?

Kim: Every time when we get together, Josephine will drive out. When Josephine comes out, she usually drives so she can pack her car with her bass and some gear. I have room and we practice downstairs in the basement at my house in Ohio. We’ve had this setup for quite a while, so whenever she comes out, there’s a bed and she’ll stay there. When we say she moved out to Dayton, we don’t at all mean to imply she’s moved to Dayton. She’s visiting. Much like she’ll visit you, so you’ll see what it’s like, Jason.

How did the recording process go? Kelley, would you just come over to Kim’s house?

Kelley: Whether Josephine was in town currently or not, the drummer, Jim Macpherson ― him and I and/or Josephine would get together, go in the basement and just, you know, just play new things. We actually have amplifiers and pedals and a PA system that Kim sings through, and we go over parts over and over and over.

Kim: We don’t actually start with a computer in front of us sending files.

It’s kind of awesome. You are going back to how all bands kind of start ― working through songs without the pressure of hitting “record.”

Kim: I said to somebody before, like excitedly, in my excited voice, “With the drummer living in town, what more could you want?”

When was the moment where you felt like this was the right decision to reunite and make a new album? Was there a particular song that clicked?

Josephine: It wasn’t like that.

Instantly comfortable?

Kelley: You don’t get together and say in a handshake, “OK team, dominate on three. One, two, three, dominate!”

Josephine: I don’t know what that means, by the way.

Kelley: It’s a football thing... I knew kind of in my mind there’s both the excitement and the thrill of it, and there’s the other person in your head going, “Holy fuck, what did I just get myself into?” So both of those things happened, where you know it’s going to be the best time and the worst time at the same time.

Josephine: Yeah.

Kim: So I was doing my solo stuff. I drummed on some of them and I had other people drumming. So then Jim Macpherson, the drummer, comes downstairs in the basement. And I got these little ideas for a song, you know? And Jim sits behind the drum set and he plays, and it’s like, holy shit, he’s got such a fucking heavy foot, man. It’s like, oh my God, regroup.

Kelley: I’m looking at Kim saying, “Hey, babe, this is not a solo thing.” Jim plays loud.

Did that come through with “Walking with the Killer”? Because, Kim, you recorded that solo and later recorded that for this album.

Kim: “Walking with the Killer” was one of the early songs that when we were playing “Last Splash” material, Kelley and Josephine had heard that song and liked it and said we should try that song live. And then we played that song live and that was one where, holy crap, for me this sounds better than the solo record recording. I thought it was beautiful how we were playing it. That was an indication that this was something to aspire to ― the transformation of that song, into something so luxurious and big and beautiful and heavy at the same time, was something that I really liked.

What a great way to describe your sound ― luxurious and heavy, delicate too. What inspired you at 27 and what inspires you now?

Josephine: The sort of records that inspired me were Joy Division, Gang of Four, the Cure. I thought those records sounded, to me, so cool that they made me want to be involved in something that could be that cool. I’ve been playing with people since I was 15 or 16, and there’s something about the sound that we have, even though sometimes I’m like, oh my fucking God, this is going to kill me. But the plus side of it is that in a way, it kind of fulfills that ambition that I had as a young person to be involved in something that’s greater than the sum of its parts, [like] “Unknown Pleasures” or “Seventeen Seconds.”

Kelley? What do you think?

Kelley: No, you go first, Kim.

Kim: I was just meditating on the question... I like Kitty Wells and Curtis Mayfield. Stevie Wonder’s “Songs in the Key of Life” ― that entire record. And then, like, Iggy Pop, the first side of “Fun House.” Not that I didn’t like the second side. But the first side you could just play from beginning to end. It’s just one incredible song of filth. And the Velvet Underground ― talk about fragile.

[Kim goes on to mention Can, Billie Holiday, the Philly Soul sound (“talk about lush”), and then back to Curtis Mayfield.]

Kelley: I feel like I respond really more to, like, sonic noises. Everything other than the actual song, if that makes any sense. Pink Floyd ― the album “Animals.” I mean, I remember plugging that thing in and just listening to that. That was like the first time ― was that ’77? ― that was the first time I remember hearing other things being incorporated into a symphonic rock record. They got dogs barking. But listen to how that sounds next to this guitar. It was the first time I realized that all noises were noise. Like it all could work.

Josephine, you alluded to some up and down moments. Was there a particularly memorable struggle?

Josephine: We spent most of 2014 working on one song.

[Laughter]

Josephine: Because I was there, just periodically, we would get to the end of the session really thinking we’d made some progress, and then I would come back three weeks later and Kim would be like, “Yeah, I [cut] what we did last time.” This kept going on and on and on, and I was just like, oh my God, kill me with an ice pick right now.

Kim: The song didn’t land on the album, by the way.

Josephine: I said to [Kim], “I don’t ever want to hear the title of that song ever again. Don’t mention it ever. I don’t want to see it on a list.”

Kim: Sometimes we would put it on the list... She really isn’t exaggerating. It’s like an ice-pick-under-fingernails sort of thing.

How do you get stuck in those moments and how do you get out of them?

Josephine: I say, “Stop! Walk away!” If it’s not working by now, there’s something wrong with it.

Kelley: I feel like, if we had had some better ideas, I think we still would have gone at it. I think we ran out of ideas for that.

Josephine: You know, we did a “college try,” as you people say.

A full year. It’s like two semesters’ worth of tries.

Josephine: I’m exaggerating. It just felt like a year. In my world it was a year.

Kim, how do you know when you get to a point where you are satisfied? Where you are like, OK, the song’s done?

Kim: It’s probably like when you’re writing something and the beginning works good and flows well and you don’t cringe, and the ending, you’re not cringing. But there might be a section where you’re just like, “That is not a successful thing that I just did.” You know what I’m saying?

Is there any song on the new record where you think every element works? “We nailed that song, it’s perfect.”

Kim: There’s several songs I feel like that about.

Josephine: Yeah.

I thought “Blues at the Acropolis” was just a lovely, bittersweet way to end the record. I thought it was monumental, in a way. Was the song based on a real experience?

Kim: I did go to the Acropolis... Junkies tend to congregate at the ― and beggars, drunks ― all tend to congregate at the most beautiful monuments that are honoring mankind. Time after time of going to see these beautiful creations and then being swarmed by junkies just sleeping all over it and stuff like that. It’s just a cynical observation.

Ohio is experiencing a lot of the worst of the opioid epidemic. Has it hit home for you?

Kim: When I was at home recently, this past fall, I think, MSNBC had this special on the opioid crisis. The trailer for that special was Montgomery County, which is the county that I live in and Kelley lives in, that Josephine has moved to [laughter], featured as one of the number one counties. We don’t have space in the morgue. The coroner has to put the deceased in other places because we don’t have any space. It’s a real problem all over.

Kelley: I got a text last night from a friend. She runs a drug lab at a rehab/detox place. She texted, “That guy I hired and had to fire died yesterday from a drug overdose.” She had to fire him, I guess because he relapsed and now he’s dead because of fentanyl. This is not heroin, by the way. This is fentanyl.

Kim and Kelley, you both have publicly gone through your own struggles with addiction. I’m wondering how you support each other.

Kelley: For me, I’m in a 12-step program that I highly recommend it if anybody’s interested. One of the things about that is that I can only do me. I’m responsible for my own recovery. There’s several people that are sober or are in recovery when we go on tour. It’s not just me. There’s many people. I feel really grateful that I’m not using right now, or I would be dead.

Josephine: Kelley will sometimes send me the daily reading if she thinks it’s pertinent to me. And I really enjoy getting them, and I think it’s really interesting. I try to do meditation and I try to practice mindfulness, as do a lot of other people now. There’s actually quite a lot of overlap between the things that people in the 12-step program are encouraged to think about and mindfulness.

You had time to make the record you wanted to make. Did that help make the whole process somewhat easier and less stressful?

Kelley: When [you] don’t have any artificial parameters, like “Let’s try to do the album in a year” ― those parameters can reach into three years.

Kim: I really had a great time doing it. I loved doing it. I was happy when I knew Josephine was coming out. It got everybody excited. It was fun having Jim come over, and Kelley. I really did enjoy it. It was quite an accomplishment.

I have a feeling there are plans for another record.

Kelley: You know what I think ― I want to get back to that song.

[More, really loud laughter]

Kim: Controversy already...

Josephine: No! You are such a troll!

Kim: So we’ll keep working on it, Jason.Momentum has been building for “red flag” laws, which allow family members or police to petition a court to temporarily remove firearms from an individual deemed to be a danger to themselves or others. In these cases, a person must generally relinquish their guns prior to having a chance to appear in court to defend themselves.

Gun violence prevention organizations maintain that red flag laws uphold due process, as the relinquishment is temporary. Within a few weeks, individuals are given notice of a full hearing, where they can contest the evidence against them. They can also appeal the decision.

In some states, domestic abuse suspects are also required to immediately relinquish their firearms if a person files a protective order against them. Domestic violence experts say that these laws are helpful, because the period of time right after a victim files for a protective order can be volatile and dangerous.Amid the harassment, the pressures of coming out and the search for acceptance in today’s world, LGBTQ teens and young adults have a lot of hurdles to confront. And, according to a new survey, eating disorders is another one of those hurdles.

A new survey by The Trevor Project found that more than 50 percent of LGBTQ youths who participated in its national survey had been diagnosed with an eating disorder.

The statistics were even more troubling within specific segments: 71 percent of trans respondents had been diagnosed with an eating disorder, with anorexia being the most common disorder.

The Trevor Project, an LGBTQ advocacy group, teamed up with the National Eating Disorders Association (NEDA) and the Reasons Eating Disorder Center to conduct this survey, which they say is the first of its kind.

Researchers surveyed 1,034 self-identified LGBTQ individuals across the U.S. ages 13 to 24. They gathered their results using social media and internet questionnaires.

The survey was published Wednesday during National Eating Disorders Awareness Week.

“The unique stressors that LGBTQ-identified people experience, such as coming out and harassment in schools or the workplace, can impact levels of anxiety, depression, low self-esteem, and unhealthy coping mechanisms” CEO @amitpaley ⚡ #NEDAwareness https://t.co/SPzYs7vJnD pic.twitter.com/qppYBP8VaC — The Trevor Project (@TrevorProject) February 28, 2018

The survey focuses “specifically on the relationships between sexual orientation, gender identity, eating disorders and suicidal ideation.” Amit Paley, the executive director of The Trevor Project, hopes the information revealed by the survey will spotlight a little-known problem in the LGBTQ community.

“The unique stressors that LGBTQ-identified people experience, such as coming out and harassment in schools or the workplace, can impact levels of anxiety, depression, low self-esteem, and unhealthy coping mechanisms such as substance abuse,” Paley wrote in a summary of the survey.

“All of these can be contributing factors in the development of an eating disorder and are common co-occurring conditions.”

The eating disorder rates also shed light on an even more dangerous problem.

Individuals in the LGBTQ community are three times more likely to experience a mental health condition, such as depression or an anxiety disorder, according to the National Alliance on Mental Illness. And that was true for those surveyed, too: 58 percent of LGBTQ participants who were diagnosed with an eating disorder said they had also considered suicide.

The two conditions appear to have deep ties. About 90 percent of people who have an eating disorder are also suffering from depression or other mood-related disorders, according to the National Alliance on Mental Illness.

About 58 percent of LGBTQ individuals who were diagnosed with an eating disorder also considered suicide, according to the survey. The Trevor Project

The National Alliance on Mental Illness says that LGBTQ individuals lack appropriate resources that may help them through their harmful disorders. This includes a shortage of health care providers with proper training on the LGBTQ community, their unique needs and their mental health issues.

“Providers who lack knowledge and experience working with members of the LGBTQ community may focus more on a person’s sexual orientation and/or gender identity than a person’s mental health condition,” according to the organization.

Claire Mysko, the head of NEDA, wants to fix that ― at least for those suffering from eating disorders.

“The results make it clear that troubling numbers of LGBTQ youth are affected by eating disorders and self-harm,” Mysko said of the new survey in a statement published this week.The Emmy-nominated comedian announced Wednesday that he would bring his first-ever stand-up comedy special to Netflix. There’s no release date yet, but “Billy on the Street” fans will be thrilled to know that the special is expected to include a blend of comedy, music and some updated segments from his hit TV show, according to The Hollywood Reporter, which first reported the news.A NBC News report this week raised considerable concern when it said that intelligence officials had gathered “substantial evidence” that Russian operatives “compromised” systems in seven states leading up to the 2016 election.

Equally alarming was a subsequent dispute over whether that was true.

Six of the seven states in the report denied that their election systems had been compromised. The U.S. Department of Homeland Security released a caustic statement denying that it had evidence seven states were compromised and accusing NBC of inaccurate reporting. Current and former government officials told Reuters they were perplexed by the network’s report.

This dispute underscores a broader confusion about how the Russians targeted different states’ electoral systems ahead of the 2016 vote and what exactly they did to try to access those systems. This is deeply alarming, cybersecurity experts say, because without the facts, states can’t adequately secure their systems and block hackers from entering again.

Since early 2017, federal and state officials have been unanimous in insisting that Russian hackers did not succeed in changing any voter information or votes.

But Candice Hoke, a co-founder of the Center for Cybersecurity and Privacy Protection at Cleveland-Marshall College of Law, said those assurances aren’t very comforting given that state officials, the Homeland Security Department and election system vendors all have an incentive to say the systems are secure. Instead of undertaking their own deep audits, she said state officials often turn to the vendors responsible for running the election machines, who then produce an “exculpatory” report.

“The proper response to those platitudes, which is what they are, is to ask ‘What steps were taken to assure that the data wasn’t changed?’” Hoke said. “It’s a very comforting statement to make and I think that public officials want to comfort the public, but we should be asking ‘Where’s the proof? What actually did you do and on whose recommendation?’”

Cybersecurity experts note that the term “compromised” can cover a range of possibilities, but say that it generally means someone had access to a system. Many election officials believe their specific systems can’t be hacked because they aren’t connected to the internet, Hoke said. Experts warn, however, that hackers could have exploited vulnerabilities in other government systems that are connected to the internet to gain access to election systems or election information.

The level of computer security is such that it would be “kind of shocking” if at least some government data weren’t accessible to hackers, said Brian Nussbaum, a former intelligence analyst and a professor at SUNY Albany.

President Donald Trump’s intelligence chiefs are warning that Russia will likely attempt to interfere in the midterm elections this year, while Democratic lawmakers say the Trump administration isn’t doing enough to prevent that. Legislation in Congress has gone nowhere so far. The Department of Homeland Security has taken small steps to improve communication and coordination with states and is offering assistance in evaluating the security of state systems.

But since 2016, communication between Homeland Security and state officials has not been good. It wasn’t until September 2017 that the department notified 21 states they had been targeted by Russian hackers. And it wasn’t until this February that Homeland Security held its first classified briefing for state officials on election threats in 2018. The department has blamed the delay on the need to get security clearances for election officials, but California Secretary of State Alex Padilla told NBC that’s not an acceptable excuse.

Hoke and Nussbaum both said that state election officials need to more fully understand the severity of their vulnerabilities so they can better allocate resources toward improving their systems.

James Norton, a former Homeland Security deputy assistant secretary for legislative affairs in the George W. Bush administration, said the focus should be broadened to securing all state government systems, not just election ones.What will future history textbooks say about women’s activism in 2018?

That’s the question HuffPost asked 15 women currently making history in their respective fields. Everyone from House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi (D-Calif.) to Black Lives Matter co-founder Patrisse Cullors and comedian Lea DeLaria believe that women’s activism today will have a ripple effect in the movements of tomorrow.

“It’s my hope, and sincere belief, that our future history books will look back on 2018 as a year of reckoning and reform,” Congresswoman Jackie Speier (D-Calif.) told HuffPost.

And what a reckoning it has been so far.

So, to kick off Women’s History Month this March and to honor all of the badass women making herstory, we spoke with 15 women about what they think future history books will say about women’s activism today.

Elizabeth Warren, Senator (D-Mass.)

“Women across America jumped feet-first into politics and broke down barriers. They raised their voices and unapologetically fought for what they believed in. Because of their courage, change happened.”

Trace Lysette, Actress and Transgender Rights Activist

“I hope they say it was a game changer. That women didn’t have to be fearful after 2018 and that it was a big step toward overall equality in terms of safety, power and closing the pay gap too. Not just for women in Hollywood, but for anyone who has been deemed less important, in whatever industry.”

Patrisse Cullors, Co-Founder of Black Lives Matter

“I’d like future history books to talk about the role women have played in changing the country. I want them to be specific. I want them to talk about Black Lives Matter and how it was started by women. I want people to understand that the Women’s March was a multiracial group of women fighting for all of us. I want people to understand that black women changed the fate of Alabama and that black women tried to change the fate of the world, that’s what I’d want history books to say about women in 2018.”

Lea DeLaria, Comedian and Actress

“My hope is future history/textbooks will say that the activism of 2018 was the straw that broke the camel’s back ending sexism and sexual harassment worldwide.”

Kirsten Gillibrand, Senator (D-N.Y.)

“When future generations look back, they will see that this was a moment when more women than ever raised their voices, spoke out about the issues that mattered deeply to them, and ran for office in historic numbers — and it changed our country for the better. The next chapter of the women’s movement is being written right now, and it’s up to each of us to help write it by fighting for what we believe in. I am more optimistic than ever before that women will keep making themselves heard, keep marching, and never give up.”

Amani Al-Khatahtbeh, Founder and Editor of MuslimGirl.com

“I hope the future history textbooks are written by us. It’s almost like a patriarchal legacy that women’s triumphs, sacrifices and tremendous hard work get written out of the story. So many history-making women’s names are forgotten, none more so than women of color, because we’re not the ones holding the pens. I think we’re writing our own history right now. We will make them remember our names.”

Bob Bland, Women’s March Co-Chair

“I hope that in future textbooks that they say that women who ignited the historical change in this country in 2017 converted their collective power to real political change in the way that changed the entire trajectory for this country moving forward. I would hope that they say that women from all different identities and backgrounds and issue areas came together collectively in support of one another and in solidarity with each other’s causes in a way that allowed groups to be centered in 2018 politics in ways that they never had been before. Seeing Emma Gonzalez, seeing how powerful the voice of a bisexual, Latinx, teenage girl can be in a national conversation is going to have a ripple effect. 2018 is the year we changed the game, we changed the rules, we flipped the table and we did so in a way that makes it more inclusive in a way for everyone.”

Nancy Pelosi, House Democratic Leader (D-Calif.)

“In 2018, women are showing their power. It is an inspiration to see millions of courageous women from every walk of life and corner of the country demand their rights, and fight for their health, families, safety and dignity. Together, women are sending a message to the world: We don’t agonize, we organize.”

Alicia Garza, Co-Founder of Black Lives Matter

“I hope that future history textbooks say that women of color and Black women were the catalysts for social change during a time of extreme duress. I hope the textbooks reflect that this was the year that women of color and Black women saved democracy from the hands of fascists, and then began to transform democracy so that everyone had a say in the decisions that impacted their lives.”

Cecile Richards, President of Planned Parenthood

“Women are changing history. Women are shaking our foundations and challenging long-held beliefs ― changing the conversation around every issue from sexual harassment to equal pay to affordable health care. From the #MeToo movement to high school activists taking on their elected officials to record numbers of women running for office — there’s no doubt that women are the most potent force in 2018. Women in every corner of the country are organizing, and have seen that they have the power to make real change ― and they are.”

Jazz Jennings, LGBTQ Activist

“I hope that history books will call this the Age of Women. The era where women are finally elevated and empowered to an equal status as men. It’s sad that it’s already 2018 and women are still oppressed and treated as inferior in this world. However, the past few years we have stood up to injustice and demanded equality. I know that in 2018 and the years to come our demands won’t go unheard and we will recreate a world where women are no longer victimized, undermined and rejected. We can do it, man and woman (and everyone in-between) hand in hand.”

Tammy Duckworth, Senator (D-Ill.)

“2018 was the year women said enough was enough, showed up, made their voices heard and changed the course of history.”

Jackie Speier, Congresswoman (D-Calif.)

“It’s the year that Congress passed landmark legislation to overhaul the deeply flawed process for responding to sexual harassment and discrimination in Congress, including banning members of Congress from using taxpayer money to foot the bill if a settlement is reached or if they are found at fault. It’s the year that women continued to cultivate their individual and collective voice and fight for the ERA, equal pay, and respect in the workplace, whether it’s in the White House or their own house. I think that 2018 is the year of the Amazons! We’re fired up, we’re not afraid to flex our political muscle, and we’re ready for anything. Bring it on!”

Carmen Perez, Women’s March Co-Chair

“I hope that the history books will accurately depict the leadership and hard work of women of color in activism. Our voices have been left out of the narrative about many historical movements, whether we’re talking about civil rights, second-wave feminism, workers’ rights and more. Even today, we see the Women’s March so often depicted in the media as if it were a movement by and for white women, erasing our labor and leadership at the center. I hope that future students will be able to see and learn to value the contributions of women of color to the struggle for women’s rights.”

Carolyn Maloney, Congresswoman (D-N.Y.)Fox News host Sean Hannity had a follower walk into his Long Island, New York, home ― and he wasn’t welcomed.

Former dentist Jan Gilbert, 72, of Long Beach, New York, was charged with trespassing after entering the conservative commentator’s house on the afternoon of Feb. 17, according to reports on Wednesday.

Gilbert wrangled his way into Hannity’s Centre Island mansion by telling an unnamed person outside the home that he was writing a book about the Fox News personality, and needed to give him some papers, according to court documents cited by The Associated Press. Gilbert then followed that person into the house, AP reported.

Hannity’s wife, Jill, told police that she spotted Gilbert inside without permission and that she did not know him. She said Gilbert then left the house and sat in his car on the driveway, where police found him, Newsday reported.

Gilbert was charged with misdemeanor criminal trespass.

He told Newsday “someone misheard, fabricated or misunderstood” the encounter. “There is a real reason, a valid reason, a superior reason and a fully confirmed reason, but I’m not going to be able to talk about it,” he said.

According to a real estate listing site, Billy Joel and Fox News founder Rupert Murdoch have lived in the posh area.

Hannity did not immediately respond to a HuffPost request for comment.Taylor Swift isn’t getting satisfaction from Keith Richards.

The 74-year-old Rolling Stones guitarist took a swipe at the 28-year-old pop star’s success, saying, “Good luck girl ― wish her well while it lasts.”

Richards made the snide comment in The Wall Street Journal Magazine posted Wednesday, and appeared to try to soften the dig as well.

“I’ve just been around too long to be picking the bones out of kids,” he continued. “It wouldn’t be fair of me and I’ve always been an opinionated bastard anyway. And I never did really like pop music ― even when I became pop music, I was listening to the blues and jazz and not interested in the hits.”

This isn't the first time Keith Richards has insulted Taylor Swift. Mike Segar / Reuters

The legendary rocker has picked a bone with the “Look What You Made Me Do” singer before. In 2015, he called Swift (and Justin Bieber) the “flavor of the month.”

Taylor Swift admires the Rolling Stones but band member Keith Richards doesn't share the same feelings about her. Isabel Infantes - PA Images via Getty Images

Swift has credited the Stones with being a huge influence. She performed with the band in 2013. In 2015, Stones frontman Mick Jagger took the stage with her at a concert for a rendition of “Satisfaction.”

Richards’ Wall Street Journal interview also sparked an unrelated controversy with his suggestion that Jagger ought to get a vasectomy. Richards later apologized.In Daniel Haack’s new picture book, a handsome prince’s search for happily ever after ends, as many fairy tales do, with a wedding. In this case, however, the prince’s heart isn’t won over by a beautiful maiden, but rather a knight in shining armor.

Haack, who resides in Los Angeles, said an overall lack of LGBTQ representation in children’s media inspired him to write Prince & Knight, released May 1. The book features stunning, full-color illustrations by Stevie Lewis that depict the prince’s stuggles in finding a bride, a battle with a ferocious, fire-breathing dragon and, finally, true love’s kiss.

First-time author Daniel Haack said a lack of LGBTQ representation in children’s media inspired him to write Prince & Knight, released May 1. Stevie Lewis

“Kids deserve to see their own lives and their families represented,” the first-time author, head of marketing and communications at JibJab for the children’s educational media brand StoryBots, told HuffPost. “I thought it’d be cool to take these classic fairy tale tropes of Prince Charming and the knight in shining armor and tell a story in which not only do they save the day, but they find true love in each other, too.”

Prince & Knight arrives days ahead of Prince Harry and Meghan Markle’s real-life royal wedding on Saturday. Haack insists he didn’t time his book’s release deliberately, calling it a “total and wonderful coincidence.”

The prince fights a ferocious dragon -- with a little help from a mysterious knight in shining armor. Stevie Lewis

Prince & Knight is the inaugural effort in a new partnership between GLAAD and Bonnier Publishing USA, which a joint statement said is aimed at “integrating and elevating positive LGBTQ representation in children’s literature.” The collaboration includes the release of at least four new queer-inclusive works across genres and formats for children up to the age of 14 each year.

A second picture book, Erica Silverman’s Jack (Not Jackie), will hit shelves in October as part of the GLAAD and Bonnier Publishing USA effort. That book features illustrations by Holly Hatam and follows a character named Susan, who learns to accept that her younger sibling identifies as “Jack” rather than “Jackie.”

Additional 2018 titles are set to be announced in the coming months, and a portion of the proceeds from all book sales will benefit GLAAD.

The author hopes young readers come away from Prince & Knight with the understanding that LGBTQ people “are just as capable of being the brave heroes, and are just as worthy as anyone of being in love.” Stevie Lewis

GLAAD President and CEO Sarah Kate Ellis said the partnership was part of her organization’s goal of “advancing positive representation of LGBTQ lives, experiences, and stories at every stage of our lives.” Books, she said in the statement, “are a natural progression to encourage awareness, kindness, and acceptance at an early age.”

“It’s so important that my two kids and others like them see their families reflected in the media,” she said.

Haack said he’s received only positive feedback on his book so far.

“For all the gay parents who have shared the book with their kids and who have told me they wish they had something like this when they were young, I’ve heard from just as many straight parents who love it.” Stevie Lewis

“I’m sure there will certainly be some parents who take issue with the book,” he said. “But I think anyone who has read it can agree it’s a totally kid-friendly story. For all the gay parents who have shared the book with their kids and who have told me they wish they had something like this when they were young, I’ve heard from just as many straight parents who love it.”

Ultimately, Haack hopes young readers come away from Prince & Knight with the understanding that LGBTQ people “are just as capable of being the brave heroes, and are just as worthy as anyone of being in love.”"GLOW"

Netflix

The tagline is "guts, glitter, glory" and the show definitely lives up to it. "GLOW," an acronym for "gorgeous ladies of wrestling," is based off an '80s show of the same name and follows a group of former actresses and misfits trying to make it as pro wrestlers in 1980s Hollywood.



Streaming now.Adam Rippon may have been one of the biggest breakout stars of the 2018 Winter Olympics, but the figure skater insists he’s the “same ol’ hot mess” he was a decade ago.

Wearing his bronze medal from the team figure skating event, Rippon dropped by “The Ellen DeGeneres Show” Thursday for his first televised interview since returning to the U.S. from Pyeongchang, South Korea. He opened up to the host about his ongoing commitment to LGBTQ advocacy work as well as his new celebrity crush (it’s not who you think it is).

“When I was young, to have somebody out there that I could’ve looked up to ― it would’ve made a world of difference. It would’ve changed my life,” the Olympian said in the video above. He used his appearance on the show to announce his new GLAAD fundraising campaign in support of the organization’s LGBTQ youth programs.

I truly am so honored and excited to be working with my fam at @glaad. Learning about the kids in the campus ambassador program is so inspiring. They are MY heroes. https://t.co/GK2vDBrQJO — Adam Rippon (@Adaripp) March 1, 2018

“One in five kids today identify with some sort of LGBTQ identity,” he said. Addressing the crowd directly, he added, “So look to your left, look to your right, and if no one is gay, you’re probably the one.”

Rippon, who is currently single, also spoke at length about his love life. Though he’s crushed on Jake Gyllenhaal and Harry Styles, he prefers a different, albeit also multitalented, star these days. (Catch that segment below.)

“I was sleeping on Shawn Mendes ― not with, but on,” he quipped. “I didn’t realize how cute he was!”

As for his high-profile tiff with Vice President Mike Pence, Rippon said he “didn’t feel like [the Olympics were] the right time” for a call between the two.Members of the Little Rock Nine leave Central High School at the end of a school day. Bettmann via Getty Images

Minnijean Brown Trickey wanted to make one thing clear.

She and the eight other members of the Little Rock Nine weren’t just accused of having been paid to integrate Central High School back in 1957. It was deeper, more insidious than that. They were called communists. They were accused of being secret Russians who had been trained to disrupt the South’s preferred way of life.

“It’s disappointing. You just feel accused and ashamed,” she told me, letting out a deep-throated sigh. “Shame is a big deal in this ― making people feel ashamed and making them feel that they’re doing the wrong thing when they speak out or participate in activism.

“This is the United States. We don’t like desegregation. We like segregation. We like not to affirm young people’s sense of determination.”

The accusations lobbed at 16-year-old Trickey and her peers remind her of what’s now happening to the survivors of a mass shooting at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Florida. Those teens, who lost 17 of their peers and teachers, have been rallying for stricter gun laws since the Feb. 14 shooting. During the students’ crusade to stop mass shootings, conspiracy-minded right-wingers have accused the students of being paid “crisis actors,” FBI sympathizers and operatives for left-wing billionaires like George Soros.

“We like to keep our kids infantilized and will do anything to make that possible,” she said. “Once you say they can’t think of this themselves, you got to add on evidence that somehow they’re being persuaded by somebody else. It’s a serious game that justifies violence, brutality and not responding. It’s a very powerful form of delegitimizing.”

Dissatisfied young people, Trickey explained, are a threat to a bad status quo.

“Young people don’t have mortgages. They don’t have car notes, and they can be a force to create change, so quickly we gotta get them shot down because they don’t have anything to lose.”

The “paid agitator” smear tends to show up throughout American history during moments of social reform. It dates back at least to Reconstruction. Formerly enslaved Africans who testified about their experiences in front of Congress were accused of lying and being paid to do so. But, in reality, the Republicans in Congress were just paying for their travel expenses since many formerly enslaved folks couldn’t afford to travel to Washington.

Accusing people lobbying for civil rights of being paid agitators has long been a tactic “used by white segregationists as a way to dismiss the legitimacy of African American claims to full equality,” according to Kevin Kruse, a historian who briefly dissected this phenomenon in a viral tweet.

“During the Little Rock school desegregation case, segregationists spread rumors that the nine high school students who had integrated Central High had been paid. Or, alternatively, that they had been imported from outside the region,” Kruse told HuffPost. “And those reflected a common theme in segregationist press in this period that anyone clamoring for full civil rights in the South must be themselves an ‘outside agitator’ or had been influenced by one.”

Alabama Gov. John Patterson claimed at the time that “a handful of race agitators” were sent to the state to “stir up racial trouble and strife.” He also claimed that protesters capitalized “upon racial factors for private gain.” Mississippi Gov. Ross Barnett even claimed to have proof that black organizers of a voter march were paid.

Elizabeth Eckford, another member of the Little Rock Nine, was accused of being paid as she walked through a mob of violent white segregationists, according to a 1957 article in The Madison County Record:

“Nigger, go back to Africa!”

Elizabeth Eckford ignoring the jeers from fellow students while entering Central High School. Bettmann via Getty Images

Martin Luther King Jr. was accused of income tax fraud in February 1960 after a state audit claimed he didn’t report income he’d received from the the Montgomery Improvement Association (MIA) and the Southern Christian Leadership Conference (SCLC). He was later acquitted.

The Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee and the three civil rights activists who were murdered in Mississippi in 1964 were also accused of being paid for their civil rights work. A 1967 column from The New York Times News Service accused two Black Panthers ― H. Rap Brown and Stokely Carmichael, both of whom were chairmans of SNCC ― of being on the U.S. Senate payroll.

While a lot of the accusations are malicious, these claims also show a general lack of understanding of how movements are resourced. People aren’t typically paid to act in organic social movements, but movements do require resources to sustain ― especially when the bulk of organizers hail from low-income communities, said Tristan Wilkerson, the acting executive director of Philander Smith College’s Social Justice Institute. But most of the financial backing comes from small donors ― not billionaires like Soros.

“Those folks aren’t being paid to advance that agenda. Those are folks who are deeply affected ― and I think it’s disgusting to make those accusations,” Wilkerson said. “When folks are deeply disaffected, you’re motivated.”

By calling into question the sincerity of the movement, segregationists were able to undermine its moral authority. The same applies today.

Kenneth Janken, a professor in UNC’s African, African American and Diaspora Studies Department, noted that the attacks on the Parkland students are designed to reinforce the disbelief that young people can make history. Another reason prominent conservatives attack protesters, per Janken, is that they know they’re in the wrong. He compared the bombastic political pushback to protests ― in Parkland, Baltimore, Ferguson and beyond ― to former Alabama Gov. George Wallace’s infamous 1963 inaugural speech where he proclaimed: “Segregation now, segregation tomorrow, segregation forever!”

“He knew that he was on the losing end. He knew that federal enforcement was going to force the end of legal segregation. He knew he couldn’t win, yet to create a political advantage for himself, he went on rants like that,” Janken said.A grand jury has indicted two former Georgia police officers on multiple charges after they were recorded beating and kicking a handcuffed black motorist during a traffic stop early last year.

Former Gwinnett County Sgt. Michael Bongiovanni and former Master Police Officer Robert McDonald, who were both fired after the April 12, 2017, incident, were hit with a 10-count indictment on Wednesday.

The indictment followed a Gwinnett County grand jury’s viewing of two videos that captured 21-year-old Demetrius Hollins being violently taken into custody near a busy intersection, Atlanta station 11 Alive reported.

Video shows to show Demetrius Hollins being punched in the head by an officer just seconds after he exits his vehicle with his arms raised. Facebook

One video shows Hollins holding his hands in the air before an officer appears to punch him in the face. Another shows him lying handcuffed on the ground as a second officer runs up and appears to stomp on his head. Hollins, who was left bloody and bruised, was also allegedly hit with a stun gun.

Both men were previously charged one count of violation of oath of office, which is a felony, and one count of battery, which is a misdemeanor.

The latest charges against them include battery, violation of oath of office, making false official certificates or writings, and aggravated assault, which stems from an officer allegedly pointing a firearm at Hollins’ head, according to a copy of the indictment obtained by HuffPost.

Sgt. Michael Bongiovanni (left) and Master Police Officer Robert McDonald were fired shortly after the arrest. Gwinnett County Police Department

Lawyers for both officers have denied wrongdoing and said they plan to fight the charges.

“Bongiovanni, in a split-second, highly intense situation of de-escalating the situation, did everything he was trained to,” the former officer’s attorney Mike Puglise told CBS 46.

The initial charges brought by the officers against Hollins ― including obstruction of a law enforcement officer, driving without a license plate, not using a turn signal and carrying less than an ounce of marijuana ― have been dropped.A woman in New York was charged with attempted murder after police said she attempted kill a friend with poisoned cheesecake and steal her identity.

Viktoria Nasyrova, 42, was arraigned on Tuesday on charges that also include burglary and assault. She’s due in court on May 25, and faces up to 25 years in prison if convicted.

Police said the Russian-born suspect targeted 35-year-old Olga Tsvyk because they resembled each other. Both women speak Russian and have dark hair and brown eyes.

“This is a bizarre and twisted crime that could have resulted in the death of a Queens woman, whose only fault was that she shared similar features with the defendant,” Queens District Attorney Richard Brown said, according to Fox News.

The plot unfolded back in August 2016, authorities said, when Nasyrova visited Tsvyk at her home in Forest Hills, Queens, saying she needed help with an emergency eyelash repair, according to the New York Post. She brought cheesecake as a gift.

Viktoria Nasyrova CBS New York

Tsvyk ate some of the dessert, fell ill and took to her bed.

“It tasted like a regular cheesecake, nothing out of the ordinary,” she told the Post.

Tests showed the cheesecake was laced with phenazepan, a Russian tranquilizer.

“Before passing out, the woman’s last memory is of seeing the defendant sitting beside her inside her home,” DA Brown told reporters. “The following day, the victim’s friend discovered her unconscious in her bed, dressed in lingerie with pills scattered around her body — as if the woman had attempted to kill herself.”

Tsvyk recovered after hospital treatment.

While she was unconscious, Nasyrova stole her passport, employment authorization card, a gold ring and some cash, authorities said.

Nasyrova already was jailed on Rikers Island in New York on charges of stealing from two men she met through online dating sites. She’s also wanted for drugging and killing a woman in Russia before she fled to New York, according to Fox News.Sens. Tim Kaine and Mark Warner are both supporting a bill that would roll back anti-discrimination enforcement. Win McNamee via Getty Images

Tim Kaine isn’t shy about his work as a fair housing lawyer. When he ran as the Democratic Party’s vice presidential nominee in 2016, the Virginia senator routinely touted his past pro bono efforts to help low-income families deal with shady landlords and racist lenders. Combined with his affable dork-dad delivery, Kaine helped shore up Hillary Clinton’s credibility on an ambitious anti-discrimination agenda. And it didn’t sound like empty politician talk: Kaine had done the work.

He still feels a connection with civil rights attorneys. “In representing people who are getting ripped off or who don’t have anybody else to stand up for them or who don’t even know the questions to ask or where to turn for help, you are the hero,” Kaine told a Washington gathering of the nonprofit National Consumer Law Center in November.

And on Monday, the Senate will hold a key vote on a Kaine-sponsored bill that deliberately undermines the government’s ability to enforce laws against racial discrimination in the housing market. The legislation would block the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau from collecting key data showing when and where families of color are being overcharged for home loans or steered into predatory products. It’s just one small provision in a broad financial deregulation package, which is almost certain to clear both chambers of Congress and receive President Donald Trump’s signature. Last week, 17 members of the Senate Democratic caucus voted to advance the bill.

The effort to chip away at anti-discrimination enforcement has largely gone overlooked this year, as banking watchdogs focused their criticism on the legislation’s rollback of tougher rules against risk-taking at megabanks that were implemented in response to the 2008 financial crisis. Both foreign financial conglomerates and big American regional lenders would enjoy lighter federal supervision if the bill passes.

To its opponents, the bill represents a contorted statement of values, prioritizing short-term bank profits over consumer protection and financial stability.

“This is a bad bill,” Sen. Elizabeth Warren (D-Mass.) told HuffPost. “No Democrat and no Republican should support it.”

The federal government has been collecting basic data on mortgage discrimination since 1975, tallying by race which families receive loans and which are denied. Banks have always made a habit of turning down mortgages in black neighborhoods ― a practice known as redlining that is still very much alive and well. But the housing bubble and subsequent foreclosure bust laid bare another ugly trend. Lenders had also been targeting minority families with subprime mortgages and other predatory loans, instead of simply denying mortgages outright.

The 2010 Dodd-Frank financial reform law sought to address this by setting tougher predatory lending rules and by requiring banks to turn over a broader swath of information to the newly created CFPB. In addition to basic facts about loan approval or denial, lenders had to report a borrower’s age and credit score as well as the property value of the home being purchased, the interest rate, loan terms, and other pricing features of each mortgage. All of this information can be used to help determine if families of color are being ripped off or disproportionately pushed into predatory loans. The CFPB looks through the data for violations or red flags, and publishes it online so consumer groups can do their own research.

The bill the Senate will consider next week would wholly exempt banks that make 500 or fewer mortgages a year from reporting any of this additional data. That would shield about 85 percent of banks and credit unions from scrutiny, according to the CFPB’s estimates. These smaller lenders issue only a small fraction of the home loans provided by the financial system, but still work with hundreds of thousands of borrowers every year.

A Kaine spokesperson said the senator is just looking to provide “relief for small community banks and credit unions in Virginia while strengthening consumer protections for all Americans.” The spokesperson also noted Kaine’s background: “As a former fair housing attorney who fought against discriminatory lending practices, Senator Kaine supports stringent requirements to protect against unfair lending, and this legislation keeps those protections in place.”

But the National Consumer Law Center isn’t buying it. In December, the center teamed up with two other consumer groups to urge every senator to vote against the “harmful legislation” that Kaine is backing. “This bill contains destructive policies that roll back or eliminate essential protections,” the groups wrote.

It’s hard to find a liberal organization that likes anything about the bill. The AFL-CIO, the consumer watchdogs at Public Citizen, the establishment think-tankers at the Center for American Progress, the wonk-activists at Indivisible and the banking experts at Americans for Financial Reform have all weighed in against the legislation, citing harms to consumers and risks to financial stability. The National Fair Housing Alliance, the National Housing Law Project and the National Urban League have all specifically criticized the provision on anti-discrimination data.

Supporters of the bill bristle at the suggestion that it protects racial discrimination. They say it would allow banks to make more loans by cutting costs and help small banks stay in business in a market that favors Wall Street ― standard defenses for any measure that saves money for little banks. A spokesperson for Sen. Mark Warner (D-Va.) said the legislation would not end the reporting of any data about race. That’s technically true: Banks would still have to report the race of loan applicants to regulators, just not the new details about rates and types of loans.

A spokesperson for Sen. Jon Tester (D-Mont.) argued that the loss of some financial data was a reasonable price to pay for helping smaller lenders save money on paperwork: “The bill would exclude only 3.57 percent of data while exempting around 75 percent of insured banks and credit unions.”

Detailed numbers from the CFPB show the data loss would be heavily concentrated on poor neighborhoods ― precisely the communities most at risk for predatory lending. More than 1,700 census tracts officially designated as “low and moderate income” would lose at least 20 percent of the data they’d collect without the new law, while 185 cities and towns would lose at least 10 percent.

For progressive interest groups, the idea of turning a blind eye to just a little housing discrimination in order to help banks trim paperwork costs suggests a twisted set of priorities.

“This bill opens a door for racial discrimination in mortgage lending,” said Chad Bolt, a senior policy manager with Indivisible, a coalition of liberal activists formed after the 2016 election. “Why go back there?”

Banks already keep track of loan price and borrower details for their own files. The CFPB estimates that the current rule will cost small, “low-complexity” banks about $1,900 a year, plus about $3,000 in upfront costs. The potential profits from exploiting families of color are harder to quantify.

Senate Democrats, even those ardently pro-financial reform, have been telling community banks for years that they’re willing to cut them a break on some post-crisis regulations. But Sen. Sherrod Brown (D-Ohio), the top Democrat on the Senate Banking Committee, had balked at Republican efforts to undermine basic consumer protection law. So the community bank lobbyists threw in their lot with big banks that were looking for their own set of favors. Until late last year, it seemed like a bad legislative strategy. Combining Wall Street deregulation with attacks on consumer protection enforcement was fine for cultivating Republican votes, but Democrats were reluctant to stage a frontal attack on President Barack Obama’s financial reform law.

The Senate Banking Committee hasn’t traditionally functioned as a platform for serious Wall Street oversight. Party leaders tend to pack the panel with swing-state Democrats, who can use their position to fundraise by doing various favors for the financial sector. With Brown refusing to bend on GOP demands, Sens. Warner, Tester, Heidi Heitkamp (D-N.D.) and Joe Donnelly (D-Ind.) decided to go around Brown and cut a deal with committee Chairman Mike Crapo (R-Idaho). Eight more Democrats, including Kaine, are also co-sponsoring the bill.

Heitkamp and Donnelly face tough re-election battles this fall, and the paucity of legislation during the Trump era makes the campaign finance strategy at work here fairly easy to interpret. According to Center for Responsive Politics data, the top three recipients of campaign contributions from commercial banks in the 2018 cycle have been Heitkamp, Donnelly and Tester, in that order. Heitkamp’s $157,000 haul is nearly double what Crapo ― usually a top target as the committee chair ― brought in. Only Tester made the list of the top 20 Senate recipients of commercial bank cash in the 2016 cycle, suggesting that the bank lobby has been working overtime to get Democratic help this year.

“This bipartisan legislation would provide regulatory relief to Indiana’s 103 community banks and 154 credit unions, many of which are located in rural areas facing significant declines in lending activity,” Donnelly spokesman Sarah Rothschild told HuffPost. “That is why Senator Donnelly has worked since 2013 to make it easier for Hoosier families to get mortgages or obtain loans to start small businesses.”

A representative for Heitkamp declined to comment.

For the financial industry as a whole, the anti-discrimination data provision is essentially a sideshow ― something thrown in to appease small banks that are comparatively disadvantaged by other parts of the bill.

Dodd-Frank imposed a tougher set of rules on the biggest banks than it placed on smaller firms. Banks with at least $50 billion in assets have to undergo frequent stress-testing by the Federal Reserve to determine whether they can withstand an unexpected financial shock. They have to finance their operations with more capital and less debt, and they have to keep more cash on hand. But the new deregulation bill would raise that minimum definition of big banks to $250 billion in assets ― which means even huge regional players like BB&T and Regions Bank would no longer have to follow the tougher Dodd-Frank rules. Foreign conglomerates with trillions of dollars in global assets like Deutsche Bank, Credit Suisse and UBS would also be exempted from U.S. enforcement of big bank standards, since they keep less than $250 billion of their assets in the United States.

“It’s a whose-side-are-you-on moment,” said Brown. “Are you with the big banks and the Wall Street operators who wrecked the economy and got big bailouts, or are you with families and workers? ... There is collective amnesia on Capitol Hill about what happened 10 years ago.”

During the financial crisis of 2008 and 2009, a host of banks in the $100 billion to $200 billion range rushed into emergency acquisitions that ended with huge bailouts. Bank of America acquired Countrywide under duress, before the combined firm received a massive slate of taxpayer aid. GMAC, a major auto lender now known as Ally Bank, received several rounds of government help.

“Clearly the distress or failure of some of these banks could trigger reactions spreading broadly to the financial system,” former Federal Reserve Chair Paul Volcker wrote in a letter to Brown highlighting the risks of rolling back oversight of “several large foreign banks.” Volcker suggested that a $100 billion threshold would be more appropriate.

But for Warren and some other progressive Democrats, the bill looks like a solution in search of a problem. Dodd-Frank isn’t strangling large banks. They’re enormously profitable at the moment, and they were among the biggest beneficiaries of the tax bill Trump signed last year.

“To commemorate the 10th anniversary of the financial crisis, some Democrats are joining Republicans to pass a bill that will deregulate 30 of the 40 largest banks in the country that received a combined $50 billion in bailout money,” Warren told HuffPost. “This is not the work we should be doing.”