An already complicated day for President Donald Trump’s administration was capped with several shocking reports Wednesday night.

The barrage of stories shed new light on the extent of special counsel Robert Mueller’s investigation and raised questions about several officials in the president’s inner circle, including communications director Hope Hicks and the president’s son-in-law, Jared Kushner.

The Washington Post reported Wednesday evening that Mueller has questioned several witnesses about the president’s behavior toward Attorney General Jeff Sessions to determine whether Trump attempted to obstruct justice in the ongoing inquiry into Russian meddling in the 2016 presidential election.

Unnamed sources familiar with the special counsel’s probe told the Post that Mueller had questioned people about Trump’s statements on Sessions last July and August.

The president sent out several tweets during that time roundly criticizing the attorney general as “beleaguered” and questioned the Justice Department for taking a “very weak position” on his former opponent, Hillary Clinton.

Trump also told The New York Times in July that Sessions shouldn’t have recused himself from the Russia investigation and that, if he’d known that would happen, he “would have picked somebody else” as attorney general. The Times reported last month that Mueller was looking into Trump’s efforts to fire Sessions last spring, but Wednesday’s report reflected a broader scope of the inquiry.

HuffPost has reached out to the White House for comment.

The Post’s article notes that Sessions has told his associates he has no plans to resign, despite the ongoing pressure from the White House.

The report was just one of several damaging stories coming from the White House on Wednesday night.

CNN’s Jim Acosta reported that Mueller has also been asking about comments made by Hope Hicks in 2016, just two days after Trump was elected. Hicks announced her resignation earlier Wednesday, according to several news outlets.

White House senior adviser Jared Kushner, right, had his top-secret security clearance downgraded last week. Kevin Lamarque / Reuters

An unnamed former Trump campaign aide said Mueller questioned them about a particular statement Hicks gave to The New York Times two days after the 2016 election, when she said: “We are not aware of any campaign representatives that were in touch with any foreign entities before yesterday, when Mr. Trump spoke with many world leaders.”

Mueller’s investigators have, according to the former aide, been looking into whether Hicks’ statement was inaccurate in the wake of media reports that several members of the Trump campaign were, in fact, in contact with Russian officials, including Don Trump Jr. and the president’s son-in-law, Jared Kushner.

Kushner was also the subject of several damning reports Wednesday, including news that New York’s state banking regulators had asked several lenders about information on their financial relationships with the White House senior adviser. The New York Times later reported on several massive loans Kushner’s business received after meetings he held in the White House.

In one instance, Kushner Companies received a $325 million loan from Citigroup after Kushner met with the bank’s chief executive. A $184 million loan came from Apollo Global Management after Kushner met with the private equity firm’s founder in the White House several times.

Kushner resigned from his role at Kushner Companies when he joined the Trump administration last January, but he retains significant financial interests in the business.

The Washington Post reported earlier this week that several White House officials worried Kushner’s inexperience in politics and his complicated business holdings would make him subject to manipulation from foreign governments. Officials from at least four countries have reportedly discussed ways to influence him, although it’s unclear if they’ve acted on such plans.First of all, you MUST get your firearm terms correct if you are going to publish anything on this subject. There is NO SUCH THING as Dick’s Sporting Goods selling “an assault rifle” because it does not exist. Rather it would be a termed a semi-auto rifle or semi-auto carbine. Also, there is no such thing as a “high capacity” magazine. Over 5? Over 10? Over 15? Over 20? Over 30? Over 90?

Kinds of firearms have nothing to do with these mass murders. Think about it: The SAME firearm that the school children call to save them is the SAME firearm that only some of the perps use.

Example: During a church murder spree earlier this year where members were caught unarmed, an NRA member with an AR-15 STOPPED the carnage by scoring three hits on the murderer and then chased him down in a truck until the perp bled out. So there is no such thing as a “bad gun” or an inappropriate firearm in the hands of a “good guy”. Why would you ban a firearm? There is a Second Amendment in effect. Two, there are 450 million firearms in this country – nearly one for every man, woman and child!

My customers want the SAME firearm that the “bad guys” have so they can over-power them. I use my AR-15 for hunting and personal defense. The AR-15 started out in the civilian market, NOT the military.

I am sure I will have MANY MORE semi-auto rifles and semi-auto carbines offered on my online auction site because now EVERYONE will want one. When liberals attempt to introduce legislation for “bans” (no such thing as there are MILLIONS and MILLIONS of semi-auto rifles and semi-auto carbines in this country and NO ONE is going to “give up” any) they stimulate the market like never before. We always say Bill “Monica” Clinton was the world’s greatest gun salesman ever with his “Assault Weapon Ban” (did not work whatsoever as production kept going with just a few cosmetic changes and it caused MILLIONS of Americans to arm up with them anyway – hence no one reinstated the “ban” – not even the most liberal of legislators), however Obuma was the world’s best salesman (2016 there were 27.5 million firearm checks through NICS and way over that figure in private sales). A new record!

So will I make changes? Yes. I will be accepting even more semi-automatic firearms for sale! The market will go out of sight. I figure if someone can go to war with firearms, then they can surely buy one when they get back at age 18!

America’s school teachers and staff MUST arm up. I am on the Cody School Board and we are currently putting through a policy that will arm our teachers and staff. We need the correct firearms to do this.

Good Americans will NEVER give up any kinds of firearms. Period. Rather they will more heavily arm up with mass murder sprees as reported by the media.

History clearly shows us this.

Best, Scott Weber, Gunrunner Auctions, Cody, WyomingSally Hawkins, left, and Doug Jones in "The Shape of Water." Fox Searchlight/Twentieth Century Fox

Warning: This article contains spoilers for “The Shape of Water.”

Elsa Sjunneson-Henry was psyched when she heard about Guillermo del Toro’s “The Shape of Water.”

As a speculative fiction author and editor who is legally blind and deaf, Sjunneson-Henry couldn’t wait to see a science fiction film featuring a protagonist with a disability.

“I was super excited to potentially see a movie about a disabled woman as a hero in a genre setting,” Sjunneson-Henry told HuffPost.

The film, which won four Academy Awards including Best Picture, stars Sally Hawkins as Elisa, a cleaning woman who works at a top-secret government lab in the 1960s. Elisa, who is mute, lives a lonely life despite having two caring friends who are also outsiders — Giles (Richard Jenkins), who is gay, and Zelda (Octavia Spencer), who is black.

But Elisa’s life drastically changes when she discovers that the research facility where she works is performing questionable experiments on an aquatic but human-like creature (Doug Jones).

Elisa (Hawkins) and Zelda (Octavia Spencer), two women who clean at a top-secret research facility. Fox Searchlight/Twentieth Century Fox

Sjunneson-Henry thought “The Shape of Water” would be a heist movie, in which Elisa and her ragtag group of underdog friends band together, save the fish man and triumph over injustice.

“I wanted to walk away from that movie feeling like, ‘Yay! I got to see a disabled main character have lots of agency and [engage in] a lot of bad ass-ery,’” she said. “But that’s not what I got.”

What she got instead was a love story in which a character who is disabled falls in love with the Creature from the Black Lagoon because he’s the only being she can relate to on a deeper, emotional level.

In a heated scene in which Elisa explains why rescuing the Amphibian Man (as the character is listed on IMDb) is so important to her, she says that the creature “does not know what I lack or how I am incomplete. He sees me, for what I am, as I am.”

The sentiment is romantic, and is supposed to convey that the creature sees beyond Elisa’s physical abilities. Del Toro himself has expressed that this was his intention. But Sjunneson-Henry poignantly writes how this sentiment makes some people with disabilities “feel less human,” in her essay, “I Belong Where the People Are.”

“On the one hand I have always known in my soul that [able-bodied] people see me as half of them, that they see me as less than whole. Which is why I hate that in media such as this, we can only be desired by those who don’t know any better.” - Elsa Sjunneson-Henry, a speculative fiction author and editor who is disabled

“On the one hand I have always known in my soul that [able-bodied] people see me as half of them, that they see me as less than whole,” she wrote. “Which is why I hate that in media such as this, we can only be desired by those who don’t know any better.”

The problem with this love story may be due, in part, to the fact that there were very few people with disabilities involved in the creation of this film. When HuffPost reached out to Fox Searchlight to ask whether there were any disabled consultants involved in the film, a rep said two ASL coaches were involved during production. And though leading lady Hawkins has dyslexia, she has said publicly that she is “not disabled.”

There are also plenty of arguments that could support why this pairing is acceptable.

The movie hits viewers over the head with the message that the real monster in this fable isn’t Amphibian Man, but a human — Elisa’s boss Richard Strickland (Michael Shannon), a villain hellbent on vivisecting “the asset” (the monster) by any means.

Elisa teaches Amphibian Man sign language. Fox Searchlight/Twentieth Century Fox

Both Elisa and her webbed boo are isolated and voiceless, but bond intimately, on their own terms, through the sign language that Elisa teaches him.

Kristen Lopez, a film critic who is physically disabled, argues in a piece titled “How ‘Shape of Water’ Breaks Down Barriers About Sex and Disability” that placing an openly sexual disabled woman at the forefront of a mainstream Hollywood film is a pretty revolutionary move.

Lopez points out that women with disabilities are often characterized as unattractive and asexual. Yet, in the first few moments of the film, we see Elisa masturbating in her bathtub, which “removes the presumed barriers that separate people with disabilities from the able-bodied.”

Other scenes in the movie are relatable to those with disabilities as well.

In another scene, the able-bodied Strickland sexually harasses Elisa, which he perceives not as misconduct but a compliment, “since in his mind, he is the only one who perceives Elisa in a sexual context,” Lopez writes. It is a power dynamic that Sjunneson-Henry has experienced in her own life and said the movie portrayed well.

But though she related to the sexual harassment scene, Sjunneson-Henry told HuffPost she didn’t “feel great” about the movie as a whole.

That’s because the ending of the film and its final message is one that even Lopez, in her article, admits “undermines the film’s treatment of disability.”

For instance, in one scene, the audience learns that Elisa became mute as a baby after experiencing a violent act that left scars on her neck. In another scene, viewers discover that Amphibian Man has special powers after he heals a cut on Giles’ arm and cures him of his baldness.

These revelations come full circle at the end of the movie.

During the final climactic scene, Strickland shoots Elisa as she attempts to release her finned boyfriend into a canal so that he can swim back home.

In response to this, Amphibian Man kills Strickland, picks up Elisa’s dying body and jumps with her into the canal.

Once in the water, the creature heals Elisa by turning the scars on her neck into gills so that she could live out the rest of her life underwater with him.

The act is supposed to be viewed as romantic, but as Sjunneson-Henry points out, it also tells “disabled people [that they] should go and be with their kind.” It also says that if you don’t fit into society, it’s better that you leave.

Kim Sauder, a Ph.D. student in critical disability studies who is disabled, wrote in her essay “‘The Shape of Water’ is a Toxic Romantic Fantasy” that the story also tells people with disabilities that finding a romantic partner is a rarity and that they should hold on to whoever chooses them — even if it’s a monster.

“It is interesting how closely this conclusion mirrors my own youthful fantasies about romantic relationships (except that I kept my imaginary lovers human),” Sauder wrote. “I often felt like any relationship I might find would be a once in a lifetime opportunity and that we would inevitably end up living a secluded life together because of the discrimination that I faced. Except in the real world, that kind of relationship is a recipe for abuse and I’m glad I grew out of it.”

Not to mention that Elisa didn’t intend to leave with Amphibian Man. Earlier in the scene, when the creature learns that Elisa intends to set him free, he asks her to come with him and she rejects his offer.

She also had little agency in this decision, being that she was dying and unconscious when her lover turned her into a sea dweller.

Filmmaker and activist Dominick Evans, who has spinal muscular atrophy — a progressive neuromuscular disability — told HuffPost that the message that Elisa needed to be “fixed” or “cured” to have a successful romantic relationship is troubling.

“People think that the creature healed her, so we have non-disabled people thinking that disabled people want or need to be healed,” Evans told HuffPost. “And some people do, but when that’s the default message, that’s a problem. Some of us will never be the non-disabled version of ‘healed.’ Some of us will never have treatment options that ‘cure us.’”

It also reinforces the idea that people with disabilities are second-rate humans — even to those with disabilities themselves.

“I hated myself for being disabled for so long,” Evans told HuffPost. “I know other disabled people who have tried to kill themselves because they internalize these messages. They don’t go to school, they don’t have a relationship, they just sit around waiting to be cured or die.”

Some who are able-bodied and fans of the film may argue that it’s just a movie, but both Evans and Sjunneson-Henry assert that these kinds of narratives do have real-life consequences.

“It says to us that without being cured, we’re not going to be loved or worthwhile to another human being,” Evans told HuffPost. “And society absorbs that.”

Sjunneson-Henry says that some people have responded to her feelings about the film with anger.Jared losing his security clearance is the drunk rich friend who has his driver's license suspended and now everyone has to drive him around.Alex Cooper says she was forced to quit school, carry a backpack of rocks sometimes weighing 40 pounds and face a wall for hours at a time as part of her family’s efforts to change her sexuality after she came out at 15 years old.

Cooper, who identifies as a lesbian, describes her harrowing time at a Utah gay “conversion therapy camp” in a powerful new video produced by the Human Rights Campaign. She said she was subjected to “physical pain and emotional pain” during her eight-month stay at the camp run by a family “who promised to make me straight.”

“I felt like I couldn’t change being a lesbian, but that I could just conceal it” while undergoing the conversion therapy, Cooper said in the clip above. Eventually, she worked up the courage to reach out to a teacher, who helped her escape the experience. In 2016, she documented what she went through in a memoir, Saving Alex.

The video was released Wednesday as part of the Human Rights Campaign’s ongoing efforts to educate Americans on the dangers of conversion, or reparative, therapy practices. A day earlier, Maryland became the 10th state to ban the practice on minors, while New Hampshire and Hawaii recently passed protections that await approval from their governors.

Olivia Dalton, the Human Rights Campaign’s senior vice president for communications and marketing, said in an email statement she hoped Cooper’s testimony would “help fuel the momentum we are seeing across the nation as lawmakers on both sides of the aisle work with us to pass legislation protecting LGBTQ youth from this dangerous and discredited practice.”

She added, “No child should be subjected to this practice that amounts to nothing less than child abuse.”

AdvertisementAuthor Ta-Nehisi Coates is turning a page in his career by becoming the new author of Captain America.

Coates is best known for his essays on race about race and culture in America, but now he will also be writing for the Marvel character’s comic book, according to The New York Times.

It’s not his first stab in the comic book field: In 2016, Coates wrote stories for “Black Panther.” But he admits he’s a little intimidated writing for a comic book icon like Captain America.

“I’m not convinced I can tell a great ′Captain America’ story ― which is precisely why I want so bad to try,” he said in an essay for The Atlantic.

Coates explained the challenge of writing for the character is that Steve Rogers is “a man out of time.”

He elaborates:

″[Captain America] is a walking emblem of greatest-generation propaganda brought to life in this splintered post-modern time,” Coates said. “Thus, [he] is not so much tied to America as it is, but to an America of the imagined past.”

Though some might think Coates wants to put his words into Captain America’s mouth, he said it’s actually the opposite.

“Captain America, the embodiment of a kind of Lincolnesque optimism, poses a direct question for me: Why would anyone believe in The Dream?” he said. “What is exciting here is not some didactic act of putting my words in Captain America’s head, but attempting to put Captain America’s words in my head.”(Reuters) - New York’s state banking regulator asked Deutsche Bank AG and two other lenders for information on their relationships with U.S. President Donald Trump’s son-in-law and White House senior adviser Jared Kushner and his family’s real estate company, a person familiar with the matter told Reuters.

The New York State Department of Financial Services (DFS) made the requests to Deutsche Bank, Signature Bank and New York Community Bank for information on loans and other financial arrangements including lines of credit and loan guarantees a week ago, the person said.

The regulator also asked for information related to other family members, the person said.

DFS, Deutsche Bank and Signature Bank declined to comment. New York Community Bank had no immediate comment.

Last year Kushner resigned from his role leading Kushner Companies LLC and sold his stake to a family trust as part of an effort to avoid conflicts of interests in his White House role. The private real estate company owns or partially owns buildings in New York and New Jersey.

Kushner, who had a broad portfolio in the White House, including leading Middle East peace negotiations and an effort to downsize government programs, lost his interim top-secret security clearance, two U.S. officials familiar with the matter said on Tuesday.“We are excited to be working on a series that showcases Alec as one of today’s most compelling conversationalists,” Dungey said, according to Entertainment Weekly.

Reports of Baldwin’s intention to launch a talk show at ABC, where he already hosts “Match Game,” circulated last year.

Baldwin, best known recently for impersonating Donald Trump on “Saturday Night Live,” had a short-lived chat program on MSNBC in 2013. That show was canceled after Baldwin’s homophobic rant at a photographer outside his Manhattan home.Yuri Gripas / Reuters

WASHINGTON ― Republicans say their tax agenda is becoming more popular because people are seeing bigger paychecks and Corporate America has been dishing out bonuses.

Attitudes toward the law, which passed with historic unpopularity, have seen an uptick, with most recent polls finding the public more or less evenly divided on its merits.

HuffPost graphic via Datawrapper

But while many Americans have heard stories of others receiving bonuses, a new HuffPost/YouGov survey finds, relatively few have seen such benefits themselves. And, whether they like or hate the law, most say they base their opinions on its effect on the country, rather than the impact they’ve personally seen.

Among supporters of the tax law, 77 percent say they back it at least in part because they believe it’ll benefit the country as a whole, and just 30 percent that they favor it because they’ll personally benefit (respondents were allowed to select both ― or neither ― options). Among the law’s opponents, 76 percent credit their objections to concerns that it’s bad for the nation, and only 26 percent to worries that they themselves will be adversely affected.

People, of course, may prefer to paint themselves as concerned with the welfare of the nation than just their own pocketbook. But other questions in the survey similarly find Americans more likely to have heard about the tax law’s benefits to the public at large than to say they’ve profited from it.

About a quarter of those polled say they’ve received a paycheck increase ― but just 5 percent report that their paycheck has increased “a lot,” rather than just a little. Seven percent of those polled say they’ve received a bonus.

More than 80 percent of households should benefit from lower federal income taxes this year, according to the independent Tax Policy Center. Since individuals’ federal income tax is withheld from paychecks by their employers, lower tax rates should mean less withholding, and therefore more take-home pay for most people. The Internal Revenue Service put out new withholding tables for employers earlier this year, saying employers should adjust paychecks accordingly by Feb. 15.

Hundreds of companies have announced one-time bonuses as a result of the law, according to a Republican tally. While few survey respondents said they’d received a bonus themselves, more than half of those polled say they’ve seen news stories about people receiving bonuses or increased paychecks as a result of the tax law. Nearly half say that they believe some or most workers have seen an increased paycheck, and 35 percent that they think some or most have gotten a bonus.

The new law’s core provision slashed the corporate tax rate to 21 percent from 35 percent, saving corporations an estimated $100 billion this year. During the debate over the legislation late last year, Democrats said companies would lavish their tax windfall on shareholders, while Republicans insisted workers would benefit.

Republicans have claimed vindication from all the stories about bonuses, saying workers have received more than $3 billion in extra pay so far. But the value of share buybacks has vastly exceeded the sum of bonuses. According to Senate Democrats’ count, companies have announced more than $200 billion worth of share repurchases so far this year.

Share buybacks aren’t the kind of capital investment that makes workers more productive, which in turn potentially increases wages. Rather, buybacks inflate the value of shares, which are overwhelmingly owned by the richest people in America and make up a large portion of CEO compensation.

Just a quarter of survey respondents said they’ve heard stories about companies buying back shares of their own stock ― meaning people were more than twice as likely to have seen news about bonuses.

In the poll, wealthier Americans are likelier to support the tax law than poorer ones, and they’re also likelier to believe it will have broad positive effects on the country, as well as to say that they’ve seen a paycheck increase of their own.

But, as is often the case, many of the starkest divides are political, not economic.

While Americans in households making $100,000 or more annually are 21 percentage points likelier than those making under $50,000 to back the tax law, Donald Trump voters are 72 points likelier than Hillary Clinton voters to support it. While the highest-earning Americans are 20 points likelier than the lowest-earning to say most workers saw a benefit to their paychecks, the gap between Trump and Clinton voters is 46 points.

Use the widget below to further explore the results of the HuffPost/YouGov survey, using the menu at the top to select survey questions and the buttons at the bottom to filter the data by subgroups:

The HuffPost/YouGov poll consisted of 1,000 completed interviews conducted Feb. 22-24 among U.S. adults, using a sample selected from YouGov’s opt-in online panel to match the demographics and other characteristics of the adult U.S. population.

HuffPost has teamed up with YouGov to conduct daily opinion polls. You can learn more about this project and take part in YouGov’s nationally representative opinion polling. More details on the polls’ methodology are available here.WASHINGTON ― Following the deadly school shooting in his home state, Sen. Marco Rubio (R-Fla.) last week expressed support for raising the minimum age for certain gun purchases from 18 to 21, yet he is not backing away from a bill he proposed that would reduce restrictions on young people obtaining such weapons in the nation’s capital.

“I absolutely believe that in this country, if you are 18 years of age, you should not be able to buy a rifle,” he said at a CNN town hall last week, where he faced questions from students and parents affected by the Feb. 14 mass shooting at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Florida. “I will support a law that takes that right away.”

His new position appears to conflict with a bill he introduced in 2015 and 2017 that would overturn strict gun measures enacted by Washington officials ― including restrictions on firearm purchases by residents between the ages of 18 and 21.

After Rubio, a frequent beneficiary of support from the National Rifle Association, first unveiled the legislation in 2015, the lobby group raised his rating from a B+ to an A.

Rubio’s office did not immediately return a request for comment from HuffPost. A spokeswoman told the McClatchy news outlet on Tuesday that the senator stands by the bill because it “would bring D.C. into compliance with federal law.”

The spokeswoman added: “If federal law is changed on the purchase age for semi-automatic rifles, then D.C. law would be changed as well.”

Congress has wide authority to oversee local laws in the nation’s capital.

Eleanor Holmes Norton (D), the D.C. representative in Congress who has no voting power, has repeatedly called on Rubio to pull the bill, citing his statement at the town hall.

.@marcorubio's DC gun bill would eliminate DC's ban on assault rifles & allow 18 year olds to purchase them. At the #CNNTownHall, he professed support for raising the age for assault rifle purchases to 21. To maintain his credibility, he must withdraw his DC gun bill. #HandsOffDC — Eleanor Holmes Norton (@EleanorNorton) February 26, 2018

“Senator Rubio’s D.C. gun bill would allow a person the same age (19) as the Parkland shooter to buy assault rifles, such as an AR-15, and high-capacity magazines in the nation’s capital,” Norton said in a statement on Tuesday. “Compounding the danger to District residents and visitors, Senator Rubio’s bill would eliminate D.C.’s total ban on guns in school. The Parkland shooting tragically shows the dangers these weapons of war pose to our children. It is long past time that he withdraw his dangerous, anti-home-rule bill.”Having decided it no longer kneads Papa John’s, the NFL has moved on to Pizza Hut as its official pizza sponsor, according to a statement the league made on Wednesday.

Pizza Hut’s new status as sponsor was announced just one day after the league and Papa John’s released a joint statement saying the two had parted ways.

Pizza Hut and the NFL reached a multiyear agreement that will offer “exclusive marketing rights and designations that will connect the brand with the NFL and its teams, players, events, [and] partners,” the league said Wednesday.

That commentary resulted in bad publicity and still more poor sales for Papa John’s, ultimately leading to Schnatter’s resignation as CEO toward the end of last year. He is still the company’s chairman.

Twitter users (and many members of the NFL) have been particularly saucy about Wednesday’s news:

The NFL just straight up replaced Papa John's with Pizza Hut in less then 14 hours pic.twitter.com/F6z2gy3kkx — luisa (@luisagibsonxo) February 28, 2018

I see you @PizzaHut. — Matt Ryan (@M_Ryan02) February 28, 2018

I see you @pizzahut. They took care of me way back to my draft party https://t.co/IGwLfeX9zC — Jameis Winston (@Jaboowins) February 28, 2018

[insert “you can’t stop the hut” reference here] https://t.co/XwwDgBiSey — Nicky Football (@ESPN580Nick) February 28, 2018

Move aside Papa John’s, Pizza Hut is the new official sponsor of the NFL pic.twitter.com/cZWKHAILTn — Joel Franco (@OfficialJoelF) February 28, 2018

pizza hut is better than papa john’s and domino’s is miles better than both. i will not be taking questions at this time. https://t.co/imeawj0mBA — Sean Gentille (@seangentille) February 28, 2018

Pizza Hut is now the official pizza of the NFL.



I'm still going to boycott the NFL. — Joe Walsh (@WalshFreedom) February 28, 2018

There's a new NFL pizza partner? I can get down with some @PizzaHut! — Carson Wentz (@cj_wentz) February 28, 2018

Papa John's stock lost one-third of its value since last June, which founder and former CEO John Schnatter blamed on NFL protests. Meanwhile, Pizza Hut's parent company stock, Yum!, grew 8% during the same time period. Now Pizza Hut is the new official pizza of the NFL. pic.twitter.com/yzD43cD28c — Keith Boykin (@keithboykin) February 28, 2018Democrats flipped their 38th and 39th GOP-held seats in state legislatures since Donald Trump was elected president in 2016, beating out Republicans in two special elections on Tuesday night.

In New Hampshire, Democrat Phil Spagnuolo, a substance abuse coach, won in a district where Trump had defeated Democratic nominee Hillary Clinton by a 54-41 margin, according to data provided by Daily Kos. Spagnuolo beat Republican candidate Les Cartier by a 54-46 percent margin.

“The voters in New Hampshire’s Belknap County District 3 elected Philip because of his commitment to fighting for the issues that matter to Laconia, like fighting the opioid crisis and building an economy that works for everyone,” Democratic National Committee chair Tom Perez said in a statement.

Spagnuolo is a founding member of a community recovery center, and New Hampshire is one of the states hit hardest by the opioid crisis. It leads the nation in overdose deaths per capita from fentanyl, a synthetic opioid that has largely replaced heroin.

Hours later in Connecticut, Democrat Phil Young made history by becoming the first Democrat to represent state House District 120 in 44 years. Young beat out Republican Bill Cabral to win the district 51-49 percent. In 2016, Clinton narrowly beat Trump by a 49-47 margin, though she carried the state by close to 14 points, the Daily Beast notes.

“As an advocate for fiscal responsibility while serving as Majority Leader of the Stratford Town Council, voters know [Young will] do the same for them in the Connecticut House,” Jessica Post, executive director of the Democratic Legislative Campaign Committee, said in a statement.

Young, who has been a resident of Stratford, Connecticut, for nearly four decades, campaigned on school funding, environmental protection and fighting the opioid crisis. He quit his job as a full-time chef to run for the seat.Seth Meyers took a detailed look at how President Donald Trump’s crusade against the opioid epidemic has progressed.

On Tuesday’s broadcast of “Late Night,” the host concluded that it was not exactly living up to Trump’s campaign promise to solve the crisis.

Meyers acknowledged that some positive steps had been taken, but explained that poor staffing choices and unfulfilled vows to boost funding and resources meant the war was far from over.Michelle Obama, pictured earlier this month, seemed to again diss President Donald Trump's tweeting habits on Tuesday. Paul Morigi via Getty Images

Michelle Obama doesn’t need to overtly zing President Donald Trump about his tweeting habits.

The former first lady can throw shade at him the subtle way.

On Tuesday, she appeared to take another jab at the constant Twitter posts of the chief executive, saying she used social media “like a grownup.”

“I don’t just tweet off the top of my head, which I don’t encourage people to do ― especially kids,” Obama said during a panel at Klick Health’s MUSE New York event, People reported.

Obama, who noted that she has a “committee” check out her tweets before publishing them, added: “How many kids do you know that the first thing that comes off the top of their head is the first thing they should express? You know? It’s like, ‘Take a minute. Talk to your crew before you put that [out there] and then spell check and check the grammar.’”

After a similar apparent dig at Trump in November, Obama on Tuesday told attendees that kids who believe unedited “telling it like it is” is the best approach on social media are being “rude.”

“But yes I use social media,” she said, per People. “But I use it like a grownup.”The Department of Housing and Urban Development spent more than $31,000 on a new dining set for Secretary Ben Carson’s office last year, according to procurement documents obtained by The New York Times.

The new furniture, which has yet to be delivered, includes a custom table, chairs and hutch. It was purchased by a staffer in Carson’s office shortly after another HUD employee expressed concerns over a costly redecoration request that would’ve exceeded federal limits. Tuesday’s report also comes as HUD is facing a $6.8 billion cut to its fiscal budget that would affect elderly and poor Americans.

A HUD spokesperson said Carson didn’t know about the requisition of the furniture at the time but said the secretary didn’t believe it was too expensive and would not be returning it.

“In general, the secretary does want to be as fiscally prudent as possible with the taxpayers’ money,” the spokesman, Raffi Williams, told The New York Times. He noted that the agency didn’t seek approval from congressional appropriations committees for the purchase, which is legally required for redecoration costs exceeding $5,000, because it served a “building-wide need.”

The Times clarified that the table will be placed in Carson’s office.

The Guardian reported later that day that Williams initially denied that a dining table had been purchased, telling the outlet last Friday that “the only money HUD spent was $3,200 to put up new blinds.”

Earlier on Tuesday, the Guardian reported that another HUD official, Helen Foster, alleged she was demoted after she expressed concerns over expensive plans to redecorate Carson’s office. The news outlet obtained a copy of a complaint filed by Foster in which she states she was asked by then-acting HUD Secretary Craig Clemmensen to help find money to revamp the office before Carson was confirmed to take over the agency. When she informed Clemmensen that there was a statutory limit on such expenditures, she said, he told her officials had “always found ways around that in the past” and that ″$5,000 will not even buy a decent chair.”

She lodged an official complaint at the time to HUD’s budget director about being asked to violate the spending limits, but, she said, she was removed from the post and made the head of the unit overseeing Freedom of Information Act requests.

In April 2017, Carson said in an interview that he was “putting in place a structure so that we can monitor where every penny goes.”Earlier this year, Vanity Fair released their annual Hollywood issue. It was a photoshop disaster of nuclear proportions, giving Oprah three hands and Reese Witherspoon three legs.

GQ brilliantly parodies that debacle for their annual comedy issue, featuring Kate McKinnon, Issa Rae and Sarah Silverman. Much like attempting to follow the appendages shown in this cover, it’s hard to know where to start.

GQ / Facebook

“Saturday Night Live” alum Kate McKinnon’s leg stretches unnaturally across “Insecure” creator Issa Rae’s lap. Rae’s left arm rests on the back of a chair, and her other left arm wraps around comedian Sarah Silverman. Silverman sits with her legs crossed, embracing her fellow comedy stars with both arms, while also somehow planting one hand on the floor beneath the stage. It’s a “Where’s Waldo?” moment of photoshop magic.

GQ even released a fun apology, promising to double their efforts to ensure strict editorial standards are met.

“GQ will be conducting a thorough internal audit of our cover-development process,” a note from the editors said. “To demonstrate our commitment to transparency, we will release the results of the review, quietly, in 17 months, on Medium.”President Donald Trump criticized police for not doing more to prevent a mass shooting at a Florida high school, arguing they should have taken the shooter’s guns away “whether they had the right or not.”

During a bipartisan meeting with lawmakers on gun control Wednesday, Trump suggested guns should be taken away “immediately from people that you can judge easily are mentally ill,” alluding to the Florida shooter, who had undergone a psychiatric evaluation in 2016 but was ultimately not hospitalized.

“The police saw that he was a problem, they didn’t take any guns away,” Trump said. “Now that could have been policing, but they should have taken them away anyway, whether they had the right or not.”

He doubled down on the claim later in the meeting after Vice President Mike Pence spoke about due process and giving local law enforcement more leeway to obtain a court order to collect firearms from potentially dangerous people.

“Mike, take the firearms first and then go to court, because that’s another system,” Trump said. “A lot of times, by the time you go to court, it takes so long to go to court, to get the due process procedures. I like taking the guns early.”

Trump often seemed to be more in agreement with Democrats than Republicans during the meeting, as was clear by Sen. Dianne Feinstein’s (D-Calif.) delighted expression during much of the event.

Trump shot down Rep. Steve Scalise’s (R-La.) suggestion to add concealed carry reciprocity to a background check bill, telling him, “You’ll never get it passed.” He also chided Sen. Pat Toomey (R-Pa.) for being “afraid” of the National Rifle Association.

He was, however, on board with Sen. Amy Klobuchar’s (D-Minn.) request to provide domestic violence victims with more protections against gun violence, and Feinstein’s suggestion to add an assault weapons ban to legislation.

Feinstein's reaction when Trump says she should add assault weapons ban to Manchin-Toomey pic.twitter.com/7dlKxwa1KO — Ryan Struyk (@ryanstruyk) February 28, 2018

Trump also repeatedly questioned former President Barack Obama’s efforts on gun control on Wednesday. He kicked off the meeting by listing mass shootings that had taken place under other presidents, and called out Obama by name while discussing the Manchin-Toomey bill.

Trump didn’t appear knowledgeable about that bill, which failed in the Senate in 2013 despite widespread public support and has been debated regularly ever since.

He asked Toomey, who introduced the bill with Sen. Joe Manchin (D-W.Va.), if the bill had bipartisan support and suggested it “didn’t have a lot of presidential backing.” He also argued Obama “was not proactive” in trying to pass a bill to strengthen background checks, despite Obama’s push for gun control reform after the Sandy Hook massacre in 2013.

Hayley Miller contributed to this report.On Tuesday, the Golden State Warriors took Washington, D.C., area students to the National Museum of African American History and Culture to celebrate the basketball team’s 2017 NBA Finals win.

Shooting guard Klay Thompson spoke to the media about the team’s choice after their Monday night win against the New York Knicks.

“The White House is a great honor, but there are some other circumstances that we felt uncomfortable going,” Thompson said. “We’re not going to politicize anything. We’re going to hang out with some kids, and take them to the African American Museum, and hopefully teach them some things we learned along the way.”

It’s customary for NBA Finals champions to visit the White House. But after the Warriors’ win in June, many players made it clear that they did not want to go because they disagreed with President Donald Trump’s politics. In September, star point guard Stephen Curry shared his views on a possible White House visit with USA Today.

Kevin Durant and JaVale McGee of Golden State Warriors. Nathaniel S. Butler via Getty Images

“We don’t stand for basically what our president has — the things that he’s said and the things that he hasn’t said in the right times, that we won’t stand for it,” Curry said. “And by acting and not going, hopefully that will inspire some change when it comes to what we tolerate in this country and what is accepted and what we turn a blind eye to.”

Following Curry’s comments, Trump tweeted that the team was uninvited. The team’s head coach, Steve Kerr, decided to let the players choose how they wanted to spend time in the nation’s capital this week while there for a game against the Washington Wizards, according to ESPN.

The team had many options, including holding a ceremony with Democratic politicians, according to NBC News. But the team wanted to depoliticize the D.C. visit.Dave Jamieson/HuffPost

UPDATE: 11:30 p.m. ― All of West Virginia’s schools will remain closed on Thursday, despite a tentative deal between union leaders and Gov. Jim Justice earlier in the week. Many teachers had taken to the halls of the state’s Capitol during a “cooling off” period to voice their ongoing frustration with the negotiations.

It will be the sixth day all schools across the state have been shuttered.

BREAKING: West Virginia schools are closed again Thursday, despite Governor Jim Justice's deal with unions. — NBC News (@NBCNews) March 1, 2018

Earlier: The tentative deal struck Tuesday night to end a statewide teacher strike in West Virginia is on shaky ground just hours after being announced by Gov. Jim Justice (R), with employees in some counties pondering whether to extend a walkout that seemed to be over.

Striking teachers continued to fill the halls of the state capitol in Charleston on Wednesday despite the day being billed as a “cooling off” period before schools would reopen on Thursday. Many of them demanded that the unions and legislators get back to the bargaining table to improve a deal they deemed unsatisfactory.

The arrangement Justice rolled out would give teachers and other school personnel a five percent raise, and workers employed by the state a three percent raise. Although it marked progress from the meager wage increases earlier proposed by Justice, the deal did not placate strikers’ bigger concerns over the state employee health care program.

Justice said the state would temporarily freeze employee costs under the program, known as the Public Employee Insurance Agency (PEIA), while a task force was set up to develop a long-term fix to rising premiums and co-pays. But many striking employees apparently don’t trust the issue will be resolved, and fear increased health costs could wipe away their raises.

The director of the West Virginia Education Association, one of the two state unions leading the strike, told The Charleston Gazette Mail on Wednesday that “we’ll wait and see” whether the strike continues.

Jenny Santilli, a Spanish teacher protesting at the Capitol on Wednesday, said many teachers would have rejected the deal had union leaders put it up for a vote. Santilli was upset that the health care issue remained in play, and that state workers would have to settle for smaller pay increases than educators.

“We’re furious,” she said. “All hell is breaking loose.”

Striking workers weren’t the only ones to find out the details of the deal when it was announced at a press conference by Justice Tuesday night. A Republican source who asked to remain anonymous said many GOP legislators learned of the deal in a caucus meeting while watching Justice live on television. Shouting erupted from members upset with the offer.

Teachers and other school employees first walked off the job last Thursday, with the workers in all 55 counties onboard with the first such major strike in West Virginia since 1990. Teachers have not seen an across-the-board pay hike since 2014, and increasing health care costs mean take-home pay has gone down for some.

West Virginia ranks 48th out of 50 states and the District of Columbia in teacher pay, according to the National Education Association.

Public-sector workers do not have collective bargaining rights in West Virginia. Unlike in most other states, unions do not negotiate contracts for their members spelling out pay and benefits, then have members vote on them; instead, the unions must pressure the state legislature to pass bills.

As of Wednesday afternoon, all employees had was the governor’s word that legislators would take up and approve his proposal.

Santilli said many teachers in her area, Harrison County, were leaning toward continuing the strike on Thursday. While the strike so far has shut down schools across the state, it’s possible dissatisfaction with the deal could lead to reopenings in some counties but not others, splintering what had been a unified strike under the banner of #55strong.

Greg Cruey, a teacher and union representative at his school in McDowell County, said he believed union leaders struck a good deal under the circumstances. He called the raise “more than we’ve gotten in a long, long time.”

He said he was satisfied that unions would have a place on the task force formed to address the state employee health plan, and added that teachers could walk out again if legislators don’t follow through on their end of the proposed deal.

But Cruey acknowledged that many of his colleagues think quite differently, and that the historic strike might not yet be over.

“There a lot of discord and confusion and unhappiness,” he said. ”It won’t surprise me if there are a few more strike days. The question is whether the union will stick together in solidarity, and whether ‘55 united’ means something or whether we’ll eat our young instead.”Standing before a roomful of anti-abortion activists in Nashville on Tuesday, Mike Pence described the “great progress” made under President Donald Trump to limit women’s access to legal abortions in the U.S. and abroad.

He called for the activists in the room to work ever harder to help “restore the sanctity of life to the center of American law.” He then made a stunning suggestion: that legal abortion could “once again” be banned in the U.S., and that it could happen “in our time.”

Speaking at a luncheon hosted by the Susan B. Anthony List and Life Institute, an anti-abortion group, the vice president announced that “life is winning in America once again,” before ticking off the many policies enacted under Trump aimed at limiting access to abortions.

“The President reinstated the Mexico City Policy to prevent American tax dollars from funding organizations that promote or perform abortions beyond our borders,” said Pence, a devout Christian who’s been described as one of Washington’s most anti-abortion Republicans.

“Our administration has stopped U.S. funding of the United Nations Population Fund so American taxpayers are no longer forced to support abortion around the world,” the VP added, his words met with loud applause and cheers. “And I can’t tell you how proud I was in my role as president of the Senate to cast the tie-breaking vote on a bill the President signed to allow states like Tennessee to defund Planned Parenthood.”

Spoke at the @SBAList luncheon about how the Trump Admin has been keeping its word to STAND FOR the sanctity of HUMAN LIFE. We've reinstated the Mexico City Policy, allowed states to defund Planned Parenthood & @POTUS addressed this year's March for Life from the @WhiteHouse. pic.twitter.com/9irXVrtCWk — Vice President Mike Pence (@VP) February 27, 2018

In his speech, Pence described Trump as the “most pro-life president in American history.” Over the years, Trump has had a mixed record on women’s reproductive rights. In 1999, he even described himself as “very pro-choice,” though he’s since said that he changed his mind on the issue after meeting the child of a friend who decided not to have an abortion.

Pence said the Trump administration would continue to push measures to restrict abortion access, but he stressed that “the opposition is always looking for ways to undo our achievements” and urged anti-abortion activists to take action.

“For all the progress since 1973,” he added, referencing the year of the Roe v. Wade decision, “I just know in my heart of hearts that this will be the generation that restores life in America.”A sign advertises a program that allows food stamp recipients to use their electronic benefit transfer cards to shop at a farmers market in Topsham, Maine. Some cities and states are experimenting with ways to entice food stamp recipients to eat more fruits and vegetables. Robert Bukaty/The Associated Press

By Teresa Wiltz

Cities and states are trying new ways to entice food stamp recipients to eat their fruits and vegetables.

One approach that’s gaining popularity: offering rebates to low-income families when they buy fresh produce. A program in Massachusetts was so popular that it ran out of rebate money and had to be suspended.

By rewarding food stamp recipients for making healthy choices, advocates hope to encourage low-income people to eat more fruits and vegetables.

Buying fresh fruits and vegetables can be expensive — especially for families trying to live on $126 a person, the average monthly food stamp benefit in 2017. That’s $1.40 for a meal.

But even as food advocates are trying to make these programs work, they worry that efforts underway in Washington could eliminate them.

President Donald Trump this month proposed slashing benefits under the federal food stamp program by nearly 30 percent. To help cut costs, food stamp recipients would get a box of canned and packaged goods rather than using their benefits to choose their own food — an idea that food security researchers and advocates say would be a logistical nightmare.

Trump’s proposals “are about saving money for purposes other than public health,” said Marion Nestle, a professor of nutrition, food studies and public health at New York University. “But surely public health is a public good worth supporting?”

Trump’s budget proposal would also eliminate funding for the Food Insecurity Nutrition Initiative (FINI), a U.S. Department of Agriculture program that gives grants to programs that offer incentives to food stamp recipients for buying produce.

“By rewarding food stamp recipients for making healthy choices, advocates hope to encourage low-income people to eat more fruits and vegetables.”

And that has advocates worried. While presidential budgets routinely are considered “dead on arrival” in Congress, lawmakers are at work on a new farm bill, which would provide funding for the food stamp program, known as the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) and the FINI grants.

The FINI program was created by the 2014 farm bill, and Congress appropriated $100 million for the program, to be doled out over a four-year period, through 2018. Programs that get FINI grants all offer incentives to low-income shoppers, such as coupons or loyalty cards. Typically, for every dollar spent on produce, shoppers get another dollar to buy more later.

The program operates in 39 states, but data on how many programs are running nationwide or how many food stamp recipients it serves is not available, said Selina Meiners, a USDA spokeswoman.

FINI grants to cities and states range from $100,000 for small-scale pilot projects to several million dollars for large-scale projects. Sometimes the money goes to nonprofits and farmers markets that work with state agencies that administer the food stamp program; sometimes it goes directly to state-run initiatives. And sometimes local governments and nonprofits match the federal funding.

The chairman of the U.S. Senate agriculture committee, Republican Pat Roberts of Kansas, is working on the new farm bill, but declined to comment on whether he supports the president’s proposed cuts. U.S. Rep. Mike Conaway, a Republican from Texas who chairs the House Agriculture Committee, also declined to comment.

Eliminating federal funding for the food program “would have huge consequences,” said Julia Koprak, a senior associate at the Food Trust, a Philadelphia-based nonprofit funded in part by a FINI grant.

“More people will go hungry,” Koprak said.

Early evaluations of FINI projects show benefits. An April 2017 report by the Farmers Market Coalition, a Pennsylvania-based advocacy group, found that in 2016, around the country, households on food stamps that were enrolled in the program consumed 16 million to 32 million additional servings of fruits and vegetables. The report found the program generated an estimated $14.3 million in economic activity for participating communities.

But food advocates worry that might not be enough to sway Congress.

“It’s hard to prove that eating more healthfully produces immediate — measurable — results,” said NYU’s Nestle, the author of “Food Politics: How the Food Industry Influences Nutrition and Health.”

“If budget cutters insist on definitive proof,” she said, “it’s not possible to give it to them.”

Farmers Market Coupons

FINI got its start in 2014, but the idea of helping low-income Americans spend more of their food dollars on fresh fruit and vegetables has been bouncing around for a while.

About a dozen years ago, a handful of farmers markets in Harlem, the South Bronx, and Takoma Park, Maryland, began offering coupons to food stamp recipients so they could buy more produce.

And in 2008, the farm bill provided $20 million for pilot programs around the country that encourage low-income families to eat more fruits and vegetables.

Massachusetts and Michigan were among the first states to try out that hypothesis on a formal basis, and the success of those pilots prompted Congress to create FINI in 2014.

In 2009, Detroit started offering food stamp recipients “Double Up Food Bucks” to buy fresh fruit and vegetables at five area farmers markets. The program has now grown to 150 sites across Michigan and has served over 300,000 families.

The Michigan program was able to expand when the USDA in 2015 awarded its administrator, the nonprofit Fair Food Network, a $5 million FINI grant, which was then matched by a private funder.

A Massachusetts program in 2011 started giving food stamp recipients 30 cents for every dollar they spent buying produce from local farmers.

The program proved to be successful: Participants spent more on fresh produce — and ate more fruits and vegetables.

So last year, with a three-year, $3.4 million FINI grant, Massachusetts expanded the program. Some 35,000 households across the state snapped up nearly all of the matching funds within the year.

Because officials had run through most of the money two years ahead of schedule, the state will temporarily suspend the program from mid-April to July, according to the state’s Department of Transitional Assistance.

While the program is suspended, food stamp recipients can still use their benefits to buy produce at farm stands — just without the rebate.

Más Fresco

In 2016, University of California at San Diego received a $3.4 million FINI grant to launch a similar program in Los Angeles, Orange and San Diego counties, called Más Fresco/More Fresh.

Local community health workers, “promotoras,” armed with computer tablets, go to participating grocery stores to recruit food stamp recipients in predominantly Latino communities.

Once they’ve signed up, the recipients use loyalty reward cards to access rebates that double the value of the money they spend on produce. Some people are randomly selected to receive even more benefits, up to $40 a month.

Last year, 1,153 food stamp recipients signed up for the program. This year, the goal is to sign up another 2,000, said Joe Prickitt, senior director of the Southern California Nutrition Incentive Program at UC San Diego Center for Community Health, which runs the program.NBC BLK is getting a new editorial manager: Todd Johnson, currently the managing editor at theGrio.com, will assume the role on March 5.

According to a newsroom memo obtained by HuffPost, Johnson will be joining the NBC News digital team under Executive Editor Catherine Kim. Kim’s memo to the newsroom Tuesday morning expressed her excitement about Johnson’s role in NBC BLK’s coverage:

“We’re thrilled to have his ideas, talent and energy lead and shape the voice and journalism of NBC BLK as it enters its third year.... As we continue to raise the ambition of our digital journalism, NBC BLK, NBC Latino, NBC Asian America and NBC OUT will play a key role in expanding the breadth of our news coverage and our audience.”

NBC BLK, launched in 2015, produces stories by, for and about the black community in an effort to further the conversation about social issues, culture and more.

Todd Johnson will become editorial manager of NBC BLK. NBC

Johnson joined theGrio.com not long after its launch in August 2009 as a video journalist and reporter. The stories he’s covered include the earthquake in Haiti, Hurricane Katrina’s impact on New Orleans and the racial injustice protests in Ferguson, Missouri. He also spent time as the site’s sports editor before becoming managing editor.CNN’s Paul Begala is calling out President Donald Trump for his failure to confront Russia about its meddling in U.S. elections.

“There’s really just one question: Why? Why? Why is Donald Trump, a man so tough he says he would rush into a school shooting unarmed, why is he such a wuss and a wimp about Russia?” Begala, a former adviser to President Bill Clinton, wondered on “Anderson Cooper 360” on Tuesday night. “Why?”

Begala’s comments came hours after U.S. Cyber Command chief Adm. Mike Rogers told the Senate Armed Services Committee that Trump hasn’t given him orders to counter Russian efforts to disrupt U.S. elections.

“What do the Russians have on him? Maybe it’s nothing,” Begala said. “Maybe there’s something about Mr. Putin that our president just worships and adores.”

Begala said there is “catastrophic” evidence that Russia attacked the United States during the election to help Trump, and that even intelligence officials appointed by Trump admit as much.

Yet Trump won’t act, he said.

“Excuse us all for thinking, ‘What do the Russians have on this guy?’” Begala said. “Our president is compromised and we want to know why.”Oprah Winfrey hosted the highest-rated daytime talk show for more 25 years, earned two Oscar nominations and won an honorary statuette, lays claim to a Presidential Medal of Freedom, and launched her own television network (called, well, OWN).

Getting a Barbie doll modeled after her character, Mrs. Which, in Disney’s upcoming fantasy “A Wrinkle in Time,” however, is easily a life highlight.

“To now have a doll made in the image of your character is a pretty phenomenal moment,” she told Yahoo Entertainment while joined by co-stars and fellow Barbie recipients Reese Witherspoon (Mrs. Whatsit) and Mindy Kaling (Mrs. Who) while promoting “Wrinkle.” “It is not lost on me that that has happened. … It’s a pretty phenomenal thing.”

Mattel’s Barbie-style dolls of Mindy Kaling, Oprah Winfrey, and Reese Witherspoon’s characters in "A Wrinkle in Time." Photo: Mattel

The honor not only represents how far the media icon has come since her formative years in Mississippi but also reflects a clear sign of the times.

“I grew up a poor Negro child,” Winfrey said, in what may have been a reference to Steve Martin’s oft-quoted opening line from his 1979 comedy “The Jerk.” “I had, literally, a corncob doll … where you take the corn, shuck it, and then you try to make a little doll and you use the silk for the hair.”

Winfrey interrupted herself: “I know you’re looking at me like I’m from ‘Little House on the Prairie.’”

She continued, “The idea of a Barbie doll — Barbies were always too expensive. You’re not going to get a Barbie. You’re certainly not going to find a brown one.”

Witherspoon and Kaling are equally as thrilled.

“I ordered seven of mine off of Amazon,” Witherspoon said, laughing. “And they’re all over. I’m giving them out to basically anyone who comes to the house.”

Or to paraphrase the immortal words of her co star, “YOU GET A DOLL! YOU GET A DOLL!”

“A Wrinkle in Time” opens March 9.

Watch the cast talk about their colorful costuming: