A teacher protest inside the West Virginia state Capitol on Monday. Dave Jamieson/HuffPost

West Virginia officials reached a tentative deal Tuesday to end the strike by teachers and other public employees that closed schools across the state for four days, according to Republican Gov. Jim Justice.

At a news conference Tuesday afternoon, Justice said the state agreed to give teachers and other school personnel a 5 percent raise and state employees a 3 percent raise, marking what could be a major victory for employees to cap the first statewide walkout in nearly three decades.

But Justice offered no clear plan to fix the shortfall in the state employee health care program, which was at the top of many workers’ lists of demands.

Teachers are expected to return to school on Thursday after a “cooling off” period on Wednesday. The arrangement still needs to be approved by the state legislature, and union leaders said they reserve the right to reinstate the strike if the deal falls through.

“This has been a huge step in the right direction,” said Christine Campbell, president of the American Federation of Teachers-West Virginia, one of the two teacher unions that led the strike.

Teachers and other school employees in all 55 counties across the state were onboard with the strike, making an unprecedented show of solidarity after years of stagnant wages. West Virginia is ranked 48th out of 50 states and the District of Columbia in teacher pay and is wrestling with a teacher shortage that’s left 700 positions unfilled.

The governor acknowledged some missteps in his handling of the work stoppage, saying he started to think differently about it after a conversation with a student.

“To be perfectly honest, in a lot of ways I was looking at this maybe not correctly,” Justice said. “I was looking at it as what was the prudent thing to do, and maybe not at education as an investment. I went home and thought a lot about it.”

Campbell said the raises were offered only because workers had the courage to walk off the job.

“They did this by standing up,” she said. “This isn’t the end; this is the beginning. If things get better, then we can really start focusing on the investment in public education.”After reports that Jared Kushner’s top-secret White House security clearance has been downgraded to merely “secret,” Stephen Colbert made it no secret that he doesn’t respect President Donald Trump’s son-in-law.

“How will he fix the Middle East now?” the TV host mocked Tuesday on “The Late Show.”

Reveling in Kusher’s compromised role as a White House adviser, Colbert said the security demotion will even reduce his top-secret intelligence about KFC.

Watch above to see what we mean.Samantha Bee’s parents want her to come back home to Canada. On Thursday night’s episode of “Jimmy Kimmel Live,” the host of “Full Frontal” revealed what her Canadian family really thinks of the United States.

“They think it’s such a dangerous and decrepit place now,” Bee told Kimmel. “My dad bought me a Kevlar vest.”

Kimmel asked Bee if her dad also bought a Kevlar vest for her husband, former Daily Show correspondent Jason Jones.

“No, just me,” Bee said. “There’s a limit to my father’s affection.”Rudy Giuliani says there’s “nothing illegal” about trying to find compromising information about opponents — even if the source is Russia.

“When I ran against [the Democrats], they were looking for dirt on me every day,” Giuliani told Fox News host Laura Ingraham on Wednesday night, in response to a question about Donald Trump Jr.’s apparent quest to find “dirt” on Hillary Clinton before the 2016 presidential election.

“That’s what you do, maybe you shouldn’t, but you do. Nothing illegal about that,” Giuliani said. “Even if it comes from a Russian or a German or an American, doesn’t matter.”

Giuliani, who joined President Donald Trump’s legal team last month, went on to say that the “main thing” was that the Trump campaign “never used it … they rejected it,” referring to political “dirt.”

“If there was collusion with the Russians, they would’ve used it,” he added.

GIULIANI on the Russia investigation:



“If there was collusion with the Russians, they [the Trump campaign] would’ve used it.”pic.twitter.com/pIBMnmw09C — JM Rieger (@RiegerReport) May 17, 2018

Observers on Twitter expressed bewilderment at Giuliani’s remarks.

2017: There was no collusion.



2018: So what if there is collusion? Who cares? We all do it. https://t.co/t9EhGpxkFH — Bryan Behar (@bryanbehar) May 17, 2018

Giuliani with a potential unforced error on Fox News. Says "if there was collusion with the Russians, they would have used it."



They being the Trump campaign. It being dirt they had on Clinton.



This seems to set the Trump legal team's bar for what constitutes collusion. — Sam Stein (@samstein) May 17, 2018

No lawyer has ever represented his lawyer worse than Rudy represents Donald.



It’s so bad, it’s good. https://t.co/DtafV4Ts5B — Dave Pell (@davepell) May 17, 2018

I don't know if this is helping? https://t.co/zedXUP47MV — Katie Watson (@kathrynw5) May 17, 2018

"They never used it, is the main thing. They rejected it."



They rejected whatnow? https://t.co/gXebu4KfxM — Chris Hayes (@chrislhayes) May 17, 2018

Holy Fuckballs.

Giuliani: "If there was collusion, they would have used it."



Trump: "I hire the best people."

This is a comedy show. https://t.co/UjX2dBauUt — Andrew James Gregor (@andrewjgregor) May 17, 2018

Giuliani also told Ingraham that special counsel Robert Mueller, whose probe into alleged Russian meddling in the 2016 election will enter its second year on Thursday, should promptly wrap up the investigation.

Mueller “has nothing” on Trump, said the former New York City mayor.

“We’re trying to get [Mueller] to end this,” Giuliani said. “This is not good for the American people.”WASHINGTON ― Facing yet another Twitter broadside from the president who appointed him, Jeff Sessions said Wednesday that he’ll continue to work with “integrity and honor” and follow the law so long as he’s attorney general of the United States.

President Donald Trump, evidently after watching a “Fox & Friends” segment on Wednesday morning, tweeted that Sessions should not put Justice Department Inspector General Michael Horowitz in charge of investigating allegations of Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act abuse that Republicans have been leveraging to attack the FBI and the Russia investigation being run by special counsel Robert Mueller.

Why is A.G. Jeff Sessions asking the Inspector General to investigate potentially massive FISA abuse. Will take forever, has no prosecutorial power and already late with reports on Comey etc. Isn’t the I.G. an Obama guy? Why not use Justice Department lawyers? DISGRACEFUL! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) February 28, 2018

Sessions said Tuesday that the inspector general would take on questions about how the Justice Department handled the FISA court application involving former Trump campaign official Carter Page, who had extensive ties to Russia.

While many of the key players involved in the FISA court application are Republicans ― and while the FBI stated that the Republican memo about the FISA application was inaccurate ― it’s become a tool that Trump supporters have wielded against the Mueller probe, which the Trump administration perceives as a threat.

Horowitz, the Justice Department’s well-respected inspector general, is a former Justice Department career lawyer who served in both the Bill Clinton and George W. Bush administrations and was appointed to the U.S. Sentencing Commission by Bush. Obama appointed Horowitz inspector general, and the U.S. Senate approved his nomination by voice vote. He now serves as the chair of the council for inspectors general across the U.S. government.

Horowitz recently told Congress that Trump’s proposed budget would “substantially inhibit” his office’s work.

“We have initiated the appropriate process that will ensure complaints against this Department will be fully and fairly acted upon if necessary,” Sessions said in a statement on Wednesday afternoon. “As long as I am the Attorney General, I will continue to discharge my duties with integrity and honor, and this Department will continue to do its work in a fair and impartial manner according to the law and Constitution.”

Sessions’ statement may be his strongest rebuttal of Trump’s criticism to date. He’d previously said the Justice Department would defend itself from “unfair” criticism amid a sustained attack from Republicans on Capitol Hill who have been engaged in an effort to shield the Trump administration from Mueller’s probe.

Sessions reportedly offered to resign last year, but Trump ultimately rejected it. Responding to a Freedom of Information Act request from HuffPost, the Justice Department took the position that revealing whether Sessions had offered a resignation letter would violate his personal privacy.

The vast majority of Trump supporters now believe that the FBI is biased against the president. Most of Trump’s supporters either say they trust the FBI very little or not at all.

AdvertisementThe Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee, led by Rep. Ben Ray Luján (D-N.M.), urged social media caution right after the Florida high school massacre. Tom Williams/Getty Images

The Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee not only warned its candidates to avoid talking about gun control policy immediately after the Las Vegas shooting in October, but also sent a similar message after the recent massacre at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School.

The afternoon of the Parkland, Florida, shooting on Feb. 14, a member of the DCCC press staff counseled House campaigns to avoid saying anything that could be construed as “politicizing” the tragedy.

“I think it’s ok to express your thoughts/prayers on social media,” DCCC regional press secretary Evan Lukaske wrote to candidates and their staff in the Northeast region. “But please be careful about what you post on social media and I would not blast any statements right now. There will be a time for politics, but we are still understanding what happened here and gathering the facts.”

Daniel Marans/HuffPost

As HuffPost reported Tuesday, Lukaske sent an email the day after the Oct. 1, 2017, Las Vegas shooting in which he was more explicit in his guidance for candidates to avoid doing anything but offer thoughts and prayers.

“You and your candidate will be understandably outraged and upset, as will your community. However, DO NOT POLITICIZE IT TODAY,” he wrote. “There will be time for politics and policy discussion, but any message today should be on offering thoughts/prayers for victims and their families, and thanking 1st responders who saved lives.”

The DCCC, which helps elect Democrats to the House, emphasized that these messages were recommendations, not mandatory instructions.

It shared with HuffPost an email chain in which a progressive House candidate wrote to Lukaske after the Parkland shooting to express the candidate’s strong disagreement with his advice.

“While it may not be time for personal attacks on opponents, if we don’t promote gun control when people are emotional, it will never happen,” the candidate wrote.

Lukaske replied that his message was “just a suggestion.”

“You of course have to do what you feel is right and I wouldn’t presume to tell you otherwise,” he wrote.

Daniel Marans/HuffPost

There’s growing frustration among rank-and-file voters and activists that politicians offer seemingly heartfelt sympathies after these tragedies, but repeatedly fail to take any real action to address gun violence.

The disconnect has been especially stark in the wake of the Parkland shooting. Students who survived the massacre have sparked a national movement with their immediate willingness to confront elected officials and the National Rifle Association about the need for gun policy reform.

The morning after the shooting, several Parkland survivors specifically slammed politicians for sending them “thoughts and prayers.”

The DCCC emphasized to HuffPost that its advice was directed at the immediate aftermath of a shooting, noting that Lukaske sent his email mere hours after the tragedy at Stoneman Douglas High. Two days later, Lukaske was back on the attack, blasting Steve Lonegan, a New Jersey Republican candidate, for his response to the shooting. In a press release, he denounced as “sick” Lonegan’s claims that a “return to prayer” in schools would mitigate the risk of shootings.

“When senseless tragedies happen, we urge our candidates to be thoughtful and ensure they have all the facts,” DCCC communications director Meredith Kelly said. “This guidance was sent about two hours after the first shot was reported in Parkland, and ultimately amounted to a recommendation that candidates avoid making partisan political attacks about a deadly tragedy ‘right now’ while we were ‘still understanding what happened.’”

Kelly added, “This was short term guidance, and many Democratic candidates have taken powerful, political stands and policy positions on gun violence prevention in the days since.”

She also defended Lukaske’s decision: “A communications staffer who fails to provide immediate and thoughtful guidance after a national tragedy, based on the best available information at the time, is not doing his job.”Gender-affirming surgeries appear to be on the rise at hospitals in the U.S., a new study has found. nito100 via Getty Images

Gender-affirming surgeries appear to be on the rise at hospitals in the U.S., along with insurance coverage for the medical procedures, according to a new study out of Johns Hopkins Medicine.

Researchers, scanning records from thousands of hospitals, reported finding nearly a fourfold increase in the number of surgical procedures related to transgender identity from 2000 to 2014, according to the study published Wednesday in the medical journal JAMA Surgery.

The surgeries, which included the removal or construction of genitalia or breasts, overall made up just 11 percent of the more than 37,000 related medical encounters reported by hospitals to an inpatient care database.

The study’s findings are touted by the medical center as offering a first-of-its-kind look into trends in gender-confirming surgery services for people with gender dysphoria, which is when a person feels discomfort or distress due to the gender they were assigned at birth not corresponding with the person’s true gender.

Brandyn D. Lau, who serves as director of quality and research for the new Johns Hopkins Center for Transgender Health in Baltimore, stressed the importance of such reviews to improve health care coverage.

“Without data specific to transgender patients, we can’t tell what we’re doing right and what we need to improve, and this study was an attempt to address that problem with the best data we have available now,” he said in a release.

“Without data specific to transgender patients, we can’t tell what we’re doing right and what we need to improve."” - Brandyn D. Lau, Johns Hopkins Center for Transgender Health

Regarding methods of payment, the study also found that there was a rise and fall in the number of people who paid for procedures out of pocket, opposed to the care being covered by Medicare, Medicaid or private insurance.

In the earlier years studied, roughly half of the patients who underwent gender-affirming surgery from 2000 to 2005 paid for it out of pocket. That rose to about 65 percent from 2006 to 2011 but then decreased from 2012 to 2014. In the last year studied, only 39 percent of patients paid out of pocket.

The drop in 2014′s out-of-pocket expenses is likely no coincidence with it coming the same year that a provision of the Affordable Care Act that prohibits insurers from discriminating against patients based on their gender went into effect.

The study also found that about 57 percent of the patients were white, and they had a median age of 38. It also didn’t find any deaths attributed to the surgeries over the 14-year period, suggesting that the procedures are safer than some have suggested in the past.Jared Kushner’s complicated financial holdings, business debt and political inexperience have prompted foreign officials in several countries to discuss ways they can manipulate the president’s son-in-law and close adviser, The Washington Post reported on Tuesday.

The report capped a complicated day for Kushner. Politico reported on Tuesday that he had his top-secret security clearance downgraded after months of working with an interim clearance due to ongoing issues with his FBI background check. And Axios said that deputy communications director and Kushner point man Josh Raffel will leave the White House after handling many news crises over the past year.

Officials from at least four countries ― China, Israel, Mexico and the United Arab Emirates ― have discussed ways to influence Kushner, although it’s unclear if they acted on such plans, The Washington Post wrote, citing current and former officials familiar with the intelligence reports.

Some of these sources said that administration officials were worried Kushner was “naive and being tricked” during his dealings with foreigners, and that people occasionally asked to meet with him in lieu of more experienced staff. Trump’s second national security adviser, H.R. McMaster, was initially “surprised” by some of Kushner’s foreign contacts and “wanted an explanation,” a source told the Post.

A spokesman for Kushner’s lawyer called the news account “second-hand hearsay” in a statement to the Post.

“We will not respond substantively to unnamed sources peddling second-hand hearsay with rank speculation that continue to leak inaccurate information,” spokesman Peter Mirijanian said.

Until last Friday, Kushner had been working in the White House with an interim security clearance that afforded him access to top-secret documents, including the president’s daily intelligence briefing. White House Chief of Staff John Kelly said earlier this month that he would overhaul the interim clearance situation after critics noted that former staff secretary Rob Porter, who resigned over allegations that he had abused two of his ex-wives, had also been working for months with a temporary clearance.

Kushner reportedly resisted efforts to give up his top-secret access and said he felt personally targeted by Kelly.

But nonetheless he was officially downgraded from the SCI (sensitive compartmented information) level to the Secret level on Friday, according to Politico, and no longer receives the president’s intelligence briefing. It’s expected that his large portfolio of duties, many of which revolve around complicated foreign affairs issues, will also be reduced.Brad Parscale, who was named Donald Trump's 2020 campaign manager, is connected with a penny stock company with a scandalous past, according to an Associated Press investigation. Drew Angerer/Getty Images

Brad Parscale, President Donald Trump’s freshly appointed 2020 campaign manager, is reportedly connected to a sketchy company with ties to a felon who tried to bribe FBI agents posing as hedge fund managers, according to an Associated Press investigation.

Trump named Parscale to lead his re-election campaign bid on Tuesday. The marketing entrepreneur was a key player in Trump’s 2016 presidential campaign, when he worked as a digital director. Political experts often point to Parscale as an essential element in the Trump campaign’s success in 2016, specifically referring to the digital expert’s use of Facebook ads.

Parscale’s relationship with Trump began when he started designing websites for the Trump family’s various companies. Eventually, during the 2016 campaign, Pascale became one of the few people with the privilege of tweeting on Trump’s behalf from the president’s own Twitter account, Bloomberg reported in 2016.

The AP’s report, published Tuesday, found that Parscale sold his web development company, Giles-Parscale, in August for $9 million to CloudCommerce Inc., which is listed as a penny stock (traded apart from the major exchanges and at a very low price) and hasn’t been profitable “in nearly a decade.” After the acquisition, Parscale was appointed to CloudCommerce’s board of directors.

Read the full Associated Press investigation here.

According to a recent quarterly earnings report obtained by the AP, the company has $107,000 in funds, but has spent more than $19 million in investor money since 1999.

The company has repeatedly changed its corporate name and lines of business, according to the AP.

Big week for the parent company of my commercial business @cloudcommerceco. Stock up 500%. https://t.co/u1Pbfi0HmO — Brad Parscale (@parscale) August 8, 2017

In 2006, a chief executive for CloudCommerce’s predecessor was caught attempting to bribe undercover FBI agents posing as hedge fund managers who wanted to buy stocks of Roaming Messenger, a former name of the company, without telling their clients, the AP reported.

The executive, Jonathan Lei, entered a plea agreement on one count of conspiracy to commit securities fraud, according to the AP. While Lei was sentenced to five years of probation and was barred from being involved with publicly traded companies, he reportedly maintained his ownership stake in the company for years.Dolly Parton’s Imagination Library, her charity that gives free books to children, has just given away its 100 millionth book.

Today we dedicate the 100 Millionth @DollysLibrary Book to the @librarycongress! I always like to say that 100 million books have led to 100 million stories. #100MillionBooks https://t.co/KxUJp0nP20 pic.twitter.com/LVhYeTCVGp — Dolly Parton (@DollyParton) February 27, 2018

The milestone volume was a copy of Parton’s newest children’s picture book, Coat of Many Colors, titled after her 1971 single of the same name. It was given to the Library of Congress in Washington, where Parton has a partnership to livestream story readings.

You can watch Tuesday’s Library of Congress dedication ceremony below:

Parton established Imagination Library in honor of her illiterate father in 1995 in Sevier Country, Tennessee, where she grew up. The program donates books to families once a month, and will do so from a child’s birth to age 5.

The singer writes on the program’s website that when she was growing up, she knew her dreams would come true, and knows there are children with their own dreams.WASHINGTON ― The Trump administration has to stop revoking undocumented young people’s deportation protections without due process, a federal judge ruled on Monday.

The new order does not affect President Donald Trump’s effort — launched in September but currently on hold because of a separate court ruling — to end the broader Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program.

That’s because in addition to rescinding DACA as a whole, the Trump administration has repeatedly terminated individual undocumented immigrants’ deportation protections without providing notice or a chance to respond.

On Monday, U.S. District Judge Philip Gutierrez issued a preliminary injunction to halt that practice. Under the order, the government must reinstate deportation protections for certain individuals and cannot revoke them from others unless it first notifies those people, offers an explanation and allows them to respond.

If the government had done that, José Gil Robles, a 25-year-old undocumented immigrant who came to the U.S. at age five, wouldn’t have lost his status in the first place, according to the suit.

“I just want to go back to school, make something of myself and show [that I] can contribute to this country.” - José Gil Robles

Gil, one of the plaintiffs represented by the American Civil Liberties Union, was arrested in September for driving with a canceled license. In Minnesota, where Gil lives, DACA recipients have to go to the DMV to show their new paperwork when they renew their protections if they want to maintain their driver’s license, and Gil hadn’t done it after his latest DACA renewal. It slipped his mind, he said. He was released the next day, sorted out his driver’s license soon after and went about his life working and helping out with his five younger siblings.

A month later, Immigration and Customs Enforcement showed up at Gil’s work and detained him, ultimately opting to hold him for more than a month. While he was in detention, ICE issued him a notice to appear, a document that tells an immigrant they are in removal proceedings. U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services informed Gil that it had revoked his DACA protections when it issued the notice to appear, without notifying him beforehand that he was at risk of losing his status.

Now Gil is out of detention, but he no longer has DACA, even though his misdemeanor driving charge is not something that should make him ineligible for the program, ACLU attorney Katrina Eiland said. Government attorneys said in court during the class-action lawsuit that Gil had been arrested and charged with two felonies ― something the ACLU demonstrated was incorrect. Because he was given no explanation for his DACA revocation or a chance to respond, Gil wasn’t able to correct the record before losing his protections, Eiland said.

The ACLU argued against the government’s practice of automatically terminating DACA status for individuals given a notice to appear ― after all, anyone eligible for DACA is in the U.S. without legal status and by definition could be issued such a notice. The judge sided with the ACLU, and temporarily barred the government from revoking someone’s DACA protections solely because they’d been issued a notice to appear in court over their undocumented status.

The government now has 14 days to tell the court whose DACA status it has terminated since last Jan. 19 ― the day before Trump became president ― without providing them notice. The Trump administration must then reinstate DACA status and work permits for those individuals unless they have been convicted of a criminal offense that disqualifies them from the program, according to the injunction.

The ACLU identified 22 young undocumented immigrants who lost their DACA status without notice in the past year, but Eiland said there could be dozens more ― not to mention many others who would, should the injunction become permanent, be spared from seeing their own protections similarly terminated in the future. Although Trump rescinded DACA last September, individuals can still renew their protections under a court order.

The Department of Justice did not immediately respond to a request for comment on the Monday order on DACA revocations.

Gil is hoping that once he gets his DACA status back, he can work and then go to college, although he’s not sure yet what he would like to study.Trevor Noah thinks actress Stacey Dash’s potential run for Congress is really “just for the fame.”

The “Clueless” star turned conservative commentator has filed to run as a Republican in California’s 44th Congressional District — where voters overwhelmingly favored Democrat Hillary Clinton in the 2016 presidential election.

“She’s running as a Republican in Compton and Watts?” Noah asked on Tuesday’s broadcast of “The Daily Show.” “They’re neighborhoods so black, they make Wakanda look like a Panera.”

Dash’s commentary from her time on Fox News wouldn’t help her case, Noah added, as he aired clips in which Dash decried needing events such as the BET Awards or Black History Month.

Per Noah, Dash’s political run is simply a “publicity stunt” to boost her profile.

“The point is, we’d better pray that Vladimir Putin isn’t a big fan of ‘Clueless,’” he concluded.

AdvertisementThe troll operation liked divisive, emotionally charged content because the social media platforms liked divisive, emotionally charged content. Culture-war stuff — issues of race and gender and identity in general, issues that got a rise out of people. Facebook and Twitter were and still are optimized to send traffic to posts about these subjects, and so the troll outfit optimized its content accordingly.

This was the story of Mic.com, one of the first online media startups to capitalize on left-wing millennial outrage culture. It went hard on social-justice issues and directed ire at everyone from manspreaders to Nazis. Clicky, empurpled headlines oversold conflict and outrage.

While the writers and reporters may have believed in the company’s mission of social justice, the site’s founders had actually stumbled backward into it. An exposé about Mic, published by The Outline in August, revealed that “Mic chanced upon the social justice narrative, discovered it was Facebook gold, and mined away.” One former staffer told The Outline that Mic learned you could “commodify people’s feelings about race and gender” for clicks earlier than most other online publications.

The founders of Mic were trolls in the standard internet sense. They tapped into strong feelings and sentiments they didn’t necessarily share, and thus they reverse-engineered a briefly successful media operation out of the algorithmic preferences of social media platforms like Facebook and Twitter.

Mic.com founders Chris Altchek and Jake Horowitz at the Mic50 Awards in 2015. Neilson Barnard via Getty Images

In the runup to the 2016 election, the employees of Russia’s Internet Research Agency were trolls, too, tapping into strong feelings and sentiments they didn’t necessarily share, and reverse-engineering an occasionally successful political ratfucking operation out of the algorithmic preferences of social media platforms like Facebook and Twitter. This was Russia’s notorious troll farm, 13 of whose employees were indicted two weeks ago on charges that they illegally interfered in the 2016 election through fake social media accounts.

Here’s how Adrian Chen described the IRA for The New York Times in 2015:

Management was obsessed with statistics — page views, number of posts, a blog’s place on LiveJournal’s traffic charts — and team leaders compelled hard work through a system of bonuses and fines. “It was a very strong corporate feeling,” [former agency employee Ludmila] Savchuk says. Her schedule gave her two 12-hour days in a row, followed by two days off. Over those two shifts she had to meet a quota of five political posts, 10 nonpolitical posts and 150 to 200 comments on other workers’ posts.

And here’s how Adrianne Jeffries described Mic for The Outline:

Furthermore, Mic’s fixation on traffic bothered reporters, who were sick of being forced into reductive headlines and catering to an echo chamber while being told they were changing the world. “It’s like they know the right things to tell their staff, but at a certain point it starts to feel like gaslighting in the office,” said the former staffer who covered social justice issues. “I didn’t just want to know what my path forward was, I didn’t just want a raise. I wanted someone to stop bullshitting me. To tell me I was selling out and I was just writing for clicks, that would be one thing. But there was this ethos of, ‘you are doing important work. You are making a difference,’ when I wasn’t.”

The differences between the two operations scarcely need elaboration. Mic’s goals were the goals of any modern media startup: to attract venture capital and advertising dollars. Meanwhile, as Facebook’s vice president of advertising, Rob Goldman, explained on Twitter this month in the course of defending his own company: “The main goal of the Russian propaganda and misinformation effort is to divide America by using our institutions, like free speech and social media, against us. It has stoked fear and hatred amongst Americans. It is working incredibly well. We are quite divided as a nation.”

Facebook pages created by Russian trolls at the Internet Research Agency are displayed during a congressional oversight hearing, Nov. 1, 2017. Aaron P. Bernstein / Reuters

The United States is quite divided. But Americans didn’t need help from Russia to get there. What the Internet Research Agency did was enlist itself in the American culture war being waged across our social media platforms, with the platforms’ complicity if not outright encouragement.

The internet was supposed to be a democratizing force enabling individuals to express themselves and speak truth to power. And so it has been in many important ways. We all won Time Magazine’s Person of the Year, remember? But the monopolistic platforms on which people now spend most of their time are designed to privilege a certain kind of content that triggers the base emotions in our lizard brains. And they make it possible to troll and propagandize on a scale previously unimaginable.

Russian trolls used Facebook, Twitter and other social platforms exactly how they were meant to be used. They optimized the performance of their content across platforms to target specific issues that boosted their interactions with users and increased the distribution of their content. The influence campaign included managers who oversaw a graphics department, a data analytics team and search engine optimization experts.

Online media companies, similarly enabled by the media platforms’ mass surveillance of their users, employ entire departments to study what stories drive the most visitors. So do domestic political campaigns by candidates, super PACs, corporate front groups and billionaire-backed dark money nonprofits. And then they lean hard on whatever formula works.

What many media companies have found is that user engagement on social platforms is driven largely by emotionally loaded content. This isn’t anything new. “If it bleeds, it leads” was the phrase coined by journalist Eric Pooley in 1989 on the subject of TV news. What’s new is that online media’s distribution channels are limited to those provided by massive companies such as Facebook and Google, which have eaten up almost all new advertising dollars and reached economies of scale that make them unavoidable for media, politics and international ratfucking operations alike.

Algorithms are the new assignment editors, and media companies rise and fall and remake themselves altogether because of tweaks to seemingly insignificant protocols. When Google search was king, HuffPost optimized its headlines accordingly. (“What time is the Super Bowl?”) Now that Facebook reigns, outrage does, too — all across the media landscape. Stories that whip up anger, fear and outrage are commonly deployed to increase shares and readership.

Mark Zuckerberg, CEO and founder of Facebook, has promised to "do better" on issues related to foreign trolling operations and fake news manipulation. David Paul Morris/Bloomberg via Getty Images

Noble intentions often lie behind the outrage stories that media companies have found to be successful. Pointing out the racism, sexism and homophobia of powerful actors is good for readership and good for humanity, too. Boosting coverage of underrepresented communities likewise boosts their social and political standing. But sometimes media companies stumble upon a traffic bonanza and reverse-engineer stories that they know will perform well.

Mic, in The Outline’s telling, was just such a case. Long before the site made a much-mocked “pivot to video” — more lambs sacrificed to the gods of Facebook — news writers there were often provided with topics and keywords they were ordered to use in the hopes of goosing attention on social media sites. The owners pushed the production of divisive content not because they believed in the cause, although much of the staff did, but because it helped them sell the company to investors.

Another former staffer told The Outline: “A lot of the videos that we would publish would be like, ‘Here is this racist person doing a racist thing in this nondescript southern city somewhere.’ There wouldn’t be any reporting or story around it, just, ‘Look at this person being racist, wow what a terrible racist.’”

This happened all over media, even at legacy publications. Franklin Foer, the former editor-in-chief of The New Republic, wrote in his book World Without Mind: The Existential Threat of Big Tech about the efforts of then-owner Chris Hughes, a former Facebook executive, to fit his magazine’s coverage to online trends. Writers would be judged on their traffic stats and pressed to produce “snackable content” that could easily be shared across social platforms. This often included pointlessly divisive outrages of the day.

“We simply had to mimic the rest of the Internet ― write about the same outrage as everyone else, jump on the same topic of the moment,” Foer writes.

The design of the platforms encouraged media companies to share the same outrage material.

Remember the #BoycottStarbucks hashtag? Conservatives made that go viral after the coffee company announced a plan to hire refugees in response to Trump’s Muslim ban executive order in January 2017. Many news sites all wrote up the same story, including many of the same tweets from the same outraged conservative accounts. It was a perfect story. Readers could agree with the outraged or be outraged by their outrage.

Fox News included two tweets from @Pamela_Moore13 in a story about the controversy. “Hiring 10k refugees makes liberals feel warm BUT we have homeless vets that need those jobs. #BoycottStarbucks #ReasonsToProtest #MuslimBan,” @Pamela_Moore13 wrote.

Her other tweet said: “I would rather take care of TEN homeless US Veterans, than 50,000 migrants/illegal aliens How About You? #BoycottStarbucks #ReasonsToProtest.”

The Los Angeles Times, The Baltimore Sun, HuffPost Mexico and Vice all quoted the same tweets by @Pamela_Moore13. So did numerous conservative outrage sites. The official Starbucks Twitter account even responded to her suggestion to hire veterans instead of refugees, saying, “We’re committed to both ― we also set a goal to hire 10,000 veterans by 2018 and we’re very close to reaching it.”Plaintiff Mark Janus in front of the U.S. Supreme Court after a hearing on Feb. 26, 2018. Alex Wong via Getty Images

WASHINGTON ― The conservative majority on the Supreme Court looks poised to deliver a historic blow to labor unions after hearing oral arguments in the Janus v. American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees case on Monday.

An expected 5-4 decision ― with Justice Anthony Kennedy expected to join the court’s more conservative members ― would prevent public sector employee unions across the country from mandating agency fees from members and would be a crowning achievement for a conservative movement founded on opposition to labor.

The only reason this case is before the court now is because Donald Trump, an anti-labor billionaire, won the 2016 presidential election and appointed conservative Justice Neil Gorsuch to replace the deceased Antonin Scalia. The seat was only available because Sen. Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.) refused to hold even a hearing on Merrick Garland, President Barack Obama’s nominee to fill the open seat.

Holding a five-vote majority is the most important priority for the conservative movement, and not just because of evangelicals and Catholics’ desire to repeal Roe v. Wade. The business wing of the conservative movement that dominates the Republican Party has its priorities, too, and crushing labor’s power is item No. 1.

“It’s a culmination of this long struggle that goes way back,” Joseph McCartin, a labor historian at Georgetown University, told HuffPost. He said the Supreme Court oral arguments were “kind of like one of the last skirmishes in what remains in the New Deal order.”

After being roundly driven from power in the Great Depression, the conservative corporate class reorganized for the long haul in opposition to nearly every policy adopted as part of Franklin Roosevelt’s New Deal, from price and wage controls to Social Security to the Tennessee Valley Authority to the Wagner Act, which fully legalized labor unions and established federal oversight of labor-business relations.

Supporters cheer on Mark Janus, the plaintiff in a case that could lead to the gutting of public sector labor unions, after he spoke to them outside the Supreme Court on Feb. 26, 2018. Leah Millis / Reuters

The opposition to labor unionism, McCartin said, is based on “a fundamental discomfort with the New Deal itself.”

Among all of these New Deal successes, workers’ empowerment was the most infuriating for wealthy conservatives. Labor unions were their biggest target because they represented organized opposition with significant monetary resources that supported social democratic policies and backed the political opposition to conservative business interests. As Walter Reuther, head of the United Auto Workers, once said, “The labor movement is developing a whole new middle class.”

The conservative movement saw unions as a force that would promote increased government spending and further workers’ empowerment in relation to management.

When pro-business Republicans briefly won control of Congress after World War II, they passed the Taft-Hartley Act to rein in labor union power over President Harry Truman’s veto. The bill banned direct labor union contributions to political parties and candidates, banned closed shops and allowed states to pass so-called “right-to-work” laws.

Right-to-work laws ban unions from mandating the collection of agency fees, which cover the cost of collective bargaining and dispute resolutions. Without a mandate to pay these fees, employees can, and do, choose not to pay them while still receiving the benefits of union protection. Under these rules, unions are almost always short on cash and at a significant disadvantage to protect workers in contract negotiations and disputes.

Barry Goldwater, often referred to as the ideological godfather of the modern Republican Party, got into politics in 1946 as a member of the business elite in Arizona to push for a right-to-work law. He would go on to begin the conservative movement’s takeover of the Republican Party by securing the party’s 1964 presidential nomination.

“Throughout the 1950s and 1960s, the main focus of the anti-union movement was the passage of right-to-work laws.”

After Taft-Hartley’s passage, right-to-work legislation swept through western states and the South, where the idea of labor unions exacerbated segregationist fears of black and white workers working and organizing together. Throughout the 1950s and 1960s, the main focus of the anti-union movement was the passage of right-to-work laws.

At the same time, the movement’s wealthy corporate funders built up their intellectual infrastructure. They promoted the free market ideas of Ludwig von Mises, Friedrich Hayek and Ayn Rand and pushed anti-labor messages that labeled unions as everything from proto-communist operations to autocratic monopolists.

During the 1950s, General Electric emerged as the major corporate force fighting labor unions and boosting the conservative business movement. The company hired Lemuel Boulware as vice president to oversee labor relations and lead the fight against labor. In 1945, Boulware explained in a memo, “Management is in a sales campaign to determine if business and the country will be run right.”

Boulware told the Phoenix Chamber of Commerce that crushing labor was the business community’s “biggest job.” And management needed to defeat unions through marketing to workers and politics, not through brute force of arms, as it had done prior to the New Deal.

Boulware hired actor Ronald Reagan, the former New Deal liberal turned free market true believer, to proselytize the pro-business agenda to GE workers. This was a successful move in both changing workers’ minds on unionizing and cultivating the future of free-market politicians. Reagan’s 1980 presidential victory was the crowning achievement of the conservative movement at the time and marked the beginning of the end of New Deal politics.

Ronald Reagan tours a General Electric plant in Schenectady, New York. Reagan worked as a spokesman for the company and gave anti-union speeches to workers. Chris Hunter via Getty Images

The conservative movement’s particular focus on public sector unions did not emerge until the early 1970s. This is largely because Wisconsin’s first-in-the-nation adoption of public sector collective bargaining in 1959 spread across the country, especially after President John F. Kennedy issued an executive order in 1962 providing limited collective bargaining rights to federal workers.

McCartin points to the work of the anti-union activist Sylvester Petro, whom McCartin wrote about in The American Prospect, as pivotal in raising the issue of public sector unions for the conservative movement. Petro was inspired by the writings of Hayek and von Mises and was a member of their Mont Pelerin Society, which had been funded by the same forces that emerged from the post-New Deal conservative movement. In 1957, Petro wrote his first call for the full repeal of the Wagner Act and the end to all collective bargaining.

“It’s right to see the emergence of the opposition to the public sector movement as one that was born at first being opposed to the New Deal itself,” McCartin said. “Being opposed to the very idea of collective bargaining.”

By 1973, Petro was arguing that collective bargaining for public sector workers had destroyed government by putting labor unions on the same level as elected and appointed government officials in making decisions about funding and policy. He argued before the Supreme Court in 1977 in the Abood v. Detroit Board of Education case that public sector employees should not be mandated to pay agency fees.

The court did not agree with him then, but looks poised to overturn that 41 year old decision now.

“It’s right to see the emergence of the opposition to the public sector movement as one that was born at first being opposed to the New Deal itself.” - Joseph McCartin, Georgetown University

That’s thanks in large part to the corporate elite and managers behind the anti-union conservative movement who, over the ensuing years, built and funded a conservative infrastructure to make the dreams of that small number of post-New Deal free marketeers come true. This included the creation of the American Enterprise Institute, the Heritage Foundation, the State Policy Network and the Federalist Society. The latter counts four Supreme Court justices ― Gorsuch, Chief Justice John Roberts, Samuel Alito and Clarence Thomas ― as members.

The ideological descendants of this movement, including the libertarian billionaire brothers Charles and David Koch, pumped hundreds of millions of dollars into a mix of old and new free-market political organizations after Obama’s 2008 victory. They helped flip state governorships and legislatures across the country to Republicans who supported their long-held desire to crush labor unions.

A wave of attacks on labor unions ensued, with six states adopting right-to-work laws over the next few years. Wisconsin Gov. Scott Walker (R) and a newly elected Republican-controlled legislature immediately repealed the state’s historic public sector collective bargaining law in 2011. In 2015, Wisconsin would pass a right-to-work law. Michigan and West Virginia, both states important in the history of the American labor movement, also adopted right-to-work legislation. This was the most rapid adoption of right-to-work laws since the 1940s and 1950s.

Protesters took over the Wisconsin state capitol building after Republicans voted to eliminate the state's historic public sector collective bargaining law on March 9, 2011. Darren Hauck/Reuters

Gutting labor union power was never just about establishing management power in the workplace, but also about gutting labor unions’ political power. Union members have long been able to opt out of making political contributions to union political action committees. But, as anti-labor activists pointed out back in the 1940s, unions also derive power from their ability to fund efforts to advocate for policies on behalf of their workers and keep workers connected to politics in their communities.

This translates to the ballot box, particularly in presidential elections where only the Democratic Party is staunchly pro-union. A recent study from the National Bureau of Economic Research found that the share of the vote for Democratic Party presidential candidates dropped by 3.5 percentage points in states that passed right-to-work laws. Voters also turned out at a lower rate in right-to-work states, which also hurt candidates, largely Democrats, who support labor unions.

This all led to Monday’s court case, and a decision that could gut public employee unions. The conservative justices who spoke during Monday’s oral arguments, and who did not include Gorsuch or Thomas, were openly hostile to the idea of mandatory union agency fees for public employee unions.

Kennedy asked the representative of the state of Illinois arguing in favor of mandatory agency fees whether public employee unions will work with state governments to advocate for “a greater size workforce, against privatization, against merit promotion, against ― for teacher tenure, for higher wages, for massive government, for increasing bonded indebtedness, for increasing taxes.”

The big difference between Kennedy’s argument and the arguments his intellectual ancestors made back in the 1940s is that his will win. The conservative movement will have scored a huge victory in its fight to smash labor’s power.

AdvertisementCynthia Nixon asked weary New York City subway riders to talk about their commutes on social media on Thursday morning and call out Gov. Andrew Cuomo’s “sham subway plan.”

New Yorkers: Tomorrow (Thursday) we’re going to some of New York City’s busiest subway stations from 7am to 9am in order to call out #CuomosMTA and address the urgent need to #FixOurSubway! We need you to show up and join us: https://t.co/mmxarstKmX. pic.twitter.com/TBHF2yzO4R — Cynthia Nixon (@CynthiaNixon) May 16, 2018

The appeal by Nixon, who is challenging Cuomo for governor this year, encouraged riders to flood their Twitter, Facebook, Instagram and other social media pages with “stories of your nightmarish subway commute” and the hashtags #CuomosMTA, #FixOurSubway, and #CynthiaForNY from 7 to 9 a.m.

“We need to let voters know that the emergency rescue of our subway system will be a top priority for Cynthia Nixon as Governor of New York. Getting to work on time shouldn’t be an impossible task,” reads a Google doc that she shared on Twitter.

my girl @LauraFFeinstein waited 30 minutes at the Lorimer L stop as 3 trains passed that were too crowded for anyone to board. literally contorted herself to get on the 4th train. She missed a doctors appointment as a result of #CuomosMTA. but at least @CynthiaNixon was there. pic.twitter.com/QHLPRAXuIw — marisa kabas (@MarisaKabas) May 17, 2018

The campaign sent out sample social media posts for people to use and even created T-shirts using her ads’ imagery:

We New Yorkers tend to wear our hearts on our sleeves. Get your #CuomosMTA t-shirts here: https://t.co/yJvFLeZR99 #FixOurSubway pic.twitter.com/SNoKMDbTNH — Cynthia Nixon (@CynthiaNixon) May 16, 2018

Nixon has for years criticized Cuomo’s administration, going so far as to call it an “exercise in living with disappointment, dysfunction and dishonesty,” and she’s been particularly critical of his inaction on fixing the subway system.

From delays to overcrowding to fare hikes and everything in between, the city’s subway system has been in desperate need of an overhaul for decades. Nixon has been seen riding the subway all over the city and has been late to campaign events because of the MTA’s unreliability, all in an effort to tell angry New Yorkers that she’s here to help everyone get to work on time.

Thursday morning’s campaign received much praise on Twitter, with many remarking on the advertisements and sharing their commuting plight:

People trying to leave 1st Ave station on the L are down to a single-file line because the platform is too crowded with people that couldn’t board a broken train. #CuomosMTA #FixTheSubway @CynthiaNixon pic.twitter.com/G064GmIOvg — Chris O'Leary (@ohhleary) May 17, 2018

Well I was going to be on time for work but it looks like @NYGovCuomo and the @MTA have other ideas... Hey @CynthiaNixon, help please?? pic.twitter.com/OLVTeap91b — Kayla Cluff (@KaylaCluff) May 17, 2018

When I lived in NYC I had an unfulfilled vision of organizing the public by canvassing the subways taking about transit, climate change, affordable housing, and workers rights.



So great to see @CynthiaNixon @WorkingFamilies @MaketheRoadNY doing it now.#CuomosMTA #FixOurSubway https://t.co/rFoCd1lyzz — Ady Barkan🔥 (@AdyBarkan) May 17, 2018

In an email to HuffPost, a spokeswoman from Cuomo’s office said of the ad campaign, “Actors are trained to make fiction sound believable and this morning’s performance was more of the same. We share Ms. Nixon’s frustration with the delay of much needed subway repairs ― she should call her friend the Mayor and ask why he refused to fully fund the subway action plan for nearly a year.”

Nixon’s campaign comes at a pivotal time for New Yorkers, particularly for those who travel between Brooklyn and Manhattan on the L line.

The L train will shut down for 15 months starting next year for repairs to the Canarsie tunnel, which was damaged in 2012 by flooding from Superstorm Sandy. The L line transports 24,100 people per hour across the East River during the morning rush, and the MTA is expecting up to 80 percent of those riders to opt for subway alternatives, despite those alternatives not being remotely sufficient to handle the upcoming spike in ridership.

AdvertisementScott has expressed opposition to arming teachers, but hasn’t said whether he’d approve arming other school staff or whether he supports the bills that advanced this week.

Officials in Florida’s Polk County announced a voluntary program to train and arm teachers last week.

“We had coaches that ran to stand in front of their students with no gun,” county Sheriff Grady Judd said. “Why not give them a fighting chance?”Omar Sobhani / Reuters

KABUL (Reuters) - Afghan President Ashraf Ghani offered recognition of the Taliban as a legitimate political group on Wednesday as part of a proposed political process that he said could lead to talks aimed at ending more than 16 years of war.

The offer, made at the start of an international conference aimed at creating a platform for peace talks, adds to a series of signals from both the Western-backed government and the Taliban suggesting a greater willingness to consider dialogue.

Ghani proposed a ceasefire and a release of prisoners as part of a range of options including new elections, involving the militants, and a constitutional review as part of a pact with the Taliban.

“We are making this offer without preconditions in order to lead to a peace agreement,” Ghani said in opening remarks to the conference attended by officials from around 25 countries involved in the so-called Kabul Process.

“The Taliban are expected to give input to the peace-making process, the goal of which is to draw the Taliban, as an organization, to peace talks,” he said, adding that he would not “pre-judge” any group seeking peace.

The comments represented a significant shift for Ghani, who in the past has regularly called the Taliban “terrorists” and “rebels” although he has also offered to talk with parts of the movement that accepted peace.

The Taliban, fighting to restore Islamic rule after their 2001 ouster by U.S.-led troops, have offered to begin talks with the United States but have so far refused direct talks with Kabul. It was unclear whether they would be prepared to shift their stance, despite growing international pressure.

However, Ghani, who recently helped launch the latest stage in a major regional gas pipeline from Turkmenistan, said the momentum for peace was building from neighboring countries that increasingly saw the necessity of a stable Afghanistan.

“The Taliban show awareness of these contextual shifts and seem to be engaged in a debate on the implications of acts of violence for their future,” he said.

POLITICAL OFFICE

Ghani said a framework for peace negotiations should be created with the Taliban recognized as a legitimate group, with their own political office to handle negotiations in Kabul or another agreed location.

Taliban officials have acknowledged that they have faced pressure from friendly countries to accept talks and said their recent offers to talk to the United States reflected concern that they could be seen to be standing in the way of peace.

Ghani said the process would be accompanied by coordinated diplomatic support including a global effort to persuade neighboring Pakistan, which Kabul has regularly accused of aiding the Taliban, of the advantages of a stable Afghanistan.

He renewed an offer of talks with Pakistan, which rejects the accusations and points to the thousands of its citizens who have been killed by militant groups over the years.

In return for Ghani’s offer, the Taliban would have to recognize the Afghan government and respect the rule of law, he said.

In addition, Taliban prisoners could be released and their names removed from international blacklists, while security arrangements could be made for Taliban agreeing to join a process of reconciliation. Former fighters and refugees could be reintegrated and provided with jobs.

The United States last year stepped up its military assistance to Afghanistan, notably through a sharp increase in air strikes, with the aim of breaking a stalemate with the insurgents and forcing them to the negotiating table.

While the U.S. military says the strategy has hit the Taliban hard, they still control or contest much of the country and continue to inflict severe casualties on Afghan forces.Norsk Telegrambyra AS / Reuters

Already known for its tough gun control laws, Norway is reportedly taking steps to further tighten its firearm legislation. Quoting a Norwegian lawmaker, AFP reported Tuesday that the Scandinavian nation is planning to ban semi-automatic weapons by 2021 — a year that also marks the 10-year anniversary of the 2011 mass shooting on Norway’s Utoya island.

Peter Frolich, a member of parliament who sits on the judicial affairs committee, told AFP that “it has become clear that there is a parliamentary majority in favor of” the ban, which was first proposed last year by the country’s minority right-wing government.

“Semi-automatic weapons will therefore be banned in Norway,” Frolich said. AFP noted that the law would go into effect in 2021.

In a 2012 report, a commission tasked with drawing conclusions from the attacks had called for a ban on semi-automatic weapons, one of its 31 recommendations https://t.co/WKfSXNaBsL — AFP news agency (@AFP) February 27, 2018

Talk of a possible semi-automatic weapon ban has been gaining momentum in Norway since at least 2011, when far-right extremist Anders Behring Breivik bombed a government building in Oslo before going on a shooting rampage at a youth summer camp on Utoya island. Sixty-nine people, mostly teenagers, were shot dead in the mass shooting; eight people were killed in the bomb attack.

Norway has a relatively high rate of gun ownership, mostly for hunting and use in outdoor sports; but save for Breivik’s rampage in 2011 — which was the country’s deadliest attack since World War II — the nation boasts low levels of gun violence.

Norway has some the world’s strictest firearms legislation, including robust background checks and laws mandating the secure storage of guns and ammunition. According to an earlier Guardian report, many categories of guns, including automatic weapons and certain handguns, are also banned.

But the 2011 attack pushed the country to think about tightening its laws further. Norway’s police chief, Oeystein Maeland, called for stricter laws for semi-automatic weapon ownership in the aftermath of the mass shooting, reported the BBC.

Lisbeth Kristine Royneland, whose 18-year-old daughter was killed in the massacre, welcomed news of the weapon ban this week.

AdvertisementBEIRUT/GENEVA, Feb 28 (Reuters) - Syrian government forces launched a ground assault on the edge of the rebel-held eastern Ghouta enclave on Wednesday, seeking to gain territory despite a Russian plan for five-hour daily ceasefires, a war monitor and sources on both sides said.

Hundreds of people have died in 11 days of bombing of the eastern Ghouta, a swathe of towns and farms outside Damascus that is the last major rebel-controlled area near the capital.

The onslaught has been one of the fiercest of Syria’s civil war, now entering its eighth year.

The U.N. Security Council, including President Bashar al-Assad’s strongest ally Russia, passed a resolution on Saturday calling for a 30-day countrywide ceasefire. But the measure has not taken effect, with Moscow and Damascus saying they are battling members of terrorist groups excluded from the truce.

Russia has instead called for daily five-hour local ceasefires to establish what it calls a humanitarian corridor so aid can enter the enclave and civilians and wounded can leave.

The first such truce took place on Tuesday but quickly collapsed when bombing and shelling resumed after a short lull.

There were no air strikes during Wednesday’s five-hour ceasefire, but heavy bombardment resumed in the afternoon, the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights monitoring group reported. There has been no sign of aid deliveries to the besieged area.

President Vladimir Putin said that Russia had managed to evacuate “quite a big group” of civilians and that Turkish President Tayyip Erdogan had helped broker the evacuation. He did not say when the civilians had managed to leave.

State-run Anadolu news agency quoted Turkish presidential spokesman Ibrahim Kalin as saying Erdogan had asked for the evacuation of around 700 people from eastern Ghouta a month ago. Kalin said Russia told Turkey the civilians had been taken to southern Damascus a week later, despite Erdogan’s request for them to receive treatment in Turkey.

The Observatory said it could not confirm the evacuation.

Moscow and Damascus have accused rebels of shelling the corridor to prevent people leaving. Rebels deny this, and say people will not depart eastern Ghouta because they fear the government.

Wednesday’s ground assault targeted the Hawsh al-Dawahra area at the eastern edge of the enclave.

The Observatory reported advances by the government forces in the area, describing it as the resumption of an assault that first began on Feb. 25. It said rebels had inflicted heavy losses on government forces.

An official with one of the rebel groups in eastern Ghouta said fighters were battling to repel an attempted incursion, and characterized the battle as “back and forth.”

A commander in the military alliance that backs Assad said an elite unit of the Syrian army, the Tiger Force, was taking part in the assault and advances had been made.

France’s foreign ministry called on Russia and Iran, Assad’s other military ally, to exert “maximum pressure” on the Syrian government to implement the 30-day ceasefire.

But with no sign of decisive international pressure to stop the attack, eastern Ghouta appears on course to eventually meet the same fate as other areas won back by the government in lengthy, punishing assaults, where rebels and civilians who oppose Assad were finally evacuated in negotiated withdrawals.

Damascus appears to be applying tried and tested military means, combining air strikes and bombardment with ground assaults, as it did to recapture eastern Aleppo in 2016.

A senior Western diplomat said Russia appeared intent on a repeat of Aleppo in eastern Ghouta by evacuating the area and then killing “the terrorists even if it’s not just Nusra,” a reference to a jihadist group with al Qaeda links.

A senior U.S. general on Tuesday accused Moscow of acting as “both arsonist and firefighter” by failing to rein in Assad.

U.S., RUSSIA CLASH OVER CHEMICAL WEAPONS

Diplomatic sources have said the chemical weapons watchdog, the Organisation for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons, opened an investigation into attacks in eastern Ghouta to determine whether banned munitions were used.

The United States says it has evidence Syrian forces have used chlorine, which is permitted for civilian purposes but banned as a weapon, in attacks in eastern Ghouta and elsewhere.

U.S. disarmament ambassador Robert Wood said on Wednesday that Russia has violated its duty to guarantee the destruction of Syria’s chemical weapons stockpile and prevent the Assad government from using poison gas.

Syria agreed to give up its stockpile of poison gas and join the international chemical weapons ban in 2013 under a Russian-brokered deal that averted U.S. retaliatory air strikes after a nerve gas attack killed hundreds of people in Ghouta.

Washington accused Damascus last year of again using nerve gas and carried out a round of air strikes as punishment.

Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov said Syria had eliminated its poison gas stockpiles, and described allegations it was still using chemical weapons as “absurd.”

U.N. political affairs chief Jeffrey Feltman told the Security Council on Wednesday the scale of attacks by the Syrian government against eastern Ghouta “cannot be justified on the basis of targeting Jabhat al Nusra fighters.”

“The air strikes, shelling, and ground offensives continue. There are even reports of yet another chlorine gas attack. What we need is implementation of 2401, and that is not happening,” Feltman said.

Lavrov said militants entrenched in eastern Ghouta were blocking aid and the evacuation of people who want to leave. Moscow would continue to support the Syrian army in totally defeating the “terrorist threat,” Lavrov told the U.N. Human Rights Council in Geneva.

Rebels have intensified shelling of nearby government-held Damascus. A medical official in the capital said on Monday 36 people had been killed in four days. Damascus and Moscow say the campaign in eastern Ghouta is needed to halt such shelling.

The multi-sided Syrian war has killed hundreds of thousands of people and driven half of the pre-war population of 23 million from their homes. Fighting has escalated on several fronts this year, with the collapse of Islamic State giving rise to conflict between other Syrian and foreign parties.

As Assad has pressed the offensive against eastern Ghouta, Turkey has launched an incursion against Kurdish fighters in the northwestern Afrin region.