Three Nobel Peace Prize winners sent a stark message to fellow laureate Aung San Suu Kyi on Wednesday: Bring an immediate end to the massacre of Rohingya Muslims in Myanmar’s Rakhine state, or face prosecution.

Iran’s Shirin Ebadi, Yemen’s Tawakkol Karman and Northern Ireland’s Mairead Maguire are on a week-long humanitarian trip to Bangladesh, which now hosts some 700,000 Rohingya refugees. They say they’re planning to “take Myanmar’s government to the International Court of Justice.”

Security forces in Buddhist-majority Myanmar have waged a gruesome crackdown against the minority group over the past six months, causing mass displacement. Human rights groups have documented widespread, state-sanctioned violence against Rohingyas in western Myanmar, including rape, torture, shootings, arson and other forms of abuse and crimes against humanity.

Human rights activists have accused Suu Kyi, Myanmar’s civil leader and a former political prisoner and activist during the country’s decades-long military dictatorship, of turning a blind eye to the crisis, increasingly described as a genocide. She has neglected to condemn the atrocities committed against Rohingyas, and has even rejected critical reports as “misinformation.”

As Myanmar’s government has tightened restrictions on desperately needed aid supplies and services in Rakhine state, Suu Kyi’s inaction has drawn rebukes from world leaders and sparked protests around the globe. Some activists have discussed revoking the Nobel Peace Prize she won in 1991 for “her non-violent struggle for democracy and human rights.”

At a press conference in Dhaka, Karman said Suu Kyi must “stop turning a deaf ear to the persecution of the Rohingya or risk being complicit in the crimes,” and “wake up or face prosecution.”

“If she fails to do so, her choice is clear: Resign or be held accountable, along with the army commanders, for the crimes committed,” Karman added.

In its recent State of the World’s Human Rights report, Amnesty International described the current abuse of Rohingyas as “a targeted campaign of ethnic cleansing.”

“Throughout 2017, millions across the world experienced the bitter fruits of a rising politics of demonization. Its ultimate consequences were laid bare in the horrific military campaign of ethnic cleansing against the Rohingya people in Myanmar,” the report noted. “The atrocities –- an unlawful and disproportionate response to attacks on security posts by an armed Rohingya group in August –- created the worst refugee crisis in decades in Southeast Asia.”

Myanmar has repeatedly denied access to international authorities and investigators, making it difficult to accurately grasp the scope of the situation. Reuters reporters Wa Lone and Kyaw Soe, who both covered the crisis extensively from within the country, have been detained since December for allegedly intending “to send important security documents regarding security forces in Rakhine State to foreign agencies abroad,” according to Myanrmar’s information ministry.

The Rohingya have long been victims of state-sponsored discrimination in Myanmar, where they have limited rights and are classified as illegal immigrants rather than citizens. Their plight rapidly and drastically worsened after Aug. 25, when Rohingya militants attacked government security posts ― triggering the extreme retaliation by state security and military forces.

“This is genocide ... the torture, rape and killing of any one member of our human family must be challenged,” said Maguire. “We can’t remain silent. Silence is complicity.”Your media appearances make us sick.

You’d be better off working on behalf of retarded African people, who can only think about squeezing money from France.

Africa once possessed values, instituted by colonizers, that have since evaporated and been replaced by the depths of laziness.

Africans are a cross between monkeys and humans. Your days are numbered, we will deal with you.USOC Chairman Larry Probst and CEO Scott Blackmun at a 2014 news conference in San Francisco. USA Today Sports / Reuters

Scott Blackmun is stepping down from his post as CEO of the U.S. Olympic Committee after eight years, the organization said Wednesday in a statement.

The decision comes while Team USA’s governing body continues to face sharp questions over patterns of sexual abuse uncovered throughout the U.S. Olympic program.

USOC said the move was made out of consideration for Blackmun’s health. He is currently being treated for prostate cancer.

“Given Scott’s current health situation, we have mutually agreed it is in the best interest of both Scott and the USOC that we identify new leadership so that we can immediately address the urgent initiatives ahead of us,” USOC Chairman Larry Probst said in a statement provided to HuffPost.

Current board member Susanne Lyons will oversee day-to-day operations while a search is conducted for Blackmun’s replacement. The group is continuing to evaluate what steps it can take to prevent abuse of its athletes and said it intends to form an advisory committee of abuse survivors and advocates.

Observers have been particularly critical of the USOC’s relationship with former USA Gymnastics team doctor Larry Nassar, who was handed a prison sentence of at least 40 years in January for serial sexual misconduct. In the wake of the scandal, Sens. Jeanne Shaheen (D-N.H.) and Joni Ernst (R-Iowa) called for Blackmun’s resignation. Other Olympic groups, including USA Swimming, had also called for him and other USOC leaders to step down.

“The USOC is at a critical point in its history,” Probst said. “The important work that Scott started needs to continue and will require especially vigorous attention in light of Larry Nassar’s decades-long abuse of athletes affiliated with USA Gymnastics. We will be working with key stakeholders to help identify a permanent successor to Scott. In the meantime, I am confident that Susanne is the right person to help us navigate this critical transition period.”

Blackmun had earned praise for his efforts to repair relations between the USOC and the International Olympic Committee.

Scott Blackmun led the U.S. Olympic Committee from 2010 to 2018. Alexander Hassenstein via Getty Images

“Serving the USOC and its many stakeholders and working with our board, our professional staff and many others who support the Olympic and Paralympic movements has not only been immensely rewarding, it has been an honor and the highlight of my professional life,” Blackmun said in a statement.

California attorney Robert Allard, who represents USA Swimming abuse survivors, said in a statement Wednesday that Blackmum’s departure would be good for the USOC.

AdvertisementOther Trump associates, such as former White House adviser Steve Bannon, also have declined to answer House intelligence panel questions about their time in the White House, citing White House orders.

“This is not executive privilege, this is executive stonewalling,” Representative Adam Schiff, the committee’s top Democrat, told reporters after Hicks’ testimony.

He said Hicks declined to say whether she had refused to answer the same questions from Mueller’s team.

Schiff said committee Democrats wanted Hicks to be subpoenaed, but Republicans refused. Trump’s fellow Republicans have majorities in both houses of Congress, and thus control the congressional investigations.

Republicans agreed to on-the-spot subpoenas of Bannon during his testimony, and Schiff expressed frustration with the difference.

Representative Thomas Rooney, a Republican leader of the committee’s Russia probe, told reporters he thought Hicks had been “very forthright” when she answered questions.

He said he did not think Hicks should be subpoenaed.

Hicks arrived about 10 a.m. for a closed-door session with the panel. She left around 7 p.m. The committee is investigating allegations that Russia sought to interfere in 2016 to boost Trump, and whether his associates colluded with Russia.

Hicks did not speak to reporters.

Trump has repeatedly denied collusion with Russia, and Moscow has denied attempting to meddle in the U.S. campaign.

White House spokeswoman Sarah Sanders declined to discuss Hicks’ refusal to respond to some questions, telling reporters the White House would not comment on any individual’s interactions with the intelligence committee.But don't count your legislative victories before they're passed in both houses and signed into law. Bill Clark via Getty Images

WASHINGTON ― Congress, famously incapable of passing gun control legislation, may finally be ready to do something.

It won’t be much ― if it happens at all ― but the current thinking among Republicans on Capitol Hill is that if lawmakers once again fail to do anything to tighten gun laws, there could be a voter backlash that ushers in a Democratic majority that would pass an even more restrictive bill.

The idea was summed up by conservative Rep. Warren Davidson (R-Ohio) on Twitter on Monday: “Most prevalent theme so far in Congress: ‘We have to do this bad idea so that we don’t end up with a worse idea.’”

When HuffPost asked Davidson about that tweet on Tuesday, he said it wasn’t unique to guns or just this week in Congress, but he granted that many Republicans were making that argument in support of the current Fix NICS bill. That legislation, co-sponsored by Senate Majority Whip John Cornyn (R-Texas), would reinforce existing background check laws to provide the FBI with more information about the criminal histories of those seeking a gun. (Agencies often fail to report criminal records to NICS, the National Instant Criminal Background Check System.)

The extremely modest proposal has already passed the House. But to get the bill out of the lower chamber, GOP leaders made a deal with more-conservative members to couple it with another measure allowing citizens with a concealed carry permit in one state to use that permit in another state ― even if the concealed carry law is different in the second state.

Both provisions appear to be non-starters with Senate Democrats, and Senate Republicans appear open to stripping the concealed carry portion and passing a clean Fix NICS bill. But Democrats also feel that a bill that simply reinforces laws already on the books would do little to address the problem of gun violence and would just give Republicans political cover. They want other changes, like universal background checks, which would be more difficult to pass in either chamber of Congress despite overwhelming public support.

Whichever route the Senate takes ― passing a limited Fix NICS bill, something larger or nothing at all ― there are real questions about what the House would do next. Conservative members say GOP leaders promised that the House would not vote on a background check bill without the concealed carry provisions. And Rep. Jim Jordan (R-Ohio) said Tuesday that a decision by the Senate to send back the Fix NICS bill without the concealed carry part shouldn’t change the commitments that Republican leaders made.

“Why should that change their promise?” Jordan asked.

But Speaker Paul Ryan (R-Wis.) sounded less than resolute when asked about his commitment on Tuesday.

“We obviously think the Senate should take our whole bill,” Ryan told reporters, “but if the Senate cannot do that, then we’ll discuss and cross that bridge when we get to it.”

While that sort of noncommittal statement will certainly alarm conservatives, it will also alarm Democrats and those Republicans who are actually trying to pass a bill.

Senate leaders appear close to some sort of agreement that would allow their members to vote on some amendments, though perhaps not all. At that point, it would be up to senators to decide what the gun package coming out of the Senate looks like ― and then it would depend on Speaker Ryan giving that legislation a vote in the House.

Republicans who are supportive of more gun restrictions say they expect any bill that makes it to President Donald Trump’s desk would have needed the backing of a significant number of Democrats. And the mood in the Capitol ― the one where Republicans fear inaction could ultimately lead to even tighter laws ― could bring along enough Republicans as well to give Ryan cover to bring up a revised bill in the House.

Already Republicans are providing quotes that would have once been unthinkable.

When Rep. Peter King (R-N.Y.) was asked about the political implications of gun control, he said that he thought it would hurt Republicans nationally, but that the issue was different for each individual member.We’d line up for that.

Disney CEO Bob Iger suggested that a theme park ride based on the box office smash “Black Panther” might pop up at a Disney property in the near future, according to The Hollywood Reporter.

Iger noted at an investor conference in New York on Monday that the superhero film has become “an important moment in culture,” and that guests are waiting an hour just to meet the Black Panther character at Disneyland in Anaheim, California.

“No ride?” someone said.

To which Iger replied with a laugh, per THR: “No. We haven’t had a chance to build a ride. Though I’m sure there are people who are working on it.”

"Black Panther," which is quickly closing in on $1 billion in global ticket sales, could become a Disney theme park ride, a top executive hinted Monday. Marvel Studios

Iger added that by autumn, “you’ll be seeing a lot of ‘Black Panther’ merchandise.”

But some fans would no doubt love to experience a ride based on Disney’s latest Marvel superhero to make it big on the big screen.

In just its second week, the film has already surpassed $700 million at the global box office.The Protect Interstate Commerce Act would ban states like California from prohibiting the sale of eggs from battery-caged hens. Mike Blake / Reuters

UPDATE: Dec. 12 ― The Protect Interstate Commerce Act, also known as the King Amendment, was eliminated from the farm bill before it passed the U.S. Senate on Tuesday.

PREVIOUSLY:

As Congress fights over the latest farm bill, one proposal has animal welfare and food safety advocates ― and even some farm industry groups ― sounding the alarm.

They’re opposing the Protect Interstate Commerce Act, an amendment from Rep. Steve King (R-Iowa) that they fear could jeopardize thousands of state and local laws regulating food and farming.

Also known as the King Amendment, this addition to the draft farm bill would ban states from imposing rules on the sale of out-of-state agricultural products if those rules are more restrictive than federal law ― or the law within a product’s state of origin.

So what might this look like in practice?

King has repeatedly pointed to a proposed California law that would ban the sale of eggs from hens raised in battery cages — a housing system involving rows of small cages typically deemed inhumane by animal welfare experts. Since battery cages are legal at the federal level, as well as in many states that produce eggs, PICA would bar California’s proposal.

Hens in battery cages at a San Diego County egg farm in 2008. Mike Blake / Reuters

Because the term “agricultural products” is so broad, it’s difficult to tell how far-reaching the legislation would be. Some animal welfare and pet industry groups fear it might even extend to laws aimed at stopping the sale of sick or abused dogs from out-of-state puppy mills, The Hill reports.

While it’s obvious why many animal welfare advocates would be against PICA, the amendment’s ramifications could extend much further. A Harvard Law School analysis found that PICA “has the potential to void thousands of state and local laws concerning public health and safety,” including laws surrounding food safety, packaging and invasive species.

Take California and Oregon, which both have regulations to prevent the import of plants carrying the glassy-winged sharpshooter, an insect that harms grape crops.

“PICA may interfere with those states’ ability to enforce such regulations,” the report says. “For example, under PICA a law requiring out-of-state producers to treat agricultural products with pesticides to kill the sharpshooters prior to import arguably places an additional and impermissible condition on them.”

Another law that could be voided under PICA, the report says, is a Florida ban on the sale of citrus fruit tainted with arsenic.

Two out of nearly 1,000 dogs rescued from a West Virginia puppy mill in 2008. The Washington Post via Getty Images

The potentially widespread consequences of PICA are why such a diverse set of interests are aligned against it. Groups ranging from Farm Sanctuary ― which promotes animal welfare and veganism ― to the Alabama Poultry Growers Association are urging Congress not to pass the farm bill with the amendment attached. Environmental groups, food safety advocates, workers rights organizations and numerous individual farmers and state lawmakers have also expressed opposition.

And some legal experts fear that the act could even wind up changing the way states can regulate farming within their own borders — not just the sale of out-of-state products.

King has said that it’s not his intention for it to work that way.

“If California, or any other state, wants to regulate how products are made within their borders, they can do so,” he said in an April press release about the amendment.

But Rebecca Cary, senior staff attorney at the Humane Society of the United States, told HuffPost things might not be so clear-cut. The reason? PICA’s vague wording opens it up to extremely broad interpretation.

Pregnant pigs in gestation crates, also known as sow stalls, at a farm near Brussels, Belgium, in 2012. Yves Herman / Reuters

She explained in an email: “In-state production laws could be vulnerable because the amendment places conditions not on the SALE of agricultural products, but on the production or manufacture of agricultural products that are sold in interstate commerce.”

One potential victim of PICA, the Humane Society warns, is a landmark Massachusetts law to prohibit the intensive confinement of animals through systems like pig gestation crates.

“Because most Massachusetts producers ultimately sell at least some of their products in markets outside of the state, those could be considered impermissible standards under King’s amendment,” Cary said.

King wrote a similar amendment to the farm bill back in 2014, but it didn’t make it into the final version. Congress passes a farm bill about every five years ― the 2014 bill was passed late ― that sets policy for farms, food and other areas within the scope of the Department of Agriculture.In just the last decade of his lengthy tenure, Rep. Don Young (R-Alaska) has made quite a few bizarre and insensitive comments, saying the Deepwater Horizon oil spill was “not an environmental disaster,” using a racial slur to describe Latinos and suggesting wolves could solve homelessness, among other controversies.

Last week, Young, who is currently the longest-serving member of the House, weighed in on the national debate on firearms by suggesting the Holocaust could have been avoided if Jewish people had armed themselves.

“How many millions of people were shot and killed because they were unarmed? Fifty million in Russia, because their citizens weren’t armed,” Young said during a conference in Juneau, Alaska Public Media reported.

“How many Jews were put in the ovens because they were unarmed?” he added.

The Anti-Defamation League rejected the idea that guns could have prevented the mass murder of up to 6 million Jewish people and millions of others during World War II.

“It’s offensive for anyone to manipulate the history of the Holocaust to score political points,” the Jewish civil rights organization tweeted in response to Young’s comments, noting that the real causes of the genocide were anti-Semitism and hate.

Guns, or lack of them, did not cause the Holocaust. The Holocaust was the product of anti-Semitism & other forms of hate. It’s offensive for anyone to manipulate the history of the Holocaust to score political points. https://t.co/OdB2w6XYro — ADL (@ADL_National) February 28, 2018

Young’s press secretary said in a statement to CNN that the congressman’s words were misconstrued.

“He was referencing the fact that when Hitler confiscated firearms from Jewish Germans, those communities were less able to defend themselves. He was not implying that an armed Jewish population would have been able to prevent the horrors of the Holocaust, but his intended message is that disarming citizens can have detrimental consequences,” the statement read.

The ADL denounced a similar argument from a politician in 2015, when then-presidential candidate Ben Carson claimed in a section of his book, A More Perfect Union, that “Through a combination of removing guns and disseminating deceitful propaganda, the Nazis were able to carry out their evil intentions with relatively little resistance.”

Pro-gun advocates have long argued that gun control was key to the German Nazi party’s rise to power. But historians say that gun regulations were actually loosened for non-Jewish Germans, and many do not believe the limited number of personal firearms in Germany could have made an impact anyway.

AdvertisementPresident Donald Trump enjoyed his visit to Saudi Arabia last spring. MANDEL NGAN via Getty Images

WASHINGTON ― The Trump administration and GOP leadership started lobbying against a bipartisan resolution questioning the U.S. role in the civil war in Yemen before Sens. Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.), Mike Lee (R-Utah) and Chris Murphy (D-Conn.) even filed it on Wednesday morning.

The Defense Department’s acting general counsel sent Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.) a letter criticizing the resolution on Tuesday. That letter was sent to all Senate offices Wednesday morning, hours before a high-profile news conference at which Sanders and Lee argued that current American efforts in Yemen ― providing aerial refueling and intelligence to a Saudi-led coalition fighting Iran-backed rebels ― are unconstitutional because Congress has never explicitly approved them.

William S. Castle of the Pentagon disagrees. His letter maintains that the U.S. support does not count as “hostilities” because American forces are not having exchanges of fire with the rebels, known as the Houthis, or commanding the coalition. It also suggests that the resolution threatens American authority to combat the local branch of the Islamic State ― and even holds that Congress cannot end the policy because it is the president’s prerogative, adopting an expansive view of presidential control over war-making that some experts likened to controversial George W. Bush-era arguments once HuffPost published the letter.

At stake is a debate ― the likes of which hasn’t been seen in the Senate for decades ― over how America wages war.

The resolution from Sanders, Lee and Murphy is guaranteed a vote on the Senate floor because of authorities outlined in arms control legislation, staffers say; the U.S. is a major supplier of weapons to Saudi Arabia and its chief partner in the war, the United Arab Emirates.

While all three senators have been top critics of the deadly effects of the U.S. support for the Saudi-UAE coalition, including food shortages for close to 20 million people and the deaths of thousands of civilians, they want the ensuing debate to focus on the constitutional question of whether the president should have been allowed to initiate such a policy rather than the wisdom of the strategy itself, staffers told reporters at a briefing on Tuesday.

“We believe that, as Congress has not declared war or authorized military force in this conflict, the United States’ involvement in Yemen is unconstitutional and unauthorized, and U.S. military support of the Saudi coalition must end,” Sanders said Wednesday. Lee said the resolution will allow Congress to reassert its authority over foreign policy by voting on whether to withdraw American forces currently aiding the coalition. (The bill specifically excludes U.S. forces fighting Yemen’s al Qaeda branch.)

Their resolution invokes the 1973 War Powers Resolution, which states that the U.S. is involved in a conflict if it is helping to command or even just “participate in the movement of” another country’s forces as they fight. While the Pentagon letter says that resolution does not apply because U.S. forces are not engaged in such activities against the Houthis, it also notes that American planes currently provide refueling to the Saudi and UAE planes that go on to bomb Houthi-controlled areas.

This week is just the start of the battle over the resolution. A House version prompted complicated weeks-long negotiations last year, failing to produce a vote but forcing the House to officially acknowledge that the policy was not covered by authorizations for the use of military force passed after 9/11.

Saudi Arabia has already begun expanded outreach to lawmakers because of the wave of criticism it has received over Yemen, sending them weekly updates on its humanitarian work for the victims of the conflict that experts and aid groups say it is deliberately worsening. One set arrived in Capitol Hill inboxes around the same time as the Pentagon letter.

And it’s already clear the Trump administration, which has developed a close relationship with Riyadh, will be working against the proposal, too. The senators involved have been in touch with the executive branch, staffers said Tuesday; they did not comment on how those conversations went.

If all goes according to plan, the resolution will move out of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee by early March and can then be called up at any time for a debate and a vote. That means there’s a chance it could even come up on or around March 19, when the de facto Saudi ruler, Crown Prince Muhammed bin Salman, arrives in Washington for meetings at the start of a U.S. tour that could last close to two weeks.

Its supporters are already rallying their allies for a fight they say could be monumental. Actor and activist Mark Ruffalo tweeted in support of the resolution on Wednesday, and national security experts are already praising it.

“There is a reason why the Founders gave the power to declare war to the Congress, the body closest to the people, to decide when and where our military will fight,” said retired Gen. Paul Eaton of the Vet Voice Foundation in a statement shared with HuffPost. “We can no longer turn a blind eye to our worldwide interventions without clear authorization.... If the President or members of Congress believe that support for the Yemen War is in the U.S. interests, they should argue for it. They had best be articulate because many of our citizens see no plausible explanation for why backing the Saudis is helpful in a region saturated by violence.”Hope Hicks, long considered one of President Donald Trump’s most trusted advisers, is resigning her job as White House communications director, several outlets confirmed Wednesday.

“Hope is outstanding and has done great work for the last three years,” Trump said in a statement to The New York Times. “She is as smart and thoughtful as they come, a truly great person. I will miss having her by my side but when she approached me about pursuing other opportunities, I totally understood. I am sure we will work together again in the future.”

Hicks is expected to finish out her job in the next few weeks.

Her resignation comes one day after her eight-hour testimony before the House Intelligence Committee, which is investigating Russia’s meddling in the 2016 presidential election. According to reports, Hicks admitted during her testimony that Trump sometimes required her to tell “white lies.”

Her departure also comes weeks after White House staff secretary Rob Porter, with whom Hicks has been romantically linked, left his post over allegations that he’d physically abused his two ex-wives.

On Feb. 8, White House spokesman Raj Shah said Hicks “did recuse herself from some matters” concerning the administration’s response to Porter’s exit, but did not deny reports that Hicks was involved in drafting the White House’s initial statement on the scandal.

Some speculated that Hicks’ reported relationship with Porter was a factor in the White House’s initial decision to defend him.

Hicks was also recently caught up in special counsel Robert Mueller’s investigation into Trump campaign ties to Russia. In late January, The New York Times reported that Mark Corallo, who served as a spokesman on Trump’s legal team before resigning in July, was planning to tell Mueller about a previously undisclosed phone call between him, Trump and Hicks.

According to sources familiar with the matter, Corallo claims Hicks said on the call that Donald Trump Jr.’s now widely reported emails about a 2016 Trump Tower meeting with a Russian lawyer “will never get out” ― suggesting to Corallo that she was contemplating obstructing justice.

Hicks’ team has denied she ever made that comment.

The enigmatic 29-year-old has never given an onscreen interview and is rarely quoted. However, she has been regarded as one of Trump’s top confidantes and is “sometimes treated like an extended family member,” according to a Politico profile on her published last summer.

In 2015, Trump tapped Hicks, who had been working on Ivanka Trump’s clothing line since 2014 and had no political experience, to work as the press secretary on his presidential campaign. After Trump’s inauguration, Hicks was named his director of strategic communications. She took on the role as interim communications director last July when Anthony Scaramucci was abruptly ousted, and secured the job permanently in September.HuffPost Illustration/Getty Images

Outside, in the toilet that is Times Square, it was raining. We sat silently in the Rum House, dressed to the nines in floor-length gowns, desperately sucking down rum punch. It was almost six o’clock. We looked at each other with deranged smiles that communicated: How did we get here? But deep down, we both knew we had absolutely, entirely, without question brought this on ourselves.

It started out as a joke. “Who has Oscars story ideas?” our editor asked. “What about poop?” we replied. But then we really started to think: Well, what about poop? When people talk about the Oscars, they never seem to talk about poop. Crash diets, yes; couture gowns, of course; bathroom lines, seen that; the actual awards, check ― but not poop. And yet poop was all we could think about.

You see, we’re both the special kind of people for whom anxiety manifests in the belly and out the butt. If we were to one day be nominated for an Academy Award, we predict the hours leading up to our category’s announcement would be spent swishing elegantly in and out of stalls. At the Oscars ― where we’d presumably be plucked, buffed, painted, poured into heavy-duty Spanx ― this sounds like quite the hassle. Imagine: you’ve never smelled better, had smaller pores or looked more like Aphrodite rising from the ocean foam on a giant oyster shell, and all you can think about is answering that most animal of urges.

And sure, maybe celebrities can whisk discreetly to the Academy restroom and unloose their bowels. But for Hollywood’s most glamorous starlets, who often wear tight and complicated dresses with voluminous skirts over architectural undergarments, even peeing can be an acrobatic task. Bryce Dallas Howard once “joked” on the red carpet that she wouldn’t be drinking any water during the ceremony so that she wouldn’t have to deal with her dress during a pee break. Haha, performing femininity requires denying your body things it needs to live!

The point is, pooping would be even more challenging: For one thing, while Spanx come with handy pee-holes, they have no apertures for poop.

The question, then, is twofold: Do celebrities feel any kind of way about pooping during awards shows? If so, do they take any proactive measures to prevent said pooping from occurring?

It was a mystery that would lead us down a dark and uncertain path and deposit us in the Times Square bar outside this year’s Writers Guild of America (East) Awards, preparing to ask famous people on the red carpet about their bowels. With begrudging but clearly documented approval from our editors, we resolved to get to the bottom of this persistent mystery, by any means necessary.

Mario Anzuoni / Reuters

Pooper Truthers

First, weeks before the awards, we emailed every famously outspoken star we could think of, with the hope they’d answer our brazen query: Do you take any preemptive measures to ensure you won’t poop at The Oscars? To our chagrin, most of the supposedly “down-to-earth” celebrities we emailed did not respond. Dame Helen Mirren, Jennifer Lawrence, Meryl Streep and Chrissy Teigen never got back to us. In fact, only Fred Specktor, Mirren’s agent at CAA, responded to us, kindly advising us to “ask Stan Rosenfield,” an LA-based PR veteran who also represents the dame. Rosenfield did not return our emails, but according to his Twitter bio, he’s “a person of few words,” so that fits.

If you’re already thinking to yourself, “I’m sure Helen would just hold it in, guys. The Oscars are just, like, three hours long.” ― yeah. At this point, plenty of our peers offered this banal theory. But come on. The one possibility we refused to countenance is that celebrities do nothing to stop their ears to the call of nature on Oscar night.

Why? Because, as any lady mag will tell you, celebrities spend weeks honing their bodies for the red carpet. Famous nutritionists, trainers, hairstylists and makeup artists talk ad nauseum about how their star clients get injections, tone their upper arms, condition their hair, and, of course, eliminate bloat.

And what is “bloat” but anything extraneous in your body, like water, gas ― or, ahem, poop ― that distends your abdomen?

We live in a colonic- and cleanse-friendly culture in which even image-conscious superstar Beyonce has admitted to flushing out her system with The Master Cleanse ― a 10-day diet consisting only of homemade lemonade meant to eliminate waste in the body ― before a big event (“Dreamgirls”). As one brave Health writer who tried the cleanse attested, “eliminate waste” is “basically a fancy way of describing water-like diarrhea.” So what are cleanses and colonics, really? Sadistic rituals meant to remove bloating, i.e., accumulated waste, i.e. poop.

We just wanted some celebrity to talk candidly about how he or she attempts to empty their bowels on Oscars night, specifically to prevent a BM from interrupting their Big Moment.

Satisfied with our logic and no one else’s, we forged on. Maybe, we reasoned, Oscars-bound celebrities were taking some sort of laxative?

We asked five nutritionists if our theory sounded plausible and not one seemed quite convinced. Nutrifit founder Jackie Keller said she didn’t know anything about “this stupidity about celebrities taking laxatives” before awards shows. Herbalist Zoe Kissam of Traditional Medicinals (makers of the popular senna-based tea Smooth Move) seemed disconcerted at the mere suggestion. “Unless you are occasionally constipated, this is not the tea I would recommend before an event,” she advised. “I would be concerned if someone on the red carpet said they drank Smooth Move.”

Kissam’s alarm piqued our interest: Clearly this laxative tea was powerful. Celebrity nutritionist Tracy Lockwood sort of confirmed our suspicions, saying marathon runners occasionally use the stuff to ensure they don’t have to go during the race. A celebrity nanny coordinator (who asked not to be identified so as not to be associated with an article about poop) even called the potent beverage “the biggest taboo in Hollywood.”

There are real risks to Smooth Move, Kissam warned us. Apparently, because senna stimulates colon contractions, too-frequent consumption of the herb can make you dependent on it to stay regular. As a safer alternative to routine flushing, she suggested dandelion tea, a diuretic with a mild laxative effect. According to Shape magazine, Jennifer Lawrence drinks dandelion tea before the Oscars! Doesn’t it just sound so light and airy? A diaphanous BM blowing in the breeze. Had we made a breakthrough?

Not really.

After three weeks (!) of investigating, having gained no clarity from the bizarro rituals of celebrity cleansing, we feared we were no closer to our original goal: the truth about stars’ Oscar night pooping secrets. With celebrity sources (including Jennifer Lawrence) consistently failing to come through (except that nanny coordinator, she’s a hero), we turned to that deepest well of truth, the internet. We pored through “Get Her Red Carpet Body” photo spreads online and trawled Reddit, where tireless moderators repeatedly deleted our celebrity poop questions in forums like r/StupidQuestions and r/NoStupidQuestions. We covered blackboards with our findings, leaving messages like “Flat Earthers?”, “Reddit Conspiracy?”, “LAXATIVE TEAS!” and “Is celebrity poop really just a light drizzle?” in conference rooms throughout our office building.

Things weren’t going as planned. We could have given up, we could have abandoned the project, we could have admitted that Oscars pooping isn’t the critical issue of our time [editor’s note: change to “should have”]. Nevertheless, we persisted. We decided to put our bodies on the line.

An 1802 illustration of senna, a natural laxative, by Friedrich Johann Bertuch. Florilegius via Getty Images

I Woke Up Like This. Poopless.

Without consulting our editors or, really, any adults, we devised a plan. We would attend the Writers Guild Awards (East) on Feb. 11, and we would try our darnedest not to visit the W.C. (We should note here that HuffPost’s union is represented by the Writers Guild.)

Unfortunately, the publicists coordinating the event only granted us access to the evening’s red carpet portion, and not to the main event, but so it goes. We planned to use this opportunity to corner celebrities on the carpet and ask them if they shared our crippling concern about awards ceremony pooping and whether they’d taken any preemptive action to avoid sullying the Edison Theater bathrooms.

One week before the big day, we adjusted our diets and bathroom regimens to best mimic what we’d gleaned about those of image-conscious celebrities prior to a big awards show. Both of us based our diets on the recommendations of “nutritionist to the stars” Oz Garcia, with slight adjustments: Claire subsisted on a clean diet of lean protein and leafy greens while drinking dandelion tea at night, much like Academy Award-winning superstar Jennifer Lawrence. Priscilla opted for a healthy vegetarian diet without dairy or processed grains. She also dosed herself with Smooth Move tea on Tuesday evening, hoping this would give her ample time to recover while still remaining an empty vessel, bowel-wise.

We tried to go further, in the name of truth, by getting all the excrement flushed out of us by a hose-wielding professional. “We do get a lot of celebrities and models that get colonics prior to an event, runway and photoshoot,” Manhattan colonic purveyor Fluid Water Therapy told HuffPost. In theory, this is to cut down on bloat ― but again, bloat and poop essentially cover the same territory. Our editors, unconvinced by this airtight logic, rejected our expense requests to put the luxury poop removal treatment to the test.

When the Sunday of the WGAE Awards arrived, we were hollowed out and hungry. We both noticed the teas had moved things along, but the funny thing was, our bodies didn’t ever seem to reach the end, as it were. (Apparently digestion is a continuous process that is an essential part of being alive!)

We met in the thick of Times Square that night, dressed, like any self-respecting journalist covering the red carpet, in revealing gowns that showed off our new poop-free bodies. Or... to put this delicately... less than poop-free. Not an hour before the red carpet began, one of us had to hustle to the bathroom for a last-minute bowel movement, gown and all. No, it doesn’t matter which one.

Fortified by rum punch and nihilistic recklessness, we arrived at the WGAE Awards and positioned ourselves amongst the other, significantly more casually dressed journalists on the red carpet. As the celebs filed by, we asked one after the other whether they were concerned about pooping during the awards show and how they prepared for the possibility. “Are you worried about pooping tonight? Have you done anything so that, you know, you definitely won’t?” we asked attendees.

“That’s literally all you’re asking?” queried one mildly concerned publicist.

And it was.

We occasionally interspersed our probing questions with compliments and apologies to loosen up our subjects. “You look beautiful tonight, and we’re so sorry,” we told the finest comedians and actors working in New York City. “Are you worried about pooping tonight?”

As we’d hoped, many celebrities literally could not avoid answering.

“I voided everything earlier,” Anthony Atamanuik, the creator and star of “The President Show,” told us frankly.

“I’m very regular,” actress and comedian Robin Thede said. “I go in the mornings. If there was a morning award show, I’d be in trouble.”

“I was nervous earlier, so I went already,” revealed comedian Amber Ruffin, who was hosting the event.

Actor Adam Pally told us he was “terrified” about having to poop that evening (Points: us!), but that he had already taken care of it during a free moment in his schedule earlier that day. “How did you make sure it happened during that free moment?” we asked. He looked confused. “How does anyone?” he said. While we pondered this scatalogical mystery, Pally darted off to talk to Us Weekly.

“Veep” actress Anna Chlumsky, who is currently co-starring with Pally in a Broadway play, suggested bananas as a natural way to lock that down ― though she stopped short of admitting she’d noshed any herself. (Half-point!)

Star on the rise Lucas Hedges probably wanted to talk about “Lady Bird” or at least “Three Billboards.” Not today, Lucas. We hit him with our classic query: “Are you worried about pooping tonight?” Despite initially looking a bit bewildered, the young Hedges took the question to heart. He explained that while he wasn’t worried about pooping that night, he had been at past awards shows. Presumably the Golden Globes were more high-pressure. (So many points: us!)

Megan Abbott, a novelist and writer on “The Deuce,” looked sweetly shocked by our line of questioning before finally saying, “I try to eat healthy” (score for our clean diet strategy!).

We weren’t always brave enough to ambush the very famous people walking by us that night. For example, we chickened out when Ann Dowd, before we could get a word out, placed her hand on ours and asked if we were having a good night. The unprompted gesture of kindness left us unable to bring ourselves to ask the Emmy Award-winning actress about doody.

By the time the most famous stars ― Tina Fey, Seth Meyers, etc. ― hit the red carpet, none of them were made available for press questions, a decision that we can only assume arose from our crass queries earlier in the night. By this hour we were pretty certain publicists were steering their celebrity clients away from our spot on the carpet anyhow. And at the tail end of our week of cleanses and dieting, we were ready to eat real food.

Sean Gallup via Getty Images

Can You Handle The Poop?

Following our red carpet debut, we giddily inhaled burgers, fries and chocolate shakes as the WGA Awards kicked off down the street. When we locked eyes and noticed each other’s svelte, waste-free waistlines, we couldn’t help but smile. We’d come so far.

Some might say we learned nothing on our journey to the center of the colon, but those people would be full of shit. We learned, for example, that Spanx definitely don’t have a poop-hole. We learned that eating kale and drinking dandelion tea will definitely make you poop, but that the poop will simply keep coming. We learned that pooping remains weirdly taboo for an activity that every human being on earth does literally every day. And we discovered that some celebrities are incredibly open and understanding when interrogated about their bathroom habits. Especially you, Lucas Hedges.

Most importantly, we learned that laxative tea should definitely not be underestimated, especially in an office setting.

As the Oscars approach, we urge you not to ignore the fundamental issue of whether or not celebrities are pooping during this historic event. Are they scarfing bananas that morning to keep things tight? Are they getting colonics the day before to remove the goop? Or are people just letting loose, when necessary, in the illustrious restrooms of the Dolby (formerly Kodak) Theater, in between the awards for Costume Design and Documentary Feature? (We called the Dolby Theater and asked to speak to a bathroom attendant, hoping to get more insight from the closest thing to a firsthand witness, but they curtly declined to comment.)

We didn’t find many solid answers to our original questions in the course of this journey, but we may have learned something still more important: to embrace our messy, gross, human bodies.

“I don’t have a lot of shame,” said “Crazy Ex-Girlfriend” star and co-creator Rachel Bloom with admirable forthrightness during a phone interview months into our journey. “I don’t really think [pooping is] degrading.” Exhibit A: She was the only celebrity who agreed to be interviewed on this subject without being cornered on a red carpet.

If she has to poop at an awards show, Bloom said, so be it. “The red carpet has this mystique,” she said. “I think now many people are interested in pulling back the red curtain.”

AdvertisementIt’s been proven time and time again that Amy Schumer can make us laugh, but dare we say she can make us cry, too?

On Wednesday, the “I Feel Pretty” actress released the first video we’ve seen of her Feb. 13 nuptials to Chris Fischer, which took place at a private villa in Malibu, California.

In the sun-kissed footage, we’re treated to a brief inside look at Schumer’s big day, as she prepares with bridesmaids beforehand, walks down the aisle and delivers an edited version of what she previously described as “raunchy” vows (among her promises: keep having oral sex with Fischer for the rest of their lives).

As might be expected, she opened with a characteristic crack: “I just wanted to plug some of my road dates.”

But Schumer got emotional as she revealed exactly why she felt the need to tie the knot after just a few months of dating.

“People are wondering why the rush. Why so fast?” she said. “And it’s because I truly cannot wait another second to be your wife. I love you.”

A post shared by @amyschumer on Feb 28, 2018 at 11:48am PST

Fischer’s vows came first, with the professional chef unabashedly declaring his love for the Comedy Central alum.

“I love you, Amy,” he says in the clip as his voice begins to crack. “You bring happiness and joy to every part of my life. You are the best thing to ever happen to me. I love you with every piece of my heart.”

Amy Schumer Instagram

Amy Schumer Instagram

Schumer and Fischer were rumored to be dating back in early November, but kept things out of the public eye until packing on the PDA at Ellen DeGeneres’ star-studded 60th birthday bash.

Actress Jennifer Lawrence was the first to shed some light on her BFF’s rush to the aisle, calling the wedding “very sudden.” She was in attendance at the small affair, along with Larry David, Jennifer Aniston and Chelsea Handler.

AdvertisementFaculty members at Lehigh University have voted overwhelmingly to rescind President Donald Trump's honorary degree. Jonathan Ernst / Reuters

Faculty members at Lehigh University in Bethlehem, Pennsylvania, have voted by a large majority that the school should annul the honorary degree awarded Donald Trump in 1988.

Almost 83 percent of faculty members who participated in this week’s ballot approved the motion calling on the school’s board of trustees to rescind Trump’s degree, reports Lehigh Valley Live. The motion says Trump is unworthy of the honor “based on a long history of numerous documented statements that are antithetical to our core values and beneath the standard for Lehigh’s honorary degrees holders.”

BREAKING: 83 percent of @LehighU faculty voted in support of a motion to rescind @realDonaldTrump's honorary degree. The results of the electronic vote will be conveyed to the board of trustees. — The Brown and White (@LUBrownWhite) February 27, 2018

Clarification: 83 percent of *voting* faculty supported the motion. 75.6 percent of total faculty participated in the vote. — The Brown and White (@LUBrownWhite) February 27, 2018

A preamble to the motion declared that “statements made by President Trump do not meet Lehigh’s standards for respectful discourse where differences of opinion exist.”

“If a member of Lehigh’s on-campus community made one of these statements, he/she would be subject to disciplinary action; taken in their entirety, he/she would be at risk of dismissal,” the motion said.

“By staying silent we are bystanders; we normalize hate speech, condone discrimination and bullying; we enable people in positions of power to corrode the foundations of civil society; and we abdicate our commitment and responsibility to uphold and sustain our core values,” it added.

Bill Cosby, who faces multiple sexual assault allegations, had his honorary degree from Lehigh University revoked in 2015. Gilbert Carrasquillo via Getty Images

The Lehigh faculty motion cited as a precedent the university’s revocation of Bill Cosby’s honorary degree in 2015 for “behavior inconsistent with the character and high standards expected of honorees.” Cosby faces dozens of sexual assault allegations.

“The faculty spoke, and I think spoke rather strongly, in terms of the number of faculty participating and the overwhelming support of the motion as written,” Doug Mahoney, the chair of the faculty’s steering committee, told the student newspaper The Brown And White.

The university’s student government body also moved to support the motion.

The student government body, @LehighSenate, voted today to support the passed faculty motion. pic.twitter.com/IiIZIBA9OO — The Brown and White (@LUBrownWhite) February 28, 2018

The final decision on whether Trump’s degree will be revoked will come from the board of trustees, which in October 2017 voted to take “no action” on a Change.org petition that called on it to take back the honor.

The petition, which garnered more than 31,000 signatures, said Trump’s “rejection of diversity and his lack of respect for the differences of others around him stands in direct opposition to the principles” of the school.

“He does not reflect Lehigh University’s values,” it added. “Therefore, he does not deserve to bear the distinction of an honorary degree from Lehigh.”“9 to 5” gave us the memorable trio of Jane Fonda, Dolly Parton and Lily Tomlin, a hit theme song and quote-worthy lines that still resonate among women in the workforce.

Even though nearly 38 years have passed since the movie’s release, its feminist message couldn’t feel more appropriate amid the Me Too movement and other cultural milestones. Evidently, Fonda, Parton and Tomlin agree, as the three are said to be “circling” a proposed remake of the classic comedy.

In an interview with ABC News’ “Nightline” on Thursday, Parton said that she and her former co-stars are all interested in doing a reboot.

“We’re trying to get the script and all that. Everybody is very interested and we’ve all agreed that we’d love to do it if it’s right,” she said.

20th Century Fox is said to be in the early stages of rebooting the 1980 film for a modern audience. Parton said the studio presented her with an idea and she said, “yes.”

Deadline reported Wednesday that the new version would follow three young women facing off against “sexist, egotistical, lying, hypocritical bigot” male higher-ups, with the three original cast members offering advice on how to get even.

Tomlin, Parton and Fonda appeared at the 2017 Emmy Awards in September. Kevin Winter via Getty Images

Details of the proposed remake are scarce, but plans call for original screenwriter Patricia Resnick to team up with a younger writer to update the script for a new generation. As for prospective collaborators, Rashida Jones is said to be at the top of the studio’s list.

Fonda, Parton and Tomlin whetted fans’ appetites for a reunion after the trio appeared at the 2017 Emmy Awards, taking an apparent “9 to 5”-inspired dig at President Donald Trump in the process. Fonda and Tomlin are co-stars on the hit Netflix series, “Grace and Frankie,” which was recently renewed for a fifth season.

As for Parton, the country icon composed songs for a 2009 Broadway musical adaptation of “9 to 5,” which received four Tony Award nominations.

The "9 to 5" trio -- Parton, Fonda and Tomlin -- at the film's 1980 premiere in New York. Tom Wargacki via Getty Images

Over the years, Resnick has appeared to shrug off the idea of making a “9 to 5” sequel with its original stars. “That ship has probably sailed,” she told Rolling Stone in 2015.

Still, she at the time praised Fonda, Parton and Tomlin’s undeniable onscreen chemistry, and said she was grateful for the “enormous goodwill and affection” fans still had for the film.As if we needed another reason to get overly teary about “Love Actually,” one of the stars of the film, Emma Thompson, has revealed that she drew inspiration for her storyline from real-life heartbreak.

The British actress is featured in one of the romantic comedy’s few not-so-happy endings when her character, Karen, discovers that her husband, played by the late Alan Rickman, is having an affair with his assistant.

In one of the film’s most gut-wrenching scenes, Karen realizes he gave the other woman a necklace she thought was intended for her.

“That scene where my character is standing by the bed crying is so well known because it’s something everyone’s been through,” Thompson said at a fundraiser in London on Sunday, according to The Telegraph.

The “Sense and Sensibility” star struggled with infidelity in her own marriage to actor and director Kenneth Branagh. The pair fell in love on the set of the 1987 BBC drama “Fortunes of War” and married two years later. They became a beloved acting-directing duo in the early ’90s, starring in films like “Peter’s Friends” and “Much Ado About Nothing” together.

However, their rom-com took its own dramatic turn when they publicly separated in 1995, blaming their busy work schedules. Later, rumors surfaced that Branagh had begun an affair with actress Helena Bonham Carter the year before, while filming and co-starring in “Mary Shelley’s Frankenstein.”

“I had my heart very badly broken by Ken. So I knew what it was like to find the necklace that wasn’t meant for me,” Thompson said Sunday. “Well, it wasn’t exactly that, but we’ve all been through it.”

Kenneth Branagh and Emma Thompson on their wedding day in 1989. Georges De Keerle via Getty Images

Thompson essentially confirmed that the affair was more than just speculation when she revealed that any bad blood about the breakup was “under the bridge” in a 2013 interview.

“I’ve had so much bloody practice at crying in a bedroom, then having to go out and be cheerful, gathering up the pieces of my heart and putting them in a drawer,” she told The Telegraph.

“You can’t hold on to anything like that. It’s pointless,” she added. “I haven’t got the energy for it. Helena and I made our peace years and years ago.”

AdvertisementAs of Tuesday, Papa John’s is no longer the official pizza of the NFL, according to a joint statement from the National Football League and the pizza chain.

Joint statement from NFL & Papa John’s on Papa John’s giving up official pizza sponsorship. pic.twitter.com/KVAW3QNSA1 — Darren Rovell (@darrenrovell) February 27, 2018

Papa John’s CEO Steve Ritchie, who took over from founder John Schnatter on Jan. 1, told investors the company will shift its marketing from the whole NFL and instead focus on specific teams and players, according to Business Insider.

In addition, Ritchie said, the company will emphasize digital sales and work toward changing the perception that its pizza is “too expensive.”

Although Papa John’s has been the official pizza of the NFL since 2010, the chain reported that North American sales dropped nearly 4 percent during the last three months of 2017 ― which, if you need a reminder, was football season.

Executives blamed the sales slump on “negative consumer sentiment.” And Schnatter may have been responsible for that. In November, he faced backlash after claiming that NFL players’ kneeling protests were costing Papa John’s money.

Schnatter put the blame on NFL Commissioner Roger Goodell, saying the NFL hurt Papa John’s shareholders “by not resolving the current debacle to the players’ and owners’ satisfaction.”

Schnatter, who supported Donald Trump during the 2016 presidential campaign, told investors that Goodell should have stopped the players from exercising their right to free expression back in 2016. The player protests began when quarterback Colin Kaepernick took a knee in 2016 during the national anthem to protest racial injustice in America.

Schnatter’s remarks caused negative publicity for the company, and some NFL owners speculate Cowboys owner Jerry Jones, who has a stake in more than 100 Papa John’s locations, talked Schnatter into turning his attack on the league public, according to Pro Football Talk.Evan Rachel Wood testifies on Tuesday at the House Judiciary Committee hearing on the Sexual Assault Survivors' Bill of Rights Act. Bill Clark via Getty Images

Actress Evan Rachel Wood detailed her own story of sexual assault, rape and domestic violence to a congressional committee on Tuesday to help other abuse survivors.

Wood appeared before the House Judiciary Committee as part of an effort to encourage states to implement the federal Sexual Assault Survivors’ Bill of Rights Act in all 50 states. Currently, the bill provides survivors with basic rights in federal cases, but has only been adopted by nine of the 50 states.

“I’m here today to use my position as an artist, survivor, mother and advocate to bring a human voice to the population of 25 million survivors in the U.S. who are currently experiencing inequality under the law and who desperately need basic civil rights,” Wood said.

The actress testified along with the CEO and founder of anti-sexual violence organization RISE, Amanda Nguyen, RISE chief of staff Lauren Libby and the vice president of the Rape Abuse Incest National Network (RAINN), Rebecca O’Connor.

“I struggle to speak to you today because I’m not sure what words are appropriate when discussing this issue,” Wood told the committee. “However, if you can’t hear the whole truth you will never know true empathy, and I believe in the saying ‘If we have to live through it then you should have to hear it.’”

Wood described how she was in a violently abusive relationship with a former partner who physically, verbally and sexually abused her repeatedly. She discussed how her former partner raped her while he believed she was unconscious. Sometime after, Wood said, she was raped by a different man in a storage closet at a bar.

Wood termed the federal law a “recognition of basic civil rights for sexual-assault survivors and serves as a first step.”

“It’s a safety net that may help save someone’s life one day,” she said.

A post shared by Evan Rachel Wood (@evanrachelwood) on Feb 27, 2018 at 11:54am PST

During the hearing, committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) explained how the Sexual Assault Survivors’ Bill of Rights Act works on a federal level:

This legislation assured that in federal cases, a victim would have the right to have their rape kit preserved for the duration of the statute of limitations or up to 20 years; a victim would not have to pay for their own forensic examination; a victim would be informed of any results of their forensic examination; would be provided with written policies on forensic testing kits; and finally, would be informed before their sexual assault examination kit was destroyed and be permitted to request further preservation.

While these rights are afforded to survivors of federal crimes, Goodlatte noted that said they are “not consistently recognized” by all of the states. “And of course, it is in the states where most sexual assault cases are prosecuted,” he said.

While Wood said that while the Me Too movement spotlighting the problem of sexual abuse has been “empowering and validating for survivors,” it also has triggered disturbing memories for her. Many survivors have echoed her feelings over the past months.

“While no one had to tell me that rape was such a worldwide epidemic, to see the flood of stories so similar to my own was both freeing and soul-crushing,” Wood said. “Waves of memories and details came flooding into my brain every time I read the words. I froze. I thought I was the only human who’d experienced this and I carried so much guilt and confusion about my response to the abuse.”

Thank you @HouseJudiciary for hearing our testimonies today on behalf of Rise and all Sexual Assault Survivors. Can't wait to continue this work with you. #RiseUp #SurvivorBillOfRights pic.twitter.com/Bjmx9ZLzXu — Rise (@RiseNowUS) February 27, 2018

She discussed the aftermath of rape, reminding the panel that it’s a “huge part of the conversation that needs much more attention.” She listed some of the lasting effects of the abuse she’s endured: feelings of shame and despair, depression, addiction, agoraphobia, two suicide attempts and post-traumatic stress disorder.

“So often we speak of these assaults as no more than a few minutes of awfulness, but the scars last a lifetime,” she said. “Even though these experiences happened a decade ago, I still struggle with the aftermath. My relationships suffer, my partner suffers, my mental and physical health suffers. ... Rape is often more than a few minutes of trauma, but a slow death.”

“So often we speak of these assaults as no more than a few minutes of awfulness but the scars last a lifetime.” - Evan Rachel Wood

Wood concluded her statement on a powerful note, discussing her role in combating sexual violence as the mother of a young son.

“This makes me think of my son and the world that he will be raised in and the day I will have to explain to him what rape means and why it happened to his mother,” she said. “When I knew I was to become a mother I prayed for a boy for this reason. However, I realized it could be just as easy for my son to fall prey to the lies society tells us about men. ... So I’m also here to advocate for men and for my son, who I hope grows up knowing he’s much more valuable than that and who I can only hope I will set an example for by continuing to fight for him and myself and for all the people affected by abuse, because that is our job as parents and as leaders.”