The pair of buttes for which Bears Ears National Monument is named. In December, President Donald Trump shrunk the 1.35 million-acre protected site by 85 percent. Chris D'Angelo/HuffPost

WASHINGTON — In May 2017, a little more than a week after President Donald Trump signed a pair of unpopular executive orders threatening the future of 27 national monuments, the Interior Department announced it was giving the American public a chance to weigh in.

Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke boasted that the comment period “finally gives a voice to local communities and states,” parties the Trump administration claims past presidents ignored when granting protections to new monuments under the Antiquities Act of 1906.

And after the comment periods closed in July, Zinke said he appreciated “everyone who took the time to log-on or write in and participate in our government,” and that the input would help inform his decisions.

But internal documents show that in the case of Bears Ears National Monument, the administration conducted its review assuming it had little, if anything, to learn; that it had all the information it needed to decide the fate of the Utah site.

Randal Bowman, a senior policy analyst at the Interior Department, led a May 31 webinar to train a dozen agency staffers on how to read and catalog public comments the agency fielded on its review of Bears Ears, a 1.35 million-acre monument the Obama administration established in late 2016. During the hour-long training, Bowman told the review team that because the Utah monument was so new and a management plan had not yet been adopted, it would be “virtually impossible” for a member of the public to submit information that hadn’t previously been considered.

“Essentially, barring a surprise, there is no new information that’s going to be submitted,” Bowman told staffers, according to a video of the event. A link to the webinar was included in an email released as part of a public records request.

When one member of the review team asked Bowman to clarify his previous comment, he said, “I can’t visualize what a new [piece of] information would be. But I’m not ruling it out.”

From the start, Trump and Zinke’s public criticisms suggested Bears Ears wouldn’t survive intact, and that the administration’s review and public comment period was mostly for show. At the April signing ceremony, Trump said the Bears Ears designation “should never have happened” and that he was going to free up the land to “tremendously positive things.” Still, the Interior Department maintained its review would be fair and thorough.

President Donald Trump holds up a pen after signing the hat of Bruce Adams, chairman of the San Juan County Commission, after signing an order shrinking Bears Ears and Grand Staircase-Escalante national monuments at the Utah State Capitol in Salt Lake City, Utah, on Dec. 4, 2017. SAUL LOEB via Getty Images

Bowman’s comments during the training, as well as subsequent internal emails, are likely to add to critics’ speculation that the outcome — at least for Bears Ears — was predetermined; that the administration was not really interested in what the general public had to say.

Bowman and the Interior Department did not respond to requests for comment.

In a report summary made public in August, Zinke acknowledged that the vast majority of the 2.8 million public comments his department received as part of its sweeping review favored maintaining national monuments. But he chalked up that one-sidedness as being the result of “a well-orchestrated national campaign organized by multiple organizations.”

The administrative review culminated with Trump traveling to Utah in December, where he announced he was slashing Bears Ears by 85 percent, opening the door for new mining, drilling and other development. Nearby Grand Staircase-Escalante National Monument, the largest land national monument in the country, was cut roughly in half. The rollback was the largest reduction of national monuments in history.

Interior Associate Deputy Secretary James Cason tapped Bowman, a senior policy analyst who’s worked at the department for more than 30 years, to lead the review process in early May, documents show.

Bowman is among several Interior Department career staffers who quickly rose within Trump’s ranks, as The Washington Post reported. The Post noted Bowman is known among some of his colleagues as “the cicada,” a supporter of limited government who “goes underground during Democratic administrations.” In 2008, Bowman was involved in a scandal in which Interior Department officials meddled in the listing of endangered species.

To make easy work of analyzing public comments on the monument review, the Interior Department hired software company Texifter LLC. An online summary of the $23,387 contract is dated May 23. As Bowman and Stu Shulman, president of Texifter, highlighted in the May 31 training, the platform allowed reviewers to mark comments as either supporting or opposing the review, as well as flag any that went beyond an expressed opinion and offered new information.

Bowman wrote in a May 6 exchange with Downey Magallanes, a top aide of Zinke who also played a key role in the review, that he expected the comments to be ” 99-1 against any changes.”

“We will need to know within a few weeks how you want the substantive ones handled ― short summary, just list them by source ― name of group or individual, particularly impressive ones (if any) set aside for Secretary [Zinke] to read or not, etc.,” Bowman added.

SCREENSHOT/DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR

Because Trump gave Zinke a much shorter deadline to make an initial recommendation on Bears Ears than other monuments impacted by the review, Bowman and his team initially focused their attention on those public comments. Of the approximately 59,000 comments specific to Bears Ears, the vast majority — 95 percent — voiced opposition to Trump making changes to the monument, according to an internal email. About 54,000 comments were submitted as form letters or petitions and were easily categorized. The remaining 5,000 or so were unique and had to be individually reviewed by Interior Department staff.

On June 4, a little more than a week before Zinke submitted an interim report recommending Trump shrink Bears Ears, Bowman flagged what he described as “perhaps the only substantial new information submitted on Bears Ears.”

SCREENSHOT/DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR

That comment came from Jim Carlson, a managing partner at Stillwater Technical Solutions, a consulting firm based in Garden City, Kansas. Attached was a report that the commissioners of San Juan County — staunch opponents of the Bears Ears monument designation — paid Carlson $53,000 to produce. It was published in October 2016, roughly two months before President Barack Obama designated the protected site in southeastern Utah.

In the lengthy document, Carlson and his co-authors put forward a slew of arguments for why they thought Obama did not have the authority to establish the Bears Ears area as a national monument. At the time, a coalition of five Native American tribes that consider the area sacred was petitioning Obama to set aside 1.9 million acres. It is named after a pair of towering buttes and among the most archaeologically-rich sites in the nation.

“If the [President of the United States] has authority to designate a monument of any size, shape, or area — for any reason — then what is to stop POTUS from withdrawing large swaths, regions, or even entire States under the cover of the Antiquities Act?” Carlson and others at Stillwater wrote in their conclusion.

Although the report contains more information than the vast majority of comments, it was not new, as Bowman suggested. And it seems highly unlikely that no other substantive information was submitted as part of the review.

Take this comment, submitted May 25, in which dozens of environmental and natural resources law professors provided a detailed argument for why presidents do not have the authority to abolish, shrink or otherwise weaken national monuments.

It’s also important to note that San Juan County officials hired Carlson to produce the document as part of their fight to prevent a monument from being established in the first place.

Carlson told HuffPost that he met with the Obama administration ahead of its 2016 designation and believes his findings ultimately resulted in the administration opting to designate 1.35 million acres rather than 1.9 million. He added that he was not surprised to learn Interior Department officials in the Trump administration gave special attention to his report.

“We are really a significant researcher in natural resources,” he said. “That would stand to reason that they would flag that and use our material. To our knowledge, we know of no one in the country that does our level of research.”March is the time of year when parts of the country finally start to warm up after the long, cold winter. If you’ve been counting the days until you can ditch your puffy coat, you certainly already know this. Soon you’ll be able to take a meandering walk or play basketball or lick ice cream ... or do some other typical outdoor activity, like finding an internet connection in the great outdoors and watching Netflix.

On a rare warm March day, you could hike deep into the woods and then watch “Beerfest” or all three “Cruel Intentions” movies on your phone, because Netflix is adding both of those this month.

Along with those movies, Netflix is also adding highlights like “Forgetting Sarah Marshall,” the first and second “Ghostbusters” movies and the underrated “Adventureland.”

As always these days, Netflix has a few original movies, too. “Roxanne Roxanne” is a biopic of Lolita “Roxanne Shanté” Gooden and follows her teenage years as an MC in Queens, New York. “Game Over, Man” is from the “Workaholics” stars. “Benji” is a reimagining of the dog movie, “Benji.”

Netflix also has numerous original series either debuting or coming back. The most popular of these will probably be the second season of “Marvel’s Jessica Jones.” Other notables include “Love,” which debuts its final season, and “A Series of Unfortunate Events,” which comes back for a second season. And David Letterman interviews Malala Yousafzai on his show.

Of course, quite a few shows and movies are leaving the service as well.

The show “Archer” leaves. Notable movies such as “Zootopia,” “The Life Aquatic with Steve Zissou” and “Memento” will be gone. Also the Vin Diesel movie “xXx” is leaving on the first day of the month, so watch that highlight while you can.

Check out the full list below.

"Forgetting Sarah Marshall" is coming to Netflix Forgetting Sarah Marshall

Superlatives for arrivals

Unique Titles I Don’t Recognize, But You Should Check Out:

“2307: Winter’s Dream”

“I Am Number Four”

“Never Back Down 2: The Beatdown” “Miraculous: Tales of Ladybug & Cat Noir”

Title That Thinks It’s Too Cool For School: “F The Prom” Most Spartan Title: “300” Best Squeakquel: “Stuart Little 3: Call of the Wild” Hardest Pass: (TIE) “Conor McGregor: Notorious” (TIE) “Trump: An American Dream” (Season 1, Netflix Original)

Ji Sub Jeong/HP

This is part of Streamline, HuffPost’s weekly recommendation service for streaming shows and movies. Every Saturday, Streamline ranks the best shows to watch online, including a specific focus on Netflix.

Arrivals

March 1

“300”

“21 Thunder” (Season 1, Netflix Original)

“2307: Winter’s Dream”

“Adel Karam: Live from Beirut” (Netflix Original)

“Adventureland”

“Algo Muy Gordo”

“Alpha and Omega”

’Battle Drone”

“Beerfest”

“Casino”

“Cruel Intentions”

“Cruel Intentions 2”

“Cruel Intentions 3”

“Deathgrip”

“Forgetting Sarah Marshall”

“Ghostbusters”

“Ghostbusters 2”

“Gridiron Gang”

“Guess Who”

“Hostage”

“I Am Number Four”

“I Now Pronounce You Chuck and Larry”

“Jackass: Number Two”

“Land Gold Women”

“Law & Order: Special Victims Unit” (The Eighteenth Year)

“Martian Child”

“Moon”

“People Like Us”

“Revolutionary Road”

“Stuart Little 3: Call of the Wild”

“The Brothers Grimm”

“The Bucket List”

“The Descent”

“The Descent: Part 2”

“The Experiment”

“The Fifth Estate”

“The Gift”

“The Lazarus Project”

“True to the Game”

“Untraceable”

“Up in the Air”

“Wet Hot American Summer”

“Women at War 1939-1945”

"Adventureland" is coming to Netflix. Adventureland

March 2

“B: The Beginning” (Season 1, Netflix Original)

“Flint Town” (Season 1, Netflix Original)

“Girls Incarcerated” (Season 1, Netflix Original)

“Les Affamés” (Netflix Original)

“Malena Pichot: Estupidez compleja” (Netflix Original)

“Natalia Valdebenito: El Especial” (Netflix Original)

“Voltron: Legendary Defender” (Season 5, Netflix Original)

March 4

“Expedition China”

“The Joel McHale Show with Joel McHale” (Netflix Original)

March 5

“F The Prom”

“The World’s Most Extraordinary Homes” (Season 1, Netflix Original)

March 6

“Benji”

“Borderliner” (Season 1, Netflix Original)

“For the Love of Benji”

“Gad Elmaleh: American Dream” (Netflix Original)

March 7

“Aftershock”

The second season of "Marvel's Jessica Jones" is coming to Netflix. David Giesbrecht/Netflix

March 8

“Bad Guys: Vile City” (Season 1, Netflix Original)

“Ladies First” (Netflix Original)

“Marvel’s Jessica Jones” (Season 2, Netflix Original)

March 9

“A.I.C.O. Incarnation” (Season 1, Netflix Original)

“Collateral: Limited Series” (Netflix Original)

“Love” (Season 3, Netflix Original)

“My Next Guest Needs No Introduction With David Letterman” (Episode: Malala Yousafzai, Netflix Original)

“Nailed It” (Season 1, Netflix Original)

“The Outsider” (Netflix Original)

“Trolls: The Beat Goes On!” (Season 2, Netflix Original)

March 10

“Septiembre, un Llanto en Silencio”

March 12

“Kygo: Live at the Hollywood Bowl”

“Troy: The Odyssey”

March 13

“Children of the Whales” (Season 1, Netflix Original)

“Ricky Gervais: Humanity” (Netflix Original)

“Stretch Armstrong: The Breakout” (Netflix Original)

“Terrace House: Opening New Doors” (Part 1, Netflix Original)

March 15

“Jackass 3.5: The Unrated Movie”

“Power Rangers Ninja Steel” (Season 1)

“Tabula Rasa” (Season 1, Netflix Original)

“The Hollywood Masters” (Season 2)

A retelling of "Benji" is coming to Netflix Netflix

March 16

“Benji” (Netflix Original)

“Edha” (Season 1, Netflix Original)

“On My Block” (Season 1, Netflix Original)

“Spirit Riding Free” (Season 4, Netflix Original)

“Take Your Pills” (Netflix Original)

“The Legacy of a Whitetail Deer Hunter” (Netflix Original)

“Wild Wild Country” (Season 1, Netflix Original)

March 19

“In Search of Fellini”

March 20

“100 Years: One Woman’s Fight for Justice”

“The Standups” (Season 2, Netflix Original)

March 21

“Conor McGregor: Notorious”

March 23

“Alexa & Katie” (Season 1, Netflix Original)

“Dinotrux Supercharged” (Season 2, Netflix Original)

“Game Over, Man!” (Netflix Original)

“Layla M.” (Netflix Original)

“Requiem” (Season 1, Netflix Original)

“Roxanne Roxanne” (Netflix Original)

“Santa Clarita Diet” (Season 2, Netflix Original)

“SWORDGAI The Animation” (Part 1, Netflix Original)

“The Mechanism” (Season 1, Netflix Original)

"Roxanne Roxanne" is coming to Netflix Netflix

March 24

“Red Trees”

March 27

“Men on a Mission: 2018”

March 28

“50 First Dates”

“Little Women”

“Never Back Down 2: The Beatdown”

“The Art of War”

March 30

“A Series of Unfortunate Events” (Season 2, Netflix Original)

“First Match” (Netflix Original)

“Happy Anniversary” (Netflix Original)

“Miraculous: Tales of Ladybug & Cat Noir” (Season 2: Part 1)

“Rapture” (Season 1, Netflix Original)

“Reboot: The Guardian Code” (Season 1, Netflix Original)

“Sofía Niño de Rivera: Selección natural” (Netflix Original)

“The Titan” (Netflix Original)

“Trailer Park Boys” (Season 12, Netflix Original)

“Trump: An American Dream” (Season 1, Netflix Original)

March 31

“Let Me In”

Departures

March 1

“A Gang Story”

“Anastasia”

“Baby’s Day Out”

“Eyewitness”

“FernGully: The Last Rainforest”

“First Response”

“Forget and Forgive”

“Hitch”

“Jaws”

“Jaws 2”

“Jaws 3”

“Jaws: The Revenge”

“Less Than Zero”

“Memento”

“Slums of Beverly Hills”

“The Chase”

“The Craft”

“The Panic in Needle Park”

“Trigger Point”

“Two Wrongs”

“xXx”

March 4

“Chloe”

“Safe Haven”

March 6

“The Finest Hours”

March 8

“Victoria”

March 11

“Believe”

“Glitch”

March 12

“Standby”

“Disney’s The Santa Clause”

“Disney’s The Santa Clause 2”

“Disney’s The Santa Clause 3: The Escape Clause”

March 13

“Breakout Kings” (Season 1)

“City of God: 10 Years Later”

“London Has Fallen”

“The Killing” (Seasons 1-2)

March 14

“Archer” (Seasons 1-7)

March 19

“V/H/S: Viral”

March 20

“Zootopia”

March 22

“Steve Jobs: One Last Thing”

March 24

“Voltron 84” (Season 1)

“Who Framed Roger Rabbit”

March 26

“The Life Aquatic with Steve Zissou”

March 29

“The Gates” (Season 1)

March 30

“Life in Pieces” (Season 1)

March 31Anna Akana has more than 2 million subscribers on her YouTube channel. YouTube

Though they’re still fighting to be heard in the entertainment industry, Asian-Americans have found a refuge of sorts in YouTube.

Members of the minority group, who’ve been largely brushed aside by mainstream media, have emerged as some of the strongest voices on the video-sharing site. As YouTube has steadily risen in popularity, Asians have dominated. Among those top online personalities is Anna Akana.

Akana, whose channel now boasts more than 2 million subscribers, has used humor and wit to create a massive repertoire of funny skits and short films on topics ranging from cats (she has six!) to mental health. She does not shy away from her Asian-American identity online, often making videos that speak to the community — like this one on yellow fever, or this one about that moment of solidarity that occurs when Asian strangers in the U.S. spot each other. (It’s so real.)

The actress will be starring in upcoming teen dramedy “Youth & Consequences,” premiering on March 7 on the paid streaming service YouTube Red. In the series, which is being described as a “woke ‘Mean Girls,’” Akana plays high school queen bee Farrah Cutney.

The significance of an Asian-American lead who bucks the quiet, obedient Asian stereotype isn’t lost on Akana, who hopes to show viewers what Asian-American representation can look like.

HuffPost sat down with Akana to chat about her new series, the Asian-American space on YouTube, as well as why fellow YouTuber Logan Paul’s trip to Japan was all-around horrifying.

Oftentimes, Asian characters assume background roles or are just completely erased from the narrative. How does it feel to play a character who’s front and center?

I’ve said this a lot but this definitely feels like my dream project. It’s the kind of show I loved watching ― I loved high school dramas and more importantly it has a female ensemble that’s diverse and reflects real life. [The characters] are incredibly empowered and complex and not just accessories in a man’s life. Especially being able to be the lead character of something like this, as an Asian woman who’s struggled to be seen past stereotypes, and to even have Piper Curda in it ― two strong Asian women vying for power, but it’s not women against women ― feels like absolutely everything I’ve been working for for the last decade.

YouTube has been a place where many strong Asian-American personalities have launched their careers. But we’re still struggling in other platforms and on-screen. Why do you think YouTube has become such a haven for Asian-American personalities?

I think, definitely, the reason why Asians are on YouTube is because we weren’t seeing representation anywhere else. It was finally a platform that catered to us having representation. At the beginning of YouTube, the biggest stars were Asian ... They were able to amass incredible followings. I was introduced to it by my brother and I watched because it was like, “Wow, that’s someone who looks like me and they’re funny and they’re great, and you never get to see Asians acting this way.”

You have experience in both the web industry as well as Hollywood. Do you feel a stark difference between both industries in terms of how you’re treated as an Asian-American?

It’s a little harder to say because the lines have blurred a lot. I think the difference to me feels like creative involvement. In traditional, if I’m hired as an actor, I don’t get a lot of creative say in what happens whereas on YouTube, if it’s great, I get all the glory, if it sucks, I get all the shame because I’m the driving force behind whatever I’m putting out.

The most interesting part is now that I’ve had a following online, I’m able to leverage that and use that financial stability to turn down roles that I now feel are degrading and I don’t want to go out for. At the time, it felt really necessary to go out for certain things because I felt I needed credits and that was all that was available to me. Now I’m in a position where I don’t have to do that anymore. I can go for roles that represent me and my race in a positive way and I can make a positive change.

Do you feel like there’s been a difference in the roles available to you as time has gone on from when you started on YouTube?

Oh, 100 percent. I have so much more of an empowering say in my career now. My first job ever was in what was rated something like the worst movie of all time by Metacritic. I played an Asian driving student, and the whole scene was basically this guy called “The Amazing Racist” berating me and asking me if my pussy was slanted and how I could possibly see out of my tiny eyes. It felt awful that I was like, “Well, this is paying my rent and it’s my very first movie credit so cool.” And I feel like these days now I can absolutely look at that and be like, “No, 100 percent no.” My manager would never even bring something like that to me. It has completely impacted how powerful I feel about what I get to put out.

Yeah, there’s sometimes a tendency for people to blame an actor of color to take a stereotypical role but especially for Asians, who have few roles available to them in the first place, it’s much more complicated than that.

There’s a line that Farrah says that I think about all the time ― it’s “Get on top and then you can make change.” I think that is so true because you have to start from the bottom and then work your way into the system.

The year started off with Logan Paul’s horribly offensive suicide video, which you spoke out about. Do you think that situation was handled properly?

I think by de-monetizing his channel and taking him out of the partnership, [YouTube] made a strong statement about the type of content they were going to tolerate on the platform, which I commend them for.

I put 100 percent of the blame on Logan Paul. I think we’ve gotten so desensitized to everything ... It’s a huge omen about what we expect for content to be. I loved the reaction to it, I loved how everyone was like, “This is not OK, and we’re not going to tolerate that.” But then the very next week he came out with a video with him tasing dead rats and taking a fish out of water.

I’m really disappointed he didn’t take this opportunity to really learn and understand the power he has over young people, but that’s his task. So the most we can do is just speak out.

Another aspect to that incident that was covered less in the media was the way in which Logan Paul treats Asians or portrays them in his videos. You see him doing offensive things, like treating people like Pokémon, along with the already offensive suicide video. What was your reaction to that?

It was awful, especially because Japan is all about respect. They are an incredibly respectful nation. I lived there when I was a kid and was enrolled in public school and the sense of community is as strong as America’s sense of individuality. They place such an emphasis on conducting yourself as a respectable member of society who contributes accordingly.

He made Americans seem like total fucking buffoons. It’s heartbreaking, because I did watch that video of him throwing Pokémon balls in the street and at elderly people and he prefaced it with recognizing that Japan is a place for respect. To not only be completely aware of the country you’re visiting and their values, but to completely ignore that and do stuff for the sake of your content was just gross and disrespectful.

Would you say there’s a way to bring in viewers and put out viral content without having to resort to exploiting shock?

Yes! I would hope so. Look at Liza Koshy. She’s a huge YouTube star and the whole premise of her videos is dancing and being silly and being funny, and people don’t have to resort to shock value or being insane in a public space to get a following. I’m very against that whole culture.

Going back to your new series ― it’s being talked about as a “woke ‘Gossip Girl’” or “woke ‘Mean Girls.’” What kind of social issues do you go into?

We touch on transgender issues ― there’s an episode dedicated to a character who we’re not sure if he’s trans or not and he’s trying to change in the girl’s locker room. There’s a big debate of, is this some guy who’s an asshole jock who’s trying to take advantage of the laws to watch women change? Or is there something going on here?

We also tackle issues of social media and privacy. Some people get doxxed in the series in terms of their private sexual lives or infidelity. The thing that [creator Jason Ubaldi] did best with these scripts was he tackled social media in a way I hadn’t seen before and treated these teens as the sophisticated adults that they are ... Now teens have access to everything they want to know immediately and that’s such a frightening place to be. High school already felt like life and death to me. The stakes felt so high because the reference level in life is so short. For kids today, it’s crazy. They can’t get away from high school no matter where they are!

When you’re in that writers’ room, creating, how do you bring in voices from other issues that you’re touching on? How are you able to make these issues feel authentic in representation?

It was really important to us ― because none of us are trans ― to consult someone from the community and ask, “How are we representing this?” The hard part is ― and I think this is the same with a non-Asian writing an Asian story ― you want to believe that all experiences are universal to a degree and we’re all human and we can all relate to each other and we are compassionate with each other. But at the same time, everybody’s story is completely different. Everyone’s view on something is completely different, so even consulting a trans person we were like, “OK, we’re getting one opinion on this but there might be 10 or 20 other people who disagree with this person.” So we tried to make it the most empathetic, compassionate story possible of someone being outed against their will and someone going through a confusing time.

Do you have any advice for any Asian-Americans trying to make it on YouTube?Kevin Smith, the “Clerks” director known to most as Silent Bob, recorded a Facebook Live video from the hospital on Tuesday, detailing what it was like to “read” his own eulogy, face fat-shaming and stand up for Chris Pratt’s prayers in the wake of his near-fatal heart attack.

The 47-year-old director was in surprisingly good spirits ― making jokes and all ― as he recorded the live stream.

“My biggest fear in life: Death, No. 1. No. 2: People seeing my dick,” he said.

Smith suffered the heart attack in between two comedy shows being filmed in Glendale, California, on Sunday.

He said the ordeal made him face the two things of which he was most afraid: Death and strangers seeing his penis. The doctors, he explained, had to reach his left anterior descending (LAD) artery through his groin area ― which required his groin to be shaved.

“I’ve gone out of my way my whole life to not let my dick be fucking seen,” he added. “Never wanted to go to a hospital or a doctor for that very reason. Don’t want to be judged, obviously small.”

Smith said he was able to hold his shirt over him as a “modesty rag” and the procedure ended up saving Smith’s life.

“They found that the LAD was 100 percent blocked,” he said. The medical team “put a stent in and, bam, here I am. Dude literally saved my life.”

After the first show this evening, I had a massive heart attack. The Doctor who saved my life told me I had 100% blockage of my LAD artery (aka “the Widow-Maker”). If I hadn’t canceled show 2 to go to the hospital, I would’ve died tonight. But for now, I’m still above ground! pic.twitter.com/M5gSnW9E5h — KevinSmith (@ThatKevinSmith) February 26, 2018

Smith was grateful for the outpouring of support he received after his heart attack and said it gave him a new outlook on life.

“It was kind of like ... reading your eulogy,” the director said. “I saw what life will be like if I die ― what the reaction would be if I die ― and it was very sweet.”

However, Smith wasn’t amused by those who criticized Chris Pratt, one of his favorite actors, for sending him his prayers via Twitter.

Pratt “put up a nice tweet where he’s just like, ‘Hey, man, I don’t know you that much ... but I’m praying for you,’” Smith said. “And apparently some people were like, ‘Fuck your prayers’ and attacked him.”

“Please don’t fight over stuff like that,” Smith said. “It’s a waste of time.”

Smith also said people told him he should’ve expected a heart attack because of his weight, referencing a 2010 incident when Southwest Airlines removed him from a flight for being overweight.

“I lost about 85 to 90 pounds since then. I went through lifestyle changes, and some shit don’t matter,” he said. “Some shit you just can’t beat because it’s genetic.”

Now that Smith has experienced what it was like to believe he was going to die ― and survived the ordeal ― he says he has a “zest for life.”

But even if it were his time to go, Smith said, while holding back tears, that would’ve been OK too:

“I had a good long moment to think ... I thought about my parents and how they raised me, and my brother and my sister, and my friends, and my wife and my kid, and this weird wonderful career that I’ve had for so long ― and I was like, content.U.S. Olympic bobsledder Lauren Gibbs refuses to give a platform to hate.

The 33-year-old athlete won a silver medal with Elana Meyers Taylor in the women’s bobsleigh event at the Winter Olympics in Pyeongchang, South Korea. But this week, she faced an online backlash over a selfie she took with senior White House adviser Ivanka Trump at the Games:

Andreas Rentz via Getty Images

Gibbs snapped a shot of herself with President Donald Trump’s daughter and White House press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders, who were in South Korea as part of the U.S. delegation for the closing ceremony:

Twitter

The post sparked accusations that Gibbs’ agreed with the White House’s policies. She also faced criticism for allowing Trump to wear her silver medal:

"I feel like this is almost like trying on somebody's wedding ring. Am I allowed?" — @IvankaTrump, asked if she wants to wear silver medal won by @lagibbs84 as part of the US's 2-person bobsled team. pic.twitter.com/omyy8XM5bI — Kenneth P. Vogel (@kenvogel) February 25, 2018

Gibbs defended the photograph and stated in subsequent tweets that she’d just been conducting herself “in a way that I would want to be treated”:

I am not falling for anything...but being nasty to them would not solve the issue...and don't get me wrong there are many issues — Lauren Gibbs (@lagibbs84) February 25, 2018

i am capturing the full experience of my first Olympics, they are part of it...again whether I like what they stand for or not. — Lauren Gibbs (@lagibbs84) February 25, 2018

As for allowing Trump to try on the medal, Gibbs explained:

I mean I have let many people try it on! It’s a frickin Olympic medal and most people will never know what it is like to earn one, wear one or even touch one! It is meant to be shared ❤️ — Lauren Gibbs (@lagibbs84) February 26, 2018

On Tuesday, Gibbs announced she had deleted the selfie because: “I was tired of reading the hate being thrown back and forth.”

I deleted (by choice) the photo because I was tired of reading the hate being thrown back and forth. Whether you hate me for posting or hate me for taking it down... you are the same... hate from either side is hate... #samesame https://t.co/nXXF5no5Yl via @BreitbartNews — Lauren Gibbs (@lagibbs84) February 27, 2018

The image’s removal from Twitter sparked another wave of anger, with many Trump supporters accusing Gibbs of caving in to liberal pressure. Gibbs did not immediately respond to HuffPost’s request for comment, but she again defended her decision online:

It was my choice to take it down... didn’t cave but didn’t want the photo caught up in a hate storm... but it’s my account and have the right to post and delete as I see fit — Lauren Gibbs (@lagibbs84) February 28, 2018Beauty vlogger Monica Veloz became familiar with colorism before she could truly understand the concept. The Afro-Latina told HuffPost she still remembers how kids in her bilingual day care in Brooklyn, New York, would say her skin looked like “charcoal” or “tar.”

“No, your skin is dirty,” Veloz, 26, recalls one girl saying after she asked to use her towel. “I really didn’t understand it. It wasn’t even like I went home and cried, at the time I didn’t really care. But obviously it struck a nerve because... I can even tell you the color of the shirt she was wearing.”

Known on YouTube and Instagram as MonicaStyle Muse, the Dominican social media star says “colorism is the story of my life,” but Veloz has also made a conscious decision to use her platform to create a narrative of inclusion for Afro-Latinos.

“This platform for me has to be more than just me telling you how to beat your face and how to do your hair because there’s girls who are younger than me who might have a girl telling her the same thing,” Veloz said. “And hopefully she can see my video and be like, ‘Well, they used to call Monica ‘charcoal’ and look at her.”

A post shared by Monicastylemuse (@monicastylemuse) on Jan 2, 2018 at 5:59pm PST

“I always felt like I had to dim my light to make everyone comfortable,” she said. “I felt like I had to be like the proper black girl. Black girls can’t be too loud, you can’t be too extra. If you have a big booty [you] don’t wear something [that]’s gonna enhance your butt.”

After more than four years of making “it look corporate all the time” with her YouTube videos, Veloz was laid off from her job as an executive assistant for a publishing company at the end of the 2016. The experience pushed her to finally become self-employed and allow her true colors to shine through her MonicaMuse content.

“Now I feel like I’m free, and I don’t have to apologize for the way I am,” Veloz told HuffPost. “When you meet me, you might see me without my wig, you might see me with no makeup. But you’ve seen me like that already. It’s not a facade.”

Veloz’s focus on her Dominican roots is intentional, too. The influencer peppers her tutorials with Spanglish, Latin music and cultural references in hopes that younger fans will feel represented in her story.

“I feel like I was that little girl who felt like she had to hide who she was, and I remember me feeling like I was never Dominican enough,” Veloz said. “I was always this girl who felt like she had to choose between being black or Dominican, especially growing up in Brooklyn. I always had to deal with not feeling complete.”

“It’s important for me to now use my platform to inform other people because when you tell people ‘Afro-Latino,’ they’re like ’no, I’m very proud of who I am. I’m Dominican, I’m Mexican, I’m Colombian,” she added. “It’s okay to be proud of that but also be aware that you’re black”

Earlier this year, Afro-Latino identity became what Veloz called a “trending topic” after “Love & Hip Hop: Miami” aired a confrontation between Dominican singer Amara La Negra and a Puerto Rican music producer (who told Amara to be “a little bit more Beyoncé, a little less Macy Gray.”)

The incident sparked a conversation about internal racism within the Latino community and prompted the vlogger to film a 20-minute “rant video” addressing the struggles of being both black and Latina. Veloz was thankful to have the conversation in the mainstream but also felt frustrated to have people discuss her experiences as something new.

“Being Afro-Latina cannot be a storyline,” Veloz told HuffPost. “I want people to understand that being Afro-Latina isn’t something that’s gonna go away. It’s not something that’s gonna just be trending. My skin is not a trend, my skin isn’t a hashtag, my skin is not something that you can just, you know, use to make views.”

Veloz added it’s also important for people of color to hold brands accountable when companies use diversity as a marketing strategy while not actually being inclusive with their products.

“If a brand is blatantly telling you, ‘we are not carrying your shade because it is not working for us right now, and we’re going to give it to you around the summer,’ you don’t buy their product,” Veloz said. “Because let me tell you, my skin is not seasonal. My skin is not an after thought. My skin should be a part of the conversation.”Gus Kenworthy is seen at a press conference during the Pyeongchang Winter Olympics, Feb. 11, 2018. Ker Robertson via Getty Images

American freestyle skier Gus Kenworthy might not have medaled at the Winter Olympics in Pyeongchang, South Korea, this year, but he has had quite the impact in another respect.

The openly gay athlete made Olympic magic at the games ― kissing his boyfriend after a run on the slopes, calling out Vice President Mike Pence and first daughter Ivanka Trump and striking up a friendship with figure skater Adam Rippon, who is also gay.

However, homophobes have targeted Kenworthy, spewing hatred in the comments section of his Feb. 21 YouTube video “Feeling Like a Champion!”

On Tuesday, Kenworthy tweeted screenshots of some particularly vile comments.

Them: It's 2018 nobody cares that you're gay. Homophobia doesn't exist anymore. Get over yourself.



My YouTube notifications: pic.twitter.com/moASu15TR4 — Gus Kenworthy (@guskenworthy) February 27, 2018

His post elicited a strong response from followers, as it illustrated that even one of the biggest celebrities from this year’s Olympics still has to deal with anti-gay attacks.

Former first daughter Chelsea Clinton expressed her sympathy on social media, telling the skier that the comments “reflect on the people making them, not you.”

I am so sorry Gus you are dealing with this. All those vile comments reflect on the people making them, not you. Thank you for always representing #TeamUSA so well, on and off skis. — Chelsea Clinton (@ChelseaClinton) February 28, 2018

Later in the day, Kenworthy received a response from YouTube’s official Twitter page, which said the company was “actively working” to remedy the situation.

“This is unacceptable, we’re so sorry these comments and notifications came through to you,” the tweet reads. “We’re actively working to fix this so you won’t see or be notified of abusive comments and exploring more ways to protect people from abusive comments overall.”

This is unacceptable, we’re so sorry these comments and notifications came through to you. We’re actively working to fix this so you won't see or be notified of abusive comments and exploring more ways to protect people from abusive comments overall. — Team YouTube (@TeamYouTube) February 28, 2018

Kenworthy responded on Wednesday with some suggestions for the company’s screening policy, explaining that these slurs and hateful messages could have done serious damage to a younger, less confident version of himself.

Thank you YouTube! Maybe consider filtering out keywords and phrases like "faggot" and "kill yourself" so that they just never show up in anyone's comments? I'm confident enough to brush it off but a younger me would have had a harder time. https://t.co/9Iugwoev1q — Gus Kenworthy (@guskenworthy) February 28, 2018

Kenworthy, who won a silver medal during the 2014 Winter Olympics in Sochi, Russia, didn’t come out until the following year. Since then, he’s been a proud advocate for the LGBTQ community.Sterling K. Brown joins Clorox and Thrive Collective to celebrate the transformative power of clean at a new Youth Opportunity Hub in Harlem, New York. Diane Bondareff / Invision for Clorox/AP Images

NEW YORK ― Sterling K. Brown brightens up a room as soon as he enters one. And Tuesday was no exception.

The actor, who’s coming off two historic award show wins, was on hand Tuesday in Harlem, New York, to help launch a new arts and mentoring hub for at-risk youth. It’s part of an initiative with Clorox and Thrive Collective, an organization that helps bring arts education and mentorship to low-income communities throughout New York City.

Brown was all smiles. So were the kids who met him in that space.

I met with Brown to discuss the partnership and his roles in the hit TV series “This Is Us” and in the box office smash “Black Panther.”

Warning: This story contains spoilers for “Black Panther.”

This is a beautiful space. Why was it important for you to get involved in this particular project?

Being a dad and having two boys it’s important for me to raise them with certain sorts of values. I want them to take responsibility for their space. I want them to be kind and resilient human beings. It’s really interesting, the research that Clorox has done shows that taking ownership of your space and providing something that’s clean will make you more productive. There are also ties to show that it also makes you more empathetic … And when you grow up to be an adult you feel a sense of responsibility to your community. So cleaning is not just an end unto itself. Cleaning is the beginning.

[Clorox has] used that paradigm to create this wonderful space through Thrive Collective — this youth arts center. Just a couple of months ago it was a run-down school, and now they’ve created a space where kids can express themselves ― visually, artistically … There’s over 400 schools that Thrive Collective works with that have lost their arts funding in New York City, primarily [its] inner-city areas. So when you take those things away from kids it makes it seem that imagination is not something that should be prized or important. As an actor myself, my imagination, without it, you couldn’t do what I do.

The new Youth Opportunity Hub in Harlem was created new possibilities for youth as an arts hub and mentoring center. Diane Bondareff / Invision for Clorox/AP Images

This is about mentorship as well. Who were some of your mentors growing up or one person who stands out to you?

That’s a good question. There’s a woman by the name of Barbara Bull who was my high school adviser. In eighth grade, she was my algebra teacher. And I asked her, “Mrs. Bull, where did you go to school?” And she said, “I went to Stanford University.” I said, “Well, that’s where I will go.” And she said, “It’s hard to get in.” I said, “OK, that’s where I want to go.” And that’s where I wound up going.

She taught me about investing in the stock market. She would come to all my plays — sometimes when other family members weren’t able to be there. I would hang out in her room and do my homework. In between football practice and play rehearsal, I would go to Mrs. Bull’s room because she would always be there. So, she is a second mother to me. I haven’t seen her in awhile, but I love you Mrs. Bull. I hope to see you soon.

“This Is Us” returns this evening. Last time we saw you, we saw an older Randall. What is it like stepping into an older self on the show?

It is interesting. One thing I learned about myself. I didn’t like seeing fat older Randall. They gave me a belly pooch. Look, I’m a pretty easy, go-lucky kind of guy. And they gave me this belly thing, and I was like, “What is this? This does not belong to me. Take this back!” They were like, “We need something different. We need to make sure that people recognize [the older Randall].”

It’s nice to know that our show and our creator has the imagination to say we could go anywhere. As long as we have a family member, this Pearson family, we can track them into the future, into the past. And it’s exciting. It’s exciting to know someone has vision and knows where he wants to take the show because when you trust in the direction you’re being led in, you’re like, “I’ll go wherever you take me.”

In that case, if you could take Randall anywhere, where would you take him?

I think at some point in time Randall has to have more time with his family from Memphis. We opened up this whole other family that he didn’t even know that he had. I hope that we get more time to explore that arena. And then this is sort of a “Black Panther” / “This Is Us” crossover, if you will.

I remember I was talking to a person of African descent who lived in Britain, and she would ask me where I was from. And I was like, “I’m from St. Louis, Missouri.” And she was like, “No man, where are you from?” Well, my mom’s from Arkansas, and my dad’s from Mississippi. She’s like, “No, no, no. But where are you from, right? And I was like, “I don’t know.” So maybe if Randall could trace his ancestry back to the motherland that would be a really interesting thing to explore because we as African-Americans are a group denied the answer to that question: Where are you from?

A still from the series "This Is Us." NBC

Speaking of which, there’s been so much success with “Black Panther.” What is it like to see black representation on the big screen in this way?

It fills your boy up! Just being on the set and looking at the trailers at base camp. There would be 20, 25 trailers lined up and then we’d get called to set, and you see a black face coming out of those trailers over and over again. To know that Marvel had the vision and the courage to put this sort of financing behind a film with all these African and African-American faces, and that it has proven that it can be financially viable and not just to the community to which it represents but to the mainstream as well. And that people see themselves.

There’s a very fundamental question at the center of the film: Are you your brother’s keeper? Am I my brother’s keeper? And whether you’re black, white, Asian, Latino, it doesn’t matter — I think that’s a question that we all wrestle to deal with. Ultimately, we say yes, and there are a couple of misguided attempts throughout the course of the film to try to answer that question. But ultimately T’Challa takes it on in a way that hopefully we can move forward in the universe in a way that makes sense. I love this film. I love the way in which the audiences are responding to this film. I love going on Instagram and seeing people dress up in dashikis and African garb and just feeling so big because for so long you’ve been denied that image of yourself on the big screen, that image of yourself as superhero. And now it’s here. And people are feeling it.

Ryan Michelle Bathe, Sterling K. Brown and son, Andrew Brown at the premiere of Marvel's "Black Panther" on Jan. 29, 2018, in Hollywood, California. Jesse Grant via Getty Images

How do you feel about who Killmonger becomes in the film?

As his father, he expresses his disappointment. Like I was trying to give you something, and I made a mistake. I kept you away for too long. I didn’t give you enough. I feel like his journey is an interesting parallel to African Americans’ journey in terms of like how exactly am I connected to this thing from which I’ve been disenfranchised. Have I been separate, or am I a part? And so, while he has good intentions, he doesn’t have the best of intentions. The man shot his girlfriend … He burned up all of the earth. It wasn’t like he was trying to be magnanimous to make sure that this continued. He wanted to have absolute power … But it was misguided … and that’s what happens oftentimes. People have these great intentions. But the manifestation, the practical application, they don’t know exactly how to make that happen.

So, it’s nice to see that T’Challa is able to take and recognize within Killmonger that he has a point. But there’s another way to go about it. The conversation over Killmonger has been one of the more fascinating things about the film. I love going on and reading the articles about how this character has struck a chord.

You’re hosting “SNL” on March 10. Who is Sterling K. Brown as “SNL” host?HuffPost UK hires Jess Brammar from BBC as Head of News. HuffPost

From Polly Curtis, EIC HuffPost UK:

Today we’ve announced the appointment of Jess Brammar as Head of News, currently acting editor at BBC “Newsnight.” Jess’ appointment comes at a time when HuffPost UK is investing deeply in original and distinctive journalism and follows the recent recruitment of Vicky Frost as Lifestyle Editor from The Guardian.

Jess has held a number of senior editorial roles at BBC “Newsnight” since July 2014 and is currently Acting Editor, responsible for “Newsnight’s” overall output on television. At “Newsnight,” Jess was at the heart of the flagship BBC programme’s coverage of two UK general elections, the victory of Donald Trump, and the Brexit referendum – while also taking responsibility for growing the programme’s online audience.Intelligence officials have “substantial evidence” that Russian hackers successfully compromised state websites or voter registration systems in seven states ahead of the 2016 elections, NBC News reported Tuesday.

While it had been publicly reported that systems in Illinois and Arizona had been compromised before the 2016 election, the NBC report revealed that Russian hackers had wider reach than was previously known. While the exact nature of the compromise in the states remains unknown, intelligence officials maintain that no vote or information was changed or altered.

The seven states compromised were Alaska, Arizona, California, Florida, Illinois, Texas and Wisconsin, according to NBC News. In considering the systems “compromised,” NBC News reported, the intelligence community believed Russians had gained entry into them. The Department of Homeland Security reportedly “developed substantial evidence” the systems had been compromised but never told the states. President Barack Obama had ordered the intelligence during the final weeks of his presidency, NBC News reported.

Every one of the states except Illinois continues to deny that their systems were compromised.

Michael Haas, Wisconsin’s top election official, said in a statement that the state had checked its security with DHS and others following NBC News’ inquiries and had confirmed “that they are not aware of any other attempts ― successful or unsuccessful ― to breach Wisconsin’s systems.”

“The Wisconsin Elections Commission has never detected a successful hacking attempt on its systems, nor has it ever been notified of one by the Department of Homeland Security or any other state or federal agency,” the state commission said in a statement.

DHS notified 21 states they had been targeted by Russian hackers in September, prompting criticism from state election officials that the agency had been too slow to alert them. Then, Wisconsin, Texas and California accused DHS of giving them bad information, saying the agency provided additional data saying hackers targeted other state websites, not election agencies. Security experts say, however, that hackers can use non-election-related entry points to gain access to voter systems.

Tyler Houlton, a DHS spokesman, disputed NBC News’ report Tuesday.

“NBC’s reporting tonight on the 2016 elections is not accurate and is actively undermining efforts of the Department of Homeland Security to work in close partnership with state and local governments to protect the nation’s election systems from foreign actors,” Houlton said in a statement. “We have no intelligence ― new or old ― that corroborates NBC’s reporting that state systems in seven states were compromised by Russian government actors. We believe tonight’s story to be factually inaccurate and misleading.”

The documents the network relied on, Houlton said, were “working documents based on preliminary information and ongoing investigations, not confirmed and validated intelligence on Russian activities.” He added that the department had seen only “preparatory activity like scanning” in the 21 states targeted.

The NBC report comes as intelligence chiefs warn that Russia is preparing to interfere in the 2018 elections and criticism that the federal government isn’t moving swiftly enough to prepare. DHS has taken steps to improve communication with local officials and held a classified briefing for them earlier this month on election threats. Some states are taking steps such as returning to paper ballots and encrypting election data to protect themselves.

President Donald Trump, however, hasn’t spoken out so decisively. He has said he accepts the conclusion of the intelligence community that Russia meddled in the election but has also said he believed Russian President Vladimir Putin when he denied meddling. He has also said other actors could be behind the hacking.

During a meeting between state officials and Homeland Security Secretary Kirstjen Nielsen, Vermont Secretary of State Jim Condos (D) asked why Trump wasn’t speaking out and agreeing with his intelligence chiefs. Not doing so, Condos told Nielsen, undermined the intelligence community and sent mixed messages to local election officials.SAN FRANCISCO ― Hundreds of activists gathered on Wednesday outside the U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement building here to protest the arrests of more than 150 undocumented immigrants in recent days.

Local activist groups organized the “emergency rally” to respond to the mass arrests in Northern California, just two weeks after more than 200 people were arrested in similar raids in the Los Angeles area.

Some 200 protesters convened outside the ICE building in downtown San Francisco under an overcast sky, demanding an end to the raids. Several groups of demonstrators surrounded the building, shouting chants, marching, locking arms and carrying signs while police and ICE security looked on.

Chants of “Shut down ICE” at a protest outside the agency’s building in San Francisco pic.twitter.com/4J7uWM67Ak — Antonia Blumberg (@AntoniaMiran) February 28, 2018

“We have come together today to show that the Northern California region stands together in denouncing the mass arrests that happened in the last three days,” Blanca Vazquez, a media spokesperson for the protest, told HuffPost.

Vazquez said activist groups had learned from ICE that an additional 10 or so arrests were conducted on Wednesday. ICE did not immediately respond to a request for comment.

At least half of those arrested as of Tuesday did not have criminal convictions other than their immigration violations, according to a statement from ICE. Those who did had convictions including “assault/battery, crimes against children, weapons charges and DUI,” ICE said.

In a statement on Wednesday, House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi (D-Calif.) argued that the sweep “was intended solely to terrorize innocent immigrant families and instill fear in the hearts of our communities.”

“Undocumented, unafraid!” protesters chanted outside the ICE building pic.twitter.com/W2VHGHBn9v — Antonia Blumberg (@AntoniaMiran) February 28, 2018

The intended raids came to light on Saturday evening when Oakland Mayor Libby Schaaf told the local immigrant community she’d learned from “multiple credible sources” that, within the next 24 hours, ICE would be conducting operations in the Bay Area, including in Oakland.

Immigrant rights groups were on “high alert” following Schaaf’s announcement, Vazquez said.

In statement on Tuesday, ICE deputy Director Thomas Homan criticized Schaaf’s decision to warn immigrants of the raids, saying that “864 criminal aliens and public safety threats remain at large in the community... thanks to the mayor’s irresponsible decision.”

“The Oakland mayor’s decision to publicize her suspicions about ICE operations further increased that risk for my officers and alerted criminal aliens ― making clear that this reckless decision was based on her political agenda with the very federal laws that ICE is sworn to uphold,” Homan said.

Schaaf’s move also drew initial criticism from some activists who said her warning may have served to sow panic among immigrant communities. But the mayor stood by her decision, saying Tuesday that she feared the arrests would affect many undocumented immigrants who had no other criminal convictions ― which, indeed, turned out to be the case.

Smaller groups posted up around the building in a sit-in to protest immigration raids pic.twitter.com/phyCzg4nJF — Antonia Blumberg (@AntoniaMiran) February 28, 2018

Oakland, San Francisco and many other cities and counties in California have declared themselves to be “sanctuary cities,” refusing to work with federal officials to detain and deport undocumented immigrants.

Last summer, the Oakland City Council voted to end an agreement the city had that allowed police to work with ICE. Oakland has since strengthened its status as a sanctuary city by barring city officials from cooperating with ICE in any capacity.

In January, the city doubled down on protecting undocumented residents after immigration agents raided about 100 7-Eleven stores across the country before sunrise to arrest undocumented workers. Dozens of the targeted stores were located in Northern California.

“It is Oakland’s legal right to be a sanctuary city and we have not broken any laws,” Schaaf said in a statement on Tuesday. “We believe our community is safer when families stay together.”

San Francisco interim Mayor Mark Farrell also said his city is committed to maintaining its sanctuary status in spite of the ICE crackdown. “It is important that... everybody knows that we as a city will do everything we can to remain a sanctuary city,” Farrell told reporters at Wednesday’s protest.

“We are a sanctuary city and will do everything we can to protect our immigrant community.” -Interim San Francisco Mayor Mark Farrell pic.twitter.com/YNj2Albmdn — Antonia Blumberg (@AntoniaMiran) February 28, 2018

ICE has sent repeated hard-line messages since President Donald Trump took office last year, declaring that undocumented immigrants should “look over [their] shoulder” and that politicians in sanctuary states should be prosecuted.

Under the Trump administration’s policies, all undocumented people ― not just those with criminal histories ― have become targets for deportation. ICE arrests increased by 40 percent during Trump’s first eight months in office, compared to the same period the previous year.

ICE officials arrested 212 people and delivered 122 audit notices to businesses in the Los Angeles area earlier this month, and the agency has said it hopes to increase work-site enforcement by 400 percent.

San Francisco activist Ann Jo Foo said her mother immigrated to the United States from China and worked as a seamstress at a sweatshop. “That’s how people survive,” Jo Foo told HuffPost.The whistleblower who reportedly leaked the financial records of President Donald Trump’s personal lawyer did so after discovering that two files had disappeared from a government database.

Banks are required to file suspicious activity reports (SARs) whenever transactions that may violate federal law are detected, or if certain activities may be linked to money laundering. These reports are stored on a database, which is managed by the Treasury Department’s Financial Crimes Enforcement Network, and can be accessed by law enforcement agents and federal officials.

The unnamed whistleblower, who reportedly spent a career in law enforcement, told New Yorker reporter Ronan Farrow he grew worried when he was unable to find two SARs on attorney Michael Cohen’s financial dealings in the database.

“I have never seen something pulled off the system,” the official told the magazine.

“That system is a safeguard for the bank. It’s a stockpile of information. When something’s not there that should be, I immediately became concerned,” the whistleblower added.

In April, the FBI raided the office and hotel room of Michael Cohen, personal attorney to President Donald Trump. Investigators are examining records related to a payment Cohen made to porn star Stormy Daniels and to other unspecified topics. Drew Angerer via Getty Images

Earlier this month, Michael Avenatti, attorney for porn star Stormy Daniels, publicly disclosed that Cohen’s shell company, Essential Consultants LLC, had received hundreds of thousands of dollars from companies, including AT&T, pharmaceutical conglomerate Novartis and Columbus Nova, an investment firm with ties to Russian oligarch Viktor Vekselberg.

The New York Times later reported on the payments based on interviews and an internal review of the confidential financial records. CNN also reported that special counsel Robert Mueller had questioned Vekselberg about the payments.

Essential Consultants is also the same company Cohen used to pay $130,000 to Daniels as part of a non-disclosure agreement barring her from talking about an alleged 2006 affair with Trump. On Wednesday, the Office of Government Ethics determined that the payment constituted a loan that should have been reported on the president’s June 2017 financial disclosure form. The president’s failure to disclose that he repaid Cohen for the pre-election payout to Daniels has now been referred to the Department of Justice.

Let this serve as formal notice - there is significantly more evidence and facts to come relating to Mr. Cohen's dealings and Mr. Trump's knowledge and involvement. You can come clean now or wait to be outed. Your choice. We have only just begun...#Basta — Michael Avenatti (@MichaelAvenatti) May 11, 2018

Details about the payments to Cohen reportedly came from SARs filed by First Republic Bank, where Essential Consultants maintained an account, the New Yorker reported.

By January of this year, First Republic had filed the three suspicious-activity reports about Cohen’s account. The most recent report — the only one made public so far — examined Cohen’s transactions from September of 2017 to January of 2018, and included activity totalling almost a million dollars. It alludes to the two previous reports that the official could not find in the fincendatabase. The first report that the official was unable to locate, which covered almost seven months, appears to have listed a little over a million dollars in activity. The second report that the official was unable to locate, which investigated a three-month period between June and September of 2017, found suspect transfers totalling more than two million dollars.

The individuals or corporations involved in the transactions are not yet known, but the Treasury Department’s inspector general has launched an investigation ― to find the source of the leak.

Daniel W. Drezner, a Washington Post contributor who previously worked at the Treasury Department, said he was shocked to learn of Farrow’s interview with the whistleblower.

As someone who worked at Treasury on anti-money laundering activities, my reaction to this @RonanFarrow story is “holy s**t.” https://t.co/JnG5Aaqw5m — Daniel W. Drezner (@dandrezner) May 16, 2018

AT&T confirmed last week that the company had indeed hired Essential Consultants to gain insight into the Trump administration in early 2017.