You mean you didn’t binge-watch the Winter Olympics?

We’ll let it slide as long as you watch Amber Ruffin’s madcap recap of the games from Monday’s “Late Night with Seth Meyers.”

Ruffin, a writer on the show, breaks down several “what?”-inducing moments, such as curling and Ivanka Trump wearing an Olympic medal around her neck.

“And I was like whaaat? I didn’t know nepotism was an Olympic sport,” Ruffin cracked.

Just don’t get her started on the North Korean cheerleaders.Miss North Dakota 2017, Cara Mund, is crowned as Miss America 2018 in September. For the first time in the Miss America pageant's history, its leadership teams will be headed entirely by women. Donald Kravitz via Getty Images

These women aren’t just wearing the crown but are taking charge of it, as well.

For the first time in the Miss America pageant’s history, its leadership teams will be headed by women, all of whom are former pageant winners.

The pageant, established in 1921, announced the appointment of two women on Thursday to head its foundation and its day-to-day operations.

The announcement follows an email scandal first reported by HuffPost in December that led to the swift resignation of two male leaders. The leaked emails revealed disparaging and misogynistic comments about the pageant’s participants.

Regina Hopper, a former Miss Arkansas who previously served as chair of the Miss America Foundation, will now serve as the Miss America Organization’s president and chief executive officer.

Marjorie Vincent-Tripp, who won the Miss America title in 1991, will head the foundation’s board of trustees after serving on it in 2016.

Regina Hopper, a former Miss Arkansas, has been named president and chief executive officer of the Miss America Organization. Tom Williams via Getty Images

The pageant’s organization and foundation are separate nonprofits, with the organization overseeing the competition and the foundation processing the recipients’ scholarships, according to the pageant’s website.

The appointments follow former Fox News host and Miss America pageant winner Gretchen Carlson becoming the first Miss America to be appointed to lead the organization’s board of trustees in January.

“By putting female leadership in place, we hope to send a strong signal,” Hopper told The Associated Press this week. “We want young women to see Miss America as a place where they can come and benefit and be empowered.”

Marjorie Vincent-Tripp, who won the Miss America title in 1991, will head the foundation’s board of trustees. Michael Loccisano via Getty Images

Vincent-Tripp, in a statement shared on the pageant’s website, celebrated the appointments as a new chapter.

“It is my hope to continue the mission of expanding the reach of the Foundation to provide scholarship opportunities for young women across the board,” she said.

Both Hopper and Vincent-Tripp are lawyers and former TV journalists.Grigory Rodchenkov in the 2017 documentary “Icarus.” Netflix/Entertainment Pictures via Zumapresscom

The whistleblower who exposed Russia’s Olympic doping scandal is firing back at a powerful oligarch who is financing a lawsuit against him in the United States, demanding that the businessman preserve documents that he believes may show Russian President Vladimir Putin’s government is secretly behind the litigation.

And in a letter addressed to Mikhail Prokhorov, the billionaire businessman who is also the owner of the Brooklyn Nets basketball team, the lawyer for whistleblower Grigory Rodchenkov threatens a countersuit aimed at exposing the Russian government’s efforts to harass and intimidate his client in the United States.

The letter by lawyer Jim Walden, a copy of which was provided to Yahoo News, adds to the intrigue surrounding a lawsuit that was filed against Rodchenkov last week in a New York state court by three Russian biathletes who were stripped of their 2014 Olympic medals as a result of the whistleblower’s allegations about Russian doping. The lawsuit accuses Rodchenkov, the former director of Russia’s antidoping laboratory, of defaming the biathletes and “destroying their careers.”

Scott Balber, the New York lawyer for the Russian athletes, has acknowledged that Prokhorov is helping to finance the lawsuit along with unnamed others. “I am not at liberty to identify anyone else other than Mr. Prokhorov,” Balber said in an email Monday, when asked who else was bankrolling the lawsuit.

Balber once represented Donald Trump in a $5 million lawsuit — filed in 2013 and later withdrawn — against comedian Bill Maher for likening Trump’s hair to an orangutan’s. He currently represents another Russian oligarch, Aras Agalarov, and his son Emin Agalarov — two key figures in the Trump-Russia investigation who helped arrange the June 2016 Trump Tower meeting with Russian operatives at which Trump campaign officials were promised derogatory information about Hillary Clinton.

Silver medalists Olga Zaitseva, far left, Yana Romanova, Ekaterina Shumilova and Olga Vilukhina of Russia pose during the ceremony at the 2014 Winter Olympics in Sochi. Eric Gaillard / Reuters

“Mr. Balber’s admission that unnamed ‘others’ are also financing this lawsuit is strange — raising the specter that the Kremlin itself might be acting through proxies here,” Walden said in a statement to Yahoo News. “Certainly, this could be problematic for all involved in this shady suit.”

In his letter to Prokhorov, Walden asks that all documents relating to the litigation be preserved, including any communications between the Brooklyn Nets owner and “any current or former Russian government officials, Russian law enforcement officers, officers or agents of the FSB [Russia’s domestic intelligence service] or representatives of the Russian Olympic Committee.”

Asked for comment, Balber called Walden’s letter “a publicity stunt” and said, “As far as I know, there is absolutely no Russian government role in the filing of the lawsuit. This appears to be complete fiction.” He added: “The sole purpose of this lawsuit is to clear the names of three hard-working, world-class Olympic athletes, and to obtain compensation for the economic loss they have suffered as a result of Mr. Rodchenkov’s false and defamatory statements.”

The legal sparring is the latest development in a complicated political and sporting saga that has been playing out since Rodchenkov fled Russia and went public with his account in 2016, describing what he portrayed as a vast and sophisticated scheme by Russia to provide banned drugs to the country’s athletes to boost their performance in the Olympic Games and other international sporting competitions — and to cheat the systems meant to catch them.

Brooklyn Nets owner Mikhail Prokhorov speaks during an NBA basketball news conference in New York in 2016. Seth Wenig/AP

In numerous interviews and in the widely acclaimed Netflix documentary “Icarus,” Rodchenkov described how he worked with the FSB, the Russian spy agency formerly headed by Putin, and with Russia’s sports ministry to oversee a system in which sealed urine samples of athletes were routinely swapped after testing, allowing athletes to take banned substances to avoid detection. After the Sochi Olympics, Rodchenkov was awarded a prestigious Order of Friendship medal by Putin.

The allegations by Rodchenkov were confirmed by international investigators and led to the International Olympic Committee’s decision to bar Russia from sending a delegation to this year’s Winter Olympics in South Korea, although Russian athletes were allowed to participate as individuals. That decision was reaffirmed just this week by the Olympic Committee, which refused to let Russian athletes march under their own flag in the closing ceremony at the South Korea Olympics.

Since fleeing to the United States, Rodchenkov, now in the federal witness protection program, has provided key evidence to international investigators and Justice Department officials about potential violations of federal law by the Russians. In doing so, he has become virtually public enemy No. 1 to Putin’s government: Prosecutors in Russia have filed criminal charges against him, accusing him of drug trafficking, and Putin during his end of the year press conference last December suggested that Rodchenkov was being drugged and manipulated by U.S. intelligence agencies.

“What are [U.S. intelligence agencies] doing with him there?” Putin said at the December press conference. “Are they giving him some kind of substances so that he says what’s required?”

Shortly after Putin’s comments, Walden said he was warned by U.S. officials that Russian agents may be looking for Rodchenkov in the United States. Walden, a former federal prosecutor, said he is concerned that the lawsuit is in fact in furtherance of that effort — an attempt “to find him through judicial means.”

Russia’s athletes enter the closing ceremony of the PyeongChang 2018 Winter Olympic Games on Feb. 25, 2018. FLORIAN CHOBLET via Getty ImagesWASHINGTON ― President Donald Trump has been all over the place on guns, but he hasn’t yet done the one thing that helps move votes in Congress: publicly support specific legislation to address gun violence.

In the days since the horrific school shooting in Parkland, Florida, the president has suggested arming teachers, toughening background checks, opening more mental hospitals and increasing the age limit to buy some weapons to 21. Last week, he directed his administration to regulate bump stocks, the gun accessory used to simulate automatic fire in the 2017 Las Vegas attack.

Trump has even urged state governors not to be afraid of the National Rifle Association, the nation’s most powerful gun lobby, as they seek to address school safety ― a remarkable thing for a Republican president to say.

President Trump appears to prefer talking about gun control over passing it. Yuri Gripas/Bloomberg via Getty Images

“Don’t worry about the NRA. They’re on our side,” Trump told a bipartisan gathering of governors on Monday during a White House meeting. “If they’re not with you, we have to fight them every once in a while. That’s OK. They’re doing what they think is right.”

It’s not hard to understand why Trump has tried to move to the middle on guns. Support for stricter gun laws has spiked to its highest level since 1993, according to a recent CNN poll, with 70 percent of Americans now saying they support more gun control. That’s up from the 52 percent who said they supported stricter gun laws in the wake of the Las Vegas massacre, where 58 people died. Trump’s approval rating, meanwhile, has slumped again to match the lowest of his presidency.

Yet Republicans in Congress, many of whom are facing competitive primaries ahead of the 2018 midterm elections, seem no more willing to tackle the issue of gun control. Without clear direction from the leader of their party, it’s unlikely they’ll do so in a substantial way this year.

“If President Trump weighs in ― and leans in ― we could see some reasonable changes on things like bump stocks and age restrictions. If not, the status quo will largely remain,” said Doug Heye, a veteran Republican operative and former Republican National Committee communications director.

Trump’s tactics on guns so far have mirrored his handling of the immigration debate. Early in conversations with lawmakers over the legal status of young undocumented immigrants brought to the U.S. as children, the president expressed a desire to pursue comprehensive immigration reform and even said he’d be willing to “take the heat” from his supporters if Congress decided to act. He also told lawmakers that he would sign any bill they sent him that would institutionalize President Barack Obama’s Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program, buoying activists’ hopes that Congress would reach a compromise.

Yet his vague promises and platitudes on immigration were quickly followed by intense lobbying from immigration hawks in the White House and the Department of Homeland Security against a bipartisan measure in the Senate that would have paired $25 billion for border security with a pathway to citizenship for nearly 2 million undocumented immigrants who came to the U.S. as children. Neither that bill nor other competing ones received enough votes to advance.

With more Republicans expressing skepticism this week about additional restrictions on guns, Trump seems to be heading toward a similar backtrack. The president, per CNN, appears to be softening his position on raising the age at which people can purchase AR-15 rifles, the weapon used in the Parkland massacre, and similar weapons. But a White House spokesperson insisted Tuesday that the president still supported the idea.

It’s also unclear what kind of bill toughening background checks Trump is willing to endorse. Democrats are calling for universal gun background checks, while Republicans support more modest efforts to beef up the national background check system. Trump is scheduled to meet with Sen. Chris Murphy (D-Conn.), a top gun control advocate, to discuss the matter on Wednesday.

“We expect to have some specific policy proposals later this week,” White House press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders told reporters on Tuesday.

Senate Majority Whip John Cornyn (R-Texas) called on the Senate the same day to “immediately” pass a bill to strengthen background checks for gun purchases, which he co-sponsored with Murphy. The measure, called Fix NICS, would require states to produce an implementation plan focused on uploading all gun purchaser information to the federal background check system and penalize federal agencies if they failed to record that information.

Democratic senators support Cornyn’s bill but call it a “tiny” effort to curb gun violence. They would also like the Senate to consider more gun-related initiatives, such as an assault weapons ban, magazine restrictions and stricter background checks ― all ideas opposed by Republicans and the NRA.

“My sense is Republicans aren’t going to move here on serious gun legislation unless the president pre-endorses it, so what he says in the next few days and what he says tomorrow will be important,” Murphy said Tuesday.

Sen. Lindsey Graham (R-S.C.) agreed that it would be helpful if Trump said what he preferred Congress to do on the issue of guns.Zach Gibson via Getty Images

WASHINGTON, Feb 27 (Reuters) - The U.S. Supreme Court on Tuesday curbed the ability of immigrants held in long-term detention during deportation proceedings to argue for their release in a ruling in sync with President Donald Trump’s get-tough approach toward immigration.

The justices, in a 5-3 decision, overturned a lower court’s ruling that required that immigrants held by the U.S. government who are awaiting the outcome of deportation proceedings get a bond hearing after six months of detention to seek their release.

The court’s five conservatives were in the majority in the ruling written by Justice Samuel Alito, and three liberals dissented, including Justice Stephen Breyer, who sharply criticized the decision. Another liberal, Justice Elena Kagan, did not participate in the ruling.

The court threw out a 2015 decision by the San Francisco-based 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals, which had ruled that the government must provide bond hearings to gauge danger and flight risk when detention exceeds six months, and every six months after that. Former President Barack Obama’s Justice Department appealed that ruling.

Breyer, in a lengthy dissent, said that forbidding bail would likely violate the U.S. Constitution’s guarantee of due process under the law. Breyer said he doubted the U.S. Congress, in crafting the immigration provisions at issue in the case, would have wanted to put thousands of people at risk of lengthy confinement in the United States without any hope of bail.

“We need only recall the words of the Declaration of Independence, in particular its insistence that all men and women have ‘certain unalienable Rights,’ and that among them is the right to ‘Liberty,’” Breyer wrote.

Alito said that the immigration law provisions in question cannot be interpreted to limit the length of detention. He called Breyer’s view of the statutes “utterly implausible.”

Class action litigation brought by the American Civil Liberties Union challenged the U.S. government’s practice of placing immigrants facing deportation proceedings in detention for months or years without a chance to argue for release.

The case assumed added importance in light of the Trump administration’s decision to ramp up immigration enforcement, with growing numbers of people likely to end up in detention awaitingdeportation.

The government has argued that bond hearings can be permitted in certain instances, but opposed a blanket rule requiring them.

Those suing included immigrants who were held at the border when seeking illegal entry as well as others, including lawful permanent residents who hold so-called green cards, who have been convicted of crimes.

‘LEGAL FICTION’

In dissent, Breyer said that asylum seekers or non-citizens who arrive at the U.S. border still have due process rights.

“We cannot here engage in this legal fiction,” Breyer wrote.

“Whatever the fiction, would the Constitution leave the Government free to starve, beat, or lash those held within our boundaries? If not, then, whatever the fiction, how can the Constitution authorize the Government to imprison arbitrarily those who, whatever we might pretend, are in reality right here in the United States?”

Breyer added, “No one can claim, nor since the time of slavery has anyone to my knowledge successfully claimed, that persons held within the United States are totally without constitutional protection.”

The lead plaintiff is Alejandro Rodriguez, a legal immigrant from Mexico living in California who was brought to the United States as a baby. He was working as a dental assistant when he was detained for three years without a hearing after being placed in deportation proceedings based on two non-violent convictions, joyriding and misdemeanor drug possession.

Although Rodriguez was released eventually, the case brought on his behalf continued.

The justices issued the ruling on Tuesday after hearing the case for a second time. The Oct. 3 arguments came after they decided to rehear the case with a full complement of nine justices, with Trump’s conservative appointee Neil Gorsuch joining the court in April 2017, after earlier holding arguments while shorthanded by one.

The Trump administration took the same position in the case during the October arguments as the Obama administration had taken previously.Wisconsin’s top election official announced Tuesday that he would step down from his post, ending a confrontation with Republicans who suddenly voted to oust him in retaliation for his work on a government board that investigated Wisconsin Gov. Scott Walker (R).

Republicans in the state Senate voted in January not to officially confirm Wisconsin elections administrator Michael Haas to that role, which he’d held since 2016 on an interim basis. They didn’t take issue with any of his work overseeing elections, but rather with his work on the Government Accountability Board, a state agency that probed whether Walker’s campaign illegally coordinated with outside conservative groups. Information from the probe, which was shut down in 2015, leaked to The Guardian, prompting Attorney General Brad Schimel (R) to investigate and recommend charges against nine people. Haas did not work directly on the probe, nor was he accused of wrongdoing. But that didn’t matter to Republican leaders, who said he couldn’t be trusted.

Wisconsin’s six-member bipartisan election commission unanimously picked Haas to be the state’s election administrator in May 2016. After lawmakers voted not to confirm Haas in January, the commission defied Republicans and voted to retain Haas. Mark Thomsen, a Democrat and the chairman, said at the time that he believed Wisconsin law only granted the commission itself the ability to fire the administrator.

On Tuesday, Haas defended his work on the commission, but said he would resign rather than face an extended legal battle.

“Obviously, I strongly disagree with the Senate vote. I am proud of what we have achieved at the WEC and what we have in the works. But the reality is that the Senate’s action has created a major distraction and an untenable situation for the Commission,” Haas wrote in a letter to the commission. “It is time for this foolishness to end.”

He said he will stay on temporarily as a staff attorney to help with the transition to a new administrator.

Haas is the only official on the commission with adequate security clearance to receive briefings from the Department of Homeland Security on cybersecurity threats. DHS told Wisconsin last year that it was one of 21 states Russian hackers targeted in the 2016 elections, and top intelligence officials are warning that Russia is likely to interfere again this year.

In a statement, Haas urged the commission to appoint Assistant Administrator Megan Wolfe to be the administrator, and noted she was also in the process of obtaining a similar security clearance from DHS. Haas also urged the commission to work on preparing for upcoming elections, securing funding for staff positions that were cut, and protecting other former GAB employees who Republicans have signaled an interest in targeting.

Jay Heck, the executive director of Common Cause Wisconsin, a watchdog group, called Republicans “petty” for ousting Haas and said Wisconsin residents could no longer have confidence in the results of their elections.

“His petty, hyper-partisan dismissal by Senate Majority Scott Fitzgerald, with the full complicity of Assembly Speaker Robin Vos and their cohorts will be remembered as the final nail in the coffin of honest, accountable, impartial and fair oversight and administration of elections in Wisconsin,” Heck said. “Citizens now have every right to suspect and expect partisan manipulation of election results in this state.”

AdvertisementRep. Brian Mast (R-Fla.), a combat veteran and gun-carrying National Rifle Association member, is supporting a ban on “assault-style weapons” in the wake of a deadly mass shooting earlier this month.

“Our Second Amendment is an unimpeachable, God-given right to defend ourselves ― one of the most basic rights,” Mast said Tuesday on CNN’s “New Day.” “But we recognize that there is balance between what is the level of lethality, what is that level of firepower, and does that fall in line.”

Mast has recently flipped his stance on certain gun laws, distancing himself from other Republican legislators. He first publicly announced his endorsement of an assault weapons ban ― something the NRA opposes ― on Friday in an op-ed for The New York Times.

GOP Rep. Brian Mast, who is calling for an assault weapons ban, says "our Second Amendment is an unimpeachable, God-given right ... but we recognize there is a line somewhere that we say, here is the Second Amendment and here is public safety" https://t.co/416HcbNs1F — CNN Politics (@CNNPolitics) February 27, 2018

He said Tuesday that people shouldn’t be allowed to buy weapons like the AR-15-style rifle used earlier this month at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Florida.

“Let’s pause, let’s assess, let’s see what’s going on in the system,” he said. “Do a ban on purchases of these assault-style weapons ... so that we can assess the whole situation and get back to the American people in a responsible way.”

The National Rifle Association Political Victory Fund, the NRA’s political action committee, contributed $4,950 to Mast’s 2016 congressional campaign ― more than any other Florida member of the House during that election cycle.

In his op-ed, the Republican lawmaker called for several legislative steps to be taken, including defining and prohibiting the purchase of “an assault or tactical firearm” and improving the federal background check system. He also favored banning firearm accessories like “bump stocks,” the device that enabled Las Vegas shooter Stephen Paddock to fire hundreds of rounds into a crowd at a country music festival in October.

“No firearm is evil,” Mast wrote. “Guns are tools that fulfill the intent of their users, good or bad. But we’ve seen that the rifle of choice for many mass shooters is the AR-15. ... I cannot support the primary weapon I used to defend our people being used to kill children I swore to defend.”

President Donald Trump announced his support for banning bump stocks and expanding background checks, but has not embraced an assault weapons ban. Instead, he has suggested raising the minimum age to purchase such weapons from 18 to 21.

Mast has argued that that’s not enough.

AdvertisementElvis Presley is running for Congress. Not this one, but his Arkansas-based namesake. Getty Images via Getty Images

A man named Elvis Presley is hoping to get Congress all shook up.

Not the long-deceased “Heartbreak Hotel” singer Elvis Aaron Presley, above — but his Star City, Arkansas-based namesake, Elvis D. Presley.

Presley will represent the Libertarian Party to run against Rep. Rick Crawford (R-Ark.) in this year’s election to represent the 1st Congressional District in eastern Arkansas, reports The Associated Press.

And as this Facebook video appears to show, the automotive-refinish technician also happens to do a mean impersonation of “The King of Rock ‘n’ Roll”:

The Libertarian Party of Arkansas announced its candidates on Monday, following a conference.

Presley legally changed his name to that of the legendary singer-songwriter, reports Arkansas Online, which said his former name wasn’t known.

AdvertisementOpponents of Senate Bill 375 see the proposed legislation as state-sanctioned, anti-LGBTQ discrimination. monkeybusinessimages via Getty Images

Hollywood heavyweights have vowed to call for a boycott on filming in Georgia if a bill that would make it legal for child welfare organizations to stop same-sex parents from adopting on grounds of religious liberty becomes law.

SB 375 now heads to Georgia’s House of Representatives for consideration.

Ligon and his supporters believe the legislation will encourage more faith-based adoption agencies to open in Georgia. “We’re failing these children by not doing everything that we can do to ensure every door of opportunity is open and available to them for placement,” the senator told the Atlanta Journal-Constitution. “There are agencies that are willing to do this if they’re given legal certainty.”

Opponents, however, see SB 375 as little more than government-sanctioned discrimination targeting the LGBTQ community.

Among them is Ben Wexler, who worked as an executive producer on “The Grinder” and a consulting producer on “Arrested Development.” Wexler spoke out against the Keep Faith in Adoption and Foster Care Act on Twitter late Friday.

To my fellow showrunners: if this dumb bill becomes law, let’s be done filming television shows in Georgia https://t.co/d5Vd5bj8Rp — Ben Wexler (@mrbenwexler) February 26, 2018

A number of LGBTQ celebrities, including actor-comedian Billy Eichner and Oscar-winning “Milk” screenwriter Dustin Lance Black, retweeted Wexler’s remarks.

By Monday, “West Wing” and “Transparent” actor Bradley Whitford had tweeted similar sentiments ...

This is sick. Hey Hollywood, we shouldn’t be pouring millions of dollars into a state that codifies hate. https://t.co/tLIARRxj27 — Bradley Whitford (@WhitfordBradley) February 26, 2018

... as did the creator of Lifetime’s “Army Wives,” Katherine Fugate, who is currently in talks to shoot an upcoming movie in Georgia.

I deleted my original because of a typo. Here it is again:



Please @FilmingInGA@georgiafilmbiz. Get on this. I am in talks to film my movie in Georgia.



TV Showrunner Ben Wexler Calls For Georgia Boycott After Anti-LGBTQ Bill Passes https://t.co/Lo2ssAXtab via @deadline — Katherine Fugate (@katherinefugate) February 26, 2018

If a boycott did materialize, the impact on Georgia’s economy would be considerable. In 2016, the Peach State reportedly outpaced California as the top U.S. location for movie production, with 17 feature films produced within its borders.

AdvertisementThe 36th season of “Survivor,” the reality TV show that ushered America into an era of turbo-capitalized narcissism and celebrity worship that helped get Donald Trump elected president, will premiere Wednesday.Apparently Oprah Winfrey’s favorite Starbucks is located under a rock.

In an interview released this week, Winfrey and her “A Wrinkle in Time” co-stars Reese Witherspoon and Mindy Kaling talked to E! News about the errands they run ― including whether they get their own coffee at Starbucks.

Witherspoon and Winfrey said they do, prompting Kaling to ask: “Can you imagine writing ‘Oprah’ on a coffee cup?”

Winfrey actually had a very amusing anecdote about just that.

“Oh my god! I just went two days ago!” she said. “And the woman said, ‘Name?’ And I said, ‘Oprah.’ And she said … ‘How do you spell that?’”Fans joined Barbra Streisand in mourning the death of her beloved dog, Samantha, last fall. After all, the 14-year-old Coton du Tulear had been a constant presence at the legendary singer-actress’s concerts and public appearances, as well as on Instagram.

Turns out, Samantha lives on... well, sort of. In a new interview with Variety, Streisand revealed that her two new pups, Miss Violet and Miss Scarlett, were cloned via cells extracted from Samantha’s mouth and stomach.

A post shared by Barbra Streisand (@barbrastreisand) on Dec 25, 2017 at 11:25am PST

“They have different personalities,” Streisand said. “I’m waiting for them to get older so I can see if they have [Samantha’s] brown eyes and seriousness.”

Her third dog is a relative of Samantha’s, named Miss Fanny, a nod to Streisand’s iconic Broadway and movie role in “Funny Girl.” Incidentally, the breeder who brought Streisand the pup had named her own dog Funny Girl.

A post shared by Barbra Streisand (@barbrastreisand) on Jan 1, 2018 at 6:34pm PST

When Streisand posed with her canine trio for a portrait to accompany the interview, she suggested captioning the photo “Send in the Clones,” a wink to Stephen Sondheim’s ballad, “Send in the Clowns,” which she recorded on 1985's “The Broadway Album.”

The remainder of Streisand’s Variety interview is just as dishy, tackling everything from her forthcoming memoir to the Academy Awards to the Me Too movement.

The famously outspoken Democrat has a lot to say about President Donald Trump, too, blasting the commander-in-chief as “crooked” and “a liar.”

“I really believe [Hillary Clinton] won the election,” she said. “I’ve talked to senators from Michigan and Wisconsin. I do believe, like I believed during [President George W. Bush], they were playing with those voter machines.”Deviating from a monthslong trend of warming ties, North Korea abruptly announced Tuesday that it was calling off high-level talks with Seoul in protest of recent joint military exercises conducted by the United States and South Korea.

Pyongyang also issued a chilly warning to the U.S. about the planned June summit with President Donald Trump, suggesting the fate of the historic meeting could also be in peril if Washington insisted on “unilateral nuclear abandonment.”

Announcing the cancellation of the talks with Seoul, which had been scheduled to take place Wednesday, North Korea’s official Korean Central News Agency condemned the joint military exercises as a “flagrant challenge” to the declaration adopted in April by the two Koreas.

“This exercise, targeting us, which is being carried out across South Korea, is … an intentional military provocation running counter to the positive political development on the Korean Peninsula,” said KCNA.

The exercises, codenamed “Max Thunder,” began Friday and involved about 100 U.S. and South Korean warplanes, including B-52 bombers, the report said.

Pyongyang also issued an apparent warning to the U.S. about the upcoming summit involving Trump and North Korean leader Kim Jong Un.

“The United States will also have to undertake careful deliberations about the fate of the planned North Korea-U.S. summit in light of this provocative military ruckus jointly conducted with the South Korean authorities,” KCNA said.

In a follow-up statement on Wednesday, Kim Kye Gwan, North Korea’s first vice-minister of foreign affairs, expanded on this warning, saying Pyongyang would be forced to “reconsider” the summit if the U.S. insisted on “unilateral nuclear abandonment.”

Kim lambasted White House national security adviser John Bolton’s earlier remarks suggesting the U.S. would consider a “Libya model” for North Korean denuclearization, referring to Libyan leader Muammar Gaddafi’s decision in the 2000s to relinquish his nuclear weapons after negotiations with Washington. Gaddafi was killed by U.S.-backed rebels a few years later.

North Korea has long cited Gaddafi’s fall as a reason for maintaining its nuclear program. In his statement, Kim said it was “absolutely absurd to dare compare” North Korea with Libya.

“If the United States is trying to drive us into a corner to force our unilateral nuclear abandonment, we will no longer be interested in such dialogue and cannot but reconsider our proceeding to the North Korea-U.S. summit,” Kim added.

Kim criticized the White House for pushing the narrative that North Korea had chosen to denuclearize because of U.S. sanctions and pressure.

Pyongyang will not abandon its nuclear program in exchange for economic support from the U.S., Kim said. He also warned Trump to stop clinging to previous administrations’ “outdated” policies on North Korea, adding that Trump would be a “more tragic and unsuccessful president” than his predecessors if he chooses to follow in their footsteps

And here it is: the English-language translation of N. Korea's latest statement, taking aim pretty clearly at John Bolton. pic.twitter.com/Utl8vYStVB — Jonathan Cheng (@JChengWSJ) May 16, 2018

South Korea said it was “regrettable” that North Korea had canceled Wednesday’s talks, which were supposed to be a follow-up to the April inter-Korean summit. South Korea’s unification ministry urged Pyongyang to swiftly return to the negotiating table.

The White House said it was aware of the North’s decision to cancel the meeting with Seoul but that it had received no indication that it should stop planning for the upcoming meeting in Singapore between Trump and Kim Jong Un.

U.S. State Department spokeswoman Heather Nauert told reporters Tuesday that Pyongyang had previously expressed understanding that routine military exercises between the U.S. and South Korea would continue.

“Kim Jong Un had said previously that he understands the need and the utility of the United States and the Republic of Korea continuing in its joint exercises,” said Nauert. “We have not heard anything from that government or the government of South Korea to indicate that we would not continue conducting these exercises or that we would not continue planning for our meeting between President Trump and Kim Jong Un next month.”

The Pentagon has described the Max Thunder exercises as “routine” and strictly defensive in nature.

Some North Korea experts said Pyongyang’s latest warnings may not constitute a serious threat to the Trump-Kim summit but are possibly an attempt by the North Korean leader to see how willing the U.S. might be to make concessions.

Mintaro Oba, a former state department expert on the Koreas, suggested the threat to pull out of the summit is “about par for the course” for Pyongyang.

“The question is whether they’re willing to go so far as to go through with it, or whether they’re mainly trying to gain some leverage [or] test how much we want the summit,” he wrote on Twitter.

Observers have said the threatening rhetoric from Pyongyang will be a test for Trump, who must keep a “cool head” to avoid escalation.Ellen DeGeneres has honored Jimmy Kimmel and his son Billy by dedicating a room on the Heart Institute floor at Children’s Hospital Los Angeles to the child, the daytime talk show host announced Monday.

Kimmel has been vocal about Billy’s battle with congenital heart disease since he was born last May. Billy had emergency open-heart surgery when he was 3 days old, and had a second operation late last year.

Kimmel has been critical of Republican efforts to reform the health care system, and brought Billy onto the “Jimmy Kimmel Live” stage with him in December to advocate for the Children’s Health Insurance Program.

DeGeneres praised Kimmel for his honesty about his family’s struggles and his willingness to show emotion when talking about health care reform, mentioning a few times when the late-night host has teared up.

“It’s embarrassing to me. I try not to cry,” Kimmel said before DeGeneres introduced her surprise.

“You’re such a great guy, and that was so emotional to see you go through that,” DeGeneres said. “We called our friends at Children’s Hospital LA, including Billy’s surgeon. We have named one of the rooms of the Heart Institute floor in honor of Billy.”

Then DeGeneres and an emotional Kimmel watched a video of doctors and nurses at the hospital standing outside the room dedicated to Billy.

Kimmel later tweeted about the exchange on Tuesday, with a photograph of Billy smiling:

Thank you to my ridiculously generous friend Ellen and the kind and excellent doctors & nurses @ChildrensLA for this beautiful gift in our son’s name… https://t.co/uJDxhhEPOA @TheEllenShow. Billy is very happy about this, as you can see. pic.twitter.com/nrc1FZ7Fip — Jimmy Kimmel (@jimmykimmel) February 27, 2018Bill Clark via Getty Images

This article originally appeared at TomDispatch.com. To receive TomDispatch in your inbox three times a week, click here.

Imagine for a moment a scheme in which American taxpayers were taken to the cleaners to the tune of hundreds of billions of dollars and there was barely a hint of criticism or outrage. Imagine as well that the White House and a majority of the politicians in Washington, no matter the party, acquiesced in the arrangement. In fact, the annual quest to boost Pentagon spending into the stratosphere regularly follows that very scenario, assisted by predictions of imminent doom from industry-funded hawks with a vested interest in increased military outlays.

Most Americans are probably aware that the Pentagon spends a lot of money, but it’s unlikely they grasp just how huge those sums really are. All too often, astonishingly lavish military budgets are treated as if they were part of the natural order, like death or taxes.

The figures contained in the recent budget deal that kept Congress open, as well as in President Trump’s budget proposal for 2019, are a case in point: $700 billion for the Pentagon and related programs in 2018 and $716 billion the following year. Remarkably, such numbers far exceeded even the Pentagon’s own expansive expectations. According to Donald Trump, admittedly not the most reliable source in all cases, Secretary of Defense Jim Mattis reportedly said, “Wow, I can’t believe we got everything we wanted” ― a rare admission from the head of an organization whose only response to virtually any budget proposal is to ask for more.

The public reaction to such staggering Pentagon budget hikes was muted, to put it mildly. Unlike last year’s tax giveaway to the rich, throwing near-record amounts of tax dollars at the Department of Defense generated no visible public outrage. Yet those tax cuts and Pentagon increases are closely related. The Trump administration’s pairing of the two mimics the failed approach of President Ronald Reagan in the 1980s ― only more so. It’s a phenomenon I’ve termed “Reaganomics on steroids.” Reagan’s approach yielded oceans of red ink and a severe weakening of the social safety net. It also provoked such a strong pushback that he later backtracked by raising taxes and set the stage for sharp reductions in nuclear weapons.

Donald Trump’s retrograde policies on immigration, women’s rights, racial justice, LGBT rights, and economic inequality have spawned an impressive and growing resistance. It remains to be seen whether his generous treatment of the Pentagon at the expense of basic human needs will spur a similar backlash.

Of course, it’s hard to even get a bead on what’s being lavished on the Pentagon when much of the media coverage failed to drive home just how enormous these sums actually are. A rare exception was an Associated Press story headlined “Congress, Trump Give the Pentagon a Budget the Likes of Which It Has Never Seen.” This was certainly far closer to the truth than claims like that of Mackenzie Eaglen of the conservative American Enterprise Institute, which over the years has housed such uber-hawks as Dick Cheney and John Bolton. She described the new budget as a “modest year-on-year increase.” If that’s the case, one shudders to think what an immodest increase might look like.

The Pentagon Wins Big

So let’s look at the money.

Though the Pentagon’s budget was already through the roof, it will get an extra $165 billion over the next two years, thanks to the congressional budget deal reached earlier this month. To put that figure in context, it was tens of billions of dollars more than Donald Trump had asked for last spring to “rebuild” the U.S. military (as he put it). It even exceeded the figures, already higher than Trump’s, Congress had agreed to last December. It brings total spending on the Pentagon and related programs for nuclear weapons to levels higher than those reached during the Korean and Vietnam wars in the 1950s and 1960s, or even at the height of Ronald Reagan’s vaunted military buildup of the 1980s. Only in two years of Barack Obama’s presidency, when there were roughly 150,000 U.S. troops in Iraq and Afghanistan, or about seven times current levels of personnel deployed there, was spending higher.

Ben Freeman of the Center for International Policy put the new Pentagon budget numbers in perspective when he pointed out that just the approximately $80 billion annual increase in the department’s top line between 2017 and 2019 will be double the current budget of the State Department; higher than the gross domestic products of more than 100 countries; and larger than the entire military budget of any country in the world, except China’s.

Democrats signed on to that congressional budget as part of a deal to blunt some of the most egregious Trump administration cuts proposed last spring. The administration, for example, kept the State Department’s budget from being radically slashed and it reauthorized the imperiled Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP) for another 10 years. In the process, however, the Democrats also threw millions of young immigrants under the bus by dropping an insistence that any new budget protect the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals, or “Dreamers,” program. Meanwhile, the majority of Republican fiscal conservatives were thrilled to sign off on a Pentagon increase that, combined with the Trump tax cut for the rich, funds ballooning deficits as far as the eye can see ― a total of $7.7 trillion worth of them over the next decade.

While domestic spending fared better in the recent congressional budget deal than it would have if Trump’s draconian plan for 2018 had been enacted, it still lags far behind what Congress is investing in the Pentagon. And calculations by the National Priorities Project indicate that the Department of Defense is slated to be an even bigger winner in Trump’s 2019 budget blueprint. Its share of the discretionary budget, which includes virtually everything the government does other than programs like Medicare and Social Security, will mushroom to a once-unimaginable 61 cents on the dollar, a hefty boost from the already startling 54 cents on the dollar in the final year of the Obama administration.

The skewed priorities in Trump’s latest budget proposal are fueled in part by the administration’s decision to embrace the Pentagon increases Congress agreed to last month, while tossing that body’s latest decisions on non-military spending out the window. Although Congress is likely to rein in the administration’s most extreme proposals, the figures are stark indeed ― a proposed cut of $120 billion in the domestic spending levels both parties agreed to. The biggest reductions include a 41% cut in funding for diplomacy and foreign aid; a 36% cut in funding for energy and the environment; and a 35% cut in housing and community development. And that’s just the beginning. The Trump administration is also preparing to launch full-scale assaults on food stamps, Medicaid, and Medicare. It’s war on everything except the U.S. military.

Corporate Welfare

The recent budget plans have brought joy to the hearts of one group of needy Americans: the top executives of major weapons contractors like Lockheed Martin, Boeing, Northrop Grumman, Raytheon, and General Dynamics. They expect a bonanza from the skyrocketing Pentagon expenditures. Don’t be surprised if the CEOs of these five firms give themselves nice salary boosts, something to truly justify their work, rather than the paltry $96 million they drew as a group in 2016 (the most recent year for which full statistics are available).

And keep in mind that, like all other U.S.-based corporations, those military-industrial behemoths will benefit richly from the Trump administration’s slashing of the corporate tax rate. According to one respected industry analyst, a good portion of this windfall will go towards bonuses and increased dividends for company shareholders rather than investments in new and better ways to defend the United States. In short, in the Trump era, Lockheed Martin and its cohorts are guaranteed to make money coming and going.

Items that snagged billions in new funding in Trump’s proposed 2019 budget included Lockheed Martin’s overpriced, underperforming F-35 aircraft, at $10.6 billion; Boeing’s F-18 “Super Hornet,” which was in the process of being phased out by the Obama administration but is now written in for $2.4 billion; Northrop Grumman’s B-21 nuclear bomber at $2.3 billion; General Dynamics’ Ohio-class ballistic missile submarine at $3.9 billion; and $12 billion for an array of missile-defense programs that will redound to the benefit of... you guessed it: Lockheed Martin, Raytheon, and Boeing, among other companies. These are just a few of the dozens of weapons programs that will be feeding the bottom lines of such companies in the next two years and beyond. For programs still in their early stages, like that new bomber and the new ballistic missile submarine, their banner budgetary years are yet to come.

In explaining the flood of funding that enables a company like Lockheed Martin to reap $35 billion per year in government dollars, defense analyst Richard Aboulafia of the Teal Group noted that “diplomacy is out; air strikes are in... In this sort of environment, it’s tough to keep a lid on costs. If demand goes up, prices don’t generally come down. And, of course, it’s virtually impossible to kill stuff. You don’t have to make any kind of tough choices when there’s such a rising tide.”

Pentagon Pork Versus Human Security

Loren Thompson is a consultant to many of those weapons contractors. His think tank, the Lexington Institute, also gets contributions from the arms industry. He caught the spirit of the moment when he praised the administration’s puffed-up Pentagon proposal for using the Defense Department budget as a jobs creator in key states, including the crucial swing state of Ohio, which helped propel Donald Trump to victory in 2016. Thompson was particularly pleased with a plan to ramp up General Dynamics’s production of M-1 tanks in Lima, Ohio, in a factory whose production line the Army had tried to put on hold just a few years ago because it was already drowning in tanks and had no conceivable use for more of them.

Thompson argues that the new tanks are needed to keep up with Russia’s production of armored vehicles, a dubious assertion with a decidedly Cold War flavor to it. His claim is backed up, of course, by the administration’s new National Security Strategy, which targets Russia and China as the most formidable threats to the United States. Never mind that the likely challenges posed by these two powers ― cyberattacks in the Russian case and economic expansion in the Chinese one ― have nothing to do with how many tanks the U.S. Army possesses.

Trump wants to create jobs, jobs, jobs he can point to, and pumping up the military-industrial complex must seem like the path of least resistance to that end in present-day Washington. Under the circumstances, what does it matter that virtually any other form of spending would create more jobs and not saddle Americans with weaponry we don’t need?

If past performance offers any indication, none of the new money slated to pour into the Pentagon will make anyone safer. As Todd Harrison of the Center for Strategic and International Studies has noted, there is a danger that the Pentagon will just get “fatter not stronger” as its worst spending habits are reinforced by a new gusher of dollars that relieves its planners of making any reasonably hard choices at all.

The list of wasteful expenditures is already staggeringly long and early projections are that bureaucratic waste at the Pentagon will amount to $125 billion over the next five years. Among other things, the Defense Department already employs a shadow work force of more than 600,000 private contractors whose responsibilities overlap significantly with work already being done by government employees. Meanwhile, sloppy buying practices regularly result in stories like the recent ones on the Pentagon’s Defense Logistics Agency losing track of how it spent $800 million and how two American commands were unable to account for $500 million meant for the war on drugs in the Greater Middle East and Africa.

Add to this the $1.5 trillion slated to be spent on F-35s that the nonpartisan Project on Government Oversight has noted may never be ready for combat and the unnecessary “modernization” of the U.S. nuclear arsenal, including a new generation of nuclear-armed bombers, submarines, and missiles at a minimum cost of $1.2 trillion over the next three decades. In other words, a large part of the Pentagon’s new funding will do much to fuel good times in the military-industrial complex but little to help the troops or defend the country.

Most important of all, this flood of new funding, which could crush a generation of Americans under a mountain of debt, will make it easier to sustain the seemingly endless seven wars that the United States is fighting in Afghanistan, Pakistan, Syria, Iraq, Libya, Somalia, and Yemen. So call this one of the worst investments in history, ensuring as it does failed wars to the horizon.

It would be a welcome change in 21st Century America if the reckless decision to throw yet more unbelievable sums of money at a Pentagon already vastly overfunded sparked a serious discussion about America’s hyper-militarized foreign policy. A national debate about such matters in the run-up to the 2018 and 2020 elections could determine whether it continues to be business-as-usual at the Pentagon or whether the largest agency in the federal government is finally reined in and relegated to an appropriately defensive posture.

AdvertisementSoo... my mom came into my room rn saying that she brought ashes for me since she didn’t know what my schedule was like today & that homegirl literally came up to me as I was laying down & rubbed her forehead against mine. Hahaha 😂😂😂 #catholicproblemsIndians have started observing the festival of Holi ― and if the photos are any proof, it’s already turning out to be a joyous time.

Holi is a Hindu festival that celebrates the victory of good over evil and marks the beginning of spring. This year, Holi falls on March 1 and 2. Hindus participate in the festival by smearing brightly colored powder on each other, throwing water balloons and indulging in sweets.

As is true of many Hindu festivals, Holi is associated with a number of different spiritual texts and traditions that vary from region to region in India. For some, Holi is a day to remember the divine couple, Radha and Krishna, or the love and sacrifice of the Hindu god Kama. Others think of the faithfulness of Prahlada, a devotee of the Lord Vishnu.

Holi is a time of year when traditional social boundaries are overturned ― children are able to squirt elders with water and women douse men with colored powders. People come together in public spaces to dance, play with the colored powders, and most importantly, celebrate life.

Scroll down to see photos of people taking part in this remarkable festival in India.A year has passed since the extremely awkward Academy Awards moment when presenters mistakenly named “La La Land” as 2016′s Best Picture. Although “Moonlight” ultimately emerged victorious, director Barry Jenkins still hasn’t gotten over the shock.

Jenkins told the Hollywood Reporter that the history-making Oscars flub made him question whether or not “Moonlight” was, in fact, the evening’s real winner. He said he was so “distraught” by the way his film’s win played out at the ceremony, he continues to have a difficult time celebrating its success.

“I wasn’t sure that thing was mine or who it belonged to because of how everything happened,” he revealed in a Feb. 23 discussion with fellow black Best Director nominees John Singleton, Lee Daniels and Jordan Peele. “It’s bittersweet because when that switch happened, I didn’t enjoy it ... And it made 2017 a very long year.”

The director said he’d come to terms with his film’s loss even before presenters Warren Beatty and Faye Dunaway erroneously announced “La La Land” as the winner.

“For two minutes, we lost,” he said. Pointing to his forthcoming film, “If Beale Street Could Talk,” as well as a new series about the Underground Railroad he’s developing at Amazon, he added, “And in those two minutes, I was still self-satisfied because I knew I’m going to go off and do these things, you know? Winning or losing is not gonna take any of those things off the table.”

Jenkins stressed that he didn’t make “Moonlight” — which depicts a queer, black latchkey kid’s sexual awakening in the Miami projects and was unanimously praised for humanizing marginalized voices — for “the awards conversation.”

The experience, however, has him somewhat jaded by the prospect of future nominations.An openly transgender recruit is under contract for service in the U.S. military for the first time since courts ruled last year that the military had to accept trans people, a Pentagon spokesman told CNN. Raphye Alexius via Getty Images

The first openly transgender person has signed up to join the U.S. military since federal courts ruled against President Donald Trump’s ban of trans military personnel last year, CNN reported on Monday.

“The Department of Defense confirms that as of Feb. 23, 2018, there is one transgender individual under contract for service in the U.S. military,” Pentagon spokesman Maj. David Eastburn told CNN. The recruit has signed a contract but, according to ABC, the recruit won’t begin basic training for another few months.

The news comes as Trump is still reportedly debating how the Department of Defense will handle the military service of transgender people.

In July 2017, Trump announced that transgender recruits would no longer be allowed to serve in the military. “Our military must be focused on decisive and overwhelming ... victory and cannot be burdened with the tremendous medical costs and disruption that transgender in the military would entail,” Trump tweeted.

The announcement was a shocking reversal of an Obama-era policy that allowed openly transgender people to serve in the military. Trump’s declaration had the potential to affect thousands of transgender troops already serving and came as a surprise to many. It triggered outrage around the country, with many questioning if the ban was legal. The announcement also surprised Defense Secretary James Mattis who was on vacation at the time.

Trump issued a memorandum in August detailing his policy change, which was set to take effect by March 23, 2018. The Pentagon was forced to allow openly transgender troops to sign up on Jan. 1 after several federal courts ruled against Trump’s ban.

Mattis, who had been instructed to come up with an implementation plan for Trump’s decision, presented his recommendations on transgender recruits to Trump last week.

“The Secretary of Defense made his recommendation to the White House this morning,” Eastburn told HuffPost on Friday. “The recommendation was a private conversation between the secretary and the White House, and the contents of the conversation will remain private.”

Reports last week suggested Mattis would recommend that Trump allow transgender troops to continue to serve.“Much has been said about the #MeToo and Times Up movement(s) and the importance of providing women and men with the opportunity to share their stories of workplace misconduct, in an effort to change our culture and the systemic inequalities that exist.

“I absolutely support this cause unequivocally and applaud all the brave souls who have come forward to share their stories.

“Sadly, last fall I became one of the accused, which I promptly revealed proactively to the network involved and to the public. And to be equally clear, those accusations were then investigated by an independent third-party over the course of a two-month process and involved dozens of interviews that included me, the accuser and countless others.

“Ultimately, my name was cleared. I eagerly participated in the investigation in order to demonstrate my innocence because I know my truth, and I believe in due process.

“Yesterday, Variety published a salacious story that revealed the specific claims against me for the first time – even though an independent third-party investigator found insufficient evidence to support the claims.

“Much to my dismay, Variety didn’t speak with me or bother to speak with other credible witnesses or even ask for any of the evidence that was obtained during the investigation when offered, all of which clearly challenged the veracity of the claims made against me.

“This person who has accused me of horrible things tried to buy her silence by asking for money on multiple occasions — I refused. I have worked extremely hard to achieve my success and I don’t take my opportunities for granted. I don’t want to accuse anyone of not telling the truth but in this case, I have no choice but to again deny the claims against me, remind people that I was recused of any wrongdoing, and put the matter to rest.”There could soon be another Sanders in our political future.

Levi Sanders, the son of Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.), announced on Monday that he’s running for Congress in New Hampshire.

The 48-year-old candidate is the eighth Democrat throwing his hat in the ring for the state’s 1st District House seat, Sanders said in a statement posted to his campaign website.

“After much thought and consultation with my family, friends and the people of New Hampshire, I am excited to announce today that I am running for Congress,” he said. “This is a unique opportunity to listen to the hard-working men and women of New Hampshire about the issues that matter to them.”

An apparent chip off the old block, Sanders supports a “Medicare-for-all health care system,” a higher minimum wage, equal pay for women, tuition-free college and “sensible gun legislation.” He also believes that it’s “urgent” to address the opioid epidemic, which has reached a “crisis” in his state.

Appearing to channel his father, Levi Sanders vowed “to demand that we have a system which represents the 99 percent and not the 1 percent who have never had it so good.”

When quizzed about any differences between his politics and his dad’s, Sanders told Vice that, “the basic difference is that I’m a vegetarian and he’s not.”

Sanders actually lives in the district adjacent to the one he’s hoping to represent. The 1st District congressional seat is currently held by Democratic Rep. Carol Shea-Porter, who is not seeking re-election.

It’s expected to be a highly competitive race among both Democrats and Republicans. Some of the groups who supported the elder Sanders during his 2016 presidential run have already lined up behind Democratic state Rep. Mark MacKenzie.

The younger Sanders has never held public office, but he has worked at his father’s side, including as his senior aide during the 2016 campaign.

He has also worked as an analyst for a Massachusetts Legal Services office for 17 years, representing the “working class, who have been beaten up by the system,” he notes. Sanders has advocated for clients on Social Security disability insurance, Medicaid and Medicare, among other programs, according to what appears to be his LinkedIn page.

He is married to neuropsychologist Raine Riggs. They have three children adopted from China.

Levi’s stepsister, Carina Driscoll, has just announced that she is running for mayor of Burlington, Vermont, where Bernie Sanders used to be mayor.Three Billboards Outside Cleveland, Ohio, isn’t a sequel to the Oscar-nominated film “Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri” ― but sponsors of a new advertising campaign are still hoping for a big award.

The recently erected signs entreat Cleveland Cavaliers superstar LeBron James to join the Philadelphia 76ers after this season.

One of the billboards, along Cleveland’s Interstate 480, reads ”#PhillyWantsLeBron.” Another says “Complete The Process,” which The Associated Press notes is a reference to the 76ers’ “Trust the Process” mantra.

A Philadelphia-based company put up three billboards on highway to downtown Cleveland this morning saying that city wanted LeBron. Here they are in order. pic.twitter.com/vntsa8h3mE — Darren Rovell (@darrenrovell) February 26, 2018

The co-CEO of the Chester, Pennsylvania, home remodeling company that leased the billboards suggested the advertising was a no-brainer. James returned to the Cavaliers after winning two NBA titles in Miami, and led Cleveland to its first championship ever in 2016. He is eligible to sign with other teams as a free agent after this season.

“LeBron is in the conversation of being the best player of all time,” Asher Raphael, of Power Home Remodeling, told ESPN. “We think if he comes to Philly, he gets a couple more championships.”