Lt. Gov. Casey Cagle said on Monday he would kill a bill that would benefit Delta Air Lines unless the company reinstated its relationship with the NRA. Moses Robinson via Getty Images

Georgia’s lieutenant governor said on Monday he would work to derail a multimillion-dollar tax cut that would benefit Delta Air Lines unless the company reinstated its relationship with the National Rifle Association.

Lt. Gov. Casey Cagle, who also serves as president of the Georgia state Senate, intimated in a tweet he would “kill any tax legislation” as punishment to Delta, which last week said it would end its discount program for members of the NRA. Delta, headquartered in Atlanta, is one of more than a dozen companies that have distanced themselves from the gun lobby following the massacre of 17 people at a Florida high school on Feb. 14.

“Corporations cannot attack conservatives and expect us not to fight back,” Cagle, a leading Republican candidate to replace Gov. Nathan Deal, wrote on Monday.

I will kill any tax legislation that benefits @Delta unless the company changes its position and fully reinstates its relationship with @NRA. Corporations cannot attack conservatives and expect us not to fight back. — Casey Cagle (@CaseyCagle) February 26, 2018

HuffPost has reached out to Delta and Cagle for comment.

The Georgia legislature has been considering a new bill that would restore a massive sales tax exemption on jet fuel. Delta, the state’s largest private employer, would be the provision’s main beneficiary and save about $40 million a year.

Just last week, Cagle had endorsed the measure, and it was expected to move through to Gov. Nathan Deal’s desk quickly.

Cagle’s statement drew some rebukes from other lawmakers, including Stacey Abrams, a Democratic candidate for governor, who urged lawmakers to “take action to roll back dangerous laws that put guns in the wrong hands.”

“I applaud Delta’s decision to listen to feedback from its customers and reject #NRA extremism that has prevented commonsense reform for too long,” Abrams wrote on Twitter.

I applaud @Delta’s decision to listen to feedback from its customers and reject #NRA extremism that has prevented commonsense reform for too long. Our obligation is clear: reduce the risk of gun homicide and suicide in Georgia. #NeverAgain #gapol 1/ — Stacey Abrams (@staceyabrams) February 26, 2018

Another Democrat, state Sen. Steve Henson, told ABC News that “Republican fear of the NRA is evidently more important than the Georgia business climate, jobs, or the well-being of Georgia citizens.”

And the ACLU of Georgia also called Cagle’s threat inappropriate in a statement to ABC. “Politicians should not use taxpayer dollars to impose ideological litmus tests and punish organizations that express views that politicians dislike,” ACLU Executive Director Andrea Young said.

The Atlanta Journal-Constitution reported Monday that Delta had been attempting to downplay the political motivations behind its decision, saying it was a supporter of the Second Amendment and that the company held a “neutral” stance on gun control measures. The company noted a separate instance in which it had withdrawn support “over a politically and emotionally charged issue” after it ended its sponsorship of a staging of “Julius Caesar,” which depicted the assassination of a Donald Trump-like character.

“Delta continues to support the 2nd Amendment.” Atlanta-based airline tries to staunch fallout over its decision to sever ties with @NRA https://t.co/jsIOWUhZlA #gapol pic.twitter.com/hw1TwDsZgU — Greg Bluestein (@bluestein) February 25, 2018

The memo did little to assuage Cagle and other conservatives in the Georgia General Assembly.Chlorine gas was likely used during an attack in Syria this past February, the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons confirmed.

While the OPCW didn’t lay the blame with any one party, it said in a report released Tuesday that interviews with witnesses, the collection of environmental samples and the symptoms that patients exhibited in the aftermath allowed it to conclude that chlorine was dropped from two cylinders on the Saraqib area on Feb. 4, 2018.

The attack left 11 people in need of emergency treatment, Amnesty International said at the time.

“We heard people crying for help somewhere on the road and others on the roof of a house,” a volunteer with the White Helmets rescue group told the aid organization. “While driving, I started to feel a shortness of breath, as if I couldn’t breathe alone, and itchiness in my eyes. I felt nausea as if I wanted to throw up.”

The Syrian government has been accused multiple times of carrying out chemical weapons attacks on civilians since the civil war began in 2011. Most recently, a large-scale suspected chemical attack on the town of Douma killed more than 40 people in April.

President Donald Trump has twice ordered strikes on Syrian military assets in retaliation for the attacks, calling them “atrocious.”

OPCW teams are still assessing the situation in Douma and are expected to release another report with their conclusions about last month’s attack in the coming weeks.WASHINGTON ― The Me Too movement has a pattern: Someone accuses a powerful man of sexual misconduct. He apologizes (or not). He leaves his job. Victims see justice; opponents say the movement has gone too far.

But there’s a possible step that isn’t widely discussed: Men who lose their jobs over harassment, particularly those in top-level positions, can still get big financial payouts. And if they do get a sizable sum, the public won’t necessarily find out.

HuffPost asked more than a half-dozen employers, including Nickelodeon, Amazon and Vice, that have seen high-profile employees depart in the past few months, about severance packages for accused harassers. Spokespeople for these employers also did not respond, or declined to speak. (Some ousted men do not appear to have received severance packages, including AlterNet’s Don Hazen, Long Wharf Theatre’s Gordon Edelstein and NPR’s Michael Oreskes.)

Public officials who leave amid stomach-churning scandals may also receive a different kind of benefits. Trent Franks, the millionaire Republican congressman who resigned in December after he was accused of offering a female employee $5 million to impregnate her, is currently on the Office of Personnel Management’s retirement rolls, an OPM spokesperson told HuffPost. So is former Democratic Rep. John Conyers, who allegedly made sexual advances, including requests for sex acts, to female staff. The OPM spokesperson declined to comment on detailed questions regarding pensions, citing privacy regulations.

Former U.S. appeals court judge Alex Kozinski retired after multiple women accused him of inappropriate behavior. His retirement left him eligible for an annual pension of $217,600. And on the local level, a former superintendent in Illinois accused of sexual harassment reportedly received a $127,000 separation agreement, prompting state lawmakers this month to push for disclosure of severances for government employees accused of sexual misconduct or discrimination.

In the private sphere, it is difficult to generalize about severance agreements because they’re often privately negotiated and confidential. And the fact that companies aren’t talking about personnel issues isn’t surprising. But high-profile terminations have launched a national conversation about issues of power, consent and accountability, and this part of the story is often missing.

Across the board, women already face a significant gender wage gap, may leave jobs because of discrimination, and are not nearly as likely to hold chief executive positions at Fortune 1000 companies. The same power structures that allow abusive men to climb the workplace ladder at the expense of female colleagues, can reward them after they’re caught.

Employers aren’t legally required to pay severance, though if an employee’s contract requires it, they must honor that, with some exceptions ― like if the termination is “for cause” ― which can include sexual harassment. Nonetheless, companies may decide to offer severance in exchange for release of liability, or to keep a powerful harasser from talking.

It “is more likely to see a severance payment made to a senior executive who has been accused of sexual harassment than to a junior level employee who is accused of the same misconduct,” attorney Gloria Allred told HuffPost in an email.

Each company is going to handle the situation in the way they see fit, explained David Gottlieb, an attorney who advocates for employees subjected to harassment and discrimination.

“Generally speaking, the calculus is not going to be, ‘What do we think is right?’ Generally, companies are going to do what is in their best financial interest,” he said.

A woman who is being harassed may also be offered a severance payment, and choose to take that rather than risk a painful lawsuit she might lose. NBC reportedly paid out severance to a staffer who accused Chris Matthews of making inappropriate comments. Conyers also made a payment of about $27,000 to a former aide who accused him of harassment.

Historically, if a victim of sexual harassment does get severance, it won’t necessarily be “anything like the big executive who is the one doing the harassment,” said Tom Spiggle, an attorney who represents clients facing workplace issues, including discrimination.

As the Me Too movement marches on, it’s possible companies might be more inclined to make a stand—and win PR points—by making it clear that a harasser won’t get on a gravy train.

“The more traditional route has been like what we’ve seen at Fox,” where a company pays a head honcho “a big chunk of change to get the relief, to keep them quiet,” Spiggle said.First lady Melania Trump has reportedly severed ties with adviser Stephanie Winston Wolkoff after news broke that Wolkoff’s company was paid millions of dollars by President Donald Trump’s inauguration committee.

Wolkoff, a longtime friend of the first lady’s, had been working for her office on a contract basis as an unpaid senior adviser. The New York Times reported Monday that the first lady’s office had decided to sever this contract — a dismissal purportedly triggered by “displeasure from the Trumps” over news that Wolkoff’s company had been paid almost $26 million to plan events for the presidential inauguration last year. A spokeswoman for Melania Trump said the first lady had “no involvement with the inaugural committee” and did not know how the funds were spent.

EXCLUSIVE: Met Gala mastermind Stephanie Winston Wolkoff has been tapped to plan Trump's inauguration events https://t.co/KuS2NSHYse pic.twitter.com/KNnoJ0qxec — Page Six (@PageSix) November 23, 2016

Wolkoff’s hefty payout, reported by the Times earlier this month, was listed in tax filings recently released by the president’s inauguration committee. The documents revealed that the committee paid more than $57 million to four event-planning companies and donated a less-than-expected $5 million to charity.

Wolkoff’s company, which was incorporated just six weeks before the inauguration, received the lion’s share of the funds (exactly $25,843,509, according to CNN). Wolkoff personally received $1.62 million, and a close friend and associate, David Monn, was paid almost $4 million to help plan events, reported the Times.

Trump’s inauguration was considered the most expensive ever, according to Money magazine. Obama’s 2009 inauguration was estimated to cost $170 million, or $190 million today after factoring in inflation. Trump’s was estimated to have topped $200 million.

A White House official told Politico earlier this month that the millions Wolkoff and her firm received had “really raised eyebrows.”

“That’s a whole lot of money, especially when a bunch of that could have been donated to charity,” the official said.In Esperanto, the word “vero” means “truth.” In English, vero doesn’t mean anything ― it’s just the name of a photo-sharing Instagram competitor. Until recently, both versions suffered from the same fundamental problem: Nobody was using them.

The pool of people using Esperanto still remains fairly small, but this week the Vero platform exploded in popularity, becoming the top ranked social media app on both the App Store and Google Play.

Vero’s sudden success seems to have taken even the company by surprise, with the swell of signups overwhelming its servers and temporarily slowing them to a crawl Monday and Tuesday.

Vero strongly resembles the Facebook-owned Instagram in both form and function, but it sets itself apart in three key ways:

First, Vero is an advertising-free platform, which, unlike Facebook, means it won’t be collecting and selling users’ data to the highest bidder.

Second, unlike Facebook, Vero doesn’t use a sorting algorithm to prioritize (and monetize) content in your feed, a source of much anger on Instagram.

Third, since it’s ad-free, Vero aims to support itself via a subscription model. The details here are a little sparse, with the company saying it will charge “a small annual fee” of a couple bucks a year. The company is offering free lifetime service to its first 1 million users.

Here’s what the app itself looks like:

Vero

Vero

The app, backed by the billionaire Lebanese businessman Ayman Hariri, has been around since 2015. It’s unclear what prompted the renewed interest this week.

“When I did [join existing social networks], I found the options for privacy were quite limited and difficult to understand, and also when I decided to get on and connect with a few of my friends, I noticed that their behavior online was very different than their behavior in the real world,” Hariri told CNBC at the time.

“We felt that by excluding ads out of our business model ... it allows us to look at our users as our customers, rather than advertisers,” he added.“As soon as the medical tests came back, you’d see that herpes was the biggest thing,” said Ben Hatta, [creator and executive producer] Mike Fleiss’s old assistant. “And sometimes you’d be the first person to tell a contestant that they had herpes. You’d be like, ‘Uh, you should call your doctor.’ Why? ‘We’re not going to be able to have you on our show, but you should call your doctor.’

“Then they’d realize they’d been denied from ‘The Bachelor’ and now a bunch of people knew they had herpes.”The first trailer for HBO’s upcoming film adaptation of Ray Bradbury’s groundbreaking novel “Fahrenheit 451” is here, and it certainly looks more exciting than high school English class.

This time around, “Black Panther” scene-stealer Michael B. Jordan stars as the increasingly disillusioned Guy Montag, who lives in a dystopian future where books are outlawed and he is tasked with finding and burning them.

“A little knowledge is a dangerous thing,” his superior, Captain Beatty (Michael Shannon), says in the clip. “News, facts, memoirs, internet of old ― burn it.”

In the trailer, Jordan informs a classroom of children that the written word will one day be erased for good, as he sets fire to just about everything around him. We also get a peek at the futuristic “Blade Runner”-like cityscape, and people in a club wearing virtual-reality headsets.

Because the book came out in 1953, spoiler alerts are a little past due, so expect Jordan’s character to begin to question his role in the oppressive society and to fight back against the government-mandated censorship.

The material was the inspiration for a previous François Truffaut film released in 1966.Ivanka Trump is being slammed on social media for trying to have it both ways.

On the one hand, the first daughter is an adviser to her father, President Donald Trump, with an office in the White House. On the other, she took umbrage at a question about sexual misconduct allegations against her father.

“I think it’s a pretty inappropriate question to ask a daughter if she believes the accusers of her father when he’s affirmatively stated that there’s no truth to it,” she told NBC’s Peter Alexander.

Now critics are pointing out how that’s exactly why she shouldn’t have a role in the White House.

Here is some of that reaction:

What’s inappropriate is Ivanka Trump being part of the White House Administration. — Axl Rose (@axlrose) February 26, 2018

I think it’s pretty inappropriate for u to work for US gvt in an official capacity, travel around serving as a US representative, oh, & ostensibly be there precisely to work on women’s issues, and take umbrage at a question directly affecting women. Give me a damn break. Eyeroll. https://t.co/DFaEFRqypU — Ana Navarro (@ananavarro) February 26, 2018

Ivanka has a job at the White House because her father is the President.



But Ivanka an employee of the White House won’t answer questions because the President is her father.



See what she did there? https://t.co/ARf95d5Dna — Bryan Behar (@bryanbehar) February 26, 2018

The White House went out of its way to make clear that Ivanka Trump traveled to South Korea as a senior adviser to the president, not a First Daughter. But as soon as she’s hit with a difficult question, suddenly she’s a daughter. https://t.co/yxn44dbDDK — Jenna Johnson (@wpjenna) February 26, 2018

#BetweenTheScenes: Ivanka Trump can’t decide whether she’s the president’s kid or his adviser. pic.twitter.com/FswIM7yfIJ — The Daily Show (@TheDailyShow) September 15, 2017

Ivanka Trump gave up the right to play the "daughter card" when she decided she wanted to be a senior advisor in the WH working for the American people. No question is "inappropriate" because POTUS is her father. Especially not one about an issue she claims to champion. — Isaac Saul (@Ike_Saul) February 26, 2018

Let's reword the questions to Ivanka:



-Cohen paid $130k to silence Stormy Daniels. Was there coordination with Trump campaign?

-National Enquirer paid $150k to silence Karen McDougal. Was there coordination with Trump campaign?



Can you forward to @IvankaTrump? She blocked me. https://t.co/OUg2iFvNBM — Ted Lieu (@tedlieu) February 26, 2018

Ivanka Trump said it's “inappropriate” to ask her about the sexual accusations against her father. Would it be more appropriate if we asked you while you sat on his lap like this? pic.twitter.com/VBQTqKepsn — Chelsea Handler (@chelseahandler) February 26, 2018

Ivanka is a grown woman. She's a mother of three. And yet, she keeps playing the "daughter/little girl/ingenue" card. Says a lot about our cultural notions of white womanhood and its associated innocence that it works. #MissingTheObamaDaughtersToo — Ann Olivarius (@AnnOlivarius) February 26, 2018

Ivanka Trump has always been an accomplice to Donald Trump's sexism, and her cowardly attempt to disguise her complicity with familial immunity should come as no surprise. Her feminism is about as real as her hair color. — Lauren Duca (@laurenduca) February 26, 2018

Ivanka Trump now sees the problem with nepotism.



If you don't want to speak about your father, don't work for him. pic.twitter.com/YgEejJERyA — Red T Raccoon (@RedTRaccoon) February 26, 2018

Special Advisor to the President Ivanka Trump says it's inappropriate to ask her about sexual allegations against the POTUS because he's also her father, with staggering unawareness that it's actually inappropriate that she's Special Advisor to a POTUS who's her father. — Randi Mayem Singer (@rmayemsinger) February 27, 2018

Ivanka Trump can't both work in the White House and play the "I'm just his daughter!" card to avoid hard questions. It's one or the other. — Pat Garofalo (@Pat_Garofalo) February 26, 2018

John Kelly has grown increasingly frustrated with Ivanka, and often feels that she tries to have it both ways — acting as a senior adviser when it suits her and a daughter when it doesn't. He has remarked privately that she is just "playing government.” https://t.co/Plx3EMDR4A — Kaitlan Collins (@kaitlancollins) February 27, 2018

"Fair enough, Ivanka, you choose to believe your father. Then I gather you take him at his word he just kisses. Doesn't even wait. That he can do anything. Grab 'em by the pussy. He can do anything?" — Amanda Guinzburg (@Guinz) February 27, 2018Angela Bassett plays Ramonda, Wakanda's queen mother. Albert L. Ortega via Getty Images

Warning: This story contains spoilers for “Black Panther.”

Wakandan Queen Mother Angela Bassett may have some some tea to spill about the plot of a “Black Panther” sequel.

Walking the red carpet at the American Black Film Festival Honors on Sunday, Bassett, who plays Ramonda in the film, spoke to The Root about what she believes will happen in the next movie.

“I didn’t die,” she said between laughs. “The queen lives.”

The “Black Panther” ending left audiences with more questions than answers. Specifically, the sacred herbs that give the Black Panther his power are all destroyed during Erik Killmonger’s short reign. But Bassett hinted that perhaps Shuri, the princess of Wakanda, will save them all.

“We have no more herb left,” she said. “Shuri will figure it out. My daughter will figure it out.”

Are you ready for a second trip to #Wakanda? @ImAngelaBassett talks Black Panther 2: pic.twitter.com/QpIIyrCTJO — The Root (@TheRoot) February 27, 2018

The theory is a popular one. The movie’s post-credits scene shows Shuri rehabilitating the Winter Soldier, who hasn’t been seen since “Captain America: Civil War” and is rumored to be a huge part of the next Avengers movie. This short moment also suggests that Shuri, and the events of “Black Panther,” will be integral to future major Marvel story arcs.

The Marvel superhero movies tell pieces of a continuous storyline set in the Marvel Cinematic Universe and are planned years in advance. “Black Panther” falls within the Phase 3 arc. Phase 4, announced in 2014 with movies scheduled through 2028, will likely include “Black Panther 2.”

“[Black Panther] has been around for more than half a century in the comic books and there are many, many stories to tell,” Marvel Studios President Keith Feige told Variety earlier this month.

He also revealed that he wants director Ryan Coogler to return for a sequel. And the film’s record-breaking success at the box office should remove any doubt that there will be a sequel.

Bassett summed up the overall emotions around the new franchise.SAUL LOEB via Getty Images

Former Attorney General Loretta Lynch believes the spirit of the civil rights era still lives in today’s movements.

Lynch, who in 2015 became the first black woman to serve as the Department of Justice head, was honored on Thursday at New York City Mayor Bill de Blasio’s Black History Month celebration at the Museum of Natural History.

The North Carolina native told HuffPost that it’s impossible to look at groups like Black Lives Matter or campaigns like #MeToo ― originally created by Tarana Burke ― without acknowledging their forebears.

“They are important because of their singular contribution to black history ... but they’re also important because they reflect the continuity of the African-American experience,” Lynch said. “If you look back at the civil rights movement, the images that galvanized the country and the world were the images of police dogs and firehouses on youth.”

She said it was strategic that the folks putting in the groundwork during the civil rights movement were young.

“In many ways, [it was] because their parents were not able to risk losing employment,” she said. “But also because the image of young people is an image of hope, it’s an image of the future. So I think that that particular structure has been something that has meant a lot to the African-American community.”

Lynch said that other groups today who aren’t aren’t primarily black have adopted the model of young people resisting. She stressed that she’s proud of the teens who have been “lending and raising their voices so eloquently” in the fight for gun reform in the aftermath of the Parkland, Florida, school shooting.

She said that spirit is what fueled her in the Obama administration to seek and pursue justice for those who desperately deserve but rarely see it.

“I think that everyone has an obligation to frankly, in my view, look beyond just what you do for yourself and see what you can do for your community,” said Lynch. “I’ve been very fortunate in my career, been able to do a lot of things that are important to me, cause I view the role of a prosecutor as the role of a protector in the community.”

“It isn’t always seen that way, so it’s very important for me to try and make that the image that I portrayed,” she continued. “So that other young people who might be looking into law, particularly young African-American men and women would see that they too can actually shape the laws and shape the policies that impact our community and the country so deeply.”

During her time as attorney general, Lynch was an advocate of fighting for justice for communities of color. In 2015, she launched an investigation into the Chicago Police Department following the death of Laquan McDonald, and also called for the collection of data use of force by police nationwide.

Lynch, who is living black history, expressed that even if the current administration doesn’t recognize the works and efforts of black people in February, it’s important for African-Americans to uphold their glory themselves.To coincide with women’s history month, Johnnie Walker has announced a new limited U.S. edition with a feminine twist on their iconic logo, part of an attempt to garner more female whisky drinkers.

Introducing Jane Walker, our new icon that celebrates progress in Women’s Rights. With every step, we all move forward. pic.twitter.com/1YP32odgJk — Johnnie Walker (@JohnnieWalkerUS) February 26, 2018

Jane Walker dons the label of the new bottles in a move that brand owner Diageo Plc hopes will widen the appeal of the product while celebrating women, Johnnie Walker Vice President Stephanie Jacoby told Bloomberg.

“Scotch as a category is seen as particularly intimidating by women,” Jacoby said. “It’s a really exciting opportunity to invite women into the brand.”

In 2016, the company launched “Keep Walking America” ― a campaign designed to broaden its audience and target groups like Latinos and veterans. Jane Walker is acting as an extension of that campaign and will appear on 250,000 bottles nationwide starting in March.

In celebration of Women's History Month, @johnniewalker_ is introducing Jane Walker, "a female iteration of the brand's iconic Striding Man logo."



Johnnie Walker Black Label The Jane Walker Edition will be sold starting in March pic.twitter.com/OkzbS03MEL — Dom Proto (@Dom_Proto) February 26, 2018

For each bottle made, Diageo will donate a dollar to organizations that promote women, including Monumental Women and She Should Run.West Virginia Gov. Jim Justice (R) told his state’s striking teachers they “need to be back in the classroom” as he spoke at a series of town halls on Monday.

Speaking and taking questions in Wheeling, Martinsburg and Morgantown throughout the day, Justice urged the state’s educators to end their strike Tuesday and promised he’d establish a task force in the next seven to 10 days to look into some of their concerns.

“I love you … but I’m not happy with you. You should be appreciative of where you are,” Justice said to teachers in Wheeling.

“You need to be back in the classroom,” he said. “The kids need to be back in the classroom.”

The comments come days after Justice faced criticisms that he’s missing in action at the state Capitol. His administration has denied a Freedom of Information Act request to view his calendars and appointment books.

The teachers will continue their strike on Tuesday, despite Justice’s request, union leaders announced at a Monday rally at the Capitol.

West Virginia’s 20,000 teachers have been on strike since Thursday, after Justice offered them a 2 percent pay increase starting this summer, followed by 1 percent increases in 2020 and 2021. But the teachers, who ranked 48th in teacher pay across the U.S. in 2016, say that’s not enough to cover their rising costs of living. Many teachers have reported that they’ve had to take second jobs and yet still live paycheck-to-paycheck with their current salaries.

Another major concern is that premiums for the state’s employee health plan will rise next year if the state doesn’t fill a $39 million shortfall.

“In West Virginia, we know they weren’t known for having high salaries, but they were known for good health insurance,” Don Scalise, a government and history teacher at Cabell Midland High School, told HuffPost last week. “That used to be something to attract people. Now that’s eroding.”

Justice said at the town halls Monday that his task force would try to address the insurance issue.

He also said he’d like to hold a special session to look into raising the severance tax on oil and gas producers in the state by 2.5 percent, something both sides agree could cover better pay and benefits for teachers, he said. That higher tax could be added as a condition in a bill currently moving through the state’s legislature.

Justice also caught flak for his choice of opening words during the town hall at Spring Mills High School in Martinsburg.Hundreds took to the streets in Tel Aviv, Israel, and other cities worldwide this week to protest the Israeli military killing dozens of Palestinians demonstrating on the Gaza border.

Dozens more people have protested around the world early this week, including in the United States, the United Kingdom, Belgium, Canada and South Africa.

“People, you could see, were deeply angry with the current situation,” Alon-Lee Green, national director of the Israeli activist group Standing Together, which organized the protests in Tel Aviv, told HuffPost late on Tuesday. More than 600 protesters blocked roads in the city center for over two hours, he said.

“Yesterday in Israel all day, the TV news just showed a split screen: Half of it was from the shootings in Gaza, and the number of casualties was increasing by the minute. And then in the other half was [Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin] Netanyahu and Ivanka Trump, literally drinking champagne in the U.S. Embassy opening,” Green added. “It was surreal and frustrating.”

That's how King George Street in Tel Aviv looking right now. We're hundreds here, protesting the killing in #Gaza, the US embassy move and demanding the end of the occupation. @IfNotNowOrg @omdimbeyachad pic.twitter.com/Hm9YKP8qye — Alon-Lee Green (@AlonLeeGreen) May 15, 2018

On Monday, first daughter and presidential adviser Ivanka Trump and her husband Jared Kushner commemorated the official relocation of the U.S. Embassy in Israel from Tel Aviv to Jerusalem ― a controversial decision her father, U.S. President Donald Trump, made in December.

As thousands of Palestinians protested on the Gaza border 40 miles away, Israeli forces opened fire, killing dozens of protesters, including many young people. As the protests continued on Tuesday, the Israeli military killed at least two more Palestinians.

The Gaza protests were part of “The Great March of Return” ― weeks of demonstrations running from late March until the annual Nakba Day on May 15, which commemorates the displacement of Palestinians when the state of Israel was created in 1948.

Since the protests began, Israeli forces have killed more than 100 Palestinians, according to the Palestinian Health Ministry, sparking international outrage, particularly over the deaths of unarmed protesters and journalists.

International leaders condemned the deadly violence in Gaza this week, with more than a dozen members of the U.N. Security Council denouncing Israel’s “excessive use of force against unarmed civilians” on Tuesday.

The Israeli military said Monday in a statement that some protesters “hurled firebombs and explosive devices at the security fence and Israeli troops.” Israel has also said that it was defending its border against the militant group Hamas, which controls Gaza and which the U.S. considers a terrorist group, saying Hamas has attempted attacks during the protests.

On Monday, the White House also blamed Hamas, with spokesman Raj Shah saying “the responsibility for these tragic deaths rests squarely with Hamas.”

A handful of U.S. lawmakers nonetheless condemned the violence, including Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.) who noted the “staggering toll” of the dead.

“Hamas violence does not justify Israel firing on unarmed protesters,” Sanders said.

For Immediate Release | ON THE DAY TRUMP MOVES AMERICAN EMBASSY TO JERUSALEM, AND DEADLIEST DAY FOR PALESTINIANS SINCE 2014, 150 YOUNG JEWS AND RABBINICAL STUDENTS SHUT DOWN BUSY D.C. INTERSECTION FOR TWO HOURS. #EmbassyOfFreedomhttps://t.co/vqgSpUxKh6 pic.twitter.com/8LHtoMCfID — IfNotNow (@IfNotNowOrg) May 14, 2018

Some of the protests this week in cities like Washington, D.C. and Cape Town, South Africa, had initially been planned over the controversial relocation of the U.S. Embassy or to mark the 70th anniversary of Nakba on Tuesday. But in the wake of Monday’s deadly violence, they morphed into demonstrations against Israel’s excessive use of force.

At a protest on Monday in the U.S. capital that was organized by the Jewish left-wing activist group If Not Now, about 150 people blocked the street near the Trump International Hotel. The group had organized the action weeks ago to respond to the embassy move, but the protest took on a different tone as demonstrators learned of the mounting death toll in Gaza, which was “really horrific,” an organizer said.

“As American Jews, we see Netanyahu saying he speaks for all Jews, and we’re saying that’s not true,” volunteer organizer Sarah Brammer-Shlay told HuffPost on Tuesday, saying actions in Israel were “pushed by our government.”

“This can’t be a community that supports violence and occupation,” she said.

See what protests around the world looked like:

Israel

Now: 500 demonstrators blocking Tel Aviv road in protest against Gaza killings and siege pic.twitter.com/2okqu6yjkh — Haggai Matar (@Ha_Matar) May 15, 2018

Our protest escalates not only in Tel-Aviv, but also in West Jerusalem: We are marching from the Prime Minister's residence to the US Consulate. We will defy @netanyahu and @realDonaldTrump as they try to deepen the Occupation, and allow mass shooting to take place in #Gaza. pic.twitter.com/WZn20Skwti — עומדים ביחד نقف معًا (@omdimbeyachad) May 15, 2018

RIGHT NOW. hundreds of Israelis blocking the street in central Tel Aviv in protest of IDF killings in Gaza #Nakbah70 #GreatRetunMarch pic.twitter.com/8Pya8u4Mgj — Simone Zimmerman (@simonerzim) May 15, 2018

The United States

Yesterday afternoon, a few hundred New Yorkers staged a solidarity rally in support of Palestinians #Naqba70 The mood was sombre but tough and resilient: pic.twitter.com/PDduuPUuJk — Azad Essa (@azadessa) May 15, 2018

Huge crowd walking down Market St in San Francisco in support of Palestinian #RightOfReturn #Nakba70 pic.twitter.com/rqihsqaowj — JVP Bay Area (@JVPBayArea) May 16, 2018

The United Kingdom

"Israel is a nuclear state. Israel: stop this brutality, stop the killing, and end your illegal occupation." Kate Hudson addresses Downing Street protest. #StopTheKilling #Gaza pic.twitter.com/Db5TipfLFX — CND (@CNDuk) May 15, 2018

South Africa

Demonstrations in support of #Palestine in South Africa, as Cape Town friends march to parliament to mark Nakba Day, 15the,May, and support the Great March of Return Campaign and protest Israel's massacre of more than 60 unarmed Gazans and thousands of injuries. pic.twitter.com/eymEuCmh1S — Hala Zaqqout (@HalaZaqqout) May 15, 2018

Canada

A protest is happening right now in front of the #Halifax Public Gardens. Participants are calling on #Israel to “stop the massacre in Gaza.” pic.twitter.com/sG5Q9qV4y5 — Steve Silva (@SteveCSilva) May 15, 2018

Palestinian supporters are seen during a demo on Spring Garden Rd, the rally was held to mark the 70 years of "al Nakba" and to also protest the scores of dead and injured Palestinian demonstrators at the hands of Israeli defence forces in Gaza, Monday. #Halifax @chronicleherald pic.twitter.com/od0xgivDPN — tim krochak (@real_timbophoto) May 15, 2018

BelgiumWASHINGTON ― The reaction to the mass shooting at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Florida, followed a familiar arc: GOP leaders offered thoughts and prayers. The media profiled fallen victims. Democrats urged action on the same gun safety bills they’ve been pushing for years. Republicans said none of their ideas would work.

But then the script veered off course.

Teenage survivors, angry and emotional, got in front of cameras and demanded changes to the country’s gun laws. They denounced the National Rifle Association and lawmakers who take its money as the cause of inaction. They amassed tens of thousands of followers on social media. Instead of news coverage dropping off, it actually stayed on the teens as they pushed for reforms in a primetime televised town hall meeting and a listening session with President Donald Trump at the White House.

By the end of that meeting, Trump promised action on gun background checks and called for banning bump stocks, which are attachments that enable a semiautomatic rifle to fire faster.

Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School student Cameron Kasky addresses fellow students after participating in a nationwide school walkout to protest inaction on gun violence. RHONA WISE via Getty Images

Even some GOP lawmakers who have long opposed gun control measures suddenly had a change of heart. And companies that had partnerships with the NRA raced to cut ties.

Could it be that this time ― this time ― something is different?

Gun control advocates say they see a strong new voting bloc emerging in the wake of the Parkland shooting, a cadre of people ready to wield political influence just as gun rights supporters have in the past. That bloc includes the millions of young people who have grown up in the post-Columbine era. It includes the millions more parents who fear a devastating replay at their child’s school. And for the moment, it includes teenagers who don’t understand why their friends were just shot to death at school, and why nobody is doing anything to prevent it from happening again.

“People are fed up,” said Andrew Patrick, media director for the Coalition to Stop Gun Violence. “If you were a freshman or a sophomore in [Parkland] high school, you would have been in elementary school when Sandy Hook happened. They have grown up with tragedy…. They are saying we are tired of it, and if you are not voting for our interests in keeping us safe, we will vote you out.”

Parkland school shooting survivor Samuel Zief joined Nicole Hockley, whose child was killed in the Sandy Hook Elementary School shooting in 2012, at a White House listening session on gun violence with President Donald Trump. MANDEL NGAN via Getty Images

Growing Up With School Shootings

It’s been 19 years since the mass shooting at Columbine High School in Colorado that left 12 students and one teacher dead. The massacre stunned the nation, yet now, it’s not even in the top ten deadliest shootings in modern U.S. history. Indeed, four of the five deadliest gun rampages were in the past year and a half.

Momentum is certainly with gun reform advocates. After the 2012 shooting at Sandy Hook Elementary School in Connecticut, which left 20 children and six adults dead, tens of thousands of women signed up for Moms Demand Action for Gun Sense in America, now part of Everytown for Gun Safety. The 2016 mass shooting at Pulse, a gay club in Florida, propelled LGBTQ groups into the movement. Now the Parkland shooting is bringing in young people who have grown up with active shooter drills as a part of life.

“We know that voters are partially motivated by what feels personal to them,” said Isabelle James, political director at Giffords, the gun violence prevention group former Rep. Gabby Giffords (D-Ariz.) launched after surviving a gunshot to the head in 2011.

“When kids feel like their elected leaders are prioritizing gun lobby interests over their safety, that feels personal,” she said. “These high school students are the next generation of voters, and they have an incredible opportunity to shape where the politics of this issue is going.”

“When kids feel like their elected leaders are prioritizing gun lobby interests over their safety, that feels personal.” - Isabelle James, political director at Giffords

Gun control groups are seizing on the Parkland shooting to generate action. In a week’s time, more than 450,000 people signed a Giffords pledge vowing to only support candidates who back “common sense” gun reforms. The group raised $1.3 million in the same period. Everytown gained 1.5 million new online supporters, and took out a two-page ad in The New York Times listing members of Congress who have taken NRA money and how to contact their offices. HuffPost tweeted about it on a whim that day, and the tweet went viral.

The Parkland shooting has also, at least temporarily, affected how people say they plan to vote in upcoming elections. A Friday Marist poll found that 85 percent of registered voters said a candidate’s position on gun legislation will influence their vote. Notably, 77 percent of that group said gun laws must be strengthened. A Quinnipiac University National Poll conducted last week found that Democrats are more than twice as likely as Republicans to say guns will be a litmus-test issue for them.

The NRA Still Runs The Show

But the energy of the past two weeks is a blip compared to the grip the NRA has had on the gun debate for decades. Scholars of gun politics say gun safety advocates are still nowhere near leveling the playing field with gun rights groups, politically speaking.

“The NRA has 5.5 times the budget revenues as the four top national gun control groups combined,” said Kristin Goss, a professor of public policy at Duke University and co-author of Disarmed: The Missing Movement for Gun Control in America. “They are excellent at mobilizing citizen participation. They have way more money and way more members. And they have way deeper, longer-standing connections to policy makers.”

The NRA also has a built-in advantage: It’s a hobbyist group.

“People who own guns, who love guns, who engage in gun activities as a hobby have an emotional attachment to those activities,” said Robert Spitzer, a gun policy expert and professor of political science at the State University of New York at Cortland. “For the average American, the gun issue is one on which they have opinions, but it’s not a top tier issue because they don’t have a personal tie to it.”

So far, Democrats have no plans for a national messaging strategy on gun reform in the 2018 election cycle. HuffPost talked to officials who work on Democrats’ House and Senate campaigns, and people in both camps said candidates represent areas that are too geographically and culturally diverse to put forward “a one-size-fits-all” requirement of support for gun control.

“If this is about us speaking to people who already agree with us, we’re going to keep going around this awful circle again and again and again.” - Democratic strategist Chris Kofinis

Some Democratic strategists say their party has been bungling its message on gun control for years, namely because it is failing to engage independent and moderate Republican voters.

“Do you want to move the needle, or do you want to try and do something that politically won’t happen?” said Chris Kofinis, who has worked in academia and in Democratic politics, including for two presidential campaigns, for close to 20 years.

“If this is about us speaking to people who already agree with us, we’re going to keep going around this awful circle again and again and again,” Kofinis said. “I’m going to vote Democratic no matter what, so you’ve got people like me. The question is, can you move some of the moderate Republicans and independents who happen to have guns in their house? … This may be a turning point for us, but is it a turning point for them?”

Gun rights enthusiasts are more politically active than their counterparts, historically ― even though 97 percent of Americans support expanded gun background checks.

Gun control advocates are less likely to contact public officials, and an October Gallup poll found that conservative voters are nine points more likely to say they would only vote for a candidate who shares their views on guns. People who own guns are also more likely than non-gun-owners to only support candidates who share their stance, and to donate to groups that work on gun policy.

Gun Reform Groups Have Their Eyes On November

But those stats are up against the grim reality that mass shootings are on the rise in America. Groups like Giffords and Everytown say that tragically, their base of supporters will only grow, and point to Virginia’s gubernatorial election in November as proof that a candidate’s position on gun control matters. Exit polling in that race found that voters ranked gun policy second only to health care out of five issues they said mattered the most in deciding how they voted in the race, which Democrat Ralph Northam won.

The two groups are also planning to make gun issues central in a massive push to register high school students to vote. The $1 million voting drive, funded by billionaire Tom Steyer, will focus on districts and states represented by NRA-backed lawmakers.

“Four million 17-year-olds turn 18 before the midterms, including my son,” said Shannon Watts, founder of Moms Demand Action. “I’m very hopeful they will vote on this issue.”

Parkland students aren’t letting up, either. They named their new movement “Never Again” and have a policy goal of passing stricter background checks into law. They are planning a national protest in Washington, D.C., on March 24 called March For Our Lives, with local protests happening in cities around the country on the same day. Organizers are expecting up to 500,000 attendees at the D.C. rally, and have reserved 14 Jumbotrons and 2,000 chairs.

It’s a remarkable feat for a group of teenagers, who have pulled this off in under two weeks’ time. But the real test will be if they can sustain this energy through the fall elections.CHARLESTON, W.V. ― When Katie Cole recently missed three days of work due to a medical emergency, her West Virginia school was stretched too thin to provide her classroom with a qualified substitute teacher. Instead, her room full of preschool special-needs children was helmed by a teacher’s aide with the help of a parent.

“We just don’t have enough substitutes,” said Cole, who’s 24 and in her second year of teaching.

Striking teachers with stories like Cole’s have flooded the halls of the West Virginia capitol since last week. Schools across the state have been shut down for three days in an unprecedented show of force by teachers and public employees in all counties. The workers and their unions are demanding more funding for the public employee health plan and raises significant enough to offset several lean years without them.

But in interviews, school employees who traveled from across the state to Charleston said the fight was about much more than their paychecks. West Virginia is one of the few U.S. states with a falling population. As the state grapples with a severe teacher shortage, many educators worry their younger peers will continue to flee for greener pastures, with long-term consequences for successive generations of students.

A series of business tax cuts have left the state with little money to give public servants who’ve been waiting for meaningful raises. West Virginia now ranks 48th out of 50 states and the District of Columbia in teacher pay, and it was one of just five states to see average teacher pay go down in 2016, according to the National Education Association. Of West Virginia’s 55 counties, more than half border a state with better teacher pay. And the state was trying to fill 700 vacant positions as of last spring.

“There’s just no reason to stay here, especially the ones who aren’t married,” said Patty Hamilton, a second-grade teacher with 30 years at the same elementary school. “It’s very sad that this is happening.”

As one protester’s sign outside the capitol succinctly put it, “Country Roads: Leading teachers out of West Virginia.”

Teachers say the pay is too low in West Virginia to keep them in the state. Dave Jamieson/HuffPost

Cole herself is a prime example of what’s at stake. A recent graduate of West Virginia’s Marshall University, she carries around $50,000 in student debt and makes a salary of around $33,000, she said. She wants to earn her master’s degree but fears taking on more loans when legislators balk at 1 and 2 percent raises. She guesses she sinks around $1,000 per year into supplies for her classroom to make up for inadequate funding. Her fiancé believes they have better prospects out of state. What’s kept her in Kanawha County so far is her fidelity to home.

“It’s something you can’t explain to people who aren’t from here,” Cole said.

The feeling among strikers is that the state has milked their love for teaching and for West Virginia as much as it can. While many teachers receive annual increases based on length of service, the state legislature has not granted teachers an across-the-board pay increase since 2014. In the meantime, health care costs have increased, leading take-home pay to decline for some. Long accustomed to modest salaries, many teachers said pay raises are less important to them than stabilizing the Public Employee Insurance Agency, or PEIA.

Without a guarantee to curb health premiums, teachers could still lose out even with statewide pay raises, according to Greg Cruey, a K-8 social studies teacher in McDowell County, along the Virginia border. “They could give me $80 with the left hand and take $130 with the right,” he said.

Cruey said he could earn an additional $10,000 working across the state line in Virginia. He works at a school with 32 teaching positions, nearly a third of which he said are not staffed by a regular teacher. Some classrooms, he added, see four different teachers over the course of a year due to staff shortages and turnover. “The kids are instructional casualties,” he said.

The last time West Virginia schools closed due to a strike was 1990, in a work stoppage that lasted 11 days. While the current walkout was initially scheduled for just last Thursday and Friday, local unions agreed to continue it into this week. Christine Campbell, president of the American Federation of Teachers-West Virginia, told a crowd of thousands in front of the state capitol on Monday that schools would be closed on Tuesday.

Public sector workers in West Virginia do not have collective bargaining rights, and strikes by public employees are illegal. School districts could potentially pursue court injunctions ordering teachers and other employees back to work if the strike continues.

But judging from the honks of support from drivers passing protests and picket lines ― not to mention the considerable number of students who came out to protest at the capitol ― the teachers have a lot of public support behind them. They are gambling that legislators and Republican Gov. Jim Justice will make a satisfactory offer before they begin to lose leverage.

Justice was expected to travel to a handful of counties across the state on Monday, in what unions described as an effort to urge certain districts back to work to weaken the strike. But at publication time, all 55 counties were still onboard according to Kym Randolph, spokeswoman for the West Virginia Education Association.

Among many teachers, there’s a sense that they have little to lose. Paige Muendel, a seventh-grade special education teacher from Morgantown, said her take-home pay has decreased due to rising health care costs. She lives close to the border of Pennsylvania, a state where the average teacher salary is $20,000 higher. So far, she’s resisted looking for a job there, but she doesn’t know how long she could hold out under the status quo.Fox News host Sean Hannity tried to play art critic on Twitter Monday night.

It didn’t go well.

Hannity shared a video of right-wing artist Jon McNaughton, who has painted things like Jesus holding the Constitution, creating his latest work. The piece features a stadium full of people watching President Donald Trump pick up a tattered American flag and appears to reference last season’s NFL protests against police brutality and racism.

“He holds it up to his chest and attempts to clean it with a rag,” explained McNaughton in the video. “And he says, ‘What are you doing?’”

Here’s Hannity’s tweet:

The “left” loves art, and especially taxpayer funded art that is “provocative”. Let’s get their reaction to this. https://t.co/WAVFB1Uqbx. — Sean Hannity (@seanhannity) February 27, 2018

Here are some of the responses he requested:

This is literally the most beautiful thing I’ve ever seen. Thank you for sharing. — Chris Hayes (@chrislhayes) February 27, 2018

The lips of the artist say, "What are you doing?"

The eyes of his subject say, "Where am I? What's happening?" — Chris Galford (@Aurinth) February 27, 2018

The “left” loves art, and especially taxpayer funded art that is “provocative”. Let’s get their reaction to this. pic.twitter.com/F4ex36kMcc — Patrick Monahan (@pattymo) February 27, 2018

Gorgeous! Very interesting, complex & diverse! This art deserves to be in The Louvre! SO SO GOOD! Wish I could eat it !!!! — Alexis Novak (@AlexisGirlNovak) February 27, 2018

To be fair, some of us on the right like art too. pic.twitter.com/UXLnAfSjBE — The Reagan Battalion (@ReaganBattalion) February 27, 2018

Looks like the American Flag might have a $130K check from Michael Cohen coming her way. — John Novak (@johnjnovak2) February 27, 2018

The “left” loves art, and especially taxpayer funded art that is “provocative”. Let’s get their reaction to this. pic.twitter.com/7rFjqQdEcl — Carlgoyle Beijer (@CarlBeijer) February 27, 2018

You're hyping the equivalent of collecting clown paintings for guys who get misty-eyed at Shelby Foote interviews. — ee ramone (@bizmarkiedesade) February 27, 2018

tfw you don’t know how to clean a flag pic.twitter.com/0jf0YEHKfG — Sarah (@BookishFeminist) February 27, 2018

You might "reconsider" your "use" of "quotation marks," "genius." — Agent Michael Scarn ... 's Robot Butler (@MichaelOrdona) February 27, 2018

The “left” loves art, and especially taxpayer funded art that is “provocative”. Let’s get their reaction to this. pic.twitter.com/FGHxr7GH4T — scrimjab™ ☕ (@scrimjab) February 27, 2018

He looks disoriented, scared and possibly like he’s had a stroke. This artist is a genius who has captured the true essence of Trump — Neville (@1FightingIrish) February 27, 2018

The “left” loves art, and especially taxpayer funded art that is “provocative”. Let’s get their reaction to this. pic.twitter.com/KcO9s4rZL0 — Gerrymandering Adams (@NormsRespecter) February 27, 2018

He’s holding a flag that is in tatters, symbolizing what he and his crew are doing to the country. Art interpretation is fun. — John H (@onomatotwittah) February 27, 2018

i mean seriously sean how did you miss this, your audience deserves better. pic.twitter.com/R2AxkiRM4F — Simply Sçőt ïndrüšik (@teenpartyyyy) February 27, 2018

They drew his cheeseburger all weird like a flag. — Some Random Democrat 🇺🇸 (@darksn4ke) February 27, 2018

The “left” loves art, and especially taxpayer funded art that is “provocative”. Let’s get their reaction to this. pic.twitter.com/OVqymfAruL — danny (@umjammerdanny) February 27, 2018

The only thing that could make that better is if it was painted on black velvet. — Kristina Hole (@krishole) February 27, 2018

New John McNaughton painting: “Bewildered Old Man Wanders On To a Football Field Carrying His Blanket” (2018) pic.twitter.com/OfYMn1FeqA — c a i t l i n🌹 (@hello__caitlin) February 27, 2018

a flag in that condition should be burned, and it's a really poor likeness of Trump. the skin tone is all wrong--it actually looks like skin https://t.co/Lvb0fZ8z1M — Peter Bright 👨‍⚕️🍕 (@DrPizza) February 27, 2018

The “left” loves art, and especially taxpayer funded art that is “provocative”. Let’s get their reaction to this. pic.twitter.com/kgAbI2QwqX — Hubert Vigilla (@HubertVigilla) February 27, 2018Oh, baby.

By all accounts, the most recent episode of “Walking Dead” was tragic (RIP Carl). But something about it bothered us even more than the loss of the younger Grimes (Chandler Riggs).

In the Season 8 midseason premiere on Sunday, Carl enjoyed a touching moment with his sister Judith (Chloe and Sophia Garcia-Frizzi), saying goodbye before his inevitable death from a zombie bite. He gave her his signature hat and told her that owning it was like having a part of their father with them at all times. Then he shared a few last words:

Before mom died, she told me that I was gonna beat this world.

Oh, God, we’re gonna start tearing up.

I didn’t.

No, please, Carl. Just stop.

But you will.

This is too much.

I know you will.

It’s an emotional moment from Carl.

AMC

Rick (Andrew Lincoln) was shook.

AMC

But Judith ... couldn’t really care less?

AMC

Nope. Judith grew up in the apocalypse and clearly doesn’t have time for this wishy-washy nonsense. Girl’s got ice in her veins.

So when it came time to cry, Judith just ... didn’t. Oh, it might have looked like she cried ― to a casual viewer. In fact, a lot of people tweeted praise for the moment.

But if you watched the scene closely, you could see that Judith was looking pretty content the whole time. That painfully obvious crying sound effect that you heard when she reached out her arm and conveniently covered her mouth ― yeah, that was production trickery.

And once you see the farce, you can’t unsee it.

Cut to seconds later, when Judith is turned away from the camera in Daryl’s (Norman Reedus) arms, continuing to look like she’s not crying at all.

I wasn’t buying the fake tears, and neither were many on Twitter.

Welcome to Baby-Gate.

Can we talk about the fake crying sound piped in for a perfectly calm looking Judith please!?!?!? #TWD pic.twitter.com/riX6DiX7uN — Charlie Flood (@cflood03) February 26, 2018

Is it me? Or is the writing horrible? They tried to be funny? And really, Judith doesn't know Carl's gonna die--what's up with her fake crying? #TheWalkingDead #carldeservesbetter — EddiewithoneD (@edie_enriquez) February 26, 2018

Worst fake cry ever goes to Judith #TheWalkingDeadUK — Gaz Walmsley (@gazwalmsley) February 26, 2018

im pissing myself, the part with judith where they used a voice over cry HJKDHJKHJDHJKDHJK — dani (@rickgrimest) February 26, 2018

Judith’s fake tears...they spend infinite amounts of money on this show and they couldn’t make her cries more realistic? The fuck. #TheWalkingDead pic.twitter.com/wGPnDRLiE8 — Forever Lovestruck (@theLOVE_Diaries) February 26, 2018

Like many fans stated, the tears weren’t convincing. Also, the sound effect that production gave Judith was less a cry and more a painful squeal, like when Jonathan Taylor Thomas made the sound of a dying rabbit to attract bears in the 1997 movie “Wild America.”

For Judith to go from relatively chill to making guttural animal noises is about as believable as when that moose showed up and JTT ended up riding on its head.

So be careful, Carl. After that Judith cry, moose could be afoot.

To get to the bottom of Baby-Gate, I posed the question to Chandler Riggs himself. Since I saw the episode ahead of airtime, I asked the star during a conference call prior to the midseason premiere: “So, was Judith actually crying in that scene?”

Riggs, who was happy with how the scene turned out, told us, “They are babies, so they cry a lot no matter what,” referring to the young actors on set.

“I’m pretty sure what they ended up doing is just like editing in a part where [Chloe or Sophia Garcia-Frizzi] was actually just crying during the scene because she wanted her mom and parts where she wasn’t crying because she was content at the time.”

Perhaps the sound effect we heard was an actual recording of the child actor. Perhaps it was not. But this is not the face of someone who’s crying.

AMC

That’s the face of a stone-cold zombie killer who doesn’t have time for your B.S.

Ultimately, Judith is played by toddlers, so obviously producers had their hands tied. You’re not going to try to upset a child just to make them cry. Right? That’d be even more disturbing than some of the stuff that happens on “The Walking Dead,” a show where one character just ripped another’s guts out.

All we’re saying is, if Judith wasn’t feeling a cry in the scene, she wasn’t feeling a cry! Production should’ve just let her do her thing. After all, Daryl didn’t cry. He didn’t even hug Carl, which Riggs told us he didn’t mind because Daryl’s not “much of a hugger.”

AdvertisementRep. Ben Ray Luján (D-N.M.) is chairman of the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee, which elects House Democrats. Tom Williams/Getty Images

The morning after the Oct. 1 mass shooting in Las Vegas, a member of the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee’s press staff warned House candidates and their staffs not to “politicize” the shooting that day. Politicization, according to the DCCC official, included talking about gun violence prevention policy.

“You and your candidate will be understandably outraged and upset, as will your community. However, DO NOT POLITICIZE IT TODAY,” DCCC regional press secretary Evan Lukaske wrote to candidates in the Northeast. “There will be time for politics and policy discussion, but any message today should be on offering thoughts/prayers for victims and their families, and thanking 1st responders who saved lives.”

The email, seen in its entirety below, reflects the careful balance that Democrats have tried to strike as they strive to advance modest gun safety regulations and shield candidates in swing districts from the political price that could accompany comments about guns.

HuffPost

But the cautious approach in Lukaske’s email is increasingly out of touch with what many party members, as well as gun violence prevention activists, would like to see from politicians ― especially in the wake of the recent deadly shooting at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Florida. Many of the surviving Parkland students waited almost no time before beginning to agitate for different gun policies, sparking a movement that has captivated the country.

Gun violence prevention activists said they were disappointed the DCCC was advising candidates not to aggressively talk about policy solutions as often as possible. Ladd Everitt, director of the gun violence prevention group One Pulse for America, described the DCCC email as “pathetic.” Mark Glaze, senior adviser to the group Guns Down, said it was “straight out of the NRA’s talking points.”

“If the DCCC is willing to give up a key issue and offend virtually every Democrat so as not to bother eight Independents in rural Missouri, they’re even more incompetent than we thought, and Democrats should be very worried about the midterms,” Glaze said.

Several Democratic lawmakers have taken to mocking the traditional practice of sending gun violence victims “thoughts and prayers” without any follow-up of policy solutions.

Sen. Chris Murphy (D-Conn.), who became a leading advocate of greater gun regulations after the 2012 massacre at Sandy Hook Elementary School, wasted no time after the Las Vegas massacre calling for greater action to prevent gun violence.

“To my colleagues: your cowardice to act cannot be whitewashed by thoughts and prayers,” he tweeted a few hours after Lukaske’s email went out.

Asked about the email on Tuesday, Murphy emphasized that it was a message from “one staffer.”

Still, he added, “No Democrat should be worried about talking about policy changes in the wake of these mass shootings.”

Former Democratic Congresswoman Gabby Giffords and her husband, retired Navy Capt. Mark Kelly, “led by example” the day after the Las Vegas shooting by demanding congressional action on the steps of the U.S. Capitol the day after it occurred, noted Katie Peters, of the former congresswoman’s group Giffords: Courage to Fight Gun Violence. (Giffords became a more aggressive gun regulation advocate after being gravely wounded in a 2011 mass shooting.)

“Following the tragedy in Parkland, we’ve seen the students show incredible leadership in demanding more than thoughts and prayers from their elected officials,” Peters said.

Meredith Kelly, the DCCC’s communications director, emphasized that Lukaske’s message was intended to discourage hasty responses before all information about the shooting was known, rather than silence opinions about gun policy. It was also general advice that candidates were free to ignore.

“A communications staffer who fails to provide immediate and thoughtful guidance after a national tragedy, based on the best available information at the time, is not doing his job,” Kelly said.

The DCCC would not say whether it sent candidates similar guidance after the Parkland shooting. However, Kelly said the group, which is responsible for getting Democrats elected to the House, continues to caution candidates to consider their words carefully in the immediate aftermath of major national tragedies.

The revelation that the DCCC advised candidates to avoid “politicizing” the Las Vegas shooting occurs as the House campaign arm struggles to fend off progressive criticism of its electoral strategy, particularly through its involvement in primary elections.

Waleed Shahid is a spokesman for the left-leaning Justice Democrats, which backs a variety of candidates, including some the DCCC opposes. He called Lukaske’s email “a slap in the face to the movement” against gun violence.

“Politics is exactly how people come together to make change and hold those in power accountable,” he said.