“Your children mean the world to me, and I’m heartbroken that my thoughtless remark has caused disruption to the hard work underway here at Ponderosa. Here in our community, we had a hard year with Hurricane Harvey, and the damage it caused to a large part of our neighborhood. I was so proud of the unity seen in this community during the recovery efforts.

“Please know that the same commitment and drive that I had to make things right for our children after the storm, I have today as I work to make things right now with both staff and parents.

“I am truly sorry for the comment I made. It does not in any way reflect the love and care I have for the students of Ponderosa.”Wolf’s routine came under fire from President Donald Trump and his supporters who didn’t appreciate her cracks aimed at the administration, in particular her jokes about White House press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders.

But Chappelle wasn’t having it.

“I don’t know who those people think they are that she can’t say that to them because they offend people all the time,” he told PBS NewsHour. “For many people, it’s cathartic to watch that woman speak truth to power like that.”

He said the routine was “grounded in her truth” and that he respected Wolf’s artistry.

“I know how hard it is to do what she did in front of that lame-ass crowd,” he said.This story has been updated with video from Monday’s meeting and new information about what took place there.

At a roundtable with the nation’s top educators on Monday afternoon, at least one teacher told Education Secretary Betsy DeVos that her favored policies are having a negative effect on public schools, HuffPost has learned. HuffPost has also obtained video of DeVos expressing disapproval of the teachers strikes currently roiling Arizona.

DeVos met privately with more than 50 teachers who had been named 2018 teachers of the year in their states. As part of the discussion, teachers were asked to describe some of the obstacles they face at their jobs and were given the opportunity to ask the education secretary questions.

Jon Hazell, Oklahoma’s teacher of the year, told DeVos that school choice policies are draining traditional public schools of resources in his state. He specifically referenced charter schools and private schools in voucher programs, Hazell told HuffPost. His comment received support from other teachers in the room.

But Hazell, a Republican who voted for President Donald Trump, said he found DeVos’ responses to his concerns unsatisfactory.

DeVos told Hazell that students might be choosing these schools to get out of low-performing public schools, he said.

“I said, ‘You’re the one creating the ‘bad’ schools by taking all the kids that can afford to get out and leaving the kids who can’t behind,’” Hazell said he told DeVos in response. (Hazell said he was not referring to DeVos specifically as creating the “bad” schools but to school choice policies generally.)

The centerpiece of DeVos’ education agenda involves expanding school choice policies. Before entering the White House, she spent years advocating for these programs and pouring money into the cause.

Brian McDaniel, California’s teacher of the year, confirmed Hazell’s version of events. He described the two as nearly engaging in a “verbal sparring session” and said DeVos’ staffers looked eager to take Hazell’s mic away, although they never did. Tara Bordeaux, Texas’ teacher of the year, said Hazell’s line of questioning hit on the concerns of “a lot of educators right now.”

At one point during the event, DeVos talked about how traditional public schools and charter schools should be thought of as parts of the same public school system, a comment that irked educators in the room because the two types of school are managed differently and subject to different rules and regulations. Charter schools are publicly funded but often privately operated. Melissa Romano, Montana’s teacher of the year, and McDaniel said they believed DeVos was including voucher programs in that statement. Voucher programs provide children with publicly funded scholarships to private schools.

“That was a shocker to all the teachers in the room,” Hazell, a science teacher of 35 years, told HuffPost.

“For her to say at the ‘expense of children’ was a very profound moment and one I’ll remember forever, because that is so far from what is happening.” - Melissa Romano, Montana’s teacher of the year

Overall, both Hazell and McDaniel said, DeVos was a friendly, attentive listener who was respectful of the teachers’ opinions. They said teachers also remained respectful in their critiques. However, both said they left the meeting immensely disappointed.

McDaniel, a music teacher, initially had high hopes for the meeting. After he pressed DeVos for more support for music education, she expressed support for the subject and said she would look into providing more backing for the arts.

“If I would have left the room right then and there, that would have been probably the greatest moment of my life as an educator,” McDaniel said. “Things slowly started to erode, though.”

DeVos also expressed opposition to teachers going on strike for more education funding, per video of the meeting obtained by HuffPost. DeVos made her comments after Josh Meibos, Arizona’s teacher of the year, asked her about when striking teachers will be listened to. In response, DeVos told Meibos that she “cannot comment specifically to the Arizona situation,” but that she hopes “adults would take their disagreements and solve them not at the expense of kids and their opportunity to go to school and learn.”

“I’m very hopeful there will be a prompt resolution there,” DeVos can be heard saying in the video. “I hope that we can collectively stay focused on doing what’s right for individual students and supporting parents in that decision-making process as well. And there are many parents that want to have a say in how and where their kids pursue their education, too.”

She continued, “I just hope we’re going to be able to take a step back and look at what’s ultimately right for the kids in the long term.”

DeVos has an intensely fraught relationship with teachers unions, and her family has a long history of working against organized labor.

Meibos had protested last Friday with other Arizona teachers, many of whom are on strike over issues related to education funding and teacher salaries. The idea of his fellow teachers protesting while he was meeting with the U.S. secretary of education weighed on him.

“It was disappointing not to hear language about supporting teachers,” Meibos said. “It didn’t go in that direction.”

Other teachers in the room found DeVos’ response similarly disappointing.

“She basically said that teachers should be teaching and we should be able to solve our problems not at the expense of children,” Romano said. “For her to say at the ‘expense of children’ was a very profound moment and one I’ll remember forever, because that is so far from what is happening.”

DeVos took questions for about 30 minutes. Not all teachers had the opportunity to have questions answered.

Representatives from the Department of Education did not respond to requests for comment. The White House is slated to hold a formal reception for the states’ teachers of the year on Wednesday.The tiger cub found at the border in a duffel bag and in poor condition is now under the care of our veterinary staff. Our team acted quickly to stabilize him and he is now doing very well. The next step will be to find him a more permanent home.

Photo credit: Jason Hoekema pic.twitter.com/suu0w621WzUnprecedented levels of Islamophobia and heightened anti-Muslim rhetoric are so rampant that some Muslims are internalizing and accepting problematic stereotypes about themselves, according to a newly released report by the Institute for Social Policy and Understanding.

The study found that Muslims are more likely than members of other faiths to agree with the sentiment that their community is “more prone to negative behavior than other people” — at 30 percent, compared with 13 percent of Jews and 12 percent of Catholics.

“One of the most important and surprising findings we got in this study was the degree to which Muslims have themselves internalized negative stereotypes about their own community. That does underscore the power of the media and political rhetoric that day in and day out paints a narrative of Muslims in a certain way, that Muslims themselves are not immune to adopting that idea,” said Dalia Mogahed, the ISPU’s director of research.

Graphic provided by the ISPU

The ISPU’s third annual American Muslim poll surveyed Muslims, Jews, Catholics, Protestants, white evangelicals and those who are nonaffiliated and compared attitudes across the groups. The report includes the ISPU’s first Islamophobia index, created in partnership with Georgetown’s Bridge Initiative, which measures different faith and nonfaith groups’ endorsement of anti-Muslim rhetoric.

Internalizing racism involves “ingesting, often subconsciously, acceptance of the dominant society’s stereotype of one’s ethnic group,” according to a similar study conducted by the Yaqeen Institute for Islamic Research in 2016, “Exploring the Faith and Identity Crisis of American Muslim Youth.” The report corroborates the ISPU’s findings and documents the effects of Islamophobic rhetoric on the religious identity and perceptions of Muslim youths. The study found that 1 in 3 children surveyed wanted to tell others that they are Muslim and that 1 in 2 did not know whether they could be both Muslim and American.

Measuring internalized racism dates back to an infamous doll test conducted in 1947 to study the psychological effects of segregation on African-American children using black and white dolls. There have been few formal studies conducted since then, but the phenomenon has been well documented with other minority groups, including Latinos and Jews.

In fact, the new ISPU study found that Muslims and Jews were among the most likely — at 62 and 59 percent, respectively — to feel ashamed of violence committed by fellow members of their faith.

Muslims’ internalization of negative stereotypes about their community can be traced to disproportionate negative coverage of Muslims in mainstream media, according to the ISPU, a nonprofit with offices in Dearborn, Michigan, and Washington, D.C.

Graphic provided by the ISPU

A separate study conducted by the ISPU last month found that Muslims accused of plotting violence get seven times as much media attention and sentences four times as long as non-Muslim plotters.

“It’s the combination of disproportionate media coverage and Muslims being much more focused on that kind of media coverage that explains the fact that Muslims themselves have internalized this very stereotype [of being prone to violence,]” Mogahed said.

The report also found that those who scored higher on the Islamophobia index were associated with greater support for President Donald Trump’s travel bans and increased surveillance of American mosques. Those groups were also more likely to accept targeting of civilians by military and violent groups.

On a scale from 0 to 100, with 0 the lowest level of prejudice, the report found that on average Muslims scored 17 on the Islamophobia index. By comparison, nonaffiliated respondents came in at 14; Jews and Catholics, 22; the general public, 24; Protestants, 31; and white evangelicals, 40.Harvey Weinstein, seen here in April 2017, has been accused by more than 80 women of a range of sexual misconduct. Gilbert Carrasquillo via Getty Images

A producer on the canceled Netflix show “Marco Polo” has accused disgraced film mogul Harvey Weinstein of repeated sexual assault and abuse over a period of years, according to documents filed with the New York Supreme Court on Monday.

Alexandra Canosa describes at least 11 alleged incidents in the filing, including rape, other unspecified sexual assault, physical assault, verbal threats, forced sex acts and other abuses between 2010 and 2017. Locations included rooms and suites in various hotels, she says, such as Manhattan’s Tribeca Grand Hotel, Beverly Hills’ Peninsula Hotel and Budapest’s Four Seasons Hotel.

Weinstein “made it clear that if she did not succumb to his demands for sexual contact or if she exposed his unwanted conduct there would be retaliation, including humiliation, the loss of her job and loss of any ability to work in the entertainment business,” the filing alleges.

Canosa was formerly employed by The Weinstein Company, led by Weinstein until he stepped down in October.

Dozens of women, working in front of the camera and behind the scenes alike, have leveled accusations against Weinstein, who has become a pariah in Hollywood. Canosa initially filed her suit in December, but has detailed her claims publicly for the first time this week.

The court filing alleges at least one instance of rape. Canosa says Weinstein raped her in Malaysia, where parts of “Marco Polo” were filmed, in May 2014. The series debuted in December of that year.

In August 2017, weeks before The New York Times and The New Yorker would publish a series of damning accusations against the former studio head, Weinstein “verbally threatened” Canosa “not to speak to anyone about his abuse,” the filing alleges.

Echoing the accounts of dozens of other accusers, Canosa says Weinstein ensured that she met with him alone under the pretense of doing work. He allegedly made inappropriate demands, “forcing himself on [her] despite repeated requests to stop,” the filing says.

In a statement provided to Variety, Phyllis Kupferstein, an attorney for Weinstein, said the relationship between Weinstein and Canosa was consensual.

“Ali Canosa was a friend who had worked for The Weinstein Company for 10 years, traveled the world for the company and held several influential roles; overseeing many projects throughout the years,” Kupferstein said in the statement. “From someone who has been thought of as a good friend, involved only in a consensual relationship, these claims are not only mystifying to Mr. Weinstein, but deeply upsetting, and they are not supported by the facts.”

Canosa claims that other defendants named in her suit ― including Harvey Weinstein’s brother, Robert, and several Weinstein Company board members ― were aware of Weinstein’s behavior and did nothing to stop him.

By USA Today’s count, more than 80 women have come forward to accuse Weinstein of sexual misconduct, a blanket term for a range of abuses. He has denied engaging in nonconsensual sex, and is reportedly in and out of treatment for sex addiction and anger management at a facility in Arizona.By James Mackenzie and Rupam Jain

KABUL (Reuters) - Twin blasts in the Afghan capital Kabul killed at least 26 people on Monday, including nine journalists who had arrived to report on the first explosion and were apparently targeted by a suicide bomber, officials said.

The attacks, a week after 60 people were killed as they waited at a voter registration center in the city, underlined mounting insecurity despite repeated government pledges to tighten defenses.

Hours after the attack in Kabul, a suicide bomber in a vehicle attacked a foreign military convoy in the southern province of Kandahar, killing 11 children studying in a nearby religious school, police said.

“These attacks caused untold human suffering to Afghan families,” said Tadamichi Yamamoto, the top U.N. official in Afghanistan.

“I am furthermore outraged by the attack which appears to have deliberately targeted journalists,” he said in a statement.

The attacks in rapid succession were a grim reminder of the strength of both the Taliban and Islamic State’s emerging Afghanistan branch to wreak violence despite stepped up U.S. air attacks under Trump’s new policy for the 16-year-old war.

Taliban militants, fighting to restore their version of strict Islamic law to Afghanistan, announced their usual spring offensive last week and there has been heavy fighting in several areas of the country since.

Police officers help journalists who were injured in the second Kabul blast on Monday, April 30, 2018. Omar Sobhani / Reuters

Islamic State claimed responsibility for the two blasts in the capital, which killed at least 26 people, including four police, and wounded 49 seriously, Hashmat Stanekzai, a senior police official, said.

The Afghan Journalists Safety Committee (AFJSC) said nine journalists were killed in Kabul, the worst toll for media workers in a single attack in the country.

Najib Danish, a spokesman for the interior ministry, said a suicide bomber appeared to have posed as a media worker and blew himself up where reporters and rescue workers had gathered.

“We know that a suicide bomber pretended to be a reporter. He showed his press card and stood among journalists before blowing himself up,” Danish told Reuters.

#UPDATE Agence France-Presse's chief photographer in Kabul, Shah Marai, has been killed.

He died in a blast that was targeting a group of journalists who had rushed to the scene of a suicide attack in the Afghan capital pic.twitter.com/rOa4rg24x9 — AFP news agency (@AFP) April 30, 2018

‘VERY DANGEROUS’ WORKING ENVIRONMENT

Afghanistan was already considered one of the most dangerous countries in the world for journalists, with at least 20 killed last year. Last week, unidentified gunmen shot a journalist in the southern city of Kandahar.

Monday’s attack was the most serious on the Afghan media since 2016, when seven workers for Tolo News were killed in an attack claimed by the Taliban.

Eight of the journalists were from Afghan outlets: two reporters from the Mashal TV, a cameraman and a reporter working for 1TV, three reporters from Radio Azadi and one from Tolo News, the AFJSC said.

The French news agency Agence France-Presse said its chief photographer in Afghanistan, Shah Marai, was killed.

A Reuters photographer was slightly hurt by shrapnel.

“Journalists were doing their job when a suicide bomber killed them, such attacks prove that the working environment is very dangerous now,” said Rahimullah Samandar, a senior member of the AFJSC.

The reporters had arrived to cover the initial blast in the Shashdarak area close to buildings of the National Directorate of Security (NDS) intelligence service and near to the U.S. embassy.

Held back by police, they were waiting some distance away near the Ministry of Urban Development and Housing, when the second explosion went off just as people were entering the government office.

Hundreds of people have been killed and wounded in a series of attacks in Kabul since the beginning of the year, despite President Ashraf Ghani’s offer in February for peace talks “without preconditions”.

In the southern city of Kandahar, where NATO-led forces operate out of a big air base, 11 children were killed and 16 wounded when a suicide bomber drove his explosive-laden van into a foreign-force convoy, police said.

The 11 children who were killed were studying in a nearby madrassa, or religious school, said Matiullah Zhman, a spokesman for Kandahar police. In addition eight members of the NATO-led Resolute Support coalition were wounded, the force said.At least 10 journalists were killed in Afghanistan on Monday, making it the deadliest day on record for those in the field covering the country’s ongoing instability, according to rights groups.

A suicide bomber struck the Afghan capital outside the National Directorate of Security, killing at least 26 people. A second bomber then detonated explosives after reporters and photographers gathered at the scene, according to Reuters, killing nine journalists. The self-described Islamic State claimed responsibility for both.

A tenth journalist was shot dead that day in the country’s Khost province.

It’s believed that media workers were targeted, Interior Ministry spokesman Najib Danesh told the news outlet, because the second suicide bomber accessed the area by showing police a press pass.

Several of the killed journalists worked for Afghan news outlets, the Afghan Journalists Safety Committee said, and Western outlets were also affected. Shah Marai, Agence France-Presse’s chief photographer in Kabul, died in the attack, the agency confirmed, as did two Radio Free Europe journalists and a third reporter who was slated to begin working for the outlet next month. The BBC verified that its reporter Ahmad Shah was killed in Khost province.

“This latest attack on journalists in Afghanistan is a reminder of the extreme dangers to media workers in that country and of the extremely brutal tactics used there by enemies of the free press,” Steven Butler, the Asia program coordinator for the Committee to Protect Journalists, said in a statement.

Before Monday, 35 journalists had been killed in the country since 1992, according to the CPJ. Although the AJSC’s estimates are much higher ― it says at least 80 journalists and media workers have died since 2001 ― it acknowledged that the recent attacks made it the country’s deadliest day for journalists.

It’s no secret that Afghanistan has long been a hostile environment for journalists, given insurgent groups’ history of targeting the media. Another journalist was shot dead last week on his way to work. In November, gunmen and suicide bombers attacked an Afghan television station. In 2016 a Taliban suicide bomber blew up a minibus carrying local journalists, killing seven.

Marai encapsulated the fear and despair that Afghans, especially journalists, deal with on a regular basis in an essay he wrote in 2016, published Monday by AFP:Amazon’s Alexa device has a lot of good qualities, but one bad one: It eavesdrops.

A couple in Portland, Oregon, was shocked to discover Alexa recorded a private conversation in their home and then sent it to a random person on their contact list.

Danielle, who asked her last name not be identified, told KIRO TV the revelation brought to life a fear that she and her husband had when they first installed the devices to handle their home’s heat, lights and security system.

“My husband and I would joke and say ‘I’d bet these devices are listening to what we’re saying,’” she said.

Things took a chilling turn into Big Brother territory about two weeks ago when the couple got a phone call from an employee of Danielle’s husband.

The message: “Unplug your Alexa devices right now. You’re being hacked.”

After the devices were unplugged, the caller told the couple how he received the audio files.

“At first, my husband was, like, ‘no you didn’t!’ And the (recipient of the message) said ‘You sat there talking about hardwood floors,’” Danielle told the station. “And we said, ‘oh gosh, you really did hear us.’”

The couple then contacted Amazon and finally spoke with an Alexa representative that investigated the issue.

The representative “said ‘our engineers went through your logs, and they saw exactly what you told us, they saw exactly what you said happened, and we’re sorry,’” she said. “He apologized like 15 times in a matter of 30 minutes and he said we really appreciate you bringing this to our attention. This is something we need to fix!”

Amazon told CNET.com the eavesdropping occurred after Alexa mistakenly heard the wake word and then mistakenly heard a command to call someone, followed by a third misheard confirmation:

“Echo woke up due to a word in background conversation sounding like ‘Alexa.’ Then, the subsequent conversation was heard as a “send message” request. At which point, Alexa said out loud “To whom?” At which point, the background conversation was interpreted as a name in the customers contact list. “Alexa then asked out loud, ”[contact name], right?” Alexa then interpreted background conversation as “right”. As unlikely as this string of events is, we are evaluating options to make this case even less likely.”MOSCOW (Reuters) ― Thousands of people marched through Moscow, throwing paper planes and calling for authorities to unblock the popular Telegram instant messaging app on Monday.

Protesters chanted slogans against President Vladimir Putin as they launched the planes ― a reference to the app’s logo.

“Putin’s regime has declared war on the internet, has declared war on free society... so we have to be here in support of Telegram,” one protester told Reuters.

Russia began blocking Telegram on April 16 after the app refused to comply with a court order to grant state security services access to its users’ encrypted messages.

Russia’s FSB Federal Security service has said it needs access to some of those messages for its work, that includes guarding against militant attacks.

In the process of blocking the app, state watchdog Roskomnadzor also cut off access to a slew of other websites.

A man holds a poster as he takes part in a rally for "free Internet" and in support of the Telegram Messenger in Akademika Sakharova Avenue. Mikhail Tereshchenko via Getty Images

Telegram’s founder, Russian entrepreneur Pavel Durov, called for “digital resistance” in response to the decision and promised to fund anyone developing proxies and VPNs to dodge the block.

More than 12,000 people joined the march on Monday, said White Counter, a volunteer group that counts people at protests.

“Thousands of young and progressive people are currently protesting in Moscow in defense of internet freedom,” Telegram’s Durov wrote on his social media page.

“This is unprecedented. I am proud to have been born in the same country as you. Your energy changes the world,” Durov wrote.

Telegram has more than 200 million global users and is ranked as the world’s ninth most popular mobile messaging service.

Iran’s judiciary has also banned the app to protect national security, Iranian state TV reported on Monday.In a synchronized attack, the journalists were killed as they covered an earlier bombing that claimed the lives of at least 26 civilians at the National Directorate of Security and a second explosive was detonated.

Marai’s photos, syndicated by AFP through Getty Images, offered dark and sometimes uplifting images of the lives of the Afghan people. The archive of his photos shows that he captured moments that transcended the violence that has wracked the country for decades, like a tranquil snow-covered forest or a body-building competition. Yet, in an ironic twist, he also depicted the pain and anguish of family members grieving over those lost in the all-too-often bombing attacks.TEL AVIV (Reuters) - Israel presented on Monday what it said was evidence that Iran had continued gathering nuclear knowledge after signing a 2015 agreement with world powers to curb it, calling on Washington to jettison the agreement.

“Iran’s leaders repeatedly deny ever pursuing nuclear weapons,” Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu during a televised address carried by Israeli networks. “Tonight I’m here to tell you one thing: Iran lied.”

“First, Iran lied about never having a nuclear weapons program. 100,000 secret files prove it did. Second, even after the deal, Iran continued to preserve and expand its nuclear weapons knowledge for future use,” Netanyahu said.

“Third, Iran lied again in 2015 when it didn’t come clear to the IAEA as required by the nuclear deal.”

The Israeli leader spoke in English and showed pictures and videos purporting to be of historic secret Iranian nuclear facilities, as well as Iranian documents and plans to develop atomic weapons.

“After signing the nuclear deal in 2015, Iran intensified its efforts to hide its secret files,” he said. “In 2017 Iran moved its nuclear weapons files to a highly secret location in Tehran.”

Netanyahu referred to a secret Iranian nuclear project, codenamed “Amad”, which he said had been shelved in 2003, but he said work in the field had continued.

U.S. President Donald Trump has long criticized the 2015 agreement, under which world powers lifted economic sanctions on Iran in return for curbs to its nuclear program.

Trump has threatened to pull out of the agreement in the coming weeks unless it is renegotiated. Netanyahu said he expected Trump would do “the right thing” in reviewing the Iran deal.

Netanyahu met in Tel Aviv on Sunday with new U.S. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo and both men talked tough about Iran.

“We remain deeply concerned about Iran’s dangerous escalation of threats towards Israel and the region,” said Pompeo.

Netanyahu said: “I think the greatest threat to the world and to our two countries, and to all countries, is the marriage of militant Islam with nuclear weapons, and specifically the attempt of Iran to acquire nuclear weapons.”

Netanyahu also discussed Iran by telephone with Trump over the weekend.

Israel has long opposed the agreement, while Washington’s major European allies have urged the Trump administration not to abandon it and argue that Iran is abiding by its terms.

The head of Iran’s Atomic Energy organization said on Monday that Iran has the technical capability to enrich uranium to a higher level than it could before the multinational deal was reached.

“Technically, we are fully prepared to enrich uranium higher than we used to produce before the deal was reached... I hope Trump comes to his senses and stays in the deal,” Ali Akbar Salehi was quoted by Iranian state television as saying.

Israel is widely believed to be the only nuclear-armed state in the Middle East, though it neither confirms nor denies possessing atomic weapons.White House Chief of Staff John Kelly doesn't want men swearing around women. It's 2018. Alex Wong/Getty Images

WASHINGTON ― The White House is pushing back on the idea that President Donald Trump’s chief of staff doesn’t treat women well.

John Kelly has upset some female staffers, according to an NBC News story on Monday, because he has said, among other things, that women are more emotional than men.

But anonymous White House officials responded that actually, Kelly is great to women. To prove their point, they told NBC News that Kelly doesn’t let men swear when “a lady is present”:

The White House spokespeople said they haven’t seen Kelly have a negative effect on the morale of women staffers. If anything, they said during meetings Kelly is the “bigger gentleman” who steps in when aides use foul language to note “a lady is present” and similarly says he shouldn’t use foul language in front of a lady if he’s used an expletive. The spokespeople, who would not speak for the record, said it’s possible Kelly may have said women are more emotional than men, with one of them agreeing that “generally speaking, women are more emotional than men.”

Kelly put out a statement Monday saying the NBC News article was wrong, although he didn’t specifically talk about his treatment of women. The piece also said that Kelly has called Trump an “idiot” behind his back.

“I spend more time with the President than anyone else and we have an incredibly candid and strong relationship,” Kelly said in his statement. “He always knows where I stand and he and I both know this story is total BS. I am committed to the President, his agenda, and our country. This is another pathetic attempt to smear people close to President Trump and distract from the administration’s many successes.”

The no-swearing-in-front-of-ladies rule fits with what Kelly has said publicly. In October, he told reporters in a briefing that he missed the good ol’ days when women were “sacred.”

“When I was a kid growing up, a lot of things were sacred in our country,” he said. “Women were sacred and looked upon with great honor. That’s obviously not the case anymore, as we see from recent cases.”

Kelly was born in 1950. When he was growing up, women couldn’t open credit card accounts in their own names and there were far fewer women in the workforce.

As a retired general, Kelly was supposed to bring order and discipline to the chaotic White House. But he found himself in the middle of a scandal a few months ago when he protected a then-White House aide, Rob Porter, against domestic violence accusations made by Porter’s ex-wives ― accusations that came with photographic evidence.

The chief of staff tried to spin his own involvement, claiming that he took immediate action when he found out about the allegations. But other White House aides disputed his characterization, saying that Kelly looked the other way on Porter.Politics What A Year This Month Has Been

There was a lot of news in April 2018. See what you forgot about.A contestant on “The Voice Australia” surprised audiences and celebrity judges by popping the question to his boyfriend last night, and he reportedly made television history in the process.

Nathan Brake began his audition Sunday with an impressive rendition of the Nick Jonas hit “Jealous” ― a risky move, given that Jonas’ older brother Joe is one of this season’s judges.

Before Brake announced which of the four celeb-judged teams he would be on, however, he invited his longtime boyfriend, Mitchell Baines, to the stage.

“I just wanted to bring you out here because we’ve had a beautiful six years together,” Brake told Baines, before getting down on one knee and presenting him with a ring. “I’m really nervous. You’ve been a constant support to me these past six years, so I just wanted to ask you, will you marry me?”

Baines happily accepted the proposal to thunderous applause from the audience. (The proposal starts about six and a half minutes into the video above.)

A post shared by Nathan Brake (@nathanbrakeofficial) on Apr 29, 2018 at 3:38am PDT

As it turns out, the romantic gesture was culturally significant for another reason. It’s reportedly the first same-sex marriage proposal to be aired on an Australian reality TV show.

Brake opted to join Aussie pop singer-songwriter Delta Goodrem’s team by the end of the episode.

His new coach happily congratulated him and his fiancé on Twitter.

Brake, 26, told the Daily Mail Australia that he hoped his proposal would help to encourage “complete acceptance in society” months after his home country legalized same-sex marriage last December.Michelle Wolf had a busy weekend.

Wolf created some controversy delivering jokes at the White House Correspondents Association dinner on Saturday. Some believe her jokes — told at an event meant to celebrate the First Amendment, mind you — were too vulgar or insulting.

With the media microscope on her, what better time to release a trailer for a new show?

This weekend Netflix released a trailer for her weekly series “The Break With Michelle Wolf.” New episodes of the show —which features jokes, sketches and celebrities — will come out on Sundays starting May 27.For the second year in a row, President Donald Trump didn’t attend the White House Correspondents’ Association’s annual dinner. He did, however, make time to slam the event on Twitter.

But what would Trump have said if he had gone?

The animated Trump in the Showtime series “Our Cartoon President,” from executive producer Stephen Colbert, had some ideas.Actress Lupita Nyong'o speaks onstage on a panel about the Time's Up initiative at the 2018 Tribeca Film Festival on April 28, 2018, in New York City. Roy Rochlin via Getty Images

Nygong’o, along with fellow actresses Amber Tamblyn, Cynthia Erivo and Mira Sorvino, appeared on a panel discussion Sunday about the anti-sexual violence Time’s Up initiative at the 2018 Tribeca Film Festival in New York City. The discussion, titled “Reclaiming The Narrative,” focused on diverse storytelling and the “impact of portraying powerful female characters,” according to Tribeca Film Festival’s website.

“I know my story best, and I want to be able to tell my story and tell it with people like me who also feel this gaping hole of representation,” Nyong’o said, according to The Hollywood Reporter.

The “Black Panther” actress told the crowd she wants to focus on African stories in TV and film, referencing her experience as a child born in Mexico and raised in Kenya.

“I think for me, as an actress who grew up watching everyone but myself, I think part of changing the narrative is changing the perspective of the narrative that’s being told,” she said, Glamour reported. “For me, the work that I feel convicted to do is to tell to African stories, and to kind of re-examine or reinvigorate or reintroduce Africa to the world and African identity and how global it can be.”

“It wasn’t until I was much older that I started to realize what was missing on that screen and how not seeing myself was causing a subconscious self-hate.” - Lupita Nyong'o

She added that the lack of representation she saw on television as a kid affected her greatly.

“When I switched on my television when I was younger living in Kenya, there was never anybody that looked like me on there, you know? So seldom ... And even when they were black, they weren’t that dark,” Nyong’o said.

Nyong’o added that diversity is imperative, and television’s failure to show it can perpetuate internalized racism.A young man enters the Connections Withdrawal Management Center in Harrington, Delaware. The center received a loan from the U.S. Department of Agriculture, which is prioritizing projects related to opioid addiction under two of its grant and loan programs. Connections Community Support Programs

By Jen Fifield

For people addicted to opioids, the first time in detox isn’t necessarily the last. For Brian Taylor, the second time wasn’t the last, either — nor was the third, fourth or fifth.

The sixth time, though, was different. It has been nearly 17 months since Taylor, 33, walked out of his last treatment at the Withdrawal Management Center in Harrington, Delaware, and he hasn’t used drugs since. If the detox center hadn’t been so accessible — just 20 miles from where he was living, in the small town of Seaford — he said he may have lost his children, his family and even his life.

“I had a whole lot to lose,” he said in a recent interview with Stateline. “My back was against the wall.”

Like many rural areas in the United States, central and southern Delaware had no place for people to get withdrawal management services before the Harrington clinic opened in 2015. It quickly saw there was high demand. When the center looked for money to expand, it found an unexpected partner: the U.S. Department of Agriculture. Using a $1 million low-interest loan from the agency, the center is adding space for counseling, family therapy and primary care.

Six months after President Donald Trump declared the opioid epidemic a national emergency, some health officials say the federal government has not provided enough new money to combat it. But the U.S. Department of Agriculture this month announced it will offer help to some communities using the resources it already has.

The agency this year says it will dedicate at least $20 million of a $49 million rural telehealth and distance learning fund for projects related to opioid addiction. It also has committed to spending $5 million of a $30 million grant program that pays for buildings and equipment in rural areas for projects related to opioids.

The Harrington project, which came before the announcement, is an example of the type of work the USDA wants to support. A provision in the House version of the 2018 farm bill would allow the secretary of agriculture to declare a rural health emergency, allowing the agency to move more quickly than usual and requiring it to reserve money to address the problem.

Congress typically renews the farm bill, which sets agriculture and food policy, about every five years. It’s unclear whether the House version of this year’s bill will pass, and the Senate has yet to release its own version.

The USDA plans to be “a strong partner” in rural communities’ battle against addiction, Anne Hazlett, assistant to the secretary for rural development, told local health officials in a conference call earlier this month.

“This is more than just health care,” she said. “This is a matter of rural prosperity.”

The new focus comes as the rate of drug overdoses in rural areas, which surpassed the urban rate in 2006, continues to increase rapidly. The rural rate stands at about 17 per 100,000 residents, compared with the urban rate of 16.2 per 100,000, according to the most recent data from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.

Farmers are especially vulnerable. About 3 in 4 farmers and farmworkers have misused opioids or know someone who has, according to a 2017 study by the National Farmers Union and the American Farm Bureau Federation. Farming and ranching are among the most dangerous jobs in the country, and with the high risk of injury comes the potential for misusing prescription drugs.

Combating the opioid epidemic in rural areas using USDA grants and loans is an idea that was proposed last year by U.S. Rep Cheri Bustos, an Illinois Democrat, and U.S. Sen. Joe Donnelly, an Indiana Democrat. Their bill, the Addiction Recovery for Rural Communities Act, outlined a strategy similar to what the USDA has adopted.

“There’s no doubt that we need to do more to help provide accessible treatment options for men and women struggling with addiction in small towns and rural communities across the heartland,” Bustos said in a statement to Stateline.

Rural Hospitals as Economic Backbone

It makes sense for the USDA to support rural health systems, since hospitals are often the economic backbone of rural communities, said Maggie Elehwany, government affairs and policy vice president for the National Rural Health Association, based in Kansas and Washington, D.C. “If you don’t have those, you don’t have a community.”

While Elehwany and other rural health advocates say the grants and loans will be helpful, they say it won’t solve the most dire health care challenges in rural areas, such as doctor shortages and low reimbursement rates.

Rural hospitals have money problems when their patients cannot afford to pay for services and reimbursement rates are low. Since 2010, 83 rural hospitals have closed, according to the Cecil G. Sheps Center for Health Services Research at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. Elehwany wants the farm bill to directly support struggling rural hospitals.

Meanwhile, the shortages and the low reimbursement rates are putting a strain on community health centers, which are seeing an increase in demand for substance abuse disorder services, according to officials at the National Association of Community Health Centers.

Patients receiving treatment for opioid misuse and other substance abuse disorders at U.S. health centers more than tripled from 2010 to 2016, from about 98,000 to about 421,000, according to data collected by the National Association of Community Health Centers.

One-time grants are helpful, said Jennifer Taylor, a deputy director at the association, “but we are really thinking about this in a really long-term, sustainable way.”

A USDA grant that pays for telehealth technology would allow a clinic to start offering the service, Taylor said, but it wouldn’t provide the funding to keep the service going.

The Middle of the Night

Brian Taylor, who now works at the detox center, said his addiction started with alcohol and marijuana, then Percocet, then heroin. From age 13 to 31, he was in and out of detention centers as he committed various crimes: assaults, robberies, shoplifting and probation violations. The motivation behind all those crimes, he said, was the need to get high.

“It was a hopeless desperation, you know?” he said. “I was desperate to get help, but I felt there was no help.”

In Delaware, overdose deaths are up more than 50 percent in a few years, from 229 in 2015 to 345 in 2017. The state has added new funding almost every year since 2014 for substance abuse or mental health, and has added residential treatment, sober living beds, outpatient treatment and recovery response centers. Democratic Gov. John Carney is requesting $1.3 million in new funding for the upcoming budget year for 20 additional sober living beds and emergency room consultations.

Making sure that services are available in areas of need will save lives, said Cathy McKay, CEO of Connections Community Support Programs, which runs the Harrington detox center under a state contract. The treatment center is open at all hours for a reason, McKay said.

“A lot of people, when they want treatment, it’s in the middle of the night,” McKay said. “A lot of times people think about that when they are in pain. If you don’t have a way to hop on that right away, a lot of times you lose them.”

CORRECTION: An earlier version of the story incorrectly named Delaware’s governor Jay Carney. He is John Carney.The FBI has obtained secret wiretaps collected by Spanish police of conversations involving Alexander Torshin, a deputy governor of Russia’s Central Bank who has forged close ties with U.S. lawmakers and the National Rifle Association, that led to a meeting with Donald Trump Jr. during the gun lobby’s annual convention in Louisville, Ky., in May 2016, a top Spanish prosecutor said Friday.

José Grinda, who has spearheaded investigations into Spanish organized crime, said that bureau officials in recent months requested and were provided transcripts of wiretapped conversations between Torshin and Alexander Romanov, a convicted Russian money launderer. On the wiretaps, Romanov refers to Torshin as “El Padrino,” the godfather.

“Just a few months ago, the wiretaps of these telephone conversations were given to the FBI,” Grinda said in response to a question from Yahoo News during a talk he gave at the Hudson Institute, a conservative think tank in Washington. Asked if he was concerned about Torshin’s meetings with Donald Trump Jr. and other American political figures, Grinda replied: “Mr. Trump’s son should be concerned.”

The comments by Grinda were the first clear sign that the FBI may be investigating Torshin, possibly as a part of special counsel Robert Mueller’s probe into Russian interference in the 2016 U.S. presidential election. Torshin — a close political ally of Vladimir Putin — had multiple contacts with conservative activists in the United States during the election, seeking to set up a summit between the Russian president and then candidate Trump. Although the summit never transpired, Torshin did meet briefly with the president’s son at a private dinner in Louisville during the May 2016 annual convention of the NRA. A member of the NRA since 2012, Torshin has been a regular attendee of the group’s conventions in recent years and hosted senior members of the group in Moscow.

Grinda said that the FBI, in its request for the evidence to the Guardia Civil, the Spanish National Police, provided no explanation as to why it was interested in the material and he didn’t ask for one. “I don’t have to ask them why they want this information,” he said. But Grinda added that if Mueller or any other U.S. prosecutor seeks to use the material as part of a court case, they would have to make a second, more formal request to do so to the Spanish government.

Spokesmen for the FBI and Mueller’s office did not respond to requests for comment. Alan Futerfas, a lawyer for Trump Jr., said he was in a meeting and was unable to comment when contacted by Yahoo News.

AFP Contributor via Getty Images

Torshin has been the subject of intensifying U.S. government and congressional scrutiny over the past year and was recently among a lengthy list of oligarchs and Russian political figures sanctioned by the Treasury Department. As reported by Yahoo News and the Spanish newspaper El País last year, the Spanish National Police were preparing to arrest Torshin in August 2013, when he was expected to fly to the Spanish island of Mallorca in August for the birthday party of Romanov. The arrest plan, which involved the deployment of more than a dozen police officers at the airport and at the hotel where the party was supposed to take place, grew out of a lengthy investigation headed by Grinda into Russian organized crime and money laundering. As part of the probe, the Guardia Civil wiretapped Romanov’s phone and picked up 33 conversations with Torshin.

But Torshin never showed up for the party and he was never arrested. Grinda confirmed in an interview after his talk that some in the Guardia Civil suspected that Torshin had been tipped off to the arrest plan by Russian officials who had been asked to cooperate in the Spanish probe. But Grinda added that he was unable to prove that was why Torshin never showed up for the party.

Despite the suspicions about his ties to Russian money laundering, Torshin continued to travel frequently to the United States and even showed up as part of a Russian delegation in February 2017 to the National Prayer Breakfast, where he was at one point scheduled to meet with President Trump. (The meeting was canceled the night before, after National Security Council officials raised concerns about it.) More recently, Oregon Sen. Ron Wyden sent multiple letters to the NRA asking about its ties to Torshin and other Russian figures, questioning whether Russian money was funneled to the NRA to help pay for the more than $30 million the group spent on political ads and get out the vote efforts during the 2016 election.

An NRA lawyer, in responses to Wyden, said that Torshin has only paid his membership dues to the group and that, based on an internal review, the NRA received a total of only $2,500 from about 23 Russia-linked contributors since 2015. However, the NRA is now reviewing its relationship with Torshin in light of the Treasury Department blacklisting him last month. “Based on Mr. Torshin’s listing as a specially designated national as of April 6, we are currently reviewing our responsibilities with respect to him,” NRA general counsel John Frazer wrote to Wyden.

An NRA spokesman did not respond to a request for comment.This brings new meaning to the term “gunning your engine.”

A driver on Interstate 5 in Washington state’s South Puget Sound area discovered something shocking when he stopped for gas: a handgun lodged barrel-first in the front bumper.

The driver was heading down the freeway when a black object came flying through the air and hit his Honda, according to a tweet from state trooper Guy Gill, a spokesman for that district.

There didn’t seem to be serious damage, so the driver thought nothing of it and drove another 18 miles before stopping for gas, Gill said.

Well...this is a first 🤷🏻‍♂️! Driver saw a small "black object" in the air while driving on I-5 and it struck the front of his car. He drove about 18 miles, stopped for gas, and found this. We recovered it and turned it over to @LakewoodPD. pic.twitter.com/Oo3KlbW362 — Trooper Guy Gill (@wspd1pio) May 24, 2018

Troopers handed the gun over to the Lakewood, Washington, police department.LONDON (Thomson Reuters Foundation) - It was the level of hate from his own Xhosa community that took South African gay artist Nakhane by surprise.

He never expected to face death threats for playing a man in a same-sex relationship in a movie, “The Wound,” which unfolds in the secret world of a Xhosa male initiation ceremony - but it was the setting that appeared to anger people the most.

“I know my people because I come from them and I know about the passion they have about protecting this part of the culture,” Nakhane, 30, told the Thomson Reuters Foundation in an interview in London, where he is currently living.

“But I didn’t know it was going to be as violent as it became.”

The actor, who underwent the month-long Xhosa circumcision ritual at the age of 20, said his own experience was similar to that shown in the film, including having other men make sexual advances on him during the bush retreat.

South Africa is generally regarded as supportive of lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender (LGBT) people and is the only African country that has legalized gay marriage.

Although Nakhane does not see himself as an activist, his work as an actor and musician is attracting acclaim and putting him under the spotlight. ullstein bild via Getty Images

However, being openly gay can be taboo, particularly among traditional communities.

Although the movie has won several awards at film festivals in London, Durban and Palm Springs, it is the dialogue it has sparked around LGBT issues in South Africa that Nakhane is most proud of.

“This film became what it became because of those conversations,” he said. “Suddenly the volcano just (erupted) and it takes the right time, right film, right thing, for it to happen.”

STRONGER

It was only when Nakhane’s life fell apart five years ago that he was finally able to accept he was gay.

Homeless and broke, the up-and-coming South African actor and singer had just released his first music album, a deeply personal account of his life.

“I was just so tired of hating myself every day. I was exhausted. And from that point in time, it took me about two years really to not be afraid anymore,” he said.

“I call it the moment where my life literally fell apart: when I’d left the church, I was living with friends, I was homeless to all intent purposes. I had nothing. I had nothing to lose.”

In London, he spends his time in recording studios and rehearsing with band members for upcoming shows in Europe.

“You can either slink down and die from that or you can be even more defiant," Nakhane said. LOIC VENANCE via Getty Images

Although Nakhane does not see himself as an activist, his work as an actor and musician is attracting acclaim and putting him under the spotlight.

His second album, which came out in March, blends traditional sounds with soulful melodies, and reflects on his childhood and teenage years.

“With this album, I felt like I needed to go back to my formative years,” he said. “Going back to my formative years meant going back to some traumas and some joys.”

Some of the scars are still evident and Nakhane says it is taking time to get used to living in the British capital.

Simmering tensions over his film mean it will be some years before he can return to visit his family in the Eastern Cape.

He does, however, plan to go back to South Africa in the future and says he is not afraid.

“How much worse can it get than someone detailing to you how they want to kill you?” he asked.Dr. Ronny Jackson, the president’s former personal physician and the short-lived nominee for Veterans Affairs secretary, will not return to his old job, media outlets reported on Sunday.

Jackson, a rear admiral in the Navy, withdrew his name from consideration to lead the VA last week amid a Senate Veterans Affairs Committee investigation into allegations that he created a “hostile work environment” and improperly distributed medication. He was also accused of “excessive drinking on the job” and crashing a government vehicle.

It’s unclear if Jackson will remain on staff at the White House medical unit or if he’ll depart the administration.

Dr. Ronny Jackson will not return to his old role as personal physician to the president, several media outlets reported Sunday. Alex Wong via Getty Images

Dr. Sean Conley, a veteran of the Navy who took over as Trump’s personal physician as Jackson pursued the VA nomination, will continue in the role.

Jackson has been a White House physician since 2006. He has denied the charges first made public by the office of Sen. Jon Tester (D-Mont.), calling them “completely false and fabricated.”

“If they had any merit, I would not have been selected, promoted and entrusted to serve in such a sensitive and important role as physician to three presidents over the past 12 years,” Jackson said in a statement last week.

But the nomination had already drawn skepticism from some lawmakers who worried that Jackson’s lack of experience would imperil the government’s second-largest federal agency.

Tester’s office has yet to release any documents supporting the accusations against the doctor. Last Friday, the Secret Service said it had uncovered no evidence related to a specific charge that agents had intervened when Jackson allegedly tried to bother then-President Barack Obama during a 2015 overseas trip.

Trump pounced on that news during a rally on Saturday, warning Tester that he knew “things” about the senator that he “could say, too ... and if I said them, he’d never be elected again.” In a post on Twitter, Trump also called on Tester to resign:

Allegations made by Senator Jon Tester against Admiral/Doctor Ron Jackson are proving false. The Secret Service is unable to confirm (in fact they deny) any of the phony Democrat charges which have absolutely devastated the wonderful Jackson family. Tester should resign. The..... — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) April 28, 2018

....great people of Montana will not stand for this kind of slander when talking of a great human being. Admiral Jackson is the kind of man that those in Montana would most respect and admire, and now, for no reason whatsoever, his reputation has been shattered. Not fair, Tester! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) April 28, 2018“Avengers: Infinity War” is disassembling box offices around the world right now. It had the largest opening weekend of any film in history, not adjusting for inflation. That’s bound to inspire bootleggers trying to cash in on the film’s success.

Comedian Jeff Wysaki, however, took film franchise bootlegging in a different direction. He didn’t simply riff on “The Avengers.” He made it his own. Meet the heroes who will defend Earth during the events of “Endless Tussle.” It’s the Revengers!

Among their mighty ranks are The Incredible Fella, Regular Raccoon, Token Girl, Fedora Ron and Knighty Night!

There was a time when you could have purchased these figures, but they’re sold out. Even if you can’t get your hands on one, you can still get a laugh from them.

Here’s hoping we’ll soon see the unveiling of Detective Horse, Hacker Boy and, no doubt the most powerful of the group, Greg.Stormy Daniels has filed a new lawsuit against President Donald Trump over one of his recent tweets, which the adult film star says was “false and defamatory.”

On April 18, Trump tweeted dismissively about a forensic sketch of a man who Daniels says threatened her in 2011. The president called it “a total con job.”

In the defamation suit, filed in a Manhattan federal court on Monday, Daniels, whose real name is Stephanie Clifford, alleged that Trump “used his national and international audience of millions of people to make a false factual statement to denigrate and attack” her.

Trump’s tweet exposed Daniels to “contempt, ridicule... and physical threats of violence,” the complaint says.

A sketch years later about a nonexistent man. A total con job, playing the Fake News Media for Fools (but they know it)! https://t.co/9Is7mHBFda — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) April 18, 2018

Daniels, who is also suing the president over a nondisclosure agreement she signed related to their alleged affair, is seeking damages in excess of $75,000.

Michael Avenatti, Daniels’ attorney, accused the president Monday of being complicit in the 2011 incident when a man allegedly threatened Daniels and warned her to keep silent about her alleged affair with Trump.

“We fully intend on bringing it to light,” Avenatti wrote on Twitter.

Moments ago, we filed this lawsuit against Mr. Trump for his recent irresponsible and defamatory statements about my client @stormydaniels. He is well aware of what transpired and his complicity. We fully intend on bringing it to light. #buckleup #bastahttps://t.co/ZuBjI1EY9z — Michael Avenatti (@MichaelAvenatti) April 30, 2018

Earlier this month, Daniels released a forensic sketch of the man she said threatened her. The man allegedly approached her and her infant daughter in a parking lot and told her to “leave Trump alone.” Daniels said she was deeply “rattled” by the encounter.

Last week, a federal judge put Daniels’ earlier suit against Trump on hold for 90 days because Trump’s attorney Michael Cohen is under criminal investigation related to a $130,000 hush payment he made to Daniels.

Trump has repeatedly denied that he had an affair with the adult film actress. He admitted in a Fox News interview last week, however, that Cohen had represented him “with this crazy Stormy Daniels deal.”

AdvertisementNetflix is adding quite a few quality movies over the next few days.

The recently Oscar-nominated “The Incredibles 2” hits the service Wednesday (you can read more about that below). “Ant-Man and the Wasp,” another recent Disney blockbuster, joins the day before.

Then on Friday, Netflix gets 18 new movies, including “Jaws,” “Personal Shopper,” “Pretty in Pink” and “The Edge of Seventeen.” The three main “American Pie” movies also become available to stream, so there’s that.

Netflix has one major Original movie coming out this week: “Velvet Buzzsaw.” This satire stars Jake Gyllenhaal, John Malkovich and Toni Collette as figures in the Los Angeles art world. As a fan of dark comedies, Gyllenhaal and stories that make fun of the ultra-rich, I am excited for this.

And if you want to stay informed on what’s joining Netflix on a weekly basis, make sure to subscribe to the Streamline newsletter.

Claudette Barius/Netflix "Velvet Buzzsaw" on Netflix.

Ji Sub Jeong/HuffPost

Streamline makes recommendations for streaming shows and movies. Every Saturday, Streamline highlights the best shows to watch online, with a focus on Netflix.

The Most Notable Movie Coming To Netflix This Week

“Disney-Pixar’s The Incredibles 2” | Jan. 30

Disney-Pixar "The Incredibles 2" on Netflix.

Premise: A family of superheroes tries to stick together while fighting evil. As the mom’s stardom rises, the rest of the family has to reckon with their own lack of fame, along with missing having her around.

Is it good? This movie earned an Oscar nomination for Best Animated Feature and has a credible chance at winning (although “Spider Man: Into the Spider-Verse” has the best odds). It also has a 93 percent rating on Rotten Tomatoes and an 80 on Metacritic. If you have loved Pixar movies in the past, this continues in that lineage of tone and quality.

Heads Up: Disney had to issue a warning that this movie might cause those with epilepsy to have a seizure. The movie has many flashing lights and colors that even those without epilepsy may find overwhelming.

Trailer:

Here’s the full list of movies joining Netflix this week.

Jan. 29

“Marvel Studios’ Ant-Man and the Wasp”

Jan. 30

“Disney-Pixar’s The Incredibles 2”

Feb. 1

“About a Boy”

“American Pie”

“American Pie 2”

“American Wedding”

“As Good as It Gets”

“Billy Elliot”

“Dear Ex” (Netflix Film)

“Final Destination”

“Hairspray”

“Hostel”

“Jaws”

“Jaws 2”

“Jaws 3”

“Jaws: The Revenge”

“Personal Shopper”

“Pretty in Pink”

“The Edge of Seventeen”

“Velvet Buzzsaw” (Netflix Film)

Feb. 3

Advertisement