Marvel’s record-breaking film “Black Panther” offered a stunning look into the fictional future of African style, but it also paid homage to another native style ― one further east.

Anthony Francisco, a senior visual development illustrator for Marvel, told BuzzFeed that the garb worn by some of the Dora Milaje was partially inspired by Filipino tribal artifacts and other Asian themes.

About 80 percent of the costume, however, consisted of African influences, according to Fashionista.com’s interview with the illustrator.

The Dora Milaje is the elite, all-female group of the Wakandan special forces.

Marvel

The Asian inspiration was just natural for Francisco. He grew up in the Philippines and saw African artifacts mixed in with tribal Filipino decor in his relatives’ homes, he told BuzzFeed. He drew inspiration specifically from the Ifugao tribe, a village of people who live at the base of the Cordillera Mountain Range in the north of Luzon island.

The Ifugao people are known for their ancient rice terraces, a UNESCO heritage site built by the ancestors of the tribe in 100 B.C. The American Society of Civil Engineers suggests they were a sustainable watershed management system that was ahead of its time.

The Ifugao tribe continues to preserve its rich cultural elements, including weaving, beading and traditional narrative chants.

Ifugao translates in English to “people of the Earth,” fitting for the imagery in “Black Panther.”

Ifugao women show their traditional costumes as they stand among rice terraces built by their ancestors and maintained by the tribe. Education Images via Getty Images

An example of an Ifugao beaded hairpiece. Tom Cockrem via Getty Images

John S Lander/LightRocket via Getty Images

This tribal inspiration stands out on the uniform of Okoye (played by actress Danai Gurira).

Francisco told BuzzFeed that the strip of beadwork over the Wakandan general’s abdomen was inspired by a table runner at his aunt’s home. The small golden rings hanging from the tassles at the side of her uniform were meant to be good luck charms, drawing from the superstitious beliefs that circulate in the Philippine Islands.

Some of the island inspiration can be see on Okoye, Danai Gurira's character on the left. Marvel

Marvel’s illustration team didn’t just pull from Filipinos, they also were inspired by Japan’s iconic warrior, the samurai.

Francisco said that the Dora Milaje’s shoes were meant to look like the split-toed boots worn by samurai. These boots, known as jika-tabi, are also worn by workers (farmers, construction workers, etc.) and by traditional Taiko drummers.

Felice Beato via Getty Images

Speaking to the Fashionista, Francisco said 80 percent of the Dora Milaje uniform was inspired by the Maasai in southern Kenya and northern Tanzania.

The warriors’ arm bands and neck rings were inspired by the women of the South African Ndebele tribe.

The other cultural elements breaks down like this: “Five percent Samurai, five percent ninja, and five percent Ifugao tribe,” he told the fashion blog.

In an Instagram post, Francisco said that working for Marvel and designing the outfits for the Dora Milaje was “a dream job.”

“I wanted to make an impact in our community and make an iconic, fierce woman warrior in [Okoye] that is also funny and loving and loyal,” Francisco wrote.Jay Goldberg, the attorney who represented President Donald Trump for almost two decades, doesn’t think Rudy Giuliani is fit to be handling the legal team tasked with handling special counsel Robert Mueller’s Russia investigation. Not only is Giuliani not sufficiently experienced, Goldberg said, but he also may be in it for his own gain.

“I think he’s a polarizing figure,” Goldberg said of the former New York City mayor on MSNBC’s “The Beat With Ari Melber” on Tuesday. “There are those people who think he was a wonderful prosecutor but he has no record managing a defense of someone who’s accused of wrongdoing. I told him that I didn’t think that Giuliani was the right person for him to select. I thought there were much better people that he could use in terms of negotiating with Mueller.”

Giuliani is misguided if he thinks he can scare Mueller into winding down the investigation, Goldberg added.

Jay Goldberg on why he told Trump that Giuliani was not "the right person for him to select"



"I thought that there were much better people that he could use" to negotiate with Mueller pic.twitter.com/qDSq9OEAq1 — TheBeat w/Ari Melber (@TheBeatWithAri) May 15, 2018

And to go on cable television and make revelations ― he was referring to Giuliani telling Fox News’ Sean Hannity that the $130,000 that Trump’s current lawyer Michael Cohen paid to adult film star Stormy Daniels came from Trump himself ― without fully debriefing the client points to “the height of unpreparedness,” Goldberg said.

Goldberg also noted his concern that Giuliani joined Trump’s legal team in order to “aggrandize himself whether at the expense of Trump or not.”

Giuliani, who joined Trump’s legal team in April, said he planned to use this week’s one-year anniversary of the probe to continue calling for its completion.

“There has been no evidence presented of collusion or obstruction, and it is about time for them to end the investigation,” Giuliani told Bloomberg News on Tuesday. “We don’t want to signal our action if this doesn’t work ― we are going to hope they listen to us ― but obviously we have a Plan B and C.”I reenacted a famous scene from 'The Ring' to bring #horror movies to life in AR#madewithunity #ARKit pic.twitter.com/fRU2ul56ki — Abhishek Singh (@shekitup) February 21, 2018

Do you think virtual or augmented reality technology has been too focused on light-hearted fun or pleasant experiences? Well, you’re the only one who thinks that, but today is your lucky day.

Tech designer Abhishek Singh ― known for his creative use of technology ― used augmented reality to recreate that frightening scene in “The Ring” where ghost girl Samara crawls out of the TV. She then chases Singh around his home and ultimately it doesn’t end well for him.

AdvertisementA group of students from the Capital Preparatory Harlem School watch a screening of the film "Black Panther" on its opening night at the AMC Magic Johnson Harlem 9 cinemas in Manhattan, New York, U.S., February 15, 2018. Andrew Kelly / Reuters

“Black Panther,” the first Marvel Universe blockbuster featuring a black superhero and an almost entirely black cast, has been breaking box office records since its theater release last week. But the historic film is also making a splash in a much smaller venue ― the classroom.

Several ingenious teachers have been using “Black Panther” to get kids excited about school and about black history, tapping into Wakanda’s creative spirit to develop worksheets, reading lists and lessons about African cultures.

Tina Bailey, an instructor from Ohio’s Dayton Leadership Academies, got her students ready for class this Tuesday by wearing a “Black Panther” mask and greeting each of them with a modified version of a handshake from the movie.

Watch Bailey build bridges with her students below.

In Illinois, a sixth grade teacher at Chicago’s Dulles School of Excellence, created an entire special curriculum after seeing the movie, Blavity reported.

Students who follow Tess Raser’s lesson plan will learn about the history and lasting effects of colonialism in Africa, the legacy of the Transatlantic slave trade and global anti-blackness. The 28-year-old teacher’s ambitious curriculum also helps students understand the ways in which slavery is connected to the modern-day prison industrial complex in the U.S.

LOOK AT THIS! Free Wakanda Curriculum! It's a whole unit on #BlackPanther for middle through high school grades, developed by @traser03 Check it out and slip some $ to the dope CPS teacher who made it

Venmo: @Tess-Raser

Cash app: $TessRaserhttps://t.co/sleg3hJykO pic.twitter.com/pizorsdBMW — Assata's Daughters (@AssataDaughters) February 21, 2018

Students are introduced to Afrofuturism, a genre that reimagines sci-fi and fantasy culture from a black lens. Raser created worksheets that match the costumes that “Black Panther” actors wore to the traditional clothing of specific African tribes or cultures.

She told Blavity that her students have been “super interested” in learning about black history.

“I hope that my students leave a lesson a little bit more confident in their blackness, that they see themselves as leaders equipped with the political analysis and tools to create the Wakanda of their dreams,” Raser said. “I hope that they learn the ways in which our blackness connects us to people across the world, while appreciating and understanding and honoring our differences.”

“I hope that my students leave a lesson a little bit more confident in their blackness, that they see themselves as leaders equipped with the political analysis and tools to create the Wakanda of their dreams.” - Tess Raser, sixth grade teacher at Chicago’s Dulles School of Excellence

Ron Clark Academy in Atlanta, Georgia, channeled its students’ enthusiasm for “Black Panther” into an entire month of learning. Teachers at the nonprofit middle school incorporated elements of the movie into different subjects ― from music to math. Students were exposed to different African languages, like Xhosa, the South African language used in the film. They also learned about regional drumming, dance, cooking and storytelling.

Watch students at Ron Clark Academy receive a lesson about the art of storytelling by griot Mama Koku.

After all that preparation, the students were exuberant when they finally got a chance to see “Black Panther.” A photographer captured the joy on the children’s faces in a series of photos for Reuters.

Ron Clark Academy 6th grader De Ja Little, 12, joins classmates in watching the film "Black Panther" at Atlantic Station theaters in Atlanta, Georgia, U.S., Feb. 21, 2018. Christopher Aluka Berry / Reuters

Creators of the “Black Panther Challenge,” an initiative that is helping thousands of black children see the film for free, have put together a website with resources for parents and teachers interested in adding an educational element to their viewing experience. The website features reading lists, worksheets, and other activities for kids in kindergarten through 12th grade.

In an opinion piece for USA Today, Pamela Haskins, Susan Barnes and Wade King, three teachers from Ron Clark Academy, pointed out that seeing “Black Panther” empowers students to identify with a range of regal characters who are “fully in charge of their destiny.”NBC via Getty Images

Actress Nanette Fabray, who was known to modern audiences as the mother of Bonnie Franklin’s character on the CBS sitcom “One Day at a Time,” died Thursday at her home in Rancho Palos Verdes, California. She was 97.

The actress, born Ruby Nanette Bernadette Theresa Fabares in San Diego, was performing in vaudeville by the age of 4, according to The New York Times.

By the age of 19, she was doing bit parts in Hollywood movies and made her Broadway debut in the 1941 musical comedy “Let’s Face It” opposite Danny Kaye.

In 1949, Fabray won a Tony for best actress in a musical for “Love Life,” which was directed by Elia Kazan and choreographed by Michael Kidd, according to The Hollywood Reporter.

Her most notable film appearance was with Fred Astaire in “The Band Wagon” (1953), considered to be one of MGM’s best musicals.

Fabray also played a major part in the evolution of television. During the 1940s, NBC hired her to work as a demonstration model for color television because her skin tone showed off the technology just right.

During this time, Fabray was suffering from an undiagnosed hearing problem that affected her ability to perform. The condition, she later discovered, was otosclerosis, a disorder in which excessive growth in the bones of the middle ear interferes with the transmission of sound, according to the Los Angeles Times. One doctor predicted she’d lose her hearing in five years.

Fabray coped by learning sign language and wearing hearing aids. She also had four operations from 1955 to 1977 before her hearing was restored.

Also during that time, Fabray appeared on many classic sitcoms and variety shows. She won three Emmys in the 1950s for her work on Sid Caesar’s “Caesar’s Hour” variety show, according to Variety.

Fabray later became a popular guest on shows like “The Love Boat,” “Maude” and “Murder, She Wrote,” but her character niche seemed to be as the mom of a series star.

She played the mother of Ann Romano (Franklin) on “One Day at a Time” and the mother of Mary Richards on “The Mary Tyler Moore Show.” On the 1990s ABC sitcom “Coach,” Fabray portrayed the mom of a character played by Shelley Fabares, her real-life niece.Staff at an animal shelter in Canada are stunned after a local family adopted a potbellied pig as a pet, then slaughtered and ate her weeks later.

“First reaction I’d say was shock. Heartbreak,” British Columbia Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals employee Leon Davis told the CBC. “You know, all the animals that come through our care or branches we get attached to.”

A pet pig adopted last month was slaughtered by its owner, SPCA says https://t.co/oFsXscgS6I pic.twitter.com/j4vILS9sri — CBC British Columbia (@cbcnewsbc) February 24, 2018

Davis had helped bring Molly, a Vietnamese potbellied pig, back to health after she and dozens of other pigs ended up in the care of the organization after a cruelty investigation and subsequent rescue operation. In mid-January, a Vancouver Island couple adopted Molly from a local BC SPCA branch, the Global News reported.

Shelter workers believed they were sending Molly to a great home. But weeks later, a local woman saw reports on social media indicating the couple had slaughtered and eaten Molly, apparently because they found keeping and training a pet pig to be more work than they could handle.

The BC SPCA contacted local law enforcement, who confirmed that the family had indeed slaughtered and consumed Molly, BC SPCA spokeswoman Lorie Chortyk told People. However, because law enforcement determined the slaughter was done humanely, there’s not much action the BC SPCA can take.

“The reality is, it’s not illegal to kill your own animal in Canada,” she told People. (In the United States, animal cruelty laws vary from state to state, but in many states, it’s also legal for people to kill and eat their own pets — including cats and dogs.)

The adopters had signed a contract saying they would not use the pig for food, but Davis told the CBC that breaching the contract was not a criminal offense. However, they will be blacklisted from adopting any other animals from BC SPCA in the future.

He noted that the shelter would have happily taken Molly back into its care if the couple had returned her, rather than eating her.

Brandy Mckee, who initially alerted the BC SPCA about what happened, told HuffPost Canada that a friend had even offered to pick up Molly from the couple’s home and bring her somewhere safe.

Though potbellied pigs are intelligent and can make wonderful companions, caring for them is a big commitment. The Pig Placement Network notes that the pigs can live between 12 and 15 years and typically weigh between 80 and 160 pounds. They also need plenty of space (including outdoor space), a “pig-proofed” home and specialized vet care.

While potbellied pigs are sometimes referred to as “mini pigs” — since they are smaller than domestic farm pigs — don’t fall for scams advertising tiny “teacup pigs” that appear to be only a few pounds. So-called teacup pigs are only so small because they are piglets. They eventually grow into full-size potbellied pigs unless they are intentionally starved to keep them smaller.Thanks to the generosity of two anonymous donors and three public radio stations, the local news websites Gothamist, DCist, LAist and DNAinfo will have their archives restored and, in the case of Gothamist, will resume publishing stories sometime this spring.

As part of the deal, New York public radio station WNYC will acquire Gothamist’s archives, domain name and social media assets. KPCC in Pasadena, California, will oversee LAist, and WAMU in Washington will handle DCist.

Gothamist founders Jake Dobkin and Jen Chung will oversee the site’s revival this spring, Wired reports.

“For more than a decade, Gothamist served as a source of trusted local news,” New York Public Radio president and CEO Laura Walker said in a statement confirming the revival. “That resonates with us at WNYC, where we are committed to telling stories rooted in New York and that matter to New Yorkers. As we’ve seen a decline in local journalism in even the largest metropolitan areas across the country, even at a time when it’s so vital, we remain committed to strong, independent reporting that fills the void.”

The websites were unceremoniously dumped last fall by owner Joe Ricketts ― the conservative billionaire who founded TD Ameritrade and whose family owns the Chicago Cubs ― after staffers voted to unionize.

Ricketts donated at least $1 million to Donald Trump’s 2016 presidential campaign and has long been an advocate of conservative causes, including opposing workers’ unions.

Ricketts’ sudden closure caught the sites’ 115 staffers completely off guard. Gothamist editor Christopher Robbins tweeted it happened while he was in the bathroom:

I just walked back from the bathroom to find out that everyone at @Gothamist and @DNAinfoNY has been laid off — Christopher Robbins (@ChristRobbins) November 2, 2017UNITED NATIONS/BEIRUT, Feb 23 (Reuters) - The U.N. Security Council on Friday delayed a vote on a demand for a 30-day ceasefire in Syria, where pro-government warplanes have been pounding the last rebel bastion near Damascus in one of the deadliest bombing campaigns of the seven-year civil war.

A draft resolution aimed at ending the carnage in the eastern Ghouta district and elsewhere inSyria will be put up for a vote in the 15-member council at noon (1700 GMT) on Saturday, Kuwait’s U.N. Ambassador Mansour Ayyad Al-Otaibi said.

The 24-hour delay followed a flurry of last-minute negotiations on the text drafted by Sweden and Kuwait after Russia, a veto-holding ally of Syrian President Bashar al-Assad, proposed new amendments on Friday.

“Unbelievable that Russia is stalling a vote on a ceasefire allowing humanitarian access in Syria,” U.S. Ambassador to the U.N. Nikki Haley posted on Twitter.

Talks have centered on the paragraph demanding a cessation of hostilities for 30 days to allow aid access and medical evacuations. A proposal for the truce to start 72 hours after the resolution’s adoption has been watered-down to instead demand it start “without delay” in a bid to win Russian support.

A civil Defence volunteer, known as the White Helmets, checks the site of a regime air strike in the rebel-held town of Saqba, in the besieged Eastern Ghouta region on the outskirts of the capital Damascus, on February 23, 2018. ABDULMONAM EASSA via Getty Images

Diplomats, speaking on condition of anonymity, said Moscow does not want to specify when a truce should start. It was not immediately clear how Russia would vote on Saturday. A resolution needs nine votes in favor and no vetoes by Russia, China, the United States, Britain and France to be adopted.

“We’re not going to give up. ... I hope that we will adopt something forceful, meaningful, impactful tomorrow,” Olof Skoog, Sweden’s U.N. ambassador, told reporters.

Previous ceasefires, however, have had a poor record of ending fighting in Syria, where Assad’s forces have gained the upper hand.

The towns and farms of eastern Ghouta have been under government siege since 2013, with shortages of food, water and electricity that worsened last year. Earlier on Friday, the densely populated enclave was bombed for a sixth straight day, witnesses said.

The civilian casualties and devastation there are among the worst in Syria since the government captured rebel-held parts of Aleppo in 2016. At least 462 people have been killed, including at least 99 children, and many hundreds injured, the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights monitoring group said on Friday.

Syrians inspect debris of damage buildings after an assault carried out by Assad regime forces over the de-escalation zone in Douma town of Eastern Ghouta in Damascus, Syria on February 22, 2018. Anadolu Agency via Getty Images

Syrian state media reported one person was killed and 58 injured in rebel shelling of sites in Damascus, including a hospital.

Clouding any potential ceasefire is the Syrian government’s frequently used tactic of pushing rebels to surrender their strongholds after long sieges and military offensives.

Insurgents in eastern Ghouta have vowed not to accept such a fate, ruling out an evacuation of fighters, their families and other civilians of the kind that ended rebellions in Aleppo and Homs after heavy bombardment in earlier years.

“We refuse categorically any initiative that includes getting the residents out of their homes and moving them elsewhere,” Ghouta rebel factions wrote in a letter to the Security Council.

Eastern Ghouta has 400,000 people spread over a larger area than other enclaves the government has recaptured. Late on Thursday, government aircraft dropped leaflets urging civilians to depart and hand themselves over to the Syrian army, marking corridors through which they could leave safely.

PRESSURE ON RUSSIA

Leading up to the Security Council vote, all eyes have been on Russia. Moscow has a history of standing in the way of Security Council measures that would harm Assad’s interests.

Germany and France were among the nations to ratchet up the pressure on Russia, with German Chancellor Angela Merkel and French President Emmanuel Macron asking Russian President Vladimir Putin to support the resolution.

Earlier, Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov said Moscow wanted guarantees that rebel fighters will not shoot at residential areas in Damascus.

Damascus and Moscow say they only target militants. They have said their main aim is to stop rebel shelling of the capital, and have accused insurgents in Ghouta of holding residents as human shields.

The Britain-based Syrian Observatory for Human Rights said government planes and artillery hit Douma, Zamalka and other towns across the enclave in the early hours of Friday.

There was no immediate comment from the Syrian military.

Vasily Nebenzya, Ambassador of the Russian Federation to the United Nations Headquarters (L) and Bashar Jaafari, permanent Representative of the Syrian Arab Republic to the United Nations Headquarters (R) attend the meeting of the UN Security Council (UNSC) that concluded to postpone the vote on a resolution calling for one-month humanitarian ceasefire in Syria due to failing to reach a consensus on negotiations with Russia, in New York, United States on February 23, 2018. Anadolu Agency via Getty Images

Medical charities say more than a dozen hospitals were hit, making it nearly impossible to treat the wounded.

A witness in Douma who asked not to be identified said by telephone that the early morning bombing was the most intense so far. Another resident, in the town of Hamouriyeh, said the assault had continued “like the other days.”

“Whenever the bombing stops for some moments, the Civil Defence vehicles go out to the targeted places. They work to remove the debris from the road,” Bilal Abu Salah said.

The Civil Defence there said its rescuers rushed to help the wounded after strikes on Hamouriyeh and Saqba. The emergency service, which operates in rebel territory, says it has pulled hundreds of people out from under rubble in recent days.

Hamza Birqdar, the military spokesman for the Jaish al-Islam rebel faction, said it had thwarted nine attacks by pro-government militias trying to storm a front in the southeast of Ghouta.Documents and bank records obtained in discovery during the federal investigation into the underbelly of college basketball detail in meticulous fashion the expenditures of prominent former NBA agent Andy Miller, his former associate Christian Dawkins and his agency, ASM Sports. They include expense reports and balance sheets that list cash advances, as well as entertainment and travel expenses for high school and college prospects and their families.

Yahoo Sports viewed hundreds of pages of documents from the years-long probe that had federal authorities monitoring multiple targets and intercepting more than 4,000 calls across 330 days, providing a clear-eyed view into the pervasive nature of the game’s underground economy.

While three criminal cases tied to the investigation may take years to play out, the documents viewed by Yahoo revealed the extent of the potential NCAA ramifications from the case. The documents show an underground recruiting operation that could create NCAA rules issues – both current and retroactive – for at least 20 Division I basketball programs and more than 25 players.

The documents tie some of the biggest names and programs in the sport to activity that appears to violate the NCAA’s amateurism rules. This could end up casting a pall over the NCAA tournament because of eligibility issues. (NCAA officials declined a request for comment.) There’s potential impermissible benefits and preferential treatment for players and families of players at Duke, North Carolina, Texas, Kentucky, Michigan State, USC, Alabama and a host of other schools. The documents link some of the sport’s biggest current stars – Michigan State’s Miles Bridges, Alabama’s Collin Sexton and Duke’s Wendell Carter – to specific potential extra benefits for either the athletes or their family members. The amounts tied to players in the case range from basic meals to tens of thousands of dollars.

An ASM balance sheet in the hands of federal investigators shows accounts through Dec. 31, 2015, with the subheading, “Loan to Players.” It listed several who were in high school or college as receiving four-figure and five-figure payments from ASM Sports. Among the largest listed loans:

Dennis Smith, who would go on to play at North Carolina State in 2016-17, received $43,500 according to the documents. Another document headed “Pina,” for ASM agent Stephen Pina, says Smith received a total of $73,500 in loans, and includes notes about “options to recoup the money” when Smith did not sign with ASM.

Isaiah Whitehead, at the time a freshman at Seton Hall, received $26,136 according to the documents. The “Pina” document says Whitehead received $37,657 and was “setting up payment plan.” Whitehead signed with ASM but later left the agency for Roc Nation.

Tim Quarterman, at the time a junior at LSU, received at least $16,000 according to the balance sheet.

Diamond Stone, at the time a freshman at Maryland, received $14,303 according to the documents.

A listing that refers to “BAM” for $12,000 is later identified in the documents as Edrice “Bam” Adebayo, who would go on to play at Kentucky in 2016-17. He did not sign with ASM. There’s a later reference to Adebayo that says he received $36,500. “Bad loan,” reads the document.

Markelle Fultz, who would go on to play at Washington and become the No. 1 pick in the 2017 draft, received $10,000 according to the documents. He did not sign with ASM.

Yahoo Sports reached out to officials at N.C. State, Seton Hall, Maryland, Kentucky and Washington. They all declined comment or did not return correspondence.

ASM Sports balance sheets included in the feds’ case on corruption in college basketball. Yahoo Sports

Balance sheets included in the feds’ case on corruption in college basketball. Yahoo Sports

In addition, Dawkins filed expense reports seeking reimbursement for thousands of dollars that he reported as being paid to college and high school players and their families. Several players, families of players or handlers received more than $1,000 in payments from ASM Sports before turning professional:

Current USC player Bennie Boatwright and/or his father, Bennie Sr. (According to documents, they received at least $2,000.)

Current USC player Chimezie Metu and/or adviser, Johnnie Parker. (According to documents, they received $2,000.)

Current Texas player Eric Davis. (According to documents, he received $1,500.)

Current South Carolina player Brian Bowen, who was ensnared in the initial federal investigation and started his career at Louisville last fall until the school withheld him from competition. His father, Brian Sr., also received money, according to the documents. (Dawkins’ expense reports also list more than $1,500 in plane tickets for Bowen, his father and his mother. He and his family received at least $7,000 in benefits, according to the documents.)

Former Utah star Kyle Kuzma received at least $9,500 while in school, according to the documents.

Former South Carolina player P.J. Dozier received at least $6,115 while in school, according to the documents.

Former Xavier player Edmond Sumner and/or his father, Ernest. Documents show they received at least $7,000 in advances while Edmond was in school.

Former Wichita State player Fred VanVleet. Documents show he received at least $1,000.

Former Clemson player Jaron Blossomgame received a payment by Venmo while in school for $1,100 according to the documents.

Apples Jones, the mother of former Kansas player Josh Jackson, received $2,700 according to documents.

Among those receiving hundreds of dollars in advances, according to Dawkins’ expense reports:

The mother of current Michigan State player Miles Bridges.

Additional Dawkins expense reports list meals and meetings with players or their families while in college or high school, and before they turned pro. While small amounts, these could be categorized as extra benefits under NCAA rules. It appears Dawkins paid for the meals, which could be an important distinction.

“There’s nothing wrong with meeting with an agent,” said Atlanta-based lawyer Stu Brown, a veteran of representing schools and coaches in NCAA compliance cases. “But then it becomes a question of who pays for the meal.”

Among the players and/or families who are listed as meeting with or having meals with Dawkins:

Current Alabama player Collin Sexton.

Current Duke player Wendell Carter.

Current Kentucky player Kevin Knox.

Former North Carolina player Tony Bradley.

Former Creighton player Justin Patton.

Former Texas player Prince Ibeh.

Former Notre Dame player Demetrius Jackson.

Former Vanderbilt player Wade Baldwin.

Former Virginia player Malcolm Brogdon.

Former Iowa State player Monte Morris.

The breadth of names, schools and current players could offer a vexing test for both university compliance offices and the NCAA’s enforcement division. The sheer number of potential cases and varying degrees of potential violations are vast. There’s also an overriding factor of the ongoing criminal investigations. A complicating facet to it will be the NCAA’s potential inability to view key documents related to this case, because those details not in the criminal complaints are sealed under protective order. In terms of eligibility, the NCAA and the institution may be prohibited from interviewing people associated with the case because of the parallel criminal cases. (The initial onus to decide is almost always on the school in an eligibility case.)

No one is certain how the NCAA enforcement office would potentially handle the cases. The NCAA has been in constant contact with the feds but so far has had minimal direct involvement with the case, as they’ve been careful to respect the boundaries of the criminal investigations. The likely scenario, according to Brown, would be for the schools to assess the credibility of what’s in the documents and the severity of the potential violations.

“There’s potential for chaos, as it depends on the number of cases and the amount of information that’s released,” Brown said. “There could be inconsistency as a subset of chaos, as different schools may very validly assess the credibility of [the cases] differently.”

Yahoo did not view all of the documents in the three criminal cases tied to the investigation, but the records show an uncommon amount of detail for activities that have come under federal scrutiny.

For example, the expense reports have hundreds of lines like:

Feb. 10, 2016: “Flight for Brian Bowen mom. Flight for Brian Bowen. Flight for Brian Bowen dad.” They totaled more than $1,500.

Feb. 1, 2016: “Advance to Apples Jones (Josh Jackson) $1,700.”

Jan. 13, 2016: “ATM withdrawl: Advance to Fred Van Vleet $483.”

May 3, 2016: “Redwood Lodge. Lunch w/Miles Bridges Parents. $70.05.”

May 3, 2016: “ATM Withdrawl: Miles Bridges mom advance. $400”

Spreadsheet detailing Christian Dawkins’ expenses for February 2016. Yahoo Sports

Yahoo Sports

According to the documents, Dawkins has dinners listed with plenty of boldface names in the sport – Tom Izzo, “Villanova coaches,” Fultz and the family of wayward five-star prospect Mitchell Robinson.

Along the way, a portrait emerges of the inner-workings of the office of Miller, who relinquished his NBA Players Association agent certification in the wake of the probe. Miller has yet to be charged in the case, and it’s widely believed he’s cooperating with the government. Dawkins’ lawyer, Steve Haney, told Yahoo Sports earlier in the week it was “utter hypocrisy” that an underling like Dawkins and the four assistant coaches were charged in the case and their superiors have gone unscathed. Haney added on Thursday night in an email statement: “These are college eligibility issues and agent licensing issues, not matters of national security that deserve this level of FBI involvement and taxpayer resources…..it has reached a degree of being ridiculous.”

Dawkins, the 24-year-old former business associate, was arrested on Sept. 26 and faces felony charges of wire fraud and bribery in two of the three criminal cases tied to the investigation. He ended up on federal wiretaps and, soon after the case broke in late September, his rise became a cautionary tale for how vulnerable top coaches and programs are to the agent world.

Yahoo Sports reached out to a dozen programs tied to the documents late Thursday. Only Xavier coach Chris Mack elected to release a statement. He said: “I have no relationship with Andy Miller or any of his associates. He plays no role in the recruitment of potential student athletes on Xavier’s behalf. Beyond that, our staff has never created a path for him to foster a relationship with any of our student-athletes while enrolled at Xavier. Any suggestion that I or anyone on my staff utilized Andy Miller to provide even the slightest of financial benefits to a Xavier student-athlete is grossly misinformed. We are prepared to cooperate with any and all investigations at any level.”

With an ongoing investigation, the chance looms there could be more charges and arrests. So far, four former assistant college basketball coaches have been arrested: Tony Bland of USC, Chuck Person of Auburn, Emanuel Richardson of Arizona and Lamont Evans of Oklahoma State. Six other assorted participants in the basketball underworld also have been arrested: Dawkins; former sneaker executives James Gatto and Merl Code; financial adviser Munish Sood; clothier and former referee Rashan Michel; and Florida AAU coach Brad Augustine. Charges against Augustine earlier were dismissed without explanation.

AdvertisementAustralia’s Deputy Prime Minister Barnaby Joyce will resign from the leadership position after weeks of scandal over his long-term affair with a former staffer and new allegations of sexual harassment.

Joyce, who once threatened to kill Johnny Depp’s dogs, will officially resign Monday as deputy prime minister as well as leader of the National Party, the junior partner in Australia’s coalition government. He said he will resign the leadership positions but remain in the Parliament as a local member.

“This current cacophony of issues has to be set aside,” Joyce told reporters.

On Monday morning I will step down as the Leader of @The_Nationals and Deputy Prime Minister of Australia. I would like to thank everyone for offering their support to me, especially the people of New England. — Barnaby Joyce (@Barnaby_Joyce) February 23, 2018

Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull is currently in Washington, D.C., for meetings with President Donald Trump and other high-level U.S. officials. Turnbull refused to back his deputy on Thursday morning.

The announcement comes after weeks of speculation about the future of the outspoken member of Parliament as tensions between the two parties that form Australia’s ruling coalition flared.

Barnaby Joyce speaks to the press in Canberra on Feb. 16. Michael Masters via Getty Images

In early February, it was revealed that Joyce, 50, had been engaged in a months-long relationship with his former media adviser, Vikki Campion, 33, who is expecting a baby in April.

The affair reportedly began while she worked for him. Campion was later shunted between the offices of different government politicians as the affair became more widely known, provoking claims of nepotism, favoritism and corruption.

Ministers’ relatives and partners are not allowed to be appointed to executive government offices without approval from the prime minister, but Joyce battled the calls for his resignation by claiming Campion was not technically his partner at the time she was appointed to the various roles.

The pair moved in together after Joyce separated from his wife last year. Journalists and politicians have described the affair as being an open secret in political circles for many months, but it was reported publicly only recently.

“I’d like to say that it’s absolutely important, it’s incredibly important that there be a circuit breaker, not just for the Parliament but, more importantly, a circuit breaker for Vikki, for my unborn child, my daughters and for Nat,” Joyce said during his news conference. Natalie Joyce, his estranged wife, who responded earlier this month that she felt “deceived and hurt” when she saw a picture of a pregnant Campion.

#BREAKING: Barnaby Joyce will step down as Deputy Prime Minister and leader of the National Party: https://t.co/tbqXacb4BZ #AusPol #9News pic.twitter.com/1Dxb7WL077 — Nine News Australia (@9NewsAUS) February 23, 2018

Joyce, who holds the rural New South Wales electorate of New England, has been an outspoken member of Parliament since 2005 and was elected leader of the National Party, and therefore deputy prime minister, in 2016.

Joyce’s woes — and his seeming determination to hold on — led to surreal political theater and mounting tensions between Joyce and Turnbull.

Last week Turnbull slammed Joyce for the “terrible hurt and humiliation” he had inflicted on his family and his new partner, saying his deputy had made “a shocking error of judgment” and “appalled all of us.”

Joyce responded by calling Turnbull’s comments about his personal life “inept” and “unhelpful.”

In Australia’s media landscape, the personal lives of politicians are generally left alone. Joyce’s woes have sparked debate about how his relationship was revealed. However questions have also been raised about Campion’s role as a government adviser.

Joyce has been embroiled in other controversies, most notably for the revelation last August that he had New Zealand citizenship, which led to his expulsion from Parliament and ineligibility to run for election (the Australian Constitution bans dual citizens from running for election). Joyce renounced his New Zealand citizenship and successfully regained his seat, returning to Parliament late last year.

He made international headlines last year when he threatened to execute actor Johnny Depp’s dogs Pistol and Boo after the actor and then-girlfriend Amber Heard smuggled their terriers into the country, avoiding Australia’s tough quarantine laws.Weapons surrendered to Australian authorities during a 2017 gun amnesty program. Robert Cianflone via Getty Images

In the wake of several mass shootings in the United States, including last week’s massacre of 17 people at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Florida, gun control advocates often point to Australia as an example of how a country can implement strong firearm laws to try to stop such carnage.

But while Australia has virtually eliminated mass shootings since the landmark 1996 firearms laws were enacted days after the Port Arthur massacre in Tasmania ― in which 35 people were killed by a gunman wielding AR-15 and L1A1 rifles in what remains the worst single mass attack in modern Australian history ― gun control advocates say politicians and the general public have become “complacent,” allowing the gun lobby to push for a weakening of several important planks of protection as compliance with the laws has slipped across the nation.

“While Australians strongly support gun laws, many are of the view that everything was set in stone in 1996, but it wasn’t. Firearms laws are a political hot potato, and the Australian public isn’t aware gun laws are in trouble,” Sam Lee, head of Gun Control Australia, told HuffPost.

Following the Port Arthur massacre, the federal government swiftly passed new laws and state governments signed up to a new National Firearms Agreement, which all but banned semiautomatic weapons and pump-action shotguns.

Other parts of the legislation instituted far stricter rules governing storage of weapons and obligated people applying for guns licenses to demonstrate a “genuine need” to own a firearm ― self-defense was not permitted as a reason ― and to undertake a safety course. Also instituted was a new 28-day waiting period for licenses and new weapons, restrictions on the amount of ammunition that could be purchased and new conditions around “a mental or physical condition which would render the applicant unsuitable for owning, possessing or using a firearm.”

The gunman in the Port Arthur massacre was mentally impaired.

Guns handed in during the 1996 buyback program in Sydney. More than 700,000 firearms were handed over in the government program. David Gray / Reuters

The government also instituted a buyback system in which those who possessed the newly-banned weapons would be compensated for handing them in to be destroyed. More than 640,000 firearms were bought back from owners by the government from October 1996 to September 1997, while many tens of thousands of still legal weapons, such as handguns, were voluntarily surrendered, for a total of more than 700,000 firearms handed over to authorities.

In the 12 years before the new laws, Australia experienced at least 12 mass shootings in which at least five people died. In the 22 years since, only three incidents could be classified as mass shootings: an incident at Monash University in 2002, known as the only shooting at an Australian education facility, in which two people were killed and five were wounded; a siege at Hectorville in 2011, in which three people were killed and three wounded; and a domestic-related incident at a farm in Lockhart in 2014, when a man shot dead his wife and three children before turning the gun on himself.

After the 1996 laws, homicide and suicide by firearm decreased, according to the Australian Institute of Criminology. From the 1995-96 fiscal year to 2013-14, firearm-related homicides dropped from 67 to 32 annually, the crime institute reported. Since 2003-04, no year has had more than 40 firearm-related homicides. In the U.S. in 2014, more than 11,000 firearm-related homicides were reported, according to the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.

A memorial service is held May 19, 1996, at the Port Arthur historic site in Tasmania for the 35 victims of a mass shooting. The Sydney Morning Herald via Getty Images

However, Gun Control Australia estimated in 2016 there were “as many guns in private hands in Australia as there was at the time of the Port Arthur massacre,” and in 2017, authorities estimated there were up to 260,000 illegal or unregistered firearms in the country. There are currently 730,000 licensed gun owners in Australia and 2.75 million registered firearms. Another gun amnesty, the first since Port Arthur, saw 26,000 firearms handed in last year.

A 2017 review of the National Firearms Agreement found no state had actually complied with all parts of the agreement and that most states had significantly loosened and weakened their gun laws in the two decades since Port Arthur.

“Every jurisdiction has slipped backwards by varying degrees. [New South Wales] is the most obvious example of compliance ‘slippage,’” wrote the report’s author, University of Sydney adjunct associate professor Philip Alpers.

New South Wales, Australia’s most populous state, has recently permitted gun silencers, extended the availability of semiautomatic weapons and eased restrictions on licensing, the report said. Also of concern is that “every State and Territory allows minors to possess and use firearms,” with licensing ages ranging from 10 to 16 years, while some jurisdictions allow people to be trained in firearm use without first obtaining a license. Some states have relaxed restrictions on purchasing multiple firearms and ammunition, wound back licensing regulations, or relaxed rules on safe storage and background checks.

“Non-compliance from day one, and two decades of political pressure, have steadily reduced restrictions and undermined the NFA’s original intent,” the report said.

Gun control experts concur.

“Our gun laws are in a bit of trouble here. We can’t be complacent,” Gun Control Australia’s Sam Lee told HuffPost.

She said that, although background checks for an initial firearm license or purchase remained stringent, there were no further checks when someone wanted to purchase a second weapon, meaning that criminal offenses committed after the purchase of a first weapon might not be picked up. She said a national firearm registry, one of the recommendations of the National Firearms Agreement, was never implemented.

“We don’t know what happened in that time [between purchases]. People are falling through the gaps. We don’t have a national system to track the movement of firearms and licence holders, which is a problem with any criminal activity,” she said.

Lee Rhiannon is a senator for New South Wales and a member of the Greens party, the third-largest in the federal Parliament. Ond one of her portfolio responsibilities is gun control. Rhiannon told HuffPost she was trying to combat the complacency around firearms laws.

“The National Firearms Agreement hasn’t kept up with the modernization of guns,” she said, citing how dealers are attempting to import new rapid-fire weapons into the country, such as the Pardus shotgun (below), and technology that allows 3-D printing of weapons.

“I’ve been following the horror in the United States, and I’ve been impressed with the young people taking a stand and that they’re looking to Australia for laws. Hopefully they start having the conversation and moving toward gun control, and there are fine lessons to learn from Australia, but our system isn’t perfect. It can be tighter.”

On a political level, Rhiannon cited the rising power of the Shooters, Fishers and Farmers Party in the New South Wales state parliament (it holds the balance of power in the upper house). The party supports gun rights and land access, and it has been working to slowly relax gun laws.

For example, in 2013, the Shooters Party negotiated exemptions to hunt feral animals in NSW national parks in exchange for its support for government plans to privatize the state’s electricity system.

Rhiannon said she was also concerned about the rising influence of gun lobbyists, along with moves to overturn a ban on the Adler 110 lever-action shotgun.

Former Prime Minister John Howard, who introduced the 1996 laws, warned against voting for the Shooters Party at a recent NSW state election.

A letter from John Howard and Tim Fischer. #nswpol pic.twitter.com/xdHAzQk7LF — John Barilaro MP (@JohnBarilaroMP) October 11, 2017

“The Shooters Party is standing and hoping to win seats in state elections, and they’re becoming important for major parties as the government will depend on them to get their legislation through. They’re making it easier for people to use a gun, which goes against the whole tenor of the NFA,” she said.

“The public hasn’t gone easy on guns. When there is a shooting, the public are deeply uneasy about the incidents, but when it drops out of the news and people aren’t paying attention, the major parties and shooters parties and gun industry are doing deals. At a federal level, the responsible minister has none of the gun control groups at the negotiating table, only the gun lobby.”The United States will move its embassy in Israel from Tel Aviv to the disputed city of Jerusalem in May, the State Department announced in a statement on Friday.

The controversial relocation will come much faster than initially expected, despite Secretary of State Rex Tillerson saying in December that it would take years before the move was completed. The date is set to coincide with the 70th anniversary of Israel declaring its independence on May 14.

The rapid timeline means the U.S. will not immediately build a new embassy in the city, which would take years of planning and require extensive security preparations. Instead, the State Department confirmed that consular offices in Jerusalem will be renovated and given the title of “embassy.”

Retrofitting existing diplomatic facilities is a cheaper option for the U.S., but there are currently no consulates that match the capacity of the current embassy in Tel Aviv. The cost of relocation is a concern for the White House, even to the point that it has reportedly considered taking donations from pro-Israel, billionaire Republican donor Sheldon Adelson.

Early this year, multiple media outlets reported that the State Department was looking at plans to convert a consular complex in the Jerusalem neighborhood of Arnona into the new embassy. The Arnona location is a newer facility near the Green Line that marked Israel’s borders prior to the 1967 Arab-Israeli war when Israel took over de facto control of the city.

The State Department’s announcement on Friday confirmed that the Arnona facility will be the temporary site of the embassy and contain office space for Ambassador David Friedman. Officials will continue to search for a permanent site elsewhere.

The expected embassy move is likely to further strain the already crippled Israeli-Palestinian peace process, which has further deteriorated under President Donald Trump’s administration. Both Palestinians and Israelis consider Jerusalem to be their capital, and most United Nations members hold that the city’s final status shouldn’t be decided until a peace agreement is reached.

President Donald Trump's announcement in December to move the embassy was met with days of protests. Ibraheem Abu Mustafa / Reuters

Trump’s December decision to relocate the embassy and recognize Jerusalem as Israel’s capital defied decades of U.S. policy and ran contrary to the position of the vast majority of the international community. It also sparked days of Palestinian protests, rebukes from prominent allies and a U.N. General Assembly vote that denounced the U.S. action.

Palestinian officials also condemned Trump’s Israel policies and said after his announcement in December they would no longer recognize the U.S. as an honest broker in the peace process and instead will only agree to negotiations under international leadership.

For Trump, moving the embassy fulfilled a campaign promise that appealed to pro-Israel conservatives and evangelical voters. Both George W. Bush and Bill Clinton also vowed to move the embassy during their campaigns for president, but both changed tack once in office when confronted with the political reality of the situation. Trump touted taking action on the issue as a mark of his administration’s success while speaking at the Conservative Political Action Conference on Friday.

“Every president campaigned on ‘we’re going to make Jerusalem the capital,’ and then they never pulled it off,” Trump said during his CPAC speech. “Every president really lied.”DJ Khaled leads this year's BET Awards nominations with six nods in five categories. Roy Rochlin via Getty Images

The nominations for the 2018 BET Awards have rolled in and DJ Khaled is leading the pack.

Scoring six nominations, including for album of the year, video of the year and best male hip-hop artist, Khaled is followed by Pulitzer Prize winner Kendrick Lamar, who received five nominations.

Also notable are Migos and SZA, with four nominations each. SZA was nominated for five Grammy Awards earlier this year, but was snubbed in all categories. Hopefully, the critically acclaimed “Love Galore” singer will be honored this time around.

Singer-songwriter SZA is nominated for four BET Awards this year. Dia Dipasupil via Getty Images

Unsurprisingly, actors and actresses from the smash hit “Black Panther” dominate the acting categories, with Lupita Nyong’o, Letitia Wright, Chadwick Boseman, Michael B. Jordan, Angela Bassett, Daniel Kaluuya and Sterling K. Brown all receiving nods.

The BET Awards will air on BET on June 24. You can check out the full list of nominees below:

Best Female R&B / Pop Artist Award

Beyonce

SZA

H.E.R.

Rihanna

Kehlani



Best Male R&B / Pop Artist Award

Bruno Mars

Chris Brown

The Weeknd

Khalid

Daniel Caesar



Best Group Award

Migos

A Tribe Called Quest

N.E.R.D.

Rae Sremmurd

Chloe X Halle



Best Collaboration Award

Bruno Mars feat. Cardi B - “Finesse (Remix)”

DJ Khaled feat. Rihanna & Bryson Tiller - “Wild Thoughts”

DJ Khaled feat. Jay-Z, Future & Beyonce - “Top Off”

Cardi B feat. 21 Savage - “Bartier Cardi”

French Montana feat. Swae Lee - “Unforgettable”

Kendrick Lamar feat. Rihanna - “LOYALTY.”



Best Male Hip Hop Artist Award

Drake

Kendrick Lamar

DJ Khaled

Jay-Z

J. Cole



Best Female Hip Hop Artist Award

Cardi B

Nicki Minaj

Remy Ma

DeJ Loaf

Rapsody



Video of the Year Award

Drake - “God’s Plan”

Cardi B - “Bodak Yellow”

Bruno Mars feat. Cardi B - “Finesse (Remix)”

DJ Khaled feat. Rihanna & Bryson Tiller - “Wild Thoughts”

Kendrick Lamar - “HUMBLE.”

Migos feat. Drake - “Walk It Talk It”



Video Director of the Year Award

Benny Boom

Director X

Ava Duvernay

Chris Brown

Dave Meyers



Best New Artist Award

SZA

H.E.R.

Daniel Caesar

GOLDLINK

A Boogie Wit Da Hoodie

Dr. Bobby Jones Best Gospel/Inspirational Award

Lecrae feat. Tori Kelly - “I’ll Find You”

Snoop Dogg feat. B. Slade - “Words Are Few”

Ledisi & Kirk Franklin - “If You Don’t Mind”

Marvin Sapp - “Close”

Tasha Cobbs Leonard feat. Nicki Minaj - “I’m Getting Ready”



The Best International Act Award

Booba (France)

Cassper Nyovest (South Africa)

Dadju (France)

Davido (Nigeria)​

Distruction Boyz (South Africa)

Fally Ipupa (Congo)

J Hus (U.K.)

Niska (France)

Tiwa Savage (Nigeria)

Stefflon Don (U.K.)

Stormzy (U.K.)

Best Actress Award

Tiffany Haddish

Lupita Nyong’o

Issa Rae

Angela Bassett

Letitia Wright

Taraji P. Henson



Best Actor Award

Chadwick Boseman

Michael B. Jordan

Donald Glover

Sterling K. Brown

Denzel Washington

Daniel Kaluuya



Young Stars Award

Yara Shahidi

Ashton Tyler

Caleb McLaughlin

Lonnie Chavis

Marsai Martin

Miles Brown



Best Movie Award

“Black Panther”

“Girls Trip”

“A Wrinkle in Time”

“Detroit”

“Mudbound”



Sportswoman of the Year Award

Serena Williams

Venus Williams

Skylar Diggins-Smith

Candace Parker

Elana Meyers TaylorPresident Donald Trump on Friday reiterated his call for some teachers to be armed with concealed weapons and criticized the armed security guard who never went inside Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School once gunman Nikolas Cruz began firing on students last week.

“A teacher would’ve shot the hell of out him before he knew what happened,” Trump said during a speech at the Conservative Political Action Conference.

“I’d rather have somebody that loves their students and wants to protect their students than somebody standing outside that doesn’t know anybody and doesn’t know the students,” Trump said, alluding to the school’s guard who stood outside of the school. That guard subsequently resigned in the aftermath of the shooting.

The president said schools should be “a much harder target for attackers” and that students are put in greater danger if schools are declared “gun-free.”

Only 10 or 20 percent of teachers should be armed, Trump said. He referred to someone who had served in the Marines for decades before taking a teaching position as the type of person who would be well-equipped to carry a gun in a school.

Separately on Friday, Florida Gov. Rick Scott (R) said that he opposes arming teachers in his state.Mirai Nagasu is the first American woman to land a triple axel at the Winter Games. NurPhoto via Getty Images

It’s no secret figure skater Mirai Nagasu is a hard worker. And the Olympian says the apple doesn’t fall far from the tree.

Nagasu, who became the first American woman to land a triple axel at the Winter Games, spent much of her childhood at her parents’ sushi restaurant in Arcadia, California. She even slept in the establishment many nights as her parents worked.

During that time, she picked up some important life skills.

“I have a great work ethic because I’ve watched my parents work super hard,” the figure skater said, according to The Washington Post.

She added, “I’m also great at dishwashing because of the restaurant, as well!”

Nagasu’s father Kiyoto refused to take vacations, missing many of the skater’s competitions. The Los Angeles Times noted that Kiyoto refrained from taking time off since closing the restaurant would mean, his employees would go without pay. In fact, when the skater performed her historic triple axel, the parents were working the dinner rush at their restaurant, Kiyosuzu. Mirai’s jump helped propel Team USA to a bronze medal in skating. Ikuko, the skater’s mother, told USA Today Sports that they’d watch her performance later that night on DVR.

The 24-year-old’s credits her parents' drive as her inspiration. Valery Sharifulin via Getty Images

“Wow, can you believe it? Her child wins a medal and she’s still here — working, working,” patron Helen Lee told The Los Angeles Times. “It’s surprising, but I really respect that she stays with her responsibilities, running a business.”

The couple did make a rare exception to their work schedule for the later portion of their daughter’s performances in the Olympics.

“The business is important, but it is special to be able to watch Mirai,” Ikuko told USA Today. “We will shut the restaurant, go quickly, and come back quickly.”

The 24-year-old’s credits her parents’ drive as her inspiration. And it’s obvious to her team members too. Vincent Zhou, who became the first skater to land a quad lutz at the Olympics, described Nagasu as “the hardest worker I know.”

“She’ll do triple axels after triple axels until [coach Tom Zakrajsek] has to drag her off the ice,” he told The New York Times, commenting on her practices. “She’s incredible. She will skate 17,635 long programs and then do a short program every single day.”

From the restaurant to the ice rink, Mirai has come a long way thanks to her parents’ values.Speedskaters from the Netherlands won’t be winning any medals for this performance at the Winter Olympics.

Sven Kramer, Jan Blokhuijsen, Patrick Roest and Koen Verweij tossed a gigantic replica of the bronze medal they won in the men’s team pursuit event into the crowd at Pyeongchang, South Korea, on Wednesday night.

Their ill-considered stunt at Holland Heineken House injured two women, and one was taken to hospital to be treated for a cut, reports NL Times.

RTL Nieuws shared footage of the incident online, and it’s now going viral:

Kramer, who won a gold medal in the men’s 5,000-meter speedskating event on the opening weekend of the games, later apologized in Korean on Twitter:

Yahoo News translated his message:

“Hello Korean fans. I apologize for the injury last night in the Heineken House representing our team. You came here to cheer the Netherlands’ ice sports team. But accidents happen and I apologize for this. And I hope for a quick recovery. And I will try my best to show a good performance. Thank you.”

The incident was “very regrettable,” the four Netherlands speedskaters added in an official statement obtained by NL Times.

“Let it be clear that we obviously never intended to cause this,” it added. “We let them know that and in this way we also want to let the public know.”

Kramer is scheduled to compete in the men’s mass start event on Saturday.Are these people skating? Or are they just sneezing?

That was the amusing premise of a new Winter Olympic-themed game that Jimmy Kimmel debuted on Thursday night.

The “Jimmy Kimmel Live!” host noted how professional skaters can sometimes look as if they are sneezing when the camera zooms in our their faces.

So he quizzed his audience on whether a series of close-up shots were of athletes, or just stock pictures of folks suffering from the flu.WASHINGTON ―Democratic governors are planning to invest at least $20 million dollars this year in gubernatorial races that could determine which party has control over drawing electoral boundaries in 2021.

The Democratic Governors Association’s announcement signals that the party is increasingly focusing on state races that could impact redistricting. Republicans, targeting low-profile state races in 2010, won those races and were able to draw congressional and statewide lines that significantly benefited the party. Congressional redistricting is only done once each decade, so control over the process has enduring consequences. The Brennan Center for Justice estimates Republicans hold an additional 16 seats to 17 seats in Congress because of gerrymandered maps.

During a press conference on Friday, Govs. Jay Inslee (Wash.), Dannel Malloy (Conn.) and Tom Wolf (Penn.) said the money would be spent in eight states: Colorado, Nevada, Wisconsin, Michigan, Ohio, Pennsylvania, Maine and Florida. The governors were in the nation’s capital Friday for the National Governors Association winter meeting, which hosts governors from both parties.

“There is a cancer on our democracy right now, and it’s called gerrymandering. And we know that there has to be a cure to that. And we know that the best cure is to elect Democratic governors who can stop this assault on democracy,” Inslee, the current DGA chairman, said.

Washington Gov. Jay Inslee, chairman of the Democratic Governors Association, announced an initial $20-million investment in electing Democratic governors. Fotoholica Press/Getty Images

When asked whether the DGA has already raised the $20 million, Inslee said, “Our contributions are growing so rapidly. We’re very confident we’ll be able to finance this.”

In most states, lawmakers and the governor must agree on redistricting plans, meaning that a party can wield massive influence if it controls both the legislature and the governor’s mansion. Malloy said Friday that targeting governors’ races was an effective way to increase Democratic influence over redistricting because many state legislative seats remained gerrymandered from 2010 midterms.

Even though the Democratic governors want more control over the redistricting process, they say they would use their power to make elections more fair, not to benefit Democrats. While Republicans enjoy a significant advantage from the last round of redistricting, there are some states, like Maryland and Illinois, where the process has benefited Democrats.

“This is not about our desire to rig the map,” Malloy said.

Pressed on whether the DGA was endorsing nonpartisan redistricting processes as a matter of policy, Inslee said that it was not.

But speaking individually, Inslee said that he would prefer a “more nonpartisan system.” Wolf voiced his agreement.

“There is a cancer on our democracy right now, and it’s called gerrymandering. And we know that there has to be a cure to that.” - Gov. Jay Inslee, the current DGA chairman

The new funding initiative came as the U.S. Supreme Court is considering two cases dealing with partisan gerrymandering. The court has never articulated a standard for when partisan gerrymandering is unconstitutional, but could do so in June. Even if the court does come up with a unprecedented standard, it is unlikely that it would order states to redraw fairer maps in 2018 because the midterm elections are so close.

Wolf, one of the rare Democratic governors elected in 2014, is fresh off of a successful court battle with his Republican legislature that resulted in a dramatic redrawing of the state’s congressional districts. He dismissed Republican lawmakers’ threats to impeach the state Supreme Court justices that redrew the map as “nonsense” that lacked “credibility.”

Wolf paraphrased the film “Animal House” when a reporter asked him to explain his political adversaries’ motives.

“Some folks have figured this is a situation that calls for an entirely futile gesture on someone’s part, and they feel they’re just the folks to do it,” he said.

Malloy said that Democrats should have moved more quickly to challenge the maps and have been more aggressive in 2010 to have more control over the redistricting process.