R&B singer R. Kelly is blaming “rumors” for the cancelation of a scheduled performance at the University of Illinois at Chicago after students and staff petitioned against his appearance because of sexual misconduct allegations.

“I don’t know why they canceled the show. I’ve never heard of a show being canceled because of rumors, but I guess there’s a first time for everything,” Kelly said in a video posted to Twitter on Sunday.

Kelly has been dogged by dozens of allegations of sexual abuse and misconduct over the years, including operating a sexually abusive cult and producing child pornography ― a crime he was acquitted of. A woman recently accused him of infecting her with an STD.

Kelly, a Grammy-winning Chicago native, hinted at legal action over being booted from Love Jam concert, scheduled for May 5 at the university pavilion.

“I’m going to try to get to the bottom line of it, you know, as far as my lawyers are concerned, and see exactly what happened and why I was canceled,” he said.

R&B singer R. Kelly is blaming "rumors" for canceling a performance he had planned in Chicago. John Gress / Reuters

The University of Illinois at Chicago’s Women’s Leadership and Resource Center also celebrated Kelly’s canceled performance on Facebook on Friday, calling it “a victory for all of us, but especially for Black women and girls!”

On Monday, the Times’s Up movement’s Women of Color committee released a statement outlining reasons for rallying against Kelly and demands for an investigation into his conduct. The group wants Kelly probed for his alleged marriage to the late singer Aaliyah when she was 15, child pornography charges, lawsuits against him by women, and the recent cult claims.

“We call on people everywhere to join with us to insist on a world in which women of all kinds can pursue their dreams free from sexual assault, abuse and predatory behavior,” reads the committee’s statement posted on The Root. “To this end, today we join an existing online campaign called #MuteRKelly.

In a statement obtained by BuzzFeed, a representative for Kelly said the singer supports the Time’s Up movement but believes its attack on him is an “attempted public lynching of a black man who has made extraordinary contributions to our culture.”

“We understand criticizing a famous artist is a good way to draw attention to those goals — and in this case, it is unjust and off-target,” the statement read. “Time’s Up has neglected to speak with any of the women who welcome R. Kelly’s support, and it has rushed to judgment without the facts.”

Kelly is slated to perform at the Greensboro Coliseum in North Carolina on May 11. Tickets remained on sale for that performance. A representative for the Greensboro arena did not immediately respond to requests for comment.Donald Trump has been saying he will run for president as a Republican, which is surprising, since I just assumed he was running as a joke.

Donald Trump owns the Miss USA pageant, which is great for Republicans because it will streamline their search for a vice president.

Donald Trump often appears on Fox, which is ironic because a fox often appears on Donald Trump’s head.

Donald Trump said recently he has ‘a great relationship with the blacks,’ but unless ‘the Blacks’ are a family of white people, I bet he is mistaken.It seems like Michelle Wolf’s unapologetic performance at White House Correspondents’ Association dinner on Saturday had quite the impact on Kathy Griffin — especially the backlash over the comic’s routine.

On Monday, Griffin publicly retracted her apology to President Donald Trump almost a year after she posed with a fake severed head that bore his likeness and was roundly chastised for it.

“By the way, I’m taking the apology back,” the comedian said on “The View.” She then uttered a short phrase that the program bleeped out; the Mediaite outlet reported that she said, “Fuck him.”

The 57-year-old extended her withdrawal to Don Jr. and Eric Trump as well, referring to the president’s two sons as “Eddie Munster and date rape,” respectively.

“Look, I’m not holding back on this family,” she said. “This president is different and I have been through the mill and so now I’m back on the road.”

Griffin said she regretted saying she was sorry to Trump because it just made her “part of the Trump wood chipper, which Michelle Wolf is in now.”

She said all she intended to do with her controversial photo ― which, among other repercussions, caused CNN to drop her as co-host of its New Year’s Eve show ― was to “make a statement about what a misogynist” the president is.

Griffin, who attended the correspondents’ dinner, wrote a lengthy Twitter thread on Sunday that pointed out the hypocrisy of the criticism Wolf has received, especially from journalists.

“So journalists are willing to demand that a comic hired to roast people apologize but they aren’t willing to demand that Trump or his staff apologize to people? Is that where we’re at now?” she wrote.

Griffin had used an appearance on an Australian TV talk show last August to previously say she was sorry for saying sorry.

During Griffin’s “View” appearance, she was asked if she felt that her photo shoot with Trump’s bloody head in May 2017 went “too far.”

“No, not now. Not when I see his policies,” Griffin replied.

“But now you’ve taken the apology back aren’t you frightened they’re going to go after you again now?” co-host Joy Behar asked. “Why do you do that to yourself?”Threats of prosecution and arrests did not deter hundreds of Central American migrants from coming to the U.S.-Mexico border to seek asylum.

The migrant caravan reached the border on Sunday after weeks of travel from El Salvador, Guatemala and Honduras. Around 150 people queued up to seek asylum in the U.S. at the San Ysidro port of entry in San Diego, California ― a legal way of coming to the U.S. and asking for help.

The caravan was organized by the nonprofit Pueblos Sin Fronteras to draw attention to the plight of migrants.

Members of a caravan of Central Americans who spent weeks traveling to the U.S.-Mexico border ask U.S. authorities for asylum on April 29, 2018. David McNew/Getty Images

But the Trump administration has framed the caravan as a dangerous threat. President Donald Trump sent National Guard troops to the border in response, although they cannot and will not actually interact with the caravan members.

Homeland Security Secretary Kirstjen Nielsen and Attorney General Jeff Sessions warned in public statements that the U.S. would prosecute those who make false immigration claims, help others to do so or enter the country illegally. Nielsen also urged the migrants to stay in Mexico.

But they came anyway.

The U.S. did not allow them to make claims right away ― instead, many of them spent the night on the Mexican side of the border. U.S. Customs and Border Protection said Sunday it would limit the number of people who could make claims at the San Ysidro port of entry based on capacity.

Migrants arrive at U.S. ports of entry and seek asylum every day, but this situation is unique because of the caravan’s size, the Trump administration’s aggressive response and the intense media coverage.A long-shot bid to give voters in deeply conservative, strongly Republican Idaho the chance to decide whether the state should join the Affordable Care Act’s Medicaid expansion seems to have succeeded.

Activists with Reclaim Idaho will submit signatures on Tuesday from Idaho residents who signed petitions to vote on expanding Medicaid, the grassroots campaign said. Reclaim Idaho had to collect more than 56,000 signatures by Monday to put the issue on the ballot this November, and they’ve exceeded that amount by nearly 4,000, according to the group’s press release.

“This initiative would bring health care coverage to those who need it the most, and it will allow Idahoans to decide what we want in our health care system, no matter what politicians in Boise or Washington, D.C. do,” Emily Strizich, a co-founder of Reclaim Idaho, said in a statement. “These are moms and dads who work hard in jobs that don’t provide health coverage, and people who are nearing retirement who have lost their jobs.”

Reclaim Idaho achieved this result with an almost all-volunteer force of local activists working in the state’s 44 counties to knock on doors, set up tables in public places and stake out polling locations during a county Election Day last month. The organization’s founders at times traveled the state in their Medicaid Mobile, a 1977 camper van purchased for $1,500 that’s emblazoned with the words “MEDICAID FOR IDAHO.”

Idaho is poised to become the second state where activists recently got around a Republican governor and a GOP-led state legislature to put the question of whether to expand Medicaid directly before the voters.

Last week, organizers in Utah submitted enough signatures to put expansion on the ballot. A similar effort is ongoing in Nebraska. Maine became the first state to adopt Medicaid expansion via direct voter action last November, although Gov. Paul LePage (R) thus far has refused to implement it.

Medicaid expansion would provide coverage to as many as 62,000 people in Idaho, according to the state Department of Health and Welfare. Nine percent of Idahoans lack health coverage, the same as the national uninsured rate.

Idaho voters overwhelmingly support Medicaid expansion, according to a survey conducted by Boise State University in December: 71 percent favor it while 22 percent oppose.

Reclaim Idaho volunteers in Canyon County display signed petitions supporting a ballot initiative for Medicaid expansion while posing in front of the Medicaid Mobile. Reclaim Idaho

The Affordable Care Act calls for all states to expand Medicaid eligibility to anyone earning up to 133 percent of the federal poverty level, which is about $16,000 for a single person and $33,000 for a family of four. Under the 2010 law, the federal government pays at least 90 percent of the cost of covering these newly enrolled people.

In 2012, however, the Supreme Court ruled that states could refuse the Medicaid expansion. Idaho is one of 18 that haven’t expanded the health care program. In those states, there are almost 2.5 million people who would qualify for such expanded coverage, according to the Henry J. Kaiser Family Foundation.

County officials still have to certify the legitimacy of the last batches of signatures that Reclaim Idaho activists expect to submit on Tuesday. That process must be completed by June 30 and counties must hand over the signed petitions to the state by July 6.

Reclaim Idaho plans a rally outside the state capitol if and when that process concludes. Even though the organization said it had collected enough signatures to get its initiative on the ballot, the effort could falter if county officials are unable to validate enough of the signatures.

Reclaim Idaho was co-founded last year by Sandpoint, Idaho, natives Luke Mayville and Garrett Strizich along with Emily Strizich, Garrett’s wife, to direct and support ballot initiatives on issues including expanding health care and supporting public schools. Mayville is a college professor, Garrett Strizich is a medical student and Emily Strizich is an occupational therapist who specializes in low-income children with disabilities.

The group began its Medicaid expansion campaign less than a year ago. The Fairness Project, a labor-backed entity that supports progressive ballot initiative campaigns, provided assistance in both Idaho and Utah.

To put a voter initiative on the ballot, Idaho requires organizers to collect the signatures of 6 percent of the state’s registered voters, which amounts to just over 56,000 people. To ensure those signatures come from all across the state, organizers have to get signatures from 6 percent of voters in each of 18 of the state’s 35 state legislative districts. Reclaim Idaho announced last week that it had met the second standard.An adorable rescue cat called Ulla made the most endearing face after a veterinarian discovered she was pregnant.

Soon after a scan confirmed Ulla was expecting a litter of four or five kittens, the 1-year-old tabby turned towards a camera with this expression:

The Dyrenes Venner animal shelter in Nuuk, Greenland, shared the amusing photographs to Facebook last week. They are now going viral on Reddit.

Ulla was brought to the shelter in mid-April after being found living alone on the streets, reports The Dodo. She’d previously been in the organization’s care as a tiny kitten.

Last week, staff spotted she was putting on weight and booked her in for a veterinarian checkup. “It was pretty amazing,” shelter board member Tone Frank told TODAY. “I’ve never seen a cat get an ultrasound. We saw little kittens in her tummy.”

The shelter did not immediately return HuffPost’s request for comment. But according to TODAY, Ulla has since been adopted by a family and is waiting to give birth any day now.White House chief of staff John Kelly has disparaged President Donald Trump's intelligence on several occasions, according to NBC News. Kevin Lamarque/Reuters

White House chief of staff John Kelly has often called President Donald Trump an “idiot” in front of aides and has portrayed himself as a “savior” who has singlehandedly rescued the country from disaster, according to an NBC News report published Monday that cited comments from eight current and former White House officials.

Four of the officials said they’d personally witnessed Kelly using the disparaging term to describe Trump.

“He doesn’t even understand what DACA is. He’s an idiot,” Kelly allegedly said during a meeting about the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program and overall immigration policy. “We’ve got to save him from himself.”

In a statement Monday, Kelly dismissed the NBC story as “total BS.”

“I spend more time with the President than anyone else and we have an incredibly candid and strong relationship,” he said in a statement. “He always knows where I stand and he and I both know this story is total BS. I am committed to the President, his agenda, and our country. This is another pathetic attempt to smear people close to President Trump and distract from the administration’s many successes.”

White House Chief of Staff John Kelly calls our reporting "total BS" in a statement. --> pic.twitter.com/T0kpdsyliT — Geoff Bennett (@GeoffRBennett) April 30, 2018

NBC’s unnamed sources told the network that Kelly was known to “make fun” more generally at what the chief of staff saw as the president’s “lack of knowledge about policy and government.”

They said Kelly has also painted himself as being the person responsible for shielding the country from Trump’s more erratic impulses.

“The strong implication being, ‘If I weren’t here we would’ve entered WWIII or the president would have been impeached,’” NBC reported that one senior White House official said of Kelly’s attitude.

The chief of staff’s alleged criticisms of the president have been demoralizing to aides, the NBC sources said. They also accused Kelly of belittling women and of making troubling comments about the domestic violence accusations leveled against former staff secretary Rob Porter by that aide’s two ex-wives. Porter was forced to quit his job when the accusations were publicized.

Officials told NBC that Kelly questioned aloud why Porter’s alleged victims “wouldn’t just move on.”

John Kelly has told aides multiple times that women are more emotional than men, including at least once in front of Trump, four current and former officials tell NBC News. https://t.co/LltG93gcaM — Kyle Griffin (@kylegriffin1) April 30, 2018

In Feb., John Kelly wondered aloud how much more Rob Porter would have to endure before his honor could be restored, sources tell NBC News.



Kelly questioned why Porter's ex-wives wouldn't just move on based on the info he said he had about his marriages. https://t.co/LltG92YAMc — Kyle Griffin (@kylegriffin1) April 30, 2018

Some of the officials quoted in the NBC story suggested that Kelly may resign this summer as tensions mount between him and Trump.

But several White House spokespeople pushed back against the suggestion that the president and Kelly had anything less than a good working relationship and refuted the suggestion that Kelly had referred to Trump as an “idiot.”

These officials told NBC that Kelly is in the Oval Office “more than anyone else.” They conceded, however, that Trump does get “frustrated” with the chief of staff at times.

Stephanie Ruhle, one of the reporters behind the NBC article, defended the veracity of the story’s contents on Monday, telling Kelly in a tweet that it was people “on your team” who recounted stories of “you (not us) undermining [the president’s] credibility.”Acting ICE Director Thomas Homan announced his retirement on April 30, 2018. Jonathan Ernst / Reuters

Acting Director of Immigration and Customs Enforcement Thomas Homan will retire from government service, he announced Monday, after spending the last 14 months serving as the most controversial deportation chief in the agency’s brief history.

“It has been the honor of my life to lead the men and women of ICE for more than a year,” Homan said in a statement. “The decision to leave federal service after more than 34 years is bittersweet, but my family has sacrificed a lot in order for me to serve and it’s time for me to focus on them.”

Widely respected by law enforcement officials, but reviled among immigrant rights groups, Homan was plucked from retirement last January to lead President Donald Trump’s controversial deportation crackdown.

Homan had initially filled the position on an interim basis last year while the White House looked for a formal nominee, an ICE official said Monday. Though the White House nominated Homan to the position in November, he informed the Department of Homeland Security early this year that he intended to step down because of family considerations, according to the official.

Homan told HuffPost earlier this month that his family had received threats since he took charge of the agency.

But Homan had also recoiled at the notion of passing through a politically contentious Senate confirmation hearing, according to the The Wall Street Journal, which first reported the news.

Despite receiving the nomination to head ICE six months ago, Homan’s confirmation hearing had yet to be scheduled. A group of 17 mostly Democratic senators penned a letter Friday pressing DHS to cough up documents it had given to the Senate’s Homeland Security Committee and questioned whether he should continue to head the agency after 14 months without confirmation.

“The absence of a Senate-confirmed head of ICE for more than a year hinders Congressional oversight and the efficient operation of the agency and is troubling in any circumstance,” the letter said. “We understand that the Trump Administration may be concerned about Mr. Homan answering questions under oath about his leadership of ICE, as well as the possibility that Mr. Homan’s nomination could be defeated in the Senate.”

The Senators went on to accuse Homan of carrying out “radical – and in some cases possibly illegal – changes in immigration enforcement policies and practices.” The cited the separation of hundreds of undocumented children from asylum-seeking parents after crossing the U.S.-Mexico border, reversing the presumptive release of pregnant women from immigrant detention, and discarding a decades-long policy of halting deportations for individuals at the request of Congress.

Those changes were “accompanied by inflammatory and inaccurate statements,” the letter said, noting Homan’s alleged use of the derogatory epithet “tonk” to refer to unauthorized immigrants, which HuffPost first reported in a lengthy profile earlier this month. The term is a Border Patrol slang that derives from the sound of bashing an immigrant over the head with a metal flashlight. (Homan denied using the term.)

In an administration bogged down by infighting and high turnover, Homan had appeared to easily win Trump’s confidence, pressing ahead with the White House’s deportation agenda enthusiastically, despite the political blowback.

But Homan’s abrupt departure leaves the signature agency charged with Trump’s deportation efforts leaderless and without a clear successor.

“Everyone is surprised,” a former DHS official told HuffPost. “ICE has never had a deep bench and over the last year and a half it’s become increasingly weak. I would hope they’re looking outside the agency for someone with fresh ideas.”

Homan had also recently complained to co-workers that he’d been increasingly marginalized by DHS Secretary Kirstjen Nielsen, who left him out of negotiations with lawmakers on immigration reform earlier this year, according to The Washington Post.

But as recently as Jan. 24 of this year, Homan told the radio show John and Ken on Demand that he planned to move forward with confirmation.

“There’s a lot of paperwork involved,” Homan said at the time. “We’re on the finishing touches.”

President Donald Trump and acting director of Immigration and Customs Enforcement Thomas Homan talk during a law enforcement roundtable on sanctuary cities in the Roosevelt Room at the White House on March 20, 2018. The Washington Post via Getty Images

Monday’s announcement brings to a close a three-decade career in law enforcement that began when Homan joined the police department of the 2,000-person village of West Carthage in upstate New York. After serving four years as a Border Patrol agent in the 1980s, Homan steadily rose through the ranks of immigration enforcement, first as an investigator with the now defunct Immigration and Naturalization Service, and later as an administrator with ICE, which was created in 2003.

Homan’s background in the rank-and-file brought with it an uniquely detailed understanding of all aspects of immigration enforcement and his tenure was characterized by a glorification of the deportation officers whom he views as unfairly vilified by legal groups and the national news media. Even among critics of Trump’s immigration crackdown, Homan himself has remained widely respected among current and former DHS officials.

But he also brought a uniquely combative attitude to a position that has traditionally been filled by lawyers who shy away from making contentious statements about immigration enforcement ― one of the country’s most divisive political issues. Homan earned the ire of both immigrant rights groups and Democratic politicians by asserting that, under his watch, unauthorized immigrants “should look over your shoulder, and you need to be worried.”

In perhaps his most bombastic statement, Homan in an appearance on Fox News urged the Justice Department to consider prosecuting local officials who embrace “sanctuary” policies that limit local cooperation with ICE.

Even as he prepared to exit government service, Homan remained a booster of his deportation officers and took a jab at the national press.Chicago is a lot of things — a city, a style of pizza and the name of Kim Kardashian West’s third child with her husband, Kanye West.

What “Chicago” is not is a one-syllable name, which was something that confused host Ellen DeGeneres when Kardashian West visited her show Monday.

“So her name is Chicago,” DeGeneres said of the 37-year-old’s baby girl, who was born via surrogate in January. “But … when I was pitching names, you said you wanted one syllable.”

“And I did,” Kardashian West responded.

“Right, so, Chicago is not one syllable,” DeGeneres quipped.

“Yeah, it kind of messes with me, I’m not gonna lie. I really like the one syllable thing,” the mother, whose two other children are named North and Saint, replied.

A post shared by Kim Kardashian West (@kimkardashian) on Mar 17, 2018 at 7:15am PDT

Kardashian West then listed a few names that were in the running for baby Chicago, including the name of her husband’s late mother, Donda.

“We were gonna name her Jo, because my grandma Mary Jo … Or we were going go with Grace … and then it was Chicago,” Kardashian West said with an air of exasperation.

When DeGeneres asked if it was a nod to West’s hometown, Kardashian West replied that Chicago is “a place that made [West]” and that the name is “cool and different.” But she never truly acknowledged why the couple decided to bestow their infant with the Windy City’s name.

During an earlier interview with DeGeneres in November, the expecting mother was pretty adamant about giving her unborn child a “short, easy to spell, one-syllable” name, adding that the tradition was “kind of my vibe.”

But Kardashian West somehow, some way, didn’t get to name her child exactly what she wanted.

Still, she told DeGeneres that she’s decided to nickname Chicago “Chi” (pronounced “Shy”).

“So, it’s like North, Saint and Chi,” Kardashian West explained.Central American migrants traveling in a caravan demonstrate at the U.S.-Mexico border on April 29. The Trump administration has threatened them for seeking asylum, but also shut down another way for Central Americans to legally come to the U.S. for safety. GUILLERMO ARIAS via Getty Images

WASHINGTON — The Trump administration’s decision to end a program that helped Central Americans legally residing in the U.S. bring their children here left 3,800 people, mostly kids, who were already being processed for admittance stranded in El Salvador, Guatemala and Honduras ― three of the countries with the highest murder rates in the world.

The Trump administration quit conducting interviews for the Central American Minors program at the end of January, as part of its broader efforts to cut the number of refugees admitted into the U.S., but the number of people affected hasn’t previously attracted widespread attention. Nearly 4,000 people were still in the pipeline when the program ended and did not receive interviews, a Department of Homeland Security official confirmed.

There’s no guarantee that the people whose applications were scrapped would have eventually been granted protections, but it was highly unusual to not even continue considering them, said Jen Smyers, who leads policy and advocacy on immigration and refugees at Church World Service, a faith-based organization involved in refugee resettlement. In the past when the U.S. has closed refugee and parole programs, they have been phased out and those who started the process went through it to completion, she said.

“Usually the U.S. likes to keep our word,” Smyers said. “Usually we like to have a program that people can have faith in, especially when that program is to provide protection to children and individuals who are vulnerable.”

Osmaro, who requested anonymity for his family’s safety and will be referred to by a relative’s middle name, tried to use the program to bring his three children and wife to the U.S. from El Salvador. He’d left the country after receiving death threats, planning to find a way for his family to join him. He spent about $900 on the applications in February 2016 and had completed the process up until the final steps, including submitting DNA swabs to prove the children were his own.

Then Trump ended the program. Osmaro’s family wasn’t interviewed in time, and they’re stuck in El Salvador.

“It was a huge disappointment,” he said in an interview conducted in Spanish. “For me, my way of looking at this country — this is a country that offers its hand, that protects. I admire that. It offered its hand to me.”

Osmaro has considered bringing his family here illegally because he isn’t hopeful about other options for them. The journey would be dangerous, but he worries that his kids face greater threats to their lives if they stay in El Salvador. It would cost more than $15,000, however, which he can’t afford. Now he wishes he hadn’t applied in the first place, and spent the $900 he used to seek CAM protections for his family on other things for his children.

“They’re taking away the ladder and then punishing people for jumping out the window.” - Michelle Brané, director of migrant rights at the Women’s Refugee Commission

The CAM program, which former President Barack Obama created in 2014, was limited. People living in the U.S. legally — often under temporary protected status — could apply to bring their children who were under 21 and unmarried from Central America to the U.S. The child’s other parent and any children the child had could also be included on the application.

The program allowed Central Americans to come to the U.S. as refugees if they faced persecution in their native country, or as parolees if they were determined eligible for relief because of danger at home but did not meet the definition to qualify as a refugee. The program was relatively small — 3,378 people have come to the U.S. under CAM as of April 20; 1,914 of them as refugees and about 1,464 as parolees, according to the State Department.

The purpose was to create an alternative to children making a dangerous trip to seek asylum in the U.S. or crossing the border illegally, said Jennifer Sime, senior vice president of U.S. programs at International Rescue Committee, which helped many parents with their applications.

“It is no exaggeration that the consequences for those seeking safety, and in the case of CAM — children — is life and death,” Sime said in an email.

CAM program applicants still in their native countries could be under increased danger, experts said. Gangs notice when children go away for days for screenings, and their status as someone with family in the U.S., as someone who spilled information on persecution or just someone who tried to get out can make them a target.

Erika Lopez, a case worker at International Institute of Los Angeles who helped parents apply for the program for their children, said some of them told her their children had been threatened and extorted since their cases were closed.

She doesn’t know what to tell them. The Trump administration said it would send further instructions to individuals with pending applications who had not been interviewed, but they only received notices that their cases had been closed, Lopez said.

Many people don’t fully seem to understand or accept that the program is shut down, said Lisa Frydman of Kids in Need of Defense, or KIND, a nonprofit that largely works with children who come to the U.S. as unaccompanied minors.

Now they’re stuck, and the government is threatening those who seek help through other means, such as Central Americans who traveled to the U.S.-Mexico border in a caravan to request asylum.

“They’re shutting all of the doors,” Michelle Brané, director of migrant rights at the Women’s Refugee Commission, said, using a metaphor of a house on fire. “They’re taking away the ladder and then punishing people for jumping out the window.”Marco Rubio may have committed the ultimate heresy for a Republican: The senator from Florida admitted that recent corporate tax cuts are doing little to help American workers and that increased public spending might be in order.

In an interview with the Economist, Rubio said he doubts that the tax cuts or Trump’s “America first” protectionism will stop people from losing their jobs to automation.

“There is still a lot of thinking on the right that if big corporations are happy, they’re going to take the money they’re saving and reinvest it in American workers,” he said. “In fact, they bought back shares, a few gave out bonuses; there’s no evidence whatsoever that the money’s been massively poured back into the American worker.”

Rubio also threw cold water on Trump’s stated promise to bring back manufacturing jobs to the U.S.

“I have no problem with bringing back American car-manufacturing facilities, but, whether they’re American robots or Mexican robots, they’re going to be highly automated,” he explained.

But Rubio really risks alienating the GOP with some of the solutions he is proposing to help the country because they involve ― cue the horror movie screams ― public spending.

The senator suggests spending more tax dollars on programs focused on technological research and on education programs prioritizing vocational skills.“R. Kelly supports the pro-women goals of the Time’s Up movement. We understand criticizing a famous artist is a good way to draw attention to those goals — and in this case, it is unjust and off-target,” his representative said in a statement to BuzzFeed News, calling the criticism of him an “attempted public lynching of a black man who has made extraordinary contributions to our culture.”

“We fully support the rights of women to be empowered to make their own choices,” the statement added. “Time’s Up has neglected to speak with any of the women who welcome R. Kelly’s support, and it has rushed to judgment without the facts.” The statement said he is a victim of a “greedy, conscious and malicious conspiracy to demean him.”In 2014, Facebook bought Jan Koum’s messaging app and turned him into a billionaire overnight.

Now the WhatsApp co-founder is leaving his company, noting in a post on Facebook that it’s “time to move on.”

Though Koum didn’t mention it in his public statement on Monday afternoon, The Washington Post reported that he was unhappy with Facebook’s attempts to weaken WhatsApp’s encryption and its desire to collect and use more WhatsApp users’ personal data.

Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg mentioned encryption in a post thanking Koum for his work.

“I’m grateful for everything you’d done to help connect the world,” Zuckerberg wrote, “and for everything you’ve taught me, including about encryption and its ability to take power from centralized systems and put it back in peoples’ hands. Those values will always be at the heart of WhatsApp.”

Koum’s co-founder, Brian Acton, left WhatsApp in late 2017 and has been a vocal opponent of Facebook ever since. In March, Acton encouraged his Twitter followers to delete their Facebook accounts. “It is time,” he said.

Despite WhatsApp’s eye-popping acquisition price of $19 billion, the messaging service reportedly hasn’t prioritized generating revenue for its corporate parent. Judging from a recent hiring push emphasizing business strategy and monetization, that’s no longer an acceptable modus operandi.Matt Groening, here at an appearance last year in San Diego, recently said he's "proud of what we do on the show" when asked about "The Simpsons" character Apu Nahasapeemapetilon. Mike Coppola via Getty Images

The creator of “The Simpsons” seems unapologetic over controversial Indian character Apu Nahasapeemapetilon, despite criticisms from many in the South Asian-American community that Apu perpetuates several racial stereotypes.

Matt Groening recently responded to the debate about Apu in an interview with USA Today published on Friday. Outrage over the character was ignited by Indian-American comedian Hari Kondabolu’s 2017 documentary “The Problem With Apu,” which highlighted the negative effects and painful stereotypes attached to the South Asian community stemming in part from the fictional Kwik-E-Mart owner.

Groening dismissed the critiques. I’m proud of what we do on the show,” he told the outlet. “I think it’s a time in our culture where people love to pretend they’re offended.”

An episode that aired earlier this month also appeared to rally to the defense of the characterization of Apu. Referring to a sanitized version of a bedtime story, Lisa laments to Marge that “something that started decades ago and was applauded and inoffensive, is now politically incorrect,” before looking at a photo of Apu.

“This is sad,” Kondabolu wrote on Twitter after the episode. “The Simpsons response tonight is not a jab at me, but at what many of us consider progress.”

It appears actor Hank Azaria, who has voiced Apu since “The Simpsons” first season in 1989, sides more these days with Kondabolu than Groening.

During an appearance last week on “The Late Show with Stephen Colbert,” Azaria said his eyes “have been opened” to the controversy surrounding Apu. He also said he is “perfectly willing and happy to step aside” from voicing the character and that it’s crucial to acknowledge the perspective of the South Asian community on the character.

“I think the most important thing is we have to listen to South Asian people, Indian people ... about what they feel and how they think about this character and what their American experience of it has been.”

Kondabolu previously told HuffPost that while Apu is problematic, the character can serve as a vehicle for tackling the larger issue of proper representation of minorities in media. To ensure that characters of color who are multidimensional rather than stereotypical make it on screen, writers’ staffs ― which he said are “generally white-male-dominated” ― need to be more inclusive.President Donald Trump called for the White House Correspondents’ Association dinner to be put to “rest” after a controversial roast by comedian Michelle Wolf on Saturday night.

“The White House Correspondents’ Dinner was a failure last year, but this year was an embarrassment to everyone associated with it,” Trump tweeted late Sunday. “The filthy ‘comedian’ totally bombed (couldn’t even deliver her lines-much like the Seth Meyers weak performance).”

“Put Dinner to rest, or start over!” he concluded.

By Monday morning, Trump declared the dinner “DEAD as we know it.”

“This was a total disaster and an embarrassment to our great Country and all that it stands for,” Trump tweeted. “FAKE NEWS is alive and well and beautifully represented on Saturday night!”

Trump did not attend the event, but sent White House press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders. He also boycotted the dinner last year.

Wolf has drawn both condemnation and admiration for her blunt, brutal jokes about Sanders and Trump adviser Kellyanne Conway, who also attended.

“Every time Sarah steps up to the podium, I get excited because I’m not really sure what we’re going to get: you know, a press briefing, a bunch of lies or divided into softball teams,” Wolf said of Sanders.

At another point, she said she mused about a tree falling on Conway, “not suggesting she get hurt, just stuck.”

Many media figures at the dinner promptly took to their keyboards to say Wolf had taken things too far, instead praising the Trump officials in the room who faced the onslaught of criticism. Others defended Wolf’s set, saying she equally targeted others in the room, including Democrats and the media.

Regardless, the president of the White House Correspondents Association distanced the group from Wolf amid the furor.

“Last night’s program was meant to offer a unifying message about our common commitment to a vigorous and free press while honoring civility, great reporting and scholarship winners, not to divide people,” Margaret Talev, the WHCA president, said in a statement. “Unfortunately, the entertainer’s monologue was not in the spirit of that mission.”

Wolf defended her set against some of the critiques on social media.

Why are you guys making this about Sarah’s looks? I said she burns facts and uses the ash to create a *perfect* smoky eye. I complimented her eye makeup and her ingenuity of materials. https://t.co/slII9TYdYx — Michelle Wolf (@michelleisawolf) April 29, 2018CNN commentator Ana Navarro said the hurt feelings expressed about Michelle Wolf’s digs against the White House are more like the behavior of the “snowflakes” that conservatives complain about.

“Only politically correct ‘snowflakes’ should care about feelings,” she quipped Sunday in a tweet.

Seems some ppl usually offended at lies & attacks on the media by Trump WH, today are offended a comedienne publicly calling out Trump WH on their lies & attacks on the media. But hey, fortunately in the Trump era, only politically-correct “snowflakes” should care about feelings. pic.twitter.com/r9FtRZaAhm — Ana Navarro (@ananavarro) April 29, 2018

Wolf has been slammed for her roast Saturday night at the White House Correspondents’ Dinner, particularly for remarks about White House Press Secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders, which some critics said were attacks on Sanders’ appearance.

Navarro characterized Wolf’s zings as “publicly calling out” the Trump White House on “their lies and attacks on the media.”

Fox News reporter Ed Henry on Sunday called Wolf “mean, hateful and vile,” and demanded an apology.

Wolf, who delivered opening remarks at the dinner, which is traditionally a roast, defended her comments about Sanders, saying they were attacks on her professional conduct, not her appearance. “All these jokes were about her despicable behavior,” Wolf tweeted.

AdvertisementThe Promposal is as much of a spring tradition as Opening Day, the Kentucky Derby or Peeps.

As a result, many teens go to great lengths to make a promposal that will not only garner a “yes” from their potential date, but also go viral on the internet.

This year, a lot of promposals leaned straight to the weird side, as the Inside Edition video above demonstrates.After an investigation, Wendell Jamieson has resigned from The Times. Susan Chira is stepping in as interim metro editor effective immediately.

Wendell has asked us to express the following to his colleagues in the newsroom: “Leading Metro for the last five years and working with the incredible Times team has been the high point of my professional life. I regret and apologize for my mistakes and leaving under these circumstances. I’m especially proud of all the talent I’ve helped bring to The Times. Susan Chira is a wonderful editor, a true New Yorker, and I know Metro will rise to even greater heights under her leadership.”

To protect the privacy of those involved, we do not intend to comment further.alekleks via Getty Images

Authorities in Florida have arrested three people in connection with a brazen panty pilfering scheme that allegedly stole thousands of dollars’ worth of women’s unmentionables.

According to the Tallahassee Police Department, Quinessia Jackson, 29, and her fiancée, Coby Richardson, 47, are former employees of a logistics company that packages and ships Victoria’s Secret products.

Beginning in November 2017, customers who’d purchased panties online from Victoria’s Secret began complaining that their shipments were overdue. An internal investigation was launched. In March, it was allegedly discovered that Jaresa Frye, a 25-year-old friend of Jackson and Richardson, was selling new Victoria’s Secret underwear online.

Coby Richardson, Quinessia Jackson and Jaresa Frye have all been charged with felony theft. Jaresa Frye

Photos posted by Frye show that the merchandise being offered for sale was in the same barcoded bags used by the logistics company to track items prior to shipment, authorities said. The trail of plundered panties further pointed to Jackson and Richardson, police said, when it was discovered they’d been assigned to prepare the majority of the missing items for shipment.

Questioned about the lost undies, Richardson allegedly confessed to stealing and selling more than 400 packages of panties. Jackson, Richardson and Frye have since been charged with felony theft. Richardson also faces a charge of grand theft of items worth over $20,000, police said.

All three have since been released from jail after posting bonds totaling $35,000. It was unclear on Monday if any of the missing merchandise had been recovered.

AdvertisementBrazilian Rodrigo Koxa has broken a world record by riding the biggest wave ever surfed, according to the World Surf League.

Koxa mastered the monster 80-footer off the coast of Nazaré, Portugal, in November. His record-breaking feat only became official Saturday, when it was recognized with the Quiksilver XXL Biggest Wave Award at a World Surf League ceremony in Los Angeles.

“The award goes to the surfer who, by any means available, catches the biggest wave of the year,” the league said in a statement. “Not only did Koxa win this year’s honor, but he now holds the Guinness World Record for the biggest wave surfed.”

New Guinness World Record: Biggest Wave Ever Surfed (80 Feet) Rodrigo Koxa @ Nazaré, Portugal https://t.co/9zzcRsXnPm pic.twitter.com/A58c7PxYcJ — Sports Unlimited ⚽ (@sports_unlmtd) April 30, 2018

The previous record was set in 2011 by Garrett McNamara, who rode a 78-foot wave, also at Nazaré, authenticated by the Billabong XXL Global Big Wave Awards judging committee, and confirmed by Guinness. Here’s his ride:

Other surfers — including McNamara — have claimed they broke the 2011 record, but Koxa’s ride is the only one that has been confirmed by the WSL and Guinness records.

“I got a present from God,” Koxa told The Inertia online surf news site after the awards ceremony. “It was the best present I’ve ever had.”

Koxa said he almost was killed in 2014 at Nazaré, where many of the world’s biggest surfing waves are.

“For months later, I had bad dreams, I didn’t travel, I got scared, and my wife helped me psychologically,” he said. “Now, I’m just so happy.”A Texas couple has been accused of holding a Guinean girl against her will for more than a decade, all the while subjecting her to abuse and forcing her to perform household chores.

Mohamed Toure and his wife, Denise Cros-Toure, both 57, allegedly forced the girl to sleep on the floor in their Southlake home and subjected her to beatings with belts and electrical cords, federal investigators said.

According to the Justice Department, the girl, who is not named in court documents, does not even know her birthdate. She told authorities the Toure family brought her to the United States from Guinea in 2000, when she was about 5 years old. She said the family never celebrated her birthday or enrolled her in school.

“Throughout the years ... the defendants forced the victim to labor in their home for long hours without pay,” the Justice Department said in an April 26 press release. “The defendants required her to cook, clean, do the laundry, perform yard work, and paint, as well as care for their five children.”

The criminal complaint filed by prosecutors further alleges the girl was regularly referred to as “a little nothing,” a slave, and on at least one occasion, a whore. She also allegedly told investigators Cros-Toure once assaulted her by grabbing one of her earrings and yanking it with such force that it tore her earlobe. The investigative documents indicate the girl has a visible scar on one of her ears.

Toure and his wife are natives of Guinea, and he is the son of Guinea’s first president, Ahmed Sekou Toure, according to CNN. The Dallas Morning News reported that Cros-Toure’s father was the nation’s secretary of state at one point.

The couple lives in a $600,000 home and receives income from “significant” overseas deposits, the Morning News said.

Mohamed Toure and Denise Cros-Toure are accused of holding a Guinean girl against her will for more than a decade. Tarrant County Jail

A 2002 police report obtained by The Washington Post indicates a Southlake police officer once found the girl sleeping on a bench at Bicentennial Park. She was “wearing dirty unkempt clothing and was very visibly scared and nervous,” the officer wrote. The cop, who suspected the girl was a runaway, returned her to the Toure residence.

It was not until 2016, after neighbors helped the girl escape, that authorities opened an investigation, according to court documents. That investigation came to a head on Wednesday, when Mohamed Toure and his wife were arrested and charged with forced, unpaid labor of a domestic servant.

A lawyer for the couple, Scott H. Palmer, said in a statement sent to The Dallas Morning News that the criminal complaint against his clients “is riddled with salacious allegations, fabrications and lies.”

Palmer claims the girl was treated like a member of the Toure family and was allowed to communicate with relatives in Guinea, the outlet reported.

“We look forward to amassing a mountain of evidence to refute the Government’s portrayal of our clients,” Palmer said, “and look forward to revealing the motivation of this woman to lie, betray, and attempt to destroy the family that took her in at the request of her father for a better life in the United States.”

If convicted, Toure and his wife face up to 20 years in prison.Well, there went the bride.

Aidy Bryant surprised fans on Instagram Monday with news that she had tied the knot to comedy writer and longtime boyfriend Conner O’Malley, posting a sweet photo from her wedding.

The “Saturday Night Live” cast member didn’t offer many details about her nuptials and simply captioned the pic with the two hearts emoji.

A post shared by aidybryant (@aidybryant) on Apr 30, 2018 at 8:30am PDT

People magazine confirmed that Bryant got hitched and reported that fellow “SNL” castmates Mike O’Brien, Kate McKinnon and Michael Che were among those in attendance.

Other “SNL” co-stars such as Melissa Villaseñor and Pete Davidson (with the help of 33 red heart emojis) congratulated the 30-year-old comedian in comments of her post.

In April 2017, Bryant sheepishly admitted to Seth Meyers that O’Malley, who used to write for Meyers’ late night talk show, had put a ring on it.

“We’ve been together a long time ... almost nine years,” Bryant told Meyers on his show. “So, a lot of the shimmer and shine has faded. And we’re just living every damn day as best we can.”

Though, it does seem like O’Malley did at least try to be cute when he popped the question.

“I walked in the door and our dog had a bow tie on, and I was like, ‘My dog doesn’t wear a bow tie. Where is he going tonight?’” Bryant said.

She went on to explain that the second she shut the door, O’Malley came “frantically” rushing around the corner and was just like:

“Willyoumarryme?’ No box, no I love you, … Just a man in full terror, standing very far from a dog in a bow tie, just holding a loose ring, going, ‘Will you marry me?’”SHREWSBURY, W.Va. ― Don Blankenship had been out of prison for only seven months when Tommy Davis started seeing his face and hearing his voice everywhere. Blankenship launched his bid to become West Virginia’s next Republican senator late last year and started buying advertisements on local TV stations. They all began with a line that nauseated Davis: “I’m Don Blankenship, candidate for U.S. Senate, and I approve this message.”

Davis stopped watching the local news to avoid the ads, retreating to the reliably Blankenship-free zones of hunting shows and Netflix. But then Blankenship’s voice was there in Davis’ pickup truck, via Pandora radio advertising. Davis had to limit his use of that, too, lest driving around town become its own form of torment.

“It seems no matter where I go or what I do, it’s Don Blankenship,” Davis, 50, said recently, driving along the Kanawha River in his Toyota Tacoma.

Blankenship is the former Massey Energy chief executive who presided over the Upper Big Branch mining disaster, in Montcoal, West Virginia, in 2010. Davis was a miner at Upper Big Branch with his eldest son, Cory Davis; his only brother, Timmy Davis; and a nephew, Joshua Napper. Davis was making his way out of the mine during a shift change when the explosion happened. He bolted to the exit, wind and rocks tumbling around him, and made it out alive.

Twenty-nine men did not, including his three loved ones. The bodies of his son, brother and nephew were recovered together days after the blast, once it was safe to do so. Cory was the youngest of the dead at 20 years old.

Various investigations faulted Massey officials for systematically cutting corners on safety and putting profits before their workers’ lives. They found that Massey, under Blankenship’s helm, had fostered a culture of fear and intimidation inside the mine and hidden safety lapses from regulators. Blankenship served one year in prison on a misdemeanor conviction for conspiring to violate mine safety laws. He has continued to deny responsibility for the worst mining catastrophe in four decades.

The particular void left by Cory Boy, as Davis still refers to his son ― “my hunting partner, my fishing partner, my all-around go-to buddy” ― has made the Blankenship redemption tour an unbearable spectacle for Davis, just as it has for other Upper Big Branch families.

“I actually thought he would stay the hell out of West Virginia,” Davis said of Blankenship. “He just won’t leave it alone.”

“He’s trying to put it back in our face. I call it harassment,” he continued. “That’s what it is: It’s straight-up harassment.”

Blankenship has spent $2 million of his own money on the campaign and has savaged his main Republican primary opponents, Congressman Evan Jenkins and West Virginia Attorney General Patrick Morrisey, in hopes of facing off in a general election against incumbent Sen. Joe Manchin (D), whom he personally blames for his prison sentence. Blankenship’s campaign did not respond to several interview requests for this story.

Although Blankenship has slipped behind Jenkins and Morrisey in recent polls, buried in attack ads the GOP establishment is funding to keep him off the ticket, his candidacy is not a joke. For all his infamy, plenty of voters still associate him with good-paying blue-collar jobs in hollows without a whole lot of them. As Davis put it, “There are still people around here who worship the ground he walks on.”

The prospect of Sen. Don Blankenship, however unlikely, has polluted even the most solemn customs for Davis.

On April 5, he and other Upper Big Branch families made the drive up to the mine to observe the eighth anniversary of the disaster. Davis carries out the same ritual each year. He picks up 29 balloons ― 26 black and three orange, the latter signifying his family members ― then heads to Cory’s grave with his ex-wife, Cindy; their two sons, Seth and Nathan; and their grandson, Cory Tripp. There they release the balloons and talk.

Davis visits his son's grave. Dave Jamieson/HuffPost

Then it’s on to the mine site, where each of the dead has a cross. Davis hangs a wreath for all the miners and lays out three white roses for his family members. He ties a white bandana to Cory’s cross. He looks up to the spot on the mountain where he and the other miners would punch out at the end of their shifts. Then they drive down Coal River Road to the 48-foot granite memorial that was erected in 2012, showing 29 miners’ silhouettes.

It was at the memorial where things got unpleasant at this year’s anniversary gathering. Among the families, politicians and news crews was Gwen Thomas, the sister of Grover Skeens, one of the miners who was killed. Thomas has taken an unusual position among Upper Big Branch family members: She has called the disaster an act of God and praised Blankenship, who in turn has featured Thomas in a television ad and on the campaign trail.

The presence of an outspoken Blankenship supporter at the memorial was too much for Davis and other mourners. She defended the former CEO; they gave her a piece of their minds. A state trooper intervened.

Davis has tried to curb his Facebook time during the Senate race. The night before the anniversary, he visited Blankenship’s campaign page, where the candidate posts videos and says he’ll bring jobs back to West Virginia. Davis uploaded a photo of Cory’s gravesite onto Blankenship’s page. “Here look at my Cory boy 20 years young,” Davis wrote. “Tell him why you chose production over safety.”

The next time Davis visited the page, his post was gone.

***

Blankenship at a campaign event on Feb. 1. The former coal CEO has denied any responsibility for the death of 29 miners at Upper Big Branch. Luke Sharrett/Bloomberg via Getty Images

On a recent Friday morning, Davis steered his ATV up a gravel road to a former strip-mining site, the back of his vehicle loaded with turkey decoys, spare camo clothes and a 12-gauge shotgun. What had once been a mountaintop now felt more like prairie, with long, flat stretches of grass and brush lying between hills. Davis used to work on sites like this one as a surface miner as they were stripped. Now he comes here to run his dogs, call for turkeys, or climb a treestand and wait for a buck.

The time in the woods is bittersweet. It was his brother, Timmy, who taught him how to hunt, and Davis passed everything he knew on to Cory, who shot his first whitetail when he was 9. Now he mostly hunts alone, but he appreciates the quiet of the woods more than ever. Besides, any time spent in a treestand is time spent not drinking.

“If I sit at home and dwell on things,” he said with a turkey call in his mouth, “it’ll just fuck me up.”

A few months after the disaster, Davis went back to work at a mine run by Alpha Natural Resources, the coal giant that would go on to acquire Massey. He still had a ringing in his ears from the blast and what would turn out to be post-traumatic stress disorder. He struggled with loud sounds. He had panic attacks.

“I just couldn’t sleep,” he said. “I couldn’t think. I couldn’t function. I was getting lost. I was having problems.”

He accepted a settlement for his son’s death and stopped working. Some families used their money to leave the state and start new lives. Davis stayed in West Virginia but as a slightly different person. He covered his body in tattoos, including 29 crosses along his back and the words “Cory Boy” across his shoulders. He customized a Harley as a rolling memorial to Upper Big Branch.

A couple of years ago, he sold the house where Cory grew up because the memories were too painful. He bought a small ranch house at the end of a street of trailers that backs up on the Kanawha, far enough from the highway that all he hears at night is the river.

He started an annual scholarship at Cory’s high school in his name. The unofficial mission is to give kids better options than hoping for a coal resurgence. The lack of good-paying work is why people cling to someone like Blankenship, Davis said.

“Just look around you. There ain’t a hellacious lot to do here if you didn’t go to college,” he said. “The guys who support [Blankenship] ― they don’t have other options as far as jobs go.”

Moving on has not been easy. He ends up at Cory’s grave every other night or so, drinking a beer and turning one upside down for his son. Cory’s friends are at the stage where they’ve started families, and Davis finds himself wondering if Cory would have had a son, too: “Would he have been tall or short, fat or skinny, would he have looked more like him or more like her, and other questions we’ll never know the answer to.”

Blankenship’s visibility and lack of contrition have made it all the harder. He has maintained, contrary to official investigations, that the root cause of the blast at Upper Big Branch was a sudden influx of natural gas in the mine, rather than an excessive amount of coal dust, which is highly explosive. The distinction is crucial. Coal operators have an obligation to keep coal dust levels in check, through sufficient ventilation and rock-dusting, a process that neutralizes coal dust with pulverized limestone.

What happened at Upper Big Branch was investigated by federal regulators, state regulators, the United Mine Workers of America union, and an independent panel established by Manchin, who was West Virginia’s governor at the time. To varying degrees, they all faulted Massey for poor ventilation and inadequate rock-dusting practices in the mine.

The explosion likely started when the shearer on a mining machine ignited a methane fireball, thanks in part to poorly maintained equipment. But it would have been the high levels of coal dust that sent it ripping through more than 2 miles of the mine shaft, so that even men far from the blast couldn’t escape. (The UMWA went so far as to title its report “Industrial Homicide.”)

Davis remembers the dust being so thick that day he could see it. Other miners recalled the air belowground flowing in odd directions before the explosion.

Blankenship’s natural gas theory conveniently absolves him of the chronic failures investigators found.

“It’s just not substantiated,” said Celeste Monforton, a safety expert who was part of the independent panel, which also faulted federal and state regulators for not adequately policing Massey.

“It was a coal dust explosion. The fingerprint mapping that was done to find a cause ― all of that evidence indicated that,” she said. “All of the analytical work that was done, taking all the dust samples, an extraordinary amount of evidence showed that.”

Blankenship has also claimed that the federal Mine Safety and Health Administration forced Massey to change its ventilation plans before the explosion, suggesting MSHA may be to blame for the disaster. The independent panel found no evidence of that. However, it did find regulators failed at Upper Big Branch ― by not cracking down hard enough on Massey.

As Blankenship has blamed natural gas and MSHA for the disaster while on the campaign trail, Robert Atkins has been there to fact-check him. Atkins lost his son Jason at Upper Big Branch. He has made a point of showing up at Blankenship’s town hall meetings to speak directly to undecided voters and rebut Blankenship’s telling of events. He estimates he’s gone to five campaign events and has spoken one-on-one with 50 voters, urging them to vote for anyone but Blankenship. His wife joined him for the first event, but couldn’t do any more.

“She just couldn’t take it,” Atkins said. “I’ve got in my head, and I feel I’m right, that that man killed my son. And when he killed my son, it took the life out of me, out of his mom, and out of his brother. ... The man has no remorse.”

According to the independent panel, the deeper cause of the disaster was what they called “the Massey Way.” Under Massey’s corporate culture, miners were to run coal at all costs. The mine continued operating even when airflow was dangerously low. Workers lacked basic safety equipment while having to file regular production reports. Methane detectors were disabled to avoid having to shut down the mine if levels got too high. And workers were instructed to tip off colleagues belowground when federal safety inspectors showed up.

Massey enforced this system through intimidation, investigators found. Workers testified after the explosion that they did what they were told because they feared for their jobs. Managers belittled miners who couldn’t get with the program. The company had a slogan: “S1 P2,” for safety first and production second. According to Davis, the joke among miners was that it was really “P1 S2.”

As his ATV lurched up and down the ravines, Davis tried to explain the grip Blankenship had on his mines. He had worked at other Massey properties before Upper Big Branch. He remembers eating lunch out of his pocket as he worked, reluctant to slow production with a proper break. He didn’t speak up about hazards, either, fearful of losing the job that he desperately needed.

He recalled the pressure workers felt whenever Blankenship showed up in his car or helicopter. Someone would shout to him as he cut coal with the highwall miner machine: “Tommy, whatever it is you’re cutting, keep it rolling. Do not stop. Do. Not. Stop.”

“That money was feeding their kids and paying for their trucks. They were proud of that and didn’t want to lose that,” Davis said. “Don Blankenship scared those people to death.”

***

Davis believes Blankenship's campaign is an insult to Upper Big Branch families. Dave Jamieson/HuffPost

Three Upper Big Branch managers went to prison before Blankenship, all found to have deceived regulators or investigators in covering up safety problems. Blankenship was charged with three counts: securities fraud, making false statements to officials, and conspiring to violate mine safety regulations. A jury found him guilty only of the latter charge.

Davis attended every day of the two-month trial that he could, making a point to sit near Blankenship’s supporters. He wore the same outfit each day so Blankenship could better recognize him: a plaid shirt with a green jacket and an Under Armour hat. The one-year sentence handed down ― the maximum the judge could impose under the misdemeanor conviction ― infuriated Davis, considering Blankenship had been facing up to 30 years under the original charges. (The conspiracy charge was not directly linked to the disaster itself.)

Outside the courthouse, a television reporter asked Davis why he was so frustrated. His raw and eloquent response, delivered with a quaking voice, would be viewed over a million times online: “If you was where I was that day, and you seen my son after laying in there for five days, and seen what he looked like ― if you worked on them men like we did when they come outside, if you smelled them, and you looked at them, then you’d know where I come from.”

The 12-month sentence didn’t make Blankenship any more penitent. He declared himself a political prisoner. He published a 67-page booklet from his low-security prison in California, proclaiming his innocence and propagating conspiracy theories about a government cover-up. He promoted a 2014 “documentary” he’d funded, called “Upper Big Branch ― Never Again,” faulting the feds for the disaster. He blamed Manchin personally for his prosecution, taking his feud to Twitter.

As West Virginia’s governor, Manchin was at Upper Big Branch in the days following the explosion. He and Davis have since become friends. Davis said he often gets a call from a number he keeps in his cell as “Senator Joe,” and it’s Manchin asking how he’s doing. They talk about motorcycles, Blankenship and whatever else Davis has on his mind. (Manchin’s uncle died in the Farmington Mine Disaster, along with 77 others, in 1968.)

Davis said Manchin’s campaign has never asked anything of him, though he would happily oblige if it did, particularly if Blankenship wins the Republican nomination on May 8. “He’s the only politician who’s been there the whole time,” Davis said of Manchin. “He won’t say it, but I will.”

Davis kneels to tend to his son's memorial cross outside Upper Big Branch. Dave Jamieson/HuffPost

On a Thursday in mid-April, Davis learned that Blankenship would be attending a meet-the-candidates forum that night in Chelyan, just across the river from Davis’ home. He was surprised the Senate hopeful would have the nerve to show up to a public event so close to Upper Big Branch, an area where Blankenship campaign signs appear to be sparse. Davis had told himself that he wouldn’t attend town hall-style events, knowing he might lose control in an encounter with Blankenship. He decided to bend his rule.

He removed the gun from his truck and told his buddy Gary Price to meet him down at the community center, where Blankenship would be. When Davis got there, a handful of police officers who already knew him came outside to greet him. They told Davis he could say whatever he wanted to Blankenship, so long as he kept some distance and didn’t threaten him.

Davis took a sign from his truck and laid it across his windshield. It said: “Cory Davis 5/22/89 - 4/5/10. Don Blankenship murdered him over coal and money.” Price parked his truck in front of the building’s main exit, dragging a custom trailer that has a dedication to Cory on one side and the names of every miner killed at Upper Big Branch on the other. Davis waited outside to confront the candidate as he left the event.

He saw Blankenship walk to the glass doors and stop, the memorial display laid out in front of him. Then he watched Blankenship turn and head toward another exit, accompanied by what appeared to be an aide. They hopped in a car and left, before any words could be exchanged with Davis.

Another Republican candidate, Jack Newbrough, came out the doors to take a break. “I’m sorry for your loss, Tommy,” he said, shaking Davis’ hand. “I sure would love to have your support.”

Davis let the invitation hang in the air. He thanked his friend Price for coming out, then headed to his truck and off to the bar to have a beer. Although there was no confrontation, he considered his trip to the forum a success. He felt he’d shamed Blankenship for coming into his end of the valley. He noted that Blankenship never looked him in the eye. He believes the man feels guilt, despite everything he’s said to the contrary.