Janelle Monáe made a triumphant return to music Thursday, dropping two new songs and their accompanying videos from her hotly anticipated new album, “Dirty Computer.”

The first, “Make Me Feel,” has shades of early Prince, and shows Monáe making suggestive eyes and gyrating between a man and a woman in an ’80s-style club.

Meanwhile, “Django Jane” is an ode to black women’s empowerment. That video, which can be viewed below, finds the singer-actress seated on a throne, surrounded by an army of fierce, militant-looking background dancers. She drops rhymes like, “We gon’ start a motherfucking pussy riot/Or we gon’ have to put them on a pussy diet.”

Of the two tracks, “Make Me Feel” has generated more buzz, possibly because the video feels like a musical celebration of bisexuality and winks at ongoing speculation over the nature of Monáe’s relationship with her co-star, Tessa Thompson.

Janelle Monae 2010: i don't discuss my sexuality, only the android revolution.

Janelle Monae 2018: have you fools SEEN Tessa Thompson? — Gavia Baker-Whitelaw (@Hello_Tailor) February 22, 2018

this strikes me as a clear message to anyone who asks Janelle Monae tiresome questions about her sexuality lol pic.twitter.com/8s7GM477C8 — Gavia Baker-Whitelaw (@Hello_Tailor) February 22, 2018

OKAY BUT IF JANELLE MONAE AND TESSA THOMPSON ARE ACTUALLY DATING THAT CHANGES EVERYTHING BECAUSE IT MEANS WE HAVE ACTUAL PROOF THAT PERFECTION AND LOVE DO EXIST pic.twitter.com/L0h9ZwqNTd — Mackenzi Lee (@themackenzilee) February 22, 2018

However, Monáe eschewed labeling her sexuality in a Guardian interview on Thursday, calling “Make Me Feel” a “celebratory song” but defining herself simply as “sexually liberated.”

Due out April 27, “Dirty Computer” is Monáe’s first album in five years. In the meantime, the star has been focusing on her film career, turning in acclaimed performances in “Moonlight” and “Hidden Figures.”

Still, the six-time Grammy nominee blamed her own perfectionism for making her take so long to complete the follow-up to 2013′s “The Electric Lady.”Kendrick Lamar and SZA perform "All the Stars," but another artist says her work was copied for the video. Lester Cohen/WireImage via Getty Images

Kendrick Lamar and SZA are being sued by an artist who claims they copied her artwork without permission for the video of “All the Stars,” the first single off the “Black Panther” soundtrack.

Lina Iris Viktor, a conceptual and performance artist and painter, contends that rapper Lamar, singer SZA (real name Solana Imani Rowe), record label TDE and others, knowingly infringed her work to create a golden scene in that music video.

In her lawsuit, Viktor said she was approached by a Marvel set director and a public relations firm on behalf of Marvel to collaborate on “Black Panther” in November 2016 and again in January 2018. The critically acclaimed artist said she ended up declining to work with the teams both times.

But after the “All the Stars” video dropped on Feb. 6, the lawsuit says, friends told Viktor that they had seen what appeared to be her art in the clip ― specifically three original works titled “Constellations I,” “Constellations II” and “Constellations III” ― and the press noted the apparent collaboration.

The lawsuit calls the music video an example of “willful, brazen, and extensive unlawful infringement” and asserts that Viktor’s creations are “being used by Defendants to promote the soundtrack to the latest multi-million-dollar budget Marvel film.”

“[It] is both an egregious violation of federal law and an affront to the Artist, her livelihood, her legacy, and to artists everywhere,” the suit states.

The legal complaint provides examples of Viktor’s art and the problematic art used in the music video ― specifically, a scene that begins at the 2:59 minute mark and lasts for about 19 seconds.

Below is one side-by-side example from the lawsuit, with Viktor’s work on the left and an image from the video on the right:

Lina Iris Viktor/YouTube

You can watch the entire video below:

“Why would they do this? It’s an ethical issue, because what the whole film purports is that it’s about black empowerment, African excellence — that’s the whole concept of the story,” Viktor told The New York Times earlier this month. “And at the same time they’re stealing from African artists.”

Representatives for Lamar, SZA and TDE did not return requests for comment.

On Monday, Viktor thanked her fans for their support on her Facebook page and told them that she was “seeking justice.”Juanmonino via Getty Images

In the year since the 2016 presidential election, one in five perpetrators of hate violence in the United States against various South Asian and Middle Eastern communities invoked President Donald Trump’s name, his administration’s policies or his campaign slogan during the attacks, a new report found.

The nonprofit group South Asian Americans Leading Together (SAALT) released the report last week, which detailed increasing instances of hate violence and xenophobic political rhetoric from Election Day 2016 to Election Day 2017. The group documented more than 300 reported incidents targeting South Asian, Muslim, Sikh, Hindu, Middle Eastern and Arab communities during that period.

“It’s heartbreaking.” Suman Raghunathan, executive director of SAALT, told HuffPost. “When you have people literally saying or leveraging the ‘Make America Great Again’ campaign slogan as they are violently assaulting our community members ― that for me draws a direct connection in a way that could not be clearer.”

SAALT documented 213 incidents of hate violence ― a more than 45 percent increase compared to the year leading up to the 2016 presidential election. The levels of violence mirror those seen the year after the 9/11 attacks, with 82 percent of the hate violence and xenophobic political rhetoric now motivated by Islamophobia, the group said.

““When you have people literally saying or leveraging the ‘Make America Great Again’ campaign slogan as they are violently assaulting our community members ― that for me draws a direct connection in a way that could not be clearer.”” - Suman Raghunathan, executive director of SAALT.

Women who identify or are perceived as South Asian, Muslim, Sikh, Hindu, Middle Eastern or Arab represented 28 percent of the documented hate violence, the report noted. Sixty-three percent of the women targeted wore a hijab or head scarves.

Alongside the episodes of violence against these communities, SAALT looked at specific incidents of xenophobic political rhetoric, documenting 89 incidents it observed for the year, with 75 percent of those cases conveying anti-Muslim sentiment.

The report found that just over 40 percent of the xenophobic rhetoric came from white supremacist hate groups or individuals. The majority of incidents came from those in positions of political power, with about a third coming from either Trump or members of his administration, and another 22 percent associated with other elected officials and candidates. The remaining instances came from members of the media.

Among the incidents of xenophobic political rhetoric were Trump’s statements following the New York City attack in October that left eight people dead and 12 injured. The alleged perpetrator in the case, Sayfullo Habibullaevic Saipov, had legally immigrated from Uzbekistan and Trump tweeted that he’d “ordered Homeland Security to step up our already Extreme Vetting Program. Being politically correct is fine, but not for this!”

The president also said he’d end so-called “chain migration,” a term immigration restrictionists use to describe allowing immigrants to sponsor their family members to join them in the U.S. Immigration activists have long rejected the term, using “family reunification” instead.

“″[The Trump administration] really operationalizes the divisive portrayal of all of our communities ― we’re being portrayed as others, as un-American, as terrorists, and as fundamentally out of step with ‘mainstream American culture.’”” - Raghunathan

While the rhetoric is troubling, it’s “really only a crucial and tragic portion of the problem,” Raghunathan said. The policies implemented and proposed under the Trump administration are even more alarming and reflective of this xenophobic sentiment, she said. She pointed to policies including the multiple iterations of the ban on immigration and travel from Muslim-majority countries and the termination of the Temporary Protected Status program for several countries.

″[The Trump administration] really operationalizes the divisive portrayal of all of our communities ― we’re being portrayed as others, as un-American, as terrorists, and as fundamentally out of step with ‘mainstream American culture,’” Raghunathan said.

However, Raghunathan noted that while attacks on South Asian, Muslim and other heavily immigrant communities have intensified under the Trump administration, policies from the Bush and Obama administrations paved the way for many of these policies.

She pointed out that following the 9/11 attacks, the Bush administration implemented a series of policies that targeted the same communities. From the Patriot Act, which expanded the government’s authority to surveil Americans, to the National Security Entry-Exit Registration System (NSEERS), a program for registering non-citizen visa holders, there were already existing policies that disproportionately targeted Arab and Muslim communities.

More than 80,000 men underwent registration under NSEERS and thousands were interrogated and detained. But the program failed to result in a single known terrorism-related conviction, according to a 2012 joint study by the Rights Working Group and the Center for Immigrants’ Rights at Penn State’s Dickinson School of Law.

For its part, the Obama administration championed the Countering Violent Extremism program, which provided grants to communities, religious leaders, law enforcement and other organizations to deter “at-risk” people from joining “violent extremist groups.” Civil liberties groups, including the Brennan Center For Justice, have argued that the program targeted Muslims and painted an entire community as suspects.

“The equation of violent extremism with Muslim communities in the U.S. really deepened and operationalized with the Obama administration,” Raghunathan told HuffPost.

Still, she said tensions in South Asian and other immigrant communities are running particularly high during the Trump administration, especially given its intensification of immigration enforcement.

The SAALT report argued that part of the current problem in addressing hate violence is that federal agencies are not properly addressing the issue or have underreported incidents. Citing a ProPublica report, the SAALT study noted that 120 federal agencies have not complied with mandates to submit hate crime data to the FBI.

“The current administration has shifted its focus away from holding law enforcement agencies accountable for documenting and addressing the hate violence our communities are facing,” the report said.

SAALT said that both communities and officials should take steps to combat hate violence and xenophobic political rhetoric, including by taking action against discriminatory policies like the travel ban, or passing legislation to end racial profiling.

AdvertisementConservative author and felon Dinesh D’Souza apologized on Wednesday for tweets he posted that mocked the teen survivors of last week’s school shooting in Florida, which left 17 people dead.

But many responders told him where to stick his apology, including Captain America:

Wow. I don’t have the words. Have you never lost someone? What made you think this was ok? You can keep your apology, you insensitive pile of trash. https://t.co/rmY0mNbZcV — Chris Evans (@ChrisEvans) February 21, 2018

On Tuesday, D’Souza shared an image of the survivors weeping while they watched Florida lawmakers vote against discussion of a gun-control bill, and wrote: “Worst news since their parents told them to get summer jobs.”

That and other tweets he posted about the survivors were described as “vile,” “disgusting” and “ghoulish.” Even many of D’Souza’s fellow conservatives slammed him over the tweets. The Fulshear Area Chamber of Commerce in Texas even canceled an event featuring D’Souza, according to Media Matters.A woman is loaded into an ambulance in Huntington, West Virginia, following an opioid overdose rescue. Experts say a decline in overdose deaths in 14 states is due in part to increased use of the overdose antidote naloxone. The Pew Charitable Trusts

By Christine Vestal

New provisional data released this month by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention shows that drug overdose deaths declined in 14 states during the 12-month period that ended July 2017, a potentially hopeful sign that policies aimed at curbing the death toll may be working.

In an opioid epidemic that began in the late 1990s, drug deaths have been climbing steadily every year, in nearly every state. A break in that trend, even if limited to just 14 states, has prompted cautious optimism among some public health experts.

“It could be welcome news,” said Caleb Alexander, an epidemiologist and co-director of Johns Hopkins University’s Center for Drug Safety and Effectiveness.

“If we’re truly at a plateau or inflection point, it would be the best news all year,” he said. “But we’re still seeing rates of overdose that are leaps and bounds higher than what we were seeing a decade ago and far beyond any other country in the world.”

The reported drop in overdose deaths occurred in Wyoming, Utah, Washington, Alaska, Montana, Mississippi, Kansas, Rhode Island, Oregon, California, Tennessee, Massachusetts, Arizona and Hawaii. That compares with declines in only three states — Nebraska, Washington and Wyoming — reported for an earlier 12-month period that ended in January 2017.

But even as more states saw a drop in deaths, several saw death spikes of more than 30 percent, most likely due to the increasing presence of the deadly synthetic drug fentanyl in the illicit drug supply, drug experts say. Those are Delaware, Florida, New Jersey, Ohio and Pennsylvania, along with the District of Columbia.

Published monthly since August, the new CDC statistics are a compilation of death certificate data from all 50 states for a rolling 12-month period ending seven months prior to release of each report. The seven-month delay is roughly the amount of time it takes for states to complete death investigations and report causes of death, and for the CDC to compile the data.

Previously, the CDC only made death data available once a year and it was 12 to 14 months behind. In a fast-moving opioid scourge, epidemiologists say the increased frequency of overdose death reporting is a welcome improvement.

Farida Ahmad, a public health expert with the CDC, cautioned that the monthly provisional death numbers are subject to change because as many as 2 percent of death certificates for the time period have not been reported. A final death count for 2017 will not be available until November, she said.

Increased Volatility

In Alaska, where deaths declined more than 11 percent between the 12-month period ending July 2016 and the 12-month period ending July 2017, the state’s public health chief, Jay Butler, said the trend has been cause for some optimism.

The greatest portion of that decline was in prescription opioids, drugs such as OxyContin, Percocet and Vicodin, Butler said.

“And we may be seeing a plateauing, if not a decline, in overdose deaths from heroin,” he added. “The bad news is that we’re seeing more deaths from fentanyl.”

Indeed, fentanyl-related deaths spiked more than 70 percent nationwide in the 12-month period ending July 2017, according to the report.

“Using illicit drugs has always been a game of roulette,” Butler said. “There’s just more bullets in the chamber now.

“When the epidemic was driven primarily by prescription opioids, we saw a smoldering and chronically escalating problem,” he said. “Now we’re seeing outbreaks and clusters of death resulting from bad batches of heroin or counterfeit pills laced with fentanyl.”

Still Rising

The recent drop in opioid deaths in some states might be significant, experts say, but they caution it should be seen in the context of the worst drug death epidemic in U.S. history.

In 2016, the annual overdose death count reached nearly 64,000, more than three times as many as in 1999. It surpassed the number of fatalities from automobile crashes and homicides, becoming the No. 1 cause of death among Americans 50 and younger.

Aside from the 14 states seeing declines, there are few signs of relief ahead.

Nationwide, the death toll is still rising, although possibly at a lower rate than in the past two years. According to the CDC’s current provisional report, the total number of overdose deaths increased 14 percent in the 12-month period ending in July 2017, compared to a 21 percent increase in the 12- month period that ended in January 2017.

One reason could be a decline in the availability of prescription painkillers. Even as overdose deaths spiraled over the last five years, the rate of prescribed opioid consumption began to decline.

That could mean lower rates of heroin use, addiction and overdose deaths in the future, Alexander said. A vast majority — 86 percent — of young, urban injection drug users started misusing prescription opioids before turning to heroin, according to surveys by the National Institute on Drug Abuse.

Another likely reason for a tapering in death counts is the widespread use of the overdose antidote naloxone, public health experts say.

“It’s hard to imagine how high the death toll would be without naloxone,” said Michael Kilkenny, the Cabell-Huntington public health director in West Virginia.National Rifle Association spokeswoman Dana Loesch said Thursday that the media exploits mass shooting to capitalize on ratings.

“Many in legacy media love mass shootings,” Loesch said after walking on stage at the Conservative Political Action Conference to a standing ovation. “I’m not saying you love the tragedy, but you love the ratings. Crying white mothers are ratings gold.”

Her comments echoed a video that NRATV released Wednesday, which slammed the mainstream media for being the “casting call for the next mass shooting.” Loesch also said she is debuting a one-hour show on NRATV next month to combat the mainstream media.

Her comments at CPAC were also reminiscent of some President Donald Trump has made. The president regularly claims that news outlets such as CNN and NBC News spread mistruths about him and his administration in order to boost ratings.

"The mainstream media love mass shootings. I'm going to say it again; the mainstream media love mass shootings…and you, the #MSM, just put out the casting call for the next mass shooter." @MrColionNoir #NRA pic.twitter.com/1XtqVoA23l — NRATV (@NRATV) February 22, 2018

Loesch said it’s not up to the NRA to protect children from gun violence.

“A failure of law enforcement is not a failure of the law, it is a failure of enforcement,” she said, blaming the FBI for “dropping the ball” by not acting on a tip it had received about the suspect in last week’s massacre at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Florida.

“We have resources available at anyone’s disposal if they want to reinforce their schools, but I’ll say it again loud and clear: We’re parents too,” she said.

Loesch also appeared at a CNN town hall event Wednesday night to discuss gun violence. She told survivors of the Parkland shooting that she was “fighting” for them and defended herself by saying people who are “nuts” should not be allowed to buy guns.

Many in the crowd of about 7,000 people booed her, and Broward County Sheriff Scott Israel, who was on stage beside her, challenged her.

“I understand that you’re standing up for the NRA … but you just told this group of people that you’re standing up for them,” he said. “You are not standing up for them until you say, ‘I want less weapons.’”

AdvertisementConstruction will begin on Monday for an interim monument memorializing the 49 victims killed in Orlando’s 2016 Pulse nightclub attack, though officials still have not finalized plans for a permanent monument and museum.

The Florida-based onePULSE Foundation released a series of artist renderings of the site Thursday, which showed new lighting fixtures, fencing and interactive wall exhibits on the site of the old nightclub. The now-iconic Pulse sign will remain in place.

Meanwhile, officials from the onePULSE Foundation are working with the Orange County Regional History Center to collect and preserve the various artifacts, works of art, messages and other personal items that victims’ families have left at the site.

Pulse nightclub's iconic sign will remain in place in the interim memorial. onePULSE Foundation

“As we move to create a permanent memorial and museum to honor the 49 precious lives that were taken, we also know the importance of ensuring the families, survivors, first responders, and the community continue to have a place to reflect on what happened here,” Barbara Poma, onePULSE Foundation’s executive director and owner of the nightclub, said in a press release. The interim memorial, she added, will create “a meaningful and inviting space” before the final version is in place.

The Orange County Regional History Center’s chief curator, Pam Schwartz, echoed those sentiments, noting that her organization was “dedicated to ensuring that the lives taken, all those affected, and the outpouring of public support are not forgotten.”

Features of the interim memorial include interactive walls, new lighting and fencing around the original nightclub. onePULSE Foundation

“We will use the utmost care and sensitivity in preserving the items that were so lovingly created and placed here,” she said. “They will be integral as the onePULSE Foundation plans the museum.”

At present, the interim memorial is intended to be in place for up to two years, with three possible one-year extensions. Construction is expected to take 60 days.

Poma first announced plans for a memorial and museum on the site of 2016 massacre, which targeted members of the LGBTQ community, last May.

Still, Orlando residents have been divided over how to properly commemorate the tragedy. A January survey found voters split nearly evenly over whether the building itself should be demolished.“Woke up to the news that my best friend was gone. And I don’t understand why I can still go in a store and buy a weapon of war," Samuel Zeif said through tears



An early look at Thursday's front: https://t.co/93DoedB4zb pic.twitter.com/HTi7Z6VR2pIt took an appearance on Ellen DeGeneres’ show for Oprah Winfrey to finally respond to President Donald Trump’s recent tweet bashing her as “very insecure.”

While it seems like ages ago, Trump lashed out at the “A Wrinkle in Time” star Sunday night following a discussion she moderated for a “60 Minutes” segment with Michigan voters.

“I woke up and I just thought,” Oprah explained, raising her hands in the air. “And I don’t like giving negativity power, so I just thought, what?”

Trump, who seems to take seriously speculation that Oprah may run against him in 2020, despite her insistence otherwise, tweeted shortly after the segment aired.

“Just watched a very insecure Oprah Winfrey, who at one point I knew very well, interview a panel of people on 60 Minutes. The questions were biased and slanted, the facts incorrect,” the president wrote. “Hope Oprah runs so she can be exposed and defeated just like all of the others!”

Just watched a very insecure Oprah Winfrey, who at one point I knew very well, interview a panel of people on 60 Minutes. The questions were biased and slanted, the facts incorrect. Hope Oprah runs so she can be exposed and defeated just like all of the others! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) February 19, 2018

Oprah revealed she reviewed footage with the producers for a second time after Trump’s social media outburst to see if any of his criticism was justified.

“What I actually really did was I went back and looked at the tape to see if there was any place that that could be true. Did I feel like ... it was slanted or biased,” she said.

“I called the producers. Because what actually happened was when you do ’60 Minutes,′ you sit in a room with at least seven other people who critique the piece before you air it, before you do the introduction to it, and then they give you the critique,” she continued. “So, they critique every word and is this fair – you have this whole panel of people looking at whether it was fair.”

Oprah on "The Ellen DeGeneres Show." The Ellen DeGeneres Show

Oprah explained that she made sure to include range of responses during a discussion about perceptions of America around the world, for example.

“The first time I saw it, I said there’s something missing here from the conversation. When I had asked the question of, ‘Do you think, do you care about what other people think about America?’ And they only used the Democratic side,” Oprah added. “And I said, I remembered the guy Matt had said, ‘No, we’re the only people that are worried what other countries are thinking of us.’ And I said, ‘I think you should go back and put that in because it makes it more balanced.’ So, I was working very hard to do the opposite of what I was hate-tweeted about, so, it’s okay.”

Before shooting down speculation, Oprah was briefly mentioned as a possible presidential candidate following her powerful call to action at this year’s Golden Globes ceremony.

DeGeneres pointed to the speech in her defense of Oprah, who she insisted was far from insecure.

“Oh no you didn’t,” she said of Trump’s attack on her friend. “He’s gone too far, and when you mess with Oprah, you mess with me.”Bill Gates admitted on Wednesday’s broadcast of “The Ellen DeGeneres Show” that it’s been “a long time” since he last set foot inside a supermarket. Which is why he struggled in a parody version of “The Price Is Right.”

DeGeneres challenged Microsoft’s billionaire founder to guess the price of five items in the spoof “Bill’s Grocery Bills” game, and to add some extra pressure, she vowed to give audience members a prize if he got within a dollar of the correct prices.

Ultimately, Gates ended up needing a lot of help.Facebook’s first community standards enforcement report says the social media giant disabled 583 million fake accounts in the first quarter of 2018, relying heavily on artificial intelligence.

The report, released Tuesday, aims to show how Facebook is taking action against content that violates its standards. The staggering number of fake accounts it disabled in the period fell from 694 million in the fourth quarter of 2017. The report didn’t reveal earlier data.

The first-quarter report also said Facebook acted on 836 million pieces of spam content, 2.5 million pieces of hate speech content, 1.9 million pieces of terrorist propaganda content, 21 million pieces of adult nudity and sexual activity content and 3.4 million pieces of graphic violence content.

Facebook executives vowed to increase transparency in the wake of recent controversies involving the spread of fake news and the and the unauthorized harvesting of personal data.

“It’s a good move and it’s a long time coming,” Jillian York, director for international freedom of expression at the Electronic Frontier Foundation, told The New York Times of the new report. “But it’s also frustrating because we’ve known that this has needed to happen for a long time. We need more transparency about how Facebook identifies content, and what it removes going forward.”

The report said Facebook increasingly relies on AI to flag unsavory content. AI tools detected 98.5 percent of the fake accounts that were shut down, according to the report, and almost all of the spam content acted upon.

“Technology isn’t going to solve all of it, but we will make progress,” Guy Rosen, who heads Facebook’s team policing community standards, told The Financial Times.

The report acknowledged that Facebook’s metrics tracking its response to content that violates standards are still being refined.

“This is the start of the journey and not the end of the journey and we’re trying to be as open as we can,” said Richard Allan, Facebook’s vice president of public policy for Europe, the Middle East and Africa.This "Listening Session" reveals itself to be what it truly is: NRA propaganda for guns, guns, and more guns.



I'm a teacher and if they put guns in my school I'm out. Every other teacher I know is out. Parents will pull kids out. It's FUCKING INSANE. #GunControlNow #NeverAgainPeople grieve in front of crosses and Stars of David placed in front of the fence of the Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School to commemorate the victims of the mass shooting, in Parkland, Florida, U.S., Feb. 21, 2018 Carlos Garcia Rawlins / Reuters

When President Donald Trump held a listening session with survivors of gun violence, their family members and the parents of murdered students on Wednesday, much of the discussion focused on ways to enhance school security. The president recommended arming teachers, while one parent suggested that undercover police officers pose as teachers and school staff. Several parents called for more security officers at schools.

There’s scant evidence that more cops and security guards on campus actually stop school shootings. There’s an abundance of evidence suggesting that more school security means more vulnerable students getting funneled at an early age into the criminal justice system.

Black children are already more likely to get arrested at school. In 2012, black children represented only 16 percent of school-aged children, but 31 percent of those arrested.

And when more cops are in school, these arrests are more likely to take place, even for minor misbehaviors. It’s a phenomenon that advocates call the school-to-prison pipeline.

“The more we add security or police forces and so on to schools, the more likely it is the students who are already at risk of being seen as potential trouble makers get swept up into the justice system or suspended and pushed out of schools,” said Aaron Kupchik, a professor at the University of Delaware, who studies this issue. “The risks are even higher for students who are already more vulnerable.”

“We’re worried this continues to be the knee-jerk reaction that politicians have after a school shooting -– to not deal with the gun violence issue but instead to throw more money at law enforcement.” - Judith Browne Dianis, executive director of The Advancement Project

There have been scattered instances in which school security has helped foil an armed intruder. And some studies have found clear benefits of having cops in schools, as these schools are more likely to have emergency crisis plans in place and receive regular safety inspections. But these benefits come at a steep price ― one that could disproportionately impact black and brown students who are already more likely to face overly harsh discipline.

One study found that schools with police are more likely to refer students to outside law enforcement for a range of behaviors ― including offenses that are more minor, like vandalism. Another study found that schools with cops had more school arrests for minor misbehaviors like disorderly conduct.

And there is also the possibility of police brutality. A HuffPost investigation previously found schools with cops had officers that used Tasers over 80 times on children between 2011 and 2016.

The instinct to increase school security after shootings makes sense University of Florida professor Jason Nance previously told HuffPost. Adding measures of security is a “tangible” action that “school authorities can do to demonstrate to a worried constituency that they are trying to make schools safer.”

“However, so far we don’t have any hard evidence that more police officers in schools make schools safer,” said Nance.

Judith Browne Dianis is the executive director of The Advancement Project, a civil rights group that works to curb the school-to-prison pipeline. She said enhanced security measures at schools can make buildings look more like war zones and prisons than nurturing environments.In September 2014 at Idaho State University, a teacher accidentally shot himself in the foot when his concealed handgun discharged. Students in the chemistry class watched.

Later that month at a Utah elementary school, a teacher carrying a concealed weapon accidentally shot herself in the leg as she used the restroom.

In 2016, a group of elementary school students in Pennsylvania found a loaded gun in the bathroom after a teacher accidentally left it behind.

In all these cases, it’s lucky no child got hurt.

On Thursday, President Donald Trump doubled down on his suggestion that schools arm teachers with weapons to counteract armed intruders, such as the one who killed 17 people last week in Parkland, Florida. Trump went so far as to say that those who received training to use firearms could be eligible for extra pay.

But you don’t have to look far to see that this policy could have devastating, albeit unintended, consequences.

Law enforcement groups and teacher organizations have expressed opposition to the president’s firearm proposal.

Mo Canady, the executive director of the National Association for School Resource Officers ― the group that trains and represents school cops ― warned that law enforcement officers responding to an incident might mistake a teacher with a firearm for an assailant.

He also expressed skepticism about how an armed teacher would respond to a school shooting attack.

“Anyone who hasn’t received the extensive training provided to law enforcement officers will likely be mentally unprepared to take a life, especially the life of a student assailant,” Canady said in a statement.

A number of states allow teachers to carry weapons on college and K-12 campuses under certain circumstances. In a few scattered school districts throughout the country, teachers are systematically armed.

It’s an idea that both of the nation’s teacher unions strongly oppose.

“Bringing more guns into our schools does nothing to protect our students and educators from gun violence,” Lily Eskelsen García, president of the National Education Association that represents three million educators, said in a statement. “Our students need more books, art and music programs, nurses and school counselors; they do not need more guns in their classrooms.”

Bill Bond spent years studying school safety with the National Association for Secondary School Principals. Bond, now retired, was the principal of Kentucky’s Heath High School in 1997 when a student shot and killed three classmates. He doesn’t pretend to have found the answer on school safety ― after 20 years of studying the issue, he said there’s no easy fix.

But he does know that teachers shouldn’t be armed with weapons. He said he worries that more children would die from accidental shootings if teachers were armed than from school shootings.“Black Panther,” which opened last week, has been a hit at the box office and with critics. The film is the first Marvel Cinematic Universe blockbuster featuring a black superhero as the lead and an almost entirely black cast, and audiences are loving it.

Recently, young black students around the country, including those from Atlanta’s Ron Clark Academy, got a chance to see the film. Photos captured the students’ reactions as they visited the fictional African nation of Wakanda for the first time.

Check out photos of the students watching “Black Panther” below.

Christopher Aluka Berry/Reuters Destiny Ellington, 12, sheds a tear while watching "Black Panther." Christopher Aluka Berry/Reuters Sixth-graders Destiny Cox, left, and Allana Walker watch the film. Christopher Aluka Berry/Reuters Saige Cabral, 10, joins classmates in watching the film. Christopher Aluka Berry/Reuters Sixth-grader De Ja Little, 12, reacts while watching the movie. Christopher Aluka Berry/Reuters Ron Clark Academy students watch the film "Black Panther" at Atlantic Station theaters in Atlanta on Feb. 21, 2018. Christopher Aluka Berry/Reuters Ron Clark Academy sixth-grader Naima Johnson, 12, center, joins classmates in applauding at the end of the film. Christopher Aluka Berry/Reuters Ron Clark Academy seventh-grader Nevaeh Williams, center, joins classmates in singing a song after watching "Black Panther." Christopher Aluka Berry/Reuters Students from Ron Clark Academy attend a screening of the film. Christopher Aluka Berry/Reuters Students from Ron Clark Academy listen to their teacher after leaving the theater. Andrew Kelly/Reuters A group of children takes a selfie as they arrive on the opening night of the film "Black Panther" at the AMC Magic Johnson Harlem 9 cinemas in Manhattan, New York, on Feb. 15, 2018. Andrew Kelly/Reuters A group of students from the Capital Preparatory Harlem School watch the film "Black Panther" on its opening night at the AMC Magic Johnson Harlem 9 cinemas in New York on Feb. 15, 2018.FORT LAUDERDALE, Fla., Feb 22 (Reuters) - The armed deputy assigned to the campus of a Florida high school during a deadly shooting last week stayed outside the building during the attack and failed to engage the shooter, the county sheriff said on Thursday.

As a consequence, Scott Peterson, on duty as the school resource officer at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, resigned from the department, said Broward County Sheriff Scott Israel, who earlier has suspended the officer from the force. He did not say if Peterson would face criminal charges.

Israel said he decided to suspend Peterson after viewing a video that showed the deputy did “nothing” during the rampage that killed 17 people. A former student Nikolas Cruz, 19, is accused of carrying out the attack with an AR-15-style assault weapon.

“What I saw was a deputy arrive at the west side of Building 12, take up a position and he never went in,” said Israel. The building is popularly known as “the freshman building.”

Israel said he would not release the video that shows Peterson’s actions at this time and may never do so, “depending on the prosecution and criminal case.”

(Reporting by Bernie Woodall in Fort Lauderdale; Editing by Tom Brown)“Black Panther” fans really really want the mythical country of Wakanda to be real.

So much so that they’re looking for any feasible alternatives, such as Wauconda, Illinois, a village in Lake County, known more for its bog nature preserve than as a home for superheroes.

Ever since the movie opened, people have been calling up Wauconda city employees like Alise Homola, the executive assistant to the mayor, asking for vibranium, the movie’s fictional super metal.

Homola knew about “Black Panther, but was in the dark about the plot, she told the Hollywood Reporter.

“At first, I was like, is there a full moon out?” Homola said. “Someone called and asked how we pronounced the village name and when I told him, he began yelling, ‘Wakanda forever!’ which I am guessing is from the film.”

So far, no one in the village of 13,758 plans to capitalize on its unintentional connection to the blockbuster film.

The Chicago Sun-Times reports that the Midwest town was named after a deceased Native American chief who is buried somewhere on the bank of a lake behind the town hall. The town’s website said the name means “Spirit Water,” but the Hollywood Reporter says the term means “God” in the language of the Kaw and Osage nations.

Wauconda High School principal Dan Klett said people from outside the town suggested the school change its mascot from a bulldog to a black panther. That’s not going to happen, he told the Hollywood Reporter.

The fictional kingdom first appeared in the Fantastic Four comics in the summer of 1966 and is, according to Marvel, located just north of Lake Turkana, at a fictional point bordering Kenya, Ethiopia, Uganda, and South Sudan.

Others are happy to ride the Wakanda wave.

Atlanta’s Hartsfield-Jackson International Airport is celebrating the success of the film by offering what it claims are nonstop flights to the kingdom of Wakanda, according to Time magazine’s website. The airport even tweeted out this photo of a plane getting ready to take off to the legendary East African country.

One of the film’s stars, actress Lupita Nyong’o, seemed ready to book her trip, but had a few questions first.

Apart from La Femme Nakia, what else is on the in-flight entertainment? T’Challa’s Angels, M’Baku To The Future, Shuri’s Gotta Have It, Killmonger Bill, W’Kabi In The Woods...? — Lupita Nyong'o (@Lupita_Nyongo) February 20, 2018

The airport's social media team responded an hour later.The university city of Tübingen, in southwest Germany, is testing free public transportation for all residents. Two weeks ago, the city began a two-year pilot project using its own funds to provide free rides on Saturdays.

For seven years, local authorities have been trying to provide unlimited public transport, free at the point of access, for a flat 15-euro monthly tax for all residents, Mayor Boris Palmer explained. To do so would require a change in law.

“We already have a decent system in Tübingen, with 89,000 inhabitants and 20 million rides a year,” explained Palmer, who doesn’t own a car. “One in three people uses public transport regularly; a third sometimes; and we are looking at the third that never uses it.”

Tübingen Mayor Boris Palmer speaking on one of the city's buses. The city is trying out a program where public transit is free for passengers on Saturdays. Stadtwerke Tubingen

“If you ask them, they don’t know how the system works and are not prepared to pay 5 euros when they have a car in the garage and can ‘do it free.’ In attracting these people, the price barrier is very important.”

The aim in Tübingen, he says, is twofold: to lower emissions and reduce travel costs for people on low incomes. A municipal memo reportedly put the cost of zero-fee public transport for all at 14.5 million euros ($18 million).

There is a proposal to test free public transport in four other cities in Germany, which faces EU fines for breaking air pollution laws.

So, could this simple — but costly — measure work for other cities, using free buses, trams and trains to help cut private car use, reduce emissions and make cities less congested and more livable? The question takes on more urgency in Europe, where the European Commission found in November 2017 that 400,000 citizens die prematurely every year due to poor air quality.

Estonia’s capital city, Tallinn, introduced fareless public transport for residents in 2013, although people from outside the city and tourists must still pay. Allan Alaküla, head of the Tallinn EU office and official spokesman for the project, says that five years later, “no one seriously thinks it can be reversed.” There are 140 million trips a year, the vast majority by Tallinn’s 450,000 residents.

Introduced by populist mayor Edgar Savisaar after a referendum, the measure is viable because under the country’s fiscal law, Tallinn gets 1,000 euros of each resident’s income tax each year. And as a result of the transit program, population numbers have increased.

A tram in Tallinn, where public transport is free for city residents. Tallinn EU Office

“The lost ticket revenue from residents is 12 million euros ($15 million), and the gain from additional revenues from the increase in the residential population, at the most conservative estimate, is well above 20 million euros ($25 million),” Alaküla explained. “So the city budget has gained, service quality has improved constantly and in the surroundings of Tallinn, the demand for public transport has increased.”

So much so that on July 1, the whole country will roll out free bus travel thanks to central government subsidies making Estonia, Alaküla says, “the first public transport nation.”

But while the city center has benefited from reduced congestion, and people who could not afford public transport before have greater access to jobs, shopping and leisure facilities, says Alaküla, there are downsides.

Alaküla said Tallinn’s free transportation has resulted in a 10 percent decrease in traffic in the city centre. “But at the same time, we have observed a slight increase around the city center,” he said.

Contrary to what you might think, people also walk less. “Particularly in the city center, where the tram stops frequently, some people are taking the tram out of convenience instead of walking,” he said.

Dr. Oded Cats, assistant professor in transport and planning at Delft University of Technology in the Netherlands, who has studied Tallinn’s project, said it has achieved two goals: to increase the mobility of the unemployed and low-income groups and the city’s total residents.

“However, there is no evidence suggesting there has been a shift from car to public transport usage,” he said. “We do see an increase in public transport usage, though, from people who would otherwise walk, which is not necessarily desirable.”

He is doubtful that free public transport in Germany would do anything to reduce car use or emissions. “We know car users are very sensitive to the price of the car trip, not public transport prices, so increasing parking fees or congestion charges would be more efficient,” he said.

Environmentally speaking, he adds, cities should invest in a mix of transport options and encourage conscious choices: “Walking and cycling are unbeatable, and public transport should take longer distance trips or [transport] groups that cannot walk.”

Norman Garrick, visiting professor in transportation at the Swiss Federal Institute of Technology, believes that to tempt people onto public transport, it must be time-efficient, convenient and comfortable — not just free. “It’s also to do with how cities are designed,” he said. “If you widen streets to accept cars, that’s what you are going to get. Longer term, you could convert cities to places where you don’t need to get a car.”

The cost is another potential dealbreaker. No details have emerged about how Germany might fund its free city transport.

The city of Hasselt in Belgium had to reintroduce fares after 16 years of free rides because it became impossible to support financially. Cost was also given as the reason for Seattle’s decision to shut down its 40-year-old free downtown bus service in 2012.

But back in Tübingen, the mayor is optimistic. “The public discussion has been intense and 70% of people support [the German government’s idea],” he said. “The debate has created a pressure not to do nothing, and my intention is to be on board and convince them.”

Clarification: After publication, Alaküla contacted HuffPost to say that a quote about “contamination from traffic” as a main issue for changes to public transportation was in error. That part of the quote has been removed and the post updated accordingly.

For more content and to be part of the ‘This New World’ community, join our Facebook Group.Wayne LaPierre, the executive director and CEO of the National Rifle Association, said schools would be safer if they had more people with guns.

“The whole idea from some of our opponents, that armed security makes schools less safe, is completely ridiculous,” LaPierre said in a speech Thursday at the Conservative Political Action Conference.

“If armed security makes us less safe, let’s just go ahead and remove it from everywhere,” he continued. “Let’s remove it from the White House, from Capitol Hill, and remove it from all of Hollywood.”

"Do we really love our money and our celebrities more than we love our children? Can we answer that question honestly? Any of us? " NRA leader Wayne LaPierre says https://t.co/cCB7DTFYoG pic.twitter.com/JEtb49GWEa — CBS News (@CBSNews) February 22, 2018

LaPierre called for an increase in “effective, trained armed security” at schools following the deadly mass shooting last week at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Florida, that left 17 people dead.

“To stop a bad guy with a gun, it takes a good guy with a gun,” LaPierre told the crowd at CPAC, using his oft-repeated ― and debated ― catchphrase.

This isn’t the first time LaPierre has pushed for more weapons in schools. He called for more “armed security” in schools following the 2007 massacre at Virginia Tech and after the Sandy Hook Elementary School shooting in Newtown, Conn., where 20 children were gunned down in 2012.

President Donald Trump echoed the suggestion Wednesday night at a “listening session” on gun violence held at the White House, adding that it could be helpful to arm 20 percent of teachers as well.

But teachers and advocacy groups working to prevent gun violence bashed this proposal, noting that educators were struggling to get funding for basic classroom supplies, much less firearms.

“Bringing more guns into our schools does nothing to protect our students and educators from gun violence,” said Lily Eskelsen Garcia, president of the National Education Association, the largest teachers union in the country.

“Our students need more books, art and music programs, nurses and school counselors; they do not need more guns in their classrooms,” she said.

The NRA, one of the most powerful pro-gun lobbying forces in the world, has contributed millions of dollars to dozens of lawmakers, including roughly $30 million to Trump’s 2016 presidential campaign.

Despite the NRA’s lobbying efforts to limit universal background checks that would stop so-called “bad guys” from getting guns, LaPierre said Thursday that his organization was contributing “real solutions” on gun violence. He accused the media of using last week’s shooting to “exploit tragedy for political gain.”

“The elites don’t care not one wit about America’s school system and school children,” said LaPierre, who earns around $1 million a year working for the NRA, according to The Washington Post.“Traveling, traveling / In the arms of unconsciousness,” Madonna cooed on the Björk-assisted single “Bedtime Story,” released in 1995. Overexposed and castigated after the ruckus surrounding “Erotica” and the carnal coffee-table book Sex, she’d forged a reverie about disconnecting from reality. “Today is the last day that I’m using words / They’ve gone out, lost their meaning.”

But by 1998, Madonna had awoken again. On “Sky Fits Heaven,” the seventh track from the enlightened electro-rock masterpiece “Ray of Light,” she repeated a familiar phrase ― except here it ended on an upbeat: “Traveling, traveling / Watching the signs as I go.” This time, pop music’s doyenne of reinvention was anything but unconscious.

Her footpath from the “Bedtime Story” era to “Ray of Light,” which turns 20 on Feb. 22, places Madonna at the nexus of celebrity culture circa 1997 (when she spent five months writing and recording the album) and early 1998 (when she released and promoted the album, which went on to win three Grammys and six MTV Video Music Awards). Nearing 40 and competing with a fresh generation of A&R-packaged teenyboppers, Madonna had risked aging out of mainstream stardom, one of the many sectors of society that isn’t kind to mature women. Instead, the ambient fizzes and mystical flurries on “Ray of Light” formed a cutting-edge benediction that rehabilitated Madonna’s image ― a coup few legacy acts could hope for today. She was a new mother, animated by Kabbalah and Ashtanga yoga, but uninterested in maternity leave.

Madonna’s late ’90s eminence can be further distilled through one morsel about the creation of “Ray of Light,” her seventh studio disc: On July 15, 1997, the day she recorded the gritty meditation “Swim,” Donatella Versace called Madonna to report that her brother Gianni had been shot outside his Miami mansion.

William Orbit, the English producer who helped shape “Ray of Light,” has related this anecdote at least twice. The first time was in 1998, during an interview with Music Week.

“The day she [recorded ‘Swim’] she got a call on the way to the studio that her next-door neighbor Versace had been murdered,” he said. “Lyrically it was written before that, but it is topical.”

And again in 2002.

“We were recording ‘Swim’ on the day Versace was murdered,” Orbit told Q magazine. “Madonna was very friendly with him and his sister, Donatella, who was in the street, distraught, on her cellphone to Madonna. But she did the vocal, which is probably why it has such an emotional impact.”

Earlier this month, I emailed Orbit to ask for more details. “There’s quite a story around that,” he confirmed, declining an interview in the same breath. Representatives for Madonna and Donatella Versace did not respond to my inquiries.

Madonna was famously chummy with the Calabria-born Versaces, first posing for their fashion line’s ad campaign in 1995 when, as Orbit indicates, she and Gianni both owned townhouses on 64th Street in Manhattan (though they weren’t next door to each other). A month and a half after recording “Swim,” she penned the couturier’s eulogy for Time magazine, recalling, among other lavish details, the days she borrowed his well-staffed Italian villa. “I’ve got a pocketful of memories in my Versace jeans, and they’re not going anywhere,” she wrote.

Madonna, Donatella Versace and Cher attend a gala tribute to Gianni Versace at the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York City. New York Daily News Archive via Getty Images

On the surface, as it relates to “Ray of Light,” Versace’s murder at the hands of spree killer Andrew Cunanan ― also chronicled in the ongoing season of Ryan Murphy’s stirring FX series “American Crime Story” ― is an ill-timed coincidence. Madonna didn’t compose “Swim” in response to Versace’s death, but she had to perform it ― an anthem about the world's "sins" ― on the day one of her most famous friends informed her that another of her most famous friends had lost his life. Madonna grieved in the studio, just like you or I must still show up to the office after awakening to bad news.

These events positioned her, however privately, at the center of an international tragedy ― just as she was throughout the AIDS crisis, when, for example, she crafted the “Erotica” balled “In This Life,” dedicated to her longtime chum and collaborator Martin Burgoyne, who’d died from the disease in 1986. Of all people, Donatella thought to call Madonna, a celebrity among celebrities, with the news of her brother’s scandalous death. And what episode of Madonna’s career better fits that narrative than the one dedicated to her spiritual fortification?

“Put your head on my shoulder, baby / Things can’t get any worse / Night is getting colder / Sometimes life feels like it’s a curse,” Madonna croons on “Swim,” which opens with a melancholic serenity and settles into a guttural anger that’s impossible to underestimate even without knowing Madonna’s mood on the day of its recording. “Swim” is one of the few “Ray of Light” tracks that doesn’t offer a glimmer of Zen in its heady rumination, so Madonna instead follows it with the glittering title song, whose lyrics become a salve: “Zephyr in the sky at night I wonder / Do my tears of mourning sink beneath the sun? / ... / She’s got herself a little piece of heaven / Waiting for the time when Earth shall be as one.”

Life will go on, despite the country’s anger at her provocations, despite Versace’s demise, despite the fact that the music industry is stacked against luminaries reaching arbitrary sell-by dates after being crowned American royalty when they were dewy teens or 20-somethings. (To that last point: Madonna had a Top 10 hit as recently as 2012. She was 54! Almost none of her peers can claim that feat at such an age.)

In fact, the entirety of “Ray of Light” feels like a renewal following some kind of death ― a tangible loss of her youth, a fleeting sense that her yearning to get into the groove had faded. (It would soon return, of course, because Madonna is nothing if not an expert in brand management.) That’s why her existential primping ― “Nothing takes the past away / Like the future / Nothing makes the darkness go / Like the light,” she sings on “Nothing Really Matters” ― further acts as a metamorphosis. Her interior life was laid bare, and the results were an extended tone poem.

But here’s something else that strikes me about this album: Even with a track that morphed into a response to a fellow artist’s death, Madonna didn’t find it as personal as the rest of us did. Because its lyrics were more sophisticated than, say, “Holiday” or “Lucky Star,” the fawning reception implied that the dance-floor invitations on which she’d built her career were too fluffy to be taken seriously ― a tired, vapid, persistent appraisal of female-fronted pop.

“But my other albums were personal too,” she told Spin magazine in a 1998 cover story. ”‘Bedtime Stories’ was personal, believe me. ‘Erotica’ was personal. Maybe I’m a better writer now. I hope so. I think on my last few records I’ve been operating from a place of anger and frustration and bitterness and feeling like a victim and being very defensive. I don’t feel that way right now.”

This quote mirrors something Madonna said when I interviewed her about her most recent album, “Rebel Heart,” in 2015: “A lot of people say, ‘Oh, you’ve written so many personal songs on this record,’ but I think that I wrote a lot of personal songs on my last record, [‘MDNA’], but people didn’t pay attention to it. But anyway, it’s OK. Things happen for a reason.”

It’s verification that Madonna must forever prove herself, that because she is a woman who came to New York as a classically trained dancer chasing fame, her songwriting will often be denied the gravity afforded of her male counterparts. But the Versace tidbit tells a deeper story: the story of someone around whom the ebbs and flows of mass culture orbit, and who poured her own evolution as a human being into her contributions to that culture.We all love a good travel deal, so avoid these two days.

There are two days of the year that are the absolute most expensive days of the year, according to the CEO of FareCompare ― November 22nd and November 26th. Understandably, that’s the Wednesday before and the Sunday after Thanksgiving.

If that’s not bad enough, these expensive flying days get pricier by the day to the tune of 50 to 75 cents a day ― that’s $1.50 more in September and $2.50 more by October.

As much as you may not want to, you better hurry to book your trip to visit your in-laws now, as procrastinators can pay an extra $200 or more for their trip! Yikes!Jeffrey Tambor, Will Arnett, Alia Shawkat, Jason Bateman, Jessica Walter, David Cross and Tony Hale of "Arrested Development" on May 21. Cindy Ord via Getty Images

The boys club is alive and well in Hollywood ― and it’s so entrenched that male celebrities will unwittingly go on the record about it.

This week a New York Times interview with the “Arrested Development” cast went viral after matriarch Jessica Walter opened up about how her co-star Jeffrey Tambor (who was also present during the interview) used to verbally abuse her on set. In a stunning, but wholly unsurprising, turn of events, her other male co-stars jumped in ... on behalf of Tambor. Jason Bateman suggested that Tambor’s behavior occurred in part because the cast was like a “family,” suggesting that the entertainment industry was simply a “breeding ground for atypical behavior and certain people have certain processes.”

The backlash was swift, and Bateman and co-star Tony Hale have since publicly apologized for not supporting Walter during the interview. And the conversation raised a few questions: Are all sets truly “breeding grounds for atypical behavior,” including verbal assaults? Is that simply the cost of creating art?

To find out, we asked Vella Lovell, a 32-year-old actress who has spent her fair share of time on TV sets ― specifically the set of “Crazy Ex-Girlfriend,” a CW show on which she has played Heather over the last few years. Lovell isn’t part of Hollywood’s old boys club, though she is certainly part of Hollywood. Much of her career has been spent on sets run by and/or dominated by women ― “Crazy Ex-Girlfriend,” “Younger,” “Girls.” She’s been working for years, but is also young enough to imagine that her work culture could be different than what Bateman described.

“It maybe has been the norm,” she told HuffPost over the phone while doing her grocery shopping, reacting to Bateman’s characterization of the industry she’s a part of, “but as tides are turning, it’s kind of like, if there’s an alternative, what are we doing?”

When you first read that New York Times interview, what was your reaction?

It seemed like the women [Jessica Walter and Alia Shawkat] didn’t get to talk a lot. It seemed like the guys kind of took over the interview and I think that’s part of the problem. It didn’t seem like [Walter] felt heard ― just from that article. So that says to me that it’s not an equal playing field ... I think that can happen a lot with women and men in creative fields ― women can end up feeling a little silenced.

From your perspective, does the set dynamic that Jason Bateman described as typical of the entertainment industry ring true to you? Is that something you’ve experienced ― verbal altercations that might cross a line into feeling abusive?

The set I’ve spent the most time on is “Crazy Ex-Girlfriend,” and it’s run all by women. Honestly, I’ve never experienced that, so I would have to say no. But I also think that all the women on set set a precedent. And I think it’s up to the people at the top to set that vibe and example of what is acceptable and what’s not.

I will say, just being in the theater and on sets, the more power someone has, the more things are dictated by them. Whoever the number-one person is on the set kind of sets the tone. It’s their behavior and their moral center that dictates how the set is gonna be. So for us, because it’s Rachel [Bloom] and because she’s a creator, the respect is kind of implied.

But I think that [verbal abuse] can happen, especially with the older men generation. They’re used to a certain amount of power and respect. And so because they’re the person in power, I do think the younger actors ― even if it’s just younger in your career ― you end up looking up to them as the norm. Does that make sense? I think that’s maybe what [Jason Bateman] is saying [in The New York Times piece], that it’s become the norm.

Let me read you exactly what Bateman said to Sopan Deb. He said: “Again, not to belittle it or excuse it or anything, but in the entertainment industry it is incredibly common to have people who are, in quotes, ‘difficult.’... And what you learn is context. And you learn about character and you learn about work habits, work ethics, and you start to understand. Because it’s a very amorphous process, this sort of [expletive] that we do, you know, making up fake life. It’s a weird thing, and it is a breeding ground for atypical behavior and certain people have certain processes.”

OK, Emma, if you could see me right now, I’m just shaking my head. I just feel like what’s been the “norm,” isn’t actually acceptable. And I have met, in my short time on sets, too many people who are kind and respectful and inclusive for that to be acceptable. And that’s the thing ― it maybe has been the norm, but as tides are turning, it’s kind of like, if there’s an alternative, what are we doing?

There are too many incredibly talented creative people that are also kind. I’ve met so many of those people. And you meet them, and then you’re like, so why then do I need to be verbally abused to get a great performance? Do those things actually go hand in hand? And I don’t think they need to.

I think it’s probably true that someone with [Jeffrey Tambor’s] stature comes on set and dictates how people will be treated. As a younger actor, you’re just like, sure ... and then that behavior becomes the norm. But it’s just not OK.

I loved that Alia Shawkat pointed that out in the middle of the interview. “But that doesn’t mean it’s acceptable,” she said in response to Bateman. “And the point is that things are changing, and people need to respect each other differently.”

Right? But you hear that [argument] with all of the things that are happening [with Me Too]. With Dustin Hoffman, they’re like, no but this is normal. And it’s like… but why? Why does it have to be? And I think it’s been an accepted exchange ― that for an amazing performance, you put up with bad behavior. But I don’t think that means it’s right or that it’s how every set is at all.

Right. From what you’ve said it sounds like that hasn’t been your experience, and you’ve been working on a network TV show that’s been on for three years.

Yeah. And guest-starring on other sets. On the “Younger” set, because Sutton Foster’s number one, everyone is happy to be there and grateful. People set the tone. And so it depends who the power players are on set.

“I just feel like what’s been the 'norm,' isn’t actually acceptable. And I have met, in my short time on sets, too many people who are kind and respectful and inclusive for that to be acceptable.” - Vella Lovell, Heather on "Crazy Ex-Girlfriend"

If you were to experience some sort of verbal abuse on a set, who would you go to to talk about that?

Well it depends what your role is. If you’re a guest star and you came on set and someone yelled at you, you have less authority than if someone came on to your show. But definitely the producers, the showrunner, the ADs [assistant directors] ― there are so many people there to protect you and make sure that things are OK.

If you weren’t getting the answers from your set, I guess you could go to your union rep. But I think usually your producers would want to help you. But then again, it depends on what the situation is. And I honestly feel that since a year ago, or whenever the [Me Too] stuff started coming out, people are more responsive.

So you feel like there’s been a shift that you’ve witnessed in the last seven months of this national dialogue around sexual harassment and assault?

Yeah. Because people know that it’s not just going into a vacuum. There is room for dialogue now because of the platform that’s happening.

The calculation that you spoke of ― this idea that you put up with horrible behavior because someone’s talented. Do you think that same latitude is offered to women and people of color?

I don’t know. I don’t think it’s just exclusive to white men. I think it’s dependent on the person. And sometimes because people are talented and genius, their behavior gets excused and they get into positions of power and no one is calling them out. It’s a lot about power, so it can happen across the board. Obviously it’s mostly white men, because that’s usually who’s in power.

Also, the entertainment industry is so relationship-based. There is a casualness built in, which seems to allow people more easily to brush potentially violating behaviors off as just joking around.

Yeah, I think that’s where that fine line is that gets really tricky. If you’re with a group of people for a long time who are creative artists, hopefully there is an understood sense of respect for each other and honor. And so some of those boundaries go down because you all trust each other, and you think a joke is a joke, and ultimately everyone is on the same page. And that’s best-case scenario: You all trust each other, you’re all there for each other, and then amazing creative things can happen. And people’s impulses are free and accepted.

But then there’s that fine line, where someone, it can be just one person, doesn’t hold that respect and crosses a boundary. And then the lines get really blurry and confusing. And it’s so complicated because everyone wants that creative freedom. But respect has to be the baseline. One person thinks that they can do or say something that isn’t said with love or respect, and then all of a sudden you’re like, “I don’t feel safe anymore.”

It’s such a fine line and I think it has to do with checking your privilege and actually respecting each other. I think that’s what’s underneath everything.

Advertisement