WASHINGTON ― Students and parents affected by mass shootings met with President Donald Trump at the White House on Wednesday to plead for meaningful action to curb gun violence.

The administration billed the event as a listening session in the wake of the Florida mass shooting, but it quickly turned into a powerful and heartbreaking moment in the decades-long debate over gun control as survivors and family members stood up and called on lawmakers to come up with solutions to gun violence.

“We’re here because my daughter has no voice. She was murdered last week and she was taken from us. Shot nine times on the third floor. We as a country failed our children. This shouldn’t happen,” said Andrew Pollack, whose daughter Meadow was killed last week at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Florida.

“I’m very angry that this happened, because it keeps happening,” Pollack added, while speaking directly to the camera. “How many schools, how many children have to get shot? It stops here with this administration and me. I’m not going to sleep until it gets fixed.”

"We're here because my daughter has no voice. She was murdered last week and she was taken from us, shot 9 times on the third floor. We as a country failed our children. This shouldn't happen." -Andrew Pollack, father of Meadow, who was killed in Florida school shooting last week pic.twitter.com/w82FyXSjsr — Dan Linden (@DanLinden) February 21, 2018

Vice President Mike Pence, Education Secretary Betsy DeVos and Parkland Mayor Christine Hunschofsky joined Trump at the event, as well as dozens of parents and survivors of the Florida shooting and the 2012 Newtown, Connecticut, school shooting.

Trump listened while survivors spoke during the event, but he later used the school shooting in Florida to make a case for looser laws on concealed carry permits. He proposed that arming 20 percent of teaching staff at schools may be effective at quickly ending attacks.

“If he had a firearm ... he would have shot and that would have ended,” Trump said about Stoneman Douglas coach Aaron Feis, who was slain.

Broward County Sheriff Scott Israel told reporters Wednesday that last week’s shooter bypassed the school’s armed officer.

In addition to suggesting ending gun-free school zones, Trump proposed opening more hospitals for the mentally ill and toughening background checks. “We’re going to go very strong into age — age of purchase, and we’re also going to go very strong into the mental health aspect of what’s going on,” he said.

Some of the participants at the session made the case for stricter gun control laws.

“How is it that easy to buy this type of weapon?” Stoneman Douglas student Sam Zeif asked of the ability to purchase an AR-15, the assault-style weapon used by the Parkland gunman. “How did we not stop this after Columbine? After Sandy Hook? I’m sitting with a mother who lost her son. It’s still happening,” he said, tearfully gesturing to Nicole Hockley, whose 6-year-old son was killed in the 2012 Sandy Hook massacre.

“After Sandy Hook, they said we wouldn’t let this happen again, yet it has continued to happen for five years. How many more deaths can we take as a country?” Hockley said.

Lily Eskelsen García, president of the National Education Association, which represents 3 million educators, rejected the idea of arming more people on campuses. “Bringing more guns into our schools does nothing to protect our students and educators from gun violence. Our students need more books, art and music programs, nurses and school counselors; they do not need more guns in their classrooms. ... We need solutions that will keep guns out of the hands of those who want to use them to massacre innocent children and educators. Arming teachers does nothing to prevent that.”

“We owe it to the students and school personnel, who’ve lost their lives at schools and on campuses across the country, to work together so that we can thoughtfully and carefully develop common sense solutions that really will save lives.”

The National Education Association represents 3 million educators.

This is one of many recent media appearances by groups of Parkland students affected by last week’s shooting, which claimed the lives of 17 students and faculty members. It marked the 17th school shooting incident so far in 2018.

Many have made strong calls for Congress to act on gun control legislation, and students and adults plan to participate in the March for Our Lives next month, a protest they’re organizing in Washington, D.C., and several sister cities.

Several of the students seated around Trump thanked him for his leadership on mass shooting issues but made few remarks about gun access, marking a sharp tone shift from the Parkland students behind next month’s march.

One of the students, Cameron Kasky, tweeted after the listening session that he, student organizer Emma Gonzalez and the other Parkland students calling for gun control were “not invited” to the White House on Wednesday.Idaho Democrats sided with the more progressive candidate in Tuesday's primary election for governor. Sam Morris/Getty Images

WASHINGTON ― Progressive Democrat Paulette Jordan won Tuesday night’s primary in the Idaho governor’s race, setting her up for a tough November election but with a shot at becoming the nation’s first Native American governor.

Jordan, a two-term state legislator, defeated multimillionaire and Boise school board member A.J. Balukoff. She won more than 58 percent of the vote, despite being significantly outspent and up against her party’s establishment.

Jordan will now face Lt. Gov. Brad Little in November. He won Tuesday night’s GOP primary with 37 percent of the vote. He defeated U.S. Rep. Raúl Labrador and real estate developer Tommy Ahlquist.

It is a long-shot bid for Jordan, 38. She’s running as a pro-LGBTQ rights, pro-marijuana legalization, pro-Medicaid expansion Democrat in a deeply red state. The last time Idaho elected a Democratic governor was in 1990.

Little, 64, has been lieutenant governor since 2009 and is the heir apparent to Gov. Butch Otter (R), who decided not to run for another term. He is anti-abortion, opposes same-sex marriage and is not a fan of expanding Medicaid, though he said he would not repeal a Medicaid expansion initiative on the November ballot if it is passed by voters.

Jordan does have some advantages, namely that her candidacy is just plain exciting. She is a young woman of color running for a seat that a woman has never held in Idaho. An enrolled member of the Coeur d’Alene tribe, she would make history as the country’s first Native American governor. And her campaign comes at a time when Democrats are energized and flooding the polls nationwide in response to Donald Trump’s presidency.

Democratic turnout was off the charts in Tuesday’s elections. Precincts in and around Boise, a major hub of Democratic voters, actually ran out of ballots at one point. Statewide, Democratic turnout was more than double what it had been in the 2014 primary. That year, about 25,000 Democrats voted for a gubernatorial candidate. This time, more than 65,000 did.

Republican turnout was up in Idaho too, but not by as much as Democratic turnout. More than 155,000 Republicans voted for a gubernatorial candidate in 2014. This year, more than 191,000 did.

Jordan, who has deep roots in Idaho’s ranching culture, has some appeal among independents. A March poll by Idaho Politics Weekly found that 19 percent of independents said they liked Jordan best. That’s compared to 13 percent of independents saying they preferred Ahlquist and 12 percent saying they liked Labrador. Nine percent of independents said they preferred Little.By Lillian Mongeau, The Hechinger Report

APPLETON, Wisc. — Middle school students at Kaleidoscope Academy, a district charter school in Appleton, Wisconsin, are constantly moving. Everyone has a physical education class, called “phy-ed” here, at least twice a week. On top of that, there’s a daily lunch break that comes with time for kids to get outside and move around. Students can also choose from two additional exercise-focused electives — dance and personal fitness — which for some students can mean a 40-minute exercise period every day.

And the action doesn’t stop there. Teachers like Lisa Sackman in the sixth-grade wing offer “brain breaks” every 20 minutes. Teacher Travis Olsen has an exercise bike in the back of his seventh-grade science classroom that kids are welcome to use whenever they feel the need. And eighth-grade co-teachers Abby Jolma and Toni Giebel let kids sit on wobbly chairs — short stools with a curved base — yoga balls, or traditional chairs while they learn math and science.

“They need it,” Giebel says of the bouncing and fidgeting she now observes constantly during classes. “They need it so bad.”

Giebel said it’s clear to her that students concentrate better than they did three years ago when there were far fewer options for physical activity at school. But the kids themselves “don’t notice it,” she added. Indeed, students are mostly unimpressed with how much movement they get in their day.

During a group science lab in Giebel and Jolma’s class, Anna Wang, 13, sat on one of the wobbly chairs the school purchased for classrooms this year. “It was the only option,” Anna, 13, said with a shrug as she rocked back and forth on the chair, adding that she didn’t think the seating made any difference.

Despite her stated disinterest, the level of physical activity Anna and her classmates experience during their school day is unusual and probably beneficial. In the U.S., where 31 percent of children between the ages of 10 and 17 are obese, most school children move far too little, experts say. Thirty years of focus on increasing academic minutes in the school day has resulted in reduced recess and physical education time at many schools. The lack of physical activity is taking a toll on student fitness and that’s bad for growing brains, research shows.

But now a growing number of politicians and educators, like those in Appleton, have begun to heed the research and decided that to improve academic performance, they must do something about their students’ physical fitness as well.

As a result of this new attitude, at least 14 state legislatures considered new laws in 2016 that would increase the amount of physical education or recess schools are required to offer or raise the bar for qualifications for physical education teachers, according to a 2016 report by the Society for Health and Physical Educators (SHAPE). Some even took action. Florida and Rhode Island now mandate 20 minutes of recess time a day for elementary school students.

The new federal education law, the Every Student Succeeds Act, or ESSA, also provides increased access to funding for physical education by including the subject in its definition of a “well-rounded education.”

“At least we’re at the table now,” said Carly Wright, advocacy director for SHAPE. “It sends a message: The federal government does believe [physical education] should be part of a student’s education; it should be part of the school day.”

Charles Hillman, a kinesiology professor at Northeastern University in Boston who studies the connection between the body and the brain, says there’s strong evidence that supports making physical education and recess a priority in schools.

“The goal is to get kids moving throughout the school day,” Hillman said. While he grants that academic class time is also important, “clearly the academic at this point is at the cost of being physically active, and I think there has to be some level of accommodation.”

Hillman also cautions that physical activity alone has not been shown to increase cognitive performance. A slow walk for example, does little to make anyone smarter. What is definitely tied to brain health, Hillman said, is physical fitness.

“Effects are actually found in the brain,” Hillman said. “We find higher fit kids have differential brain function than lower fit kids.”

The prefrontal cortex and the hippocampus of physically fit children are better developed than those of less fit children, Hillman said. These two brain structures control many of the abilities that lead to high academic achievement: long-term memory, self-regulation and goal making, among other key functions.

Hillman, who is advising the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services on the latest exercise research for the 2018 revision of the department’s recommendations for physical fitness, said that evidence of a connection between fitness and brain function has mounted steadily over the years.

A 2009 Stanford University study found that fifth, seventh and ninth grade students in California who passed the state physical fitness test and those whose fitness improved between fifth and seventh grade scored better than their less fit peers on the state’s standardized tests. A 2013 study of nearly 12,000 Nebraska students also found that aerobically fit students were more likely to pass the state’s standardized math and reading tests, regardless of their weight or socioeconomic status. Another 2013 study that randomly assigned 8- and 9-year-old Illinois children to a nine-month after-school fitness program found that the kids whose fitness improved also got better at paying attention and ignoring distractions. They also improved to young-adult levels in their ability to regulate their behavior.

School districts that have added more physical activity to their daily schedules in the hope of improving academic performance have also seen measurable changes. When a Ft. Worth, Texas school made a much-publicized switch for its kindergarten and first-grade students from one 20-minute recess a day to four 15-minute recesses — or an hour, total —it found that students were more focused in class and that teachers were able to move through curricular material faster. Off-task behaviors in class decreased by 25 to 35 percent and students’ body mass indexes (weight divided by height) stabilized or decreased, said Deborah Rhea, a professor at Texas Christian University and the lead researcher on the longer-recess initiative.

“We’re at least getting closer to a healthy environment that’s conducive to learning for teachers and for kids,” Rhea said of the multiple 15-minute breaks.

All of this research comes after nearly three decades of school policies that decreased recess time amidst fears that the unstructured time led to student fights or took time away from students’ focus on passing standardized tests. One 2007 survey by George Washington University found that 20 percent of a representative sample of districts had decreased recess time by an average of 50 minutes a week and 9 percent had reduced physical education time by an average of 40 minutes.

Today, middle and high schools are still the least likely to have daily physical education or recess. Forty-one states require physical education at the middle school level, according to the 2016 annual report by SHAPE, and 46 require it in high school. But only 15 states include a specific amount of time middle school kids must spend in physical education per week; only six states have a similar time requirement at the high school level. Most states don’t require middle or high schools to offer recess at all.

The idea that young children need to move a lot is fairly intuitive to anyone who has ever spent time in the company of a child under age eight. But older children need movement too — at least an hour a day according to federal guidelines — and they are getting a lot less of it. Fewer than one in three high school students — 27 percent in 2015 — are getting the recommended number of minutes of daily exercise, according to data from Child Trends, a nonprofit research organization focused on youth issues. Girls, black students and Hispanic students get less exercise than white boys.

Moreover, budgets for physical education equipment and supplies are tiny; the median is just $764 per year per school, according to SHAPE’s 2016 report.

Many blame the federal education law known as No Child Left Behind (NCLB), which was enacted under former President George W. Bush, for the dearth of physical education funds and focus. “There was no phys ed in NCLB,” Wright said. “Teachers were cut, budgets were cut, some states repealed state polices on phys ed. There were definitely some pretty serious unintended consequences.”

Several factors seem to be leading educators and policymakers to begin addressing those consequences: the current backlash against standardized testing, the ever-improving understanding of brain science and the influence of national campaigns like former First Lady Michelle Obama’s Let’s Move! and SHAPE’s efforts to influence national legislation, such as ESSA.

In Wisconsin, for example, the state education department oversees a program called Core 4+, which features inexpensive interventions to increase movement throughout the school day. The program is now in place at 450 schools serving over 300,000 students. Appleton, which has seen several of its schools receive national recognition for their efforts in this area, is one of the cities participating in Core 4+, better known by school leaders here as “active kids, active classrooms.”

The idea of adding so many minutes of movement to the day, especially during class, was initially met with some resistance, said Mikki Duran, who oversees Appleton’s physical education department. Teachers told her they didn’t have time. Duran’s answer was that taking time to move would actually result in more focused time to learn. Once they tried it, she said, most teachers became quick converts.

Today, every school in Appleton has its own program, each aimed at increasing physical activity and fitness. At Horizons Elementary, at least 40 of the school’s 350 kids start every day in the school gym playing a game like “Castle” — a kind of dodge ball, capture-the-flag mash-up. The gym stays open all day for teachers or aides wanting to bring kids down to run a lap and burn off some excess energy. There’s also a running club, and the teachers themselves often start staff meetings with a few laps around the school track.

Photo: Lillian Mongeau/The Hechinger Report

The physical education teacher here, Carrie Michiels, has also introduced “Fit in 15” breaks for classroom teachers for the days their students aren’t scheduled to take a full physical education class.

“Kids are more alert, more involved” after the breaks, said fifth grade teacher Gina Dresang, a 23-year veteran. “It can be tricky. Once they get up, they can get silly and it takes time to get them back on task, but the benefits outweigh the downsides.”

For several educators in Appleton, the pursuit of better fitness has also become personal. After learning more about the effects of physical fitness on the brain a few years ago, Kaleidoscope principal Al Brant decided he needed to make a change. Heavy-set all his life, he opted for gastric bypass surgery, improved his diet and started exercising. He lost 120 pounds and spent part of last summer on a trip with his daughter to climb 19,300 feet to the top of Mt. Kilimanjaro. The photos of his trek decorate his office walls along with pictures of his bow-hunting expeditions.

“It changed my attitude about promoting phy-ed,” Brant said of his experience.

Now, he wants his students to know about personal fitness long before they become overweight adults. He has prioritized movement at his school, offering strong support to the physical education teachers here. Staff meetings are now regularly interrupted as teachers get up and move for a few seconds or minutes, just like the “brain breaks” offered in most classrooms. Brant has also fully bought-in to the idea of movement during class. Last spring, he authorized the $9,072 purchase of 144 wobbly chairs — the ones the kids appear to love even as they insist they don’t.

The change in students’ ability to focus, especially in the kids who struggle with attention deficit disorder, has been noticeable, he said. He advises other principals thinking of making a shift at their schools to find a few adult champions who can help explain the brain science and offer practical advice to other teachers on how to make movement a bigger part of the day. He also says it’s worth having physical education options with clear curricula and learning standards. The more kids understand about what they can do to be fit now, the more likely they’ll be able to stay fit as adults.

Indeed, said Wright, the national advocate from SHAPE, the biggest pay-off of more physical education and recess for America’s schoolchildren would be fitter adults.

“Students who are physically active and healthy have higher test scores, lower rates of discipline referrals and increased focus in the classroom,” she said. And while that’s important, Wright also emphasized the health and wellness value of high quality physical education: It teaches kids “how to be physically active for a lifetime.”

This story was produced by The Hechinger Report, a nonprofit, independent news organization focused on inequality and innovation in education. Sign up for our newsletter.Teen survivors of last week’s deadly mass shooting at a Florida high school swarmed the state Capitol in Tallahassee on Wednesday, demanding lawmakers take action against gun violence.

About 100 students from Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, where authorities say 17 people were killed by a 19-year-old gunman using an assault-style rifle, rode buses to the Capitol on Tuesday.

Students rally in front the Florida State Capitol in Tallahassee. Jenn Bronson

Tyra Hemans, a senior from Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School, holds a photo of her friend Joaquin Oliver, who died during last week's mass shooting on her campus, as she and other MSD students speak with the leadership of the Florida Senate at the Capitol in Tallahassee. Colin Hackley / Reuters

The group joined other students, parents and mass shooting survivors on Wednesday morning, marching roughly a mile from Florida State University’s Westcott Fountain to the Capitol building. By 8:30 a.m., the students were entering the building to begin meetings with state lawmakers from both parties.

“A tragedy like this can never happen again, and ... we will never let it happen again,” Suzanna Barna, a senior at the high school, told CNN on Wednesday.

“Today, we’re really just hoping that they will be receptive to what we’re saying and listen to what we went through,” she continued. “We obviously want them to listen to our ideas on policy, but for now, if we could just get them to actually care about the matters we’re talking about, that’s probably the first step.”

#Democracy is alive in the Capital City today. #Tallahassee is honored to host students, teachers, parents, & everyone else from across our state, as they come & let their voices be heard. #NeverAgain #MSDStrong pic.twitter.com/jc1fjllYj0 — Office of the Mayor (@MayorOfTLH) February 21, 2018

Students from Parkland made the drive up to support the #StonemanDouglas students’ #NeverAgain trip in Tallahassee. pic.twitter.com/6Pcjr10KpU — Dianne Gallagher (@DianneG) February 21, 2018

At least one GOP lawmaker postponed a scheduled sit-down with the group until later Wednesday. State Sen. Kathleen Passidomo (R) had to reschedule because of an appropriations meeting, her aide Jared Willis told HuffPost.

State Rep. José Oliva (R) met with a group of students for an off-the-record discussion on gun legislation, reported CNN. Other students hoping to meet with state Senate President Joe Negron (R) were turned away at his office because they didn’t have an appointment.

People affected by previous mass shootings, including survivors of the 2016 Pulse nightclub massacre in Orlando, planned to join a rally set to begin around noon on the steps of the Capitol.

By noon, thousands of people had gathered outside the Capitol to hear Parkland survivors and local activists speak. Many at the roughly hourlong rally held signs in support of tighter gun control, and chanted, “Never again” and “Throw them out,” referring to legislators who receive financial contributions from the National Rifle Association and other pro-gun groups.

Florence Yared, a junior at Stoneman Douglas High, was one of the first shooting survivors to address the sprawling crowd.

“No longer can I walk the halls I walked millions of times before without fear and sadness,” Yared said. “No longer can I walk the halls without imagining blood stains and dead bodies ― all because of the damage that a single AR-15 rifle caused.

“The only purpose of an assault weapon like this is to kill ― and to kill as many people as possible,” Florence continued. “I’m not trying to take away your Second Amendment rights, nor am I trying to eliminate all guns. But we cannot protect our guns before we protect our children.”

WATCH LIVE: Florida school shooting survivors speak as students hold a rally calling for gun control measures in the state's capital https://t.co/Nn2QjsRD5R pic.twitter.com/PdADhl1Fx4 — CBS News (@CBSNews) February 21, 2018

“Many students throughout the country can’t wait to go vote, can’t wait to run for office, to make a change, to make a safer world,” Florence said. “You adults have failed us by not creating a safe place for your children to go to school. So we ― the next generation ― will not fail our own kids.”

Inside the Capitol, other survivors from last week’s Parkland shooting held a press conference after meeting with lawmakers. Lorenzo Prado, a junior at the high school, described the harrowing experience of being mistaken for the gunman on the day of the shooting.

Students from Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School, wearing blue T-shirts, look on from the gallery above the Florida Senate. Colin Hackley / Reuters

“I am here to demand change from our government because the lives lost, who shall not be lost in vain, shall then be used as a catalyst for change in our country today,” Prado said.

“We’ll make change in our country, and if not today, tomorrow. And if not tomorrow, the day after that and the day after that until we achieve the change that we want in this country — until the day that safety is preserved in all schools in our beloved country of America,” he continued. “We students will keep fighting for our right to live.”

Meanwhile, hundreds of students at schools in Florida’s Broward and Miami-Dade counties organized walkouts Wednesday in solidarity with the Parkland survivors.

High school students in Broward County, Florida stage a walkout in solidarity with the students of Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School pic.twitter.com/X8sYSioOKq — BuzzFeed News (@BuzzFeedNews) February 21, 2018

Gov. Rick Scott (R) planned to meet with “small groups” of the Florida shooting survivors “for 20 minutes each” around 5 p.m. on Wednesday, according to MSNBC.

Students calling for stricter gun laws faced a setback Tuesday, when the Republican-led Florida House voted against debating a bill that would ban assault weapons and large-capacity ammunition magazines. Later in the day, many of the same lawmakers discussed at length a bill that declares porn a public health risk.

President Donald Trump is scheduled to meet at the White House on Wednesday afternoon with high school students and teachers for a “listening session” on gun violence and policy.

AdvertisementJennifer Lawrence on Wednesday rejected “utterly ridiculous” criticism of a photo promoting her new movie that shows her outdoors in a revealing dress alongside male actors in coats.

“I am extremely offended,” the actress wrote on Facebook. “That Versace dress was fabulous, you think I’m going to cover that gorgeous dress up with a coat and a scarf?”

(L-R) Director Francis Lawrence poses with actors Matthias Schoenaerts, Jennifer Lawrence, Joel Edgerton and Jeremy Irons at a photocall for 'Red Sparrow' on February 20, 2018 in London, England. Dave J Hogan via Getty Images

Lawrence on Tuesday posed for photos in London with “Red Sparrow” director Francis Lawrence and her co-stars, including Jeremy Irons. The Oscar-winning actress wore an eye-catching black dress with a plunging neckline and hip-high slit, while the men wore coats. People on social media pointed to the photos as an example of entertainment industry inequality, and one of the images quickly went viral.

Lawrence, however, said the criticisms were “not feminism,” and were “creating silly distractions from real issues.”

She said she wore the dress outside for only five minutes, but would have “stood in the snow for that dress because I love fashion and that was my choice.”

Jennifer Lawrence attends the 'Red Sparrow' photocall at Corinthia London on February 20, 2018 in London, England. David M. Benett via Getty Images

“This is sexist, this is ridiculous, this is not feminism,” Lawrence continued. “Over- reacting about everything someone says or does, creating controversy over silly innocuous things such as what I choose to wear or not wear, is not moving us forward. It’s creating silly distractions from real issues.”

Helen Lewis, deputy editor of New Statesman, a British political and cultural magazine, said she found the photo of Lawrence baring her skin while surrounded by men in coats bothersome.

“This is such a quietly depressing (and revealing) image,” Lewis wrote in a tweet. “Not least because I’ve been outside today and it’s bloody FREEZING.” AccuWeather logged London’s high on Tuesday at 48 degrees.

This is such a quietly depressing (and revealing) image. Not least because I've been outside today and it's bloody FREEZING. pic.twitter.com/BRnmgKJ5wY — Helen Lewis (@helenlewis) February 20, 2018

“True equality means either Jennifer Lawrence getting a coat, or Jeremy Irons having to pose for a photocall in assless chaps,” Lewis said in another tweet.

Another person on Twitter suggested that Lawrence could have simply refused to wear the dress. Lewis, however, pointed to comments the actress made in November about harassment and power dynamics in Hollywood.

“I finally made the decision to stand up for myself … and then I was punished, and I got afraid that I wasn’t going to be hired again,” Lawrence said at the time, during a roundtable discussion for The Hollywood Reporter. “I was called difficult and a nightmare. I think a lot of people aren’t coming forward because they’re afraid they’re not going to work again.”

A lot of people on Twitter agreed with Lewis.

Yes. As you say, depressing. — Tom Sutcliffe (@tds153) February 20, 2018

For those of you dreaming of a career in showbiz... https://t.co/KMdN5q0FCv — David Hewson (@david_hewson) February 20, 2018

At least the guys look really embarrassed https://t.co/aoTxwKahaf — Alexandra Frean (@freanie) February 20, 2018

As a result, the photo went viral.

Jennifer Lawrence seen heading to a press conference for 'Red Sparrow' on February 20 wearing the same Versace dress with a coat. Neil Mockford via Getty ImagesRamón Paredes Ramírez (left), Guadalupe Ramírez Lara (right) Photos courtesy of Jaime Ramírez

On the morning of January 28, 1948, a plane traveling from Oakland to the Mexican border crashed in Los Gatos Canyon, California, about an hour southwest from Fresno. All 32 people on board died that day. Twenty-eight of them were Mexican farmworkers who were in the United States because of the Bracero Program.

All the people on the plane died the same way, but in death, they were not treated the same. For the four American crew members, U.S. officials gathered what remains they could, and sent caskets to their families. The remains of the 28 Mexican braceros were not sent back to Mexico to be repatriated or given proper burial by their families. Instead, they were buried in a mass grave under a tiny plaque that read only “28 Mexican citizens who died in an airplane accident near Coalinga.” Even the media that reported the accident referred to the 28 Mexicans only as “deportees.”

These migrant workers were invisible in life and nameless in death.

But now, 70 years later, the world finally knows who they were, and their stories are being told in a book called All They Will Call You by Mexican-American author Tim Hernandez. We follow Tim’s 7-year journey to shed light on this incident — a journey that all started with a Woody Guthrie song.

Listen to the story by clicking on the following NPR.org link:

Story produced by Fernanda Echavarri and Maggie Freleng.

We’ve posted Tim’s full list of the Mexican passengers below. If you or anyone you know might be related, please email Tim at TZhernandez@yahoo.com.

*Families who have been located

Miguel Álvarez Negrete, original de Puebla, familiares desconocidos Tomás de Gracía Aviña, madre Rosa Mercado, calle Juárez, Tepic, Nayarit Santiago Elizondo García, de Cotija, Michoacan, padre Valentino Elizondo, Ocotlán, Jalisco Rosalio Estrada Padilla, de San Juan de los Reyes, Jalisco, esposa Concepción Padilla Bernabé García Lopez, de Magdalena, Jalisco, calle Ochoa 248, Tijuana, B.C. Salvador Hernández Sandoval, padre Jesús Hernández, Jalpa, Zacatecas Severo Medina Lara, padre Hipólito Lara, Jua—, Zacatecas Elías Macías Trujillo, padre Juan Macías, Esenada, B.C. José Macías Rodríguez, de Mamalisco, Jalisco, parientes desconocidos Luis Medina López, padre Daniel Medina, calle Cinco de Mayo, Monareal, Michoacán Manuel Merino Calderón, padre José Merino, Calle Once Oriente 213, Puebla Martín Navarro Razo, de La Barca, Jalisco, parientes desconocidos Ignacio Navarro Pérez, padre José M. Navarro, esposa María Luisa Zarate, Rancho Cerrito, Michoacán Román Ochoa Ochoa, padre Roman Ochoa, esposa María Apolonio Placencia Ramírez, padre Ramón Placencia, calle Torquemada 77, Colonia Obrera, México D.F. Alberto Raygoza Carlos, padre Cruz Raygoza, calle Florida 325, Colonia Noche Buena, Mexico D.F. Guadalupe Rodríguez, padre Guadalupe Rodríguez, avenida República Brasil, México D.F. María Rodríguez Santana, esposa del anterior, padre Hilario Rodríguez, de Juchitlán, Jalisco Wenceslao Flores, padre Jerónimo Ruiz, de Nochistlán, Zacatecas Juan Ruiz Valenzuela, padre Jerónimo Ruiz, de Nochistlán, Zacatecas Jesús Santos Meza, padre Sabino Santoy(s), Ahualco de Mercado, Jalisco Baldomero Torres Marcas, padre Martín Torres, Mexicali B.C. *Ramón Paredes Ramírez, padre Vicente Paredes Villa, Santiago, Guanajuato *Guadalupe Ramírez Lara, padre José Ramírez Villa, Santiago, Guanajuato *José Sánchez Valdivia, de Nochistlán, Zacatecas, parientes desconocidos *Luis Miranda Cuevas, madre Isabel Cuevas, Fortuna 3, Jocotepec, Jalisco *Tomás Márquez Padilla, padre Tomás Márquez, San Julián, Jalisco *Francisco Durán Llamas, de Aguascalientes, Aguascalientes, padre José DuranWhether you like it or not, Jennifer Lawrence has been crowned our relatable queen, and is there anything more relatable than crushing on “Call Me By Your Name” star Timothée Chalamet?

“Timothée, I’m waiting for him to get a little bit older, you know?” she told Entertainment Tonight. ”[I’m] buttering him up like a pig for slaughter, and then I’m going to swing right in there as soon as he’s, like, 30.”

The “Red Sparrow” actress is in the midst of a press tour for her upcoming spy flick, so, of course, we’re being blessed with top-shelf JLaw content this week ― be it her controversial London promo photos or spilling the details about comedian Amy Schumer’s wedding.

Timothée Chalamet arrives at the 90th Annual Academy Awards Nominee Luncheon. Steve Granitz via Getty Images

Jennifer Lawrence attends the "Red Sparrow" photocall in London. Dave J Hogan via Getty Images

“He’s old enough to say that, right? He’s over 18?” she joked. “What if I was like, ‘He’s hot!’ and he’s 15?” Chalamet is 22, ET host Carly Steel assured her.

“I didn’t realize he was so young,” she added. “Tell him to wait! ... [He’s] so, so talented and hot!”

For the record, Lawrence, 27, is reportedly single since she split with her “mother!” director Darren Aronofsky after over a year of dating.

Chalamet, of course, has been the toast of the awards season with his celebrated performances in both “Lady Bird” and “Call Me By Your Name,” for which he’s nominated for an Academy Award.A Sports Illustrated report detailing widespread workplace sexual misconduct in the Dallas Mavericks organization that involved its former CEO is sending shock waves through the league and drawing sharp criticism.

The exposé, published on Tuesday, alleges that the team’s former president and CEO, Terdema Ussery, was widely known as a “serial sexual harasser.” He once asked a female employee if her weekend plans included getting “gang-banged,” the magazine reported.

“Actually, I’m going to the movies with friends,” the woman reportedly replied, to which Ussery then reportedly told her, “you’re definitely getting gang-banged.”

Ussery was part of a larger Mavericks culture of abuse that included sexual harassment and assault, as well as domestic violence, and retaliation against those who tried to report offenses, the magazine reported. Ussery denies all the allegations.

“It was a real life Animal House,” one former employee told the publication. “And I only say “was” because I’m not there anymore. I’m sure it’s still going on.”

You can read the full Sports Illustrated report here.

None of the team’s athletes are accused of misconduct, nor is the team owner, billionaire Mark Cuban. But Sports Illustrated suggested that Cuban, who told the publication he was “embarrassed ... that it happened under my ownership,” let some behavior slide. Cuban denied knowledge of the behavior, telling the magazine,“this is all new to me .... the only awareness I have is because I heard you guys were looking into some thing.”

After a flurry of complaints, the Mavericks in 1998 launched an internal investigation into Ussery, but it had no major repercussions on his career. He remained with the team for almost two decades, leaving in 2015 for a job at Under Armour, where he resigned following accusations of harassment.

The Mavericks responded to the article with a statement distancing the organization from Ussery.

“This individual left the employment of the Mavericks nearly three years ago and the Mavericks have only learned of the scope of these complaints in the past days,” the Mavericks said.

The organization said it ordered “thorough and independent investigation” of the charges. It also said that that it fired one employee who had “misled the organization about a prior domestic violence incident.”

“There is no room for such conduct in the Mavericks’ workplace — or any workplace,” the statement said.We know who’s wearing the pants in these Olympics games. If you could win gold just for clothing, Norway’s curling team would be the one to beat.

While other teams stuck with more boring monochromatic slacks, Norway’s team donned a particularly colorful set of pants during the 2018 Olympic Winter Games. And they even wore different pairs for each event.

Check out their colorful attire below:AR-15s for sale on Feb. 15, 2018 in Orem, Utah. George Frey/Getty Images

A new poll from Quinnipiac University has found the highest support it’s ever surveyed for universal background checks for firearms purchases, with nearly 100 percent of those polled supporting the gun control measure.

According to the findings released Tuesday, 97 percent of respondents support the checks, with 2 percent opposing and 1 percent declining to respond. Even among gun owners polled, support is at 97 percent.

Overall support for the policy is 2 percentage points higher than what the university measured in December, and has been steadily on the rise since Quinnipiac University first started polling on this topic in 2013, when just 89 percent of respondents supported such background checks.

The school conducted the survey days after a gunman used an AR-15 assault-style rifle to kill 17 students and faculty members at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Florida, last week.

“If you think Americans are largely unmoved by the mass shootings, you should think again,” Tim Malloy, the Quinnipiac University Poll assistant director, said in a statement about the overall polling results.

“If you think Americans are largely unmoved by the mass shootings, you should think again.” - Tim Malloy, Quinnipiac University Poll

The poll also found majority support for a nationwide ban on the sale of assault weapons and a mandatory waiting period for all gun purchases and other gun control proposals.

“In the last two months, some of the biggest surges in support for tightening gun laws comes from demographic groups you may not expect, independent voters, men, and whites with no college degree,” Malloy said.

The poll surveyed 1,249 voters nationwide from Feb. 16-19.

While support for background checks is nearly universal, there are some apparent cracks in the National Instant Criminal Background Check System, the federal program that handles these checks to ensure certain criminals are not able to purchase firearms.

In November, it was revealed that the gunman who killed 26 people in a Texas church should have been prohibited from buying the firearm he used because of a domestic violence conviction he’d received while serving in the Air Force. However, the Air Force admitted that it had failed to submit that information to the background check database.

AdvertisementThe superintendent of a Houston-area school district threatened students with three-day suspensions if they participate in gun violence protests during school hours.

Student-led protests and walkouts have erupted across the country in the wake of the deadly mass shooting last week at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Florida, that left 17 people dead. Participants have focused their energy on demanding lawmakers take action against gun violence.

But Curtis Rhodes, superintendent of Needville Independent School District, warned students that they would face “consequences” for participating in such demonstrations.

“Please be advised that the Needville ISD will not allow a student demonstration during school hours for any type of protest or awareness!!” Rhodes wrote in a statement posted Tuesday to Needville High School’s Facebook page. “Should students choose to do so, they will be suspended from school for 3 days and face all the consequences that come along with an out of school suspension.”

“Life is all about choices and every choice has a consequence whether it be positive or negative,” he wrote. “We will discipline no matter if it is one, fifty, or five hundred students involved.”

Amanda Johnson, a volunteer with the Texas chapter of Moms Demand Action for Gun Sense in America, accused Rhodes of “fear-mongering” and creating “a missed opportunity.”

“I can’t believe that the superintendent, instead of cooperating with the students, is threatening them the way that he is,” she said. “School shootings are far more disruptive than a school walkout.”

School officials at one high school in Hollywood, Florida, roughly 30 miles to the south of Stoneman Douglas, told students there would “consequences” if they participated in a walkout on Wednesday.

Ben Gamla Preparatory Academy Principal Gayle Iacono later agreed to let students protest for 17 minutes at noon in the school parking lot. But when students began the demonstration, they found the school’s entry gates were locked, preventing them from leaving the school grounds.

Students who jumped the fence to protest in front of the school were led back to class by school security personnel, according to local ABC affiliate WPLG-TV.

Representatives for the Needville district and Ben Gamla Preparatory did not immediately respond to HuffPost’s requests for comment.

In contrast, some school districts have taken a more supportive approach to the demonstrations. For instance, the Leon County school system in Tallahassee, Florida, announced that it would excuse students who participated in a rally Wednesday at the state Capitol.

“Parents ultimately decide whether their children should attend school or participate in an out of school activity,” a statement posted to the district’s Facebook page said.Looking out from the sea ice to iceberg A68, around November 2017, just months after the berg calved from Antarctica’s Larsen C Ice Shelf in July. Credit: NASA

A huge, trillion-ton iceberg about the size of Delaware broke free from Antarctica’s Larsen C Ice Shelf in July 2017. As it moved away from its chilly birth mom and into the Weddell Sea, a vast expanse of water saw the light for the first time in up to 120,000 years.

And this month, a team of scientists will venture to the long-ice-buried expanse to investigate the mysterious ecosystem that was hidden beneath the Antarctic ice shelf for so long.

The newly exposed seabed stretches across an area of about 2,246 square miles (5,818 square kilometers), according to the British Antarctic Survey (BAS), which is leading the expedition. The scientists consider their journey “urgent,” as they hope to document the system before sunlight begins to change at least the surface layers. [In Photos: Antarctica’s Larsen C Ice Shelf Through Time]

“The calving of [iceberg] A-68 [from the Larsen C Ice Shelf] provides us with a unique opportunity to study marine life as it responds to a dramatic environmental change. It’s important we get there quickly before the undersea environment changes as sunlight enters the water and new species begin to colonize,” Katrin Linse, of the British Antarctic Survey, said in a statement.

The edge of Larsen C Ice Shelf with the western edge of iceberg A68 in the distance. Credit: NASA

What lies beneath?

Scientists know little about the possibly alien-like life that has taken up residence beneath Antarctica’s ice shelf. What they do know comes from similar calving events in the past: Chunks of ice broke off the Larsen A and B shelves (located north of Larsen C on the Antarctic Peninsula) in 1995 and 2002, respectively. Two German expeditions to those “newly” exposed areas revealed sparse life. However, it took five to 12 years for the expeditions to make it to those areas, and by that time creatures from other areas had made their way to both spots, Live Science previously reported.

In other icy realms around Antarctica, some bizarre creatures have turned up. For instance, a bristled marine worm that lives in the Southern Ocean, and Live Science previously reported as looking like a “Christmas ornament from hell,” has an extendable throat tipped with pointy teeth. And some creatures have made a living under extreme conditions, including a crustacean called Lyssianasid amphipod, which was found thriving beneath the Ross Ice Shelf in western Antarctica. One of the more famous Antarctic animals, the icefish has natural antifreeze in its blood and body fluids, allowing it to survive the frigid temperatures of Earth’s chilly bottom.

To explore the once-hidden ecosystem, the scientists — hailing from nine research institutes — will set off from the Falkland Islands on Feb. 21. They plan to spend three weeks aboard the BAS research ship, the RRS James Clark Ross. To navigate the ice-filled water to the remote location, the ship will rely on satellite data, according to the BAS.

Once they arrive, the team plans to collect samples of life (seafloor animals, microbes, plankton and any other inhabitants) as well as sediments and water.

Stay tuned.

Originally published on Live Science.

Editor’s RecommendationsKara Eastman, a pro-abortion rights progressive, won the Democratic primary for Nebraska's 2nd Congressional District. Kara Eastman for Congress

Kara Eastman, a progressive abortion rights supporter, won the Democratic nomination for Nebraska’s 2nd Congressional District, an upset that defied the wishes of the national party.

Eastman’s narrow victory in a swing district that includes metropolitan Omaha comes as a shock to many and reflects the growing strength of the Democratic Party’s left wing.

Her candidacy in the general election provides pro-choice liberals an opportunity to show that progressive Democrats are just as capable as moderates of winning in challenging territory.

“Kara Eastman taught the Democratic establishment a lesson: The way to inspire voters in 2018 is to campaign on a bold progressive agenda of Medicare for All, higher wages for workers, and other economic populist ideas that help working families and challenge corporate power,” said Stephanie Taylor, co-founder of the Progressive Change Campaign Committee, which endorsed Eastman. “This is how Democrats can win in red, purple, and blue districts and maximize a wave in 2018.”

“Now we see, time and time again, that we do not need to abandon abortion in order to win,” Heidi Sieck, a Nebraska native and co-founder of #VoteProChoice, said after Eastman’s victory.

Eastman, founder of a public health nonprofit, defeated former Rep. Brad Ashford by nearly 3 percentage points.

Ashford, an attorney and former state lawmaker, was a rare Democrat who unseated a House Republican in 2014, only to be ousted himself after one term.

The Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee, which helps elect Democrats to the House, apparently saw Ashford as having the best opportunity to retake the seat. The DCCC put Ashford on its list of “Red to Blue” candidates, a distinction tantamount to an official party endorsement that comes with training and other resources.

DCCC/Red to Blue

But Ashford, known as a pro-business moderate, had a major weakness that likely hurt him with the Democratic base in a year of high liberal enthusiasm. As a state lawmaker, he backed restrictions on women’s abortion rights, including a ban on abortions after 20 weeks of pregnancy.

Eastman drew a sharp contrast with Ashford. Not only is she is an unabashed supporter of abortion rights, she is also an advocate of Medicare-for-all, a higher minimum wage, free college tuition for families earning less than $125,000 a year, and an assault weapons ban.

The lack of support Eastman drew from national pro-abortion rights political action groups became its own source of controversy. NARAL Pro-Choice America, EMILY’s List, UltraViolet Action and Planned Parenthood Action Fund did not endorse in the race. The only abortion rights group to back Eastman was the small outfit, #VoteProChoice.

At least two of the national pro-abortion rights groups’ conduct appeared to be at odds with their involvement in an Omaha mayoral race over a year ago. In April 2017, NARAL led a very public crusade against the Democratic National Committee and Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.) for visiting Omaha to campaign for Heath Mello, a Democrat running for mayor who backed the same 20-week abortion ban that Ashford voted for. UltraViolet joined in the effort to shame the party for supporting Mello.

Although Mello promised to protect abortion rights as mayor, coverage of the flare-up ended up dominating what was meant to be a positive campaign event. A few weeks later, Mello went onto lose the race to incumbent Republican Mayor Jean Stothert, an even stauncher abortion rights opponent.

Ilyse Hogue, president of NARAL Pro-Choice America, pushed back against the suggestion that the organization had held Brad Ashford to a different standard than Mello.

“Ashford came to Congress and voted 100% on pro-choice bills and against anti-choice bills. What are we as people if the don’t believe that we can communicate to people and move them on fundamental principles? Redemption is a progressive principle,” Hogue wrote in a Twitter thread Wednesday.

Sincere answer: Ashford came to Congress and voted 100% on pro-choice bills and against anti-choice bills. What are we as people if the don’t believe that we can communicate to people and move them on fundamental principles? Redemption is a progressive principle. https://t.co/EsXswTShKp — ilyse hogue (@ilyseh) May 16, 2018

Regardless of whether Eastman ultimately gains the support of national pro-choice groups or help from the DCCC, she has the backing of the Nebraska Democratic Party, according to party chairwoman Jane Kleeb.

“The Nebraska Democratic Party worked hard to remain neutral in this race and we are proud to have Kara Eastman representing Democrats, and soon Nebraskans, in Congress as the first woman from the Second District,” Kleeb said in a text message.“I’ve got no opposition whatsoever to shooting, but for heaven’s sakes, I don’t think that the general population needs to have automatic weapons,” Robertson said on “The 700 Club” on Tuesday.

“Amen,” an off-camera voice answered.

Robertson, who suffered a stroke earlier this month, asked for a ban on “bump stocks,” which allow semiautomatic weapons to fire as rapidly as machine guns. Weapons with bump stocks were used last year by Stephen Paddock during the Las Vegas shooting, which left 58 people dead and hundreds injured.

Robertson also called for more thorough background checks, including a medical check.

“If somebody is seeing a psychiatrist, is on medication, he or she needs to be prohibited from being turned loose on the general population,” he said. “It’s just got to be, y’know, sensible.”

A gun owner and a hunter, Robertson hasn’t exactly been a voice of moderation in the gun control debate. In 2014, he encouraged churches to arm worshippers.

“Blessed are the fully armed,” he said then.

Last year, Robertson linked the mass shooting at a Texas church to antidepressants and urged people not to use the attack to push for gun control.

“I hope and pray they don’t politicize this thing and start talking about gun control and all that because it won’t be necessary,” he said at the time, according to Media Matters.

Now, however, the 87-year-old seems to have altered his stance.

“I think we can ban those things without too much trouble,” Robertson said on Tuesday, referring to automatic weapons. “We can stop that.”

The AR-15-style rifle used in the Florida school shooting, as well as several other mass killings, is a semiautomatic. Since it is not an automatic weapon, it would not be affected by the ban Robertson suggested.A week after a gunman killed 17 people at a high school in Parkland, Florida, students from all over the country are staging walkouts to demand that lawmakers take action on gun control.

For far too long, mass shooters have taken hundreds of lives in schools, churches, and other spaces. But even in the years immediately following the 2012 massacre of 20 children and six adults at Sandy Hook Elementary School, Congress failed to act.

The students currently participating in walkouts, lie-ins, and other protests are using their voices to effect change. If you can’t participate and don’t have the funds to donate, here are a few other things you can do right now to help the victims and survivors of last week’s shooting and support efforts for gun control in America.

Students protest against gun violence on Feb. 21, 2018, in Washington, D.C. Alex Wong via Getty Images

Donate blood.

OneBlood, a Florida blood donation center, needs people with Type O-negative blood to donate. On Thursday, locals in Florida’s Broward County area can attend a blood drive at Cox Media at 2741 North 29th Avenue in Hollywood, Florida. Non-locals can find out where they can donate here.

Talk to your representatives.

Calling, emailing or writing your congressional representatives to ask for stronger gun control legislation is crucial. Midterm elections are less than nine months away, and improved gun control legislation is an essential way to reduce the chance of another gun-related tragedy.

You can contact your congressional representative via the online forums at Contacting Congress or Call the Halls. If you’re not sure which method of communication to use, you can check out this handy guide to make sure your voice is heard.

Anadolu Agency via Getty Images

March.

There are multiple national and local gun violence prevention marches coming up this year. You can find marches in your state here.

One of the largest upcoming marches is the March For Our Lives on March 24 in Washington, D.C. The event’s student organizers are asking everyone who wants gun control reform and safety in schools to march in solidarity.

“Every kid in this country now goes to school wondering if this day might be their last. We live in fear,” reads the March For Our Lives website. “It doesn’t have to be this way. Change is coming. And it starts now, inspired by and led by the kids who are our hope for the future. Their young voices will be heard.”

Volunteer.

There are a number of groups that could use an extra hand in gun education, creating a safer nation and more. A few great places to start are Moms Demand Action, The Coalition to Stop Gun Violence, Everytown, and Brady Campaign.

Share any and all tips with the cops.

If you have any information on the Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School shooting, the FBI wants to hear about it. Submit your tips via the bureau’s online form.

Talk with your friends, family and community.

This probably seems obvious, but considering many lawmakers’ rhetoric, it’s necessary to reiterate how important it is to speak out about gun control.

This can be as simple as sharing an informative video on Facebook or Twitter about the effects of gun violence, like this one:

You can also organize a get-together to talk. The Violence Policy Center put together a great guide for hosting an event in your home, office or elsewhere to help bring awareness and resources to this issue.Face-swapping technology may have just reached a frightening new peak: Here’s Alec Baldwin as Donald Trump, but with the president’s face swapped onto his in a “Saturday Night Live” clip.Officials ruled the Soundgarden singer’s death a suicide and found that drugs did not play a role in his death, though he had previously battled addiction for many years. The rock legend had a prescription for the anti-anxiety medication Ativan, according to “Entertainment Tonight.”

Vicky Cornell told Robin Roberts on “Good Morning America” Wednesday that her husband had called her the night he died and told her he “may have taken an extra Ativan or two.”

She believes that medication may have affected Cornell’s judgment before he died.

“He wanted to be there for his family, for his children. He loved his life. He would never have ever left this world,” Vicky told Roberts. “I don’t think that he could make any decisions because of the level of impairment.”

“My husband was the furthest thing from a rock star junkie, he just wasn’t,” she added. “He was the best husband, the greatest father. I lost my soulmate and the love of my life.”

She also admits she’s been hard on herself since his death.“We’ve done this too many times.”

On Tuesday’s broadcast of “The Late Late Show,” host James Corden reflected on last week’s deadly school shooting in Parkland, Florida.

“Although these types of mass shootings have become normal in this country, they’re not normal at all for the rest of the planet,” Corden said.

He noted how historic measures that were enacted in the United Kingdom, Australia and Japan demonstrated that “stricter gun laws can make a difference in reducing mass shootings.”

Corden also said he felt optimistic that perhaps this time, things will be different. He praised the teen survivors of the Parkland massacre for speaking out about their ordeal and for organizing a march on March 24 in Washington, D.C. to call for gun law reform.Billy Graham, the famed evangelist who became known as “America’s Pastor,” died at his North Carolina home on Wednesday morning. He was 99.

A family spokesman said he died from natural causes, ABC News reported. The Billy Graham Evangelistic Association confirmed his death on Twitter.

Born in 1918 in Charlotte, North Carolina, William Franklin Graham Jr. was the oldest of the four children of William and Morrow Graham. He was raised on a dairy farm, and little in his childhood suggested he would become a world-renowned preacher.

Then at 16, Graham attended a series of revival meetings run by outspoken evangelist Mordecai Ham. The two months he spent listening to Ham’s sermons on sin sparked a spiritual awakening in Graham and prompted him to enroll at Bob Jones College. When the conservative Christian school’s strict doctrine didn’t align with his personal beliefs, he transferred to the Florida Bible Institute (now Trinity College of Florida) and joined a Southern Baptist Convention church. He was ordained in 1939.

Billy Graham, seen in 2010, has died at the age of 99. CHRIS KEANE / Reuters

Graham received additional training at Illinois’ Wheaton College, where he met his future wife, Ruth McCue Bell. They were married for 64 years, until her death in 2007, and had five children.

After serving briefly as the pastor of the First Baptist Church in Western Springs, Illinois, Graham launched his first radio program, “Songs in the Night,” in 1943. Although he left a year later, Graham liked the idea of sharing his message with a wide audience. As noted on his website, Graham took Jesus Christ literally when he said in Mark 16:15: “Go ye into all the world and preach the Gospel to every creature.”

Graham was still in his early 30s when entered the public spotlight by giving a series of well-attended “sin-smashing” revival meetings that were held under a circus tent in a Los Angeles parking lot. The press took interest in the charismatic young preacher and began writing articles about him. To get his message to even more people, Graham founded his own ministry, the Billy Graham Evangelistic Association.

Graham mat his wife, Ruth McCue Bell, at Illinois’ Wheaton College. They were married for 64 years and had five children. Bettmann via Getty Images

Graham viewed the Bible as the infallible word of God. He believed that Jesus led a sinless life and that all men were lost and would face God’s judgment.

Such a strict interpretation of scripture also led him to condemn homosexual relationships.

More recently, detractors blasted Graham’s continued belief that homosexual behavior was a “sinister form of perversion,” and his intolerance against the very presence of gay and lesbian couples within Christianity.

“From Genesis on, the Bible praises the marriage of a man and a woman, but it speaks only negatively of homosexual behavior whenever it is mentioned,” Graham’s website states.

Graham’s sermons also promoted evangelism and railed against “godless communism,” drugs, sex and violence. He was convinced he must use “every modern means of communication available” to spread the Gospel throughout the world, and did so in print, on radio and television, online and in person.

And for the next five decades, his electric personality connected with audiences in more than 185 countries.

Graham was the first evangelist of note to speak behind the Iron Curtain, and during the Apartheid era he refused to visit South Africa until the government allowed integrated seating at his events. He published dozens of best-selling books, including Angels: God’s Secret Agents and The Jesus Generation, and wrote a weekly column that was syndicated in hundreds of newspapers.

After serving briefly as the pastor of the First Baptist Church in Western Springs, Illinois, Graham launched his first radio program in 1943. Toronto Star Archives via Getty Images

Graham received numerous honors, including the Horatio Alger Award, the George Washington Honor Medal, the Ronald Reagan Freedom Award and the Congressional Gold Medal. A highway in Charlotte bears his name, as does part of Interstate 240 near his home in Asheville, North Carolina. In 1989, he became the first clergyman to be granted a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame for his work as a minister.

Graham also had a major effect on the civil rights movement of the 1950s and ’60s. His early crusades were segregated, but once the U.S. Supreme Court issued its landmark Brown v. Board of Education ruling in 1954, which found public school segregation unconstitutional, Graham integrated the seatings at his revival meetings.

Graham befriended the Rev. Martin Luther King Jr. as well, and together they preached to more than 2 million people in New York City.

King once remarked on their partnership: “Had it not been for the ministry of my good friend Dr. Billy Graham, my work in the Civil Rights Movement would not have been as successful as it has been.”

When Graham was questioned about his views on faith and race, he argued there was no scriptural basis for segregation.

“Jesus was not a white man; He was not a black man. He came from that part of the world that touches Africa and Asia and Europe,” Graham once preached. “Christianity is not a white man’s religion, and don’t let anybody ever tell you that it’s white or black. Christ belongs to all people; He belongs to the whole world.”

Graham became the first clergyman to be granted a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame for his work as a minister. He's seen attending that ceremony in 1989 in Hollywood, California. Ron Galella, Ltd. via Getty Images

As his message spread, Graham was granted personal audiences with royalty, dignitaries and many sitting presidents, from Harry S. Truman to Barack Obama. Three presidents were even on hand in 2007 for the dedication of the Billy Graham Library in Charlotte. Despite being a registered Democrat, Graham opposed the candidacy of John F. Kennedy, and actively encouraged other religious leaders to speak out about the dangers of having a Roman Catholic in the White House.

Though beloved by millions, Graham was not without his detractors. Some fundamentalist Christians took issue with his ecumenical approach to evangelism, and after his 1957 crusade in New York, opponents of Graham’s more liberal theology began calling him “the Antichrist.” According to the biography Billy: A Personal Look at Bill Graham, the World’s Best-Loved Evangelist by Sherwood Eliot Wirt, one Christian educator even said that Graham was “the worst thing to happen to the Christian church in two thousand years.”

As his health began to fail, Graham decided to announce his retirement in 2005. His final sermon, “The Cross ― Billy Graham’s Message To America,” called for a national spiritual awakening.

Nina Golgowski contributed reporting.