Last week’s shooting at a Parkland, Florida, high school left 17 people dead and more than a dozen injured. It also reignited fierce debates on gun control across the country.

Lawmakers, often split along party lines, have debated whether strengthening restrictions on guns would curb America’s all-too-common mass shootings, or whether it would be more effective to increase the number of guns in schools and other soft targets. At the federal level, President Donald Trump announced on Tuesday that he’d ordered Attorney General Jeff Sessions to take steps to ban bump stocks, a device that allows a semiautomatic rifle to fire as quickly as a machine gun.

Here’s what some states have done, and not done, in the wake of the shooting at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School.

Students participate in a protest against gun violence Feb. 21, 2018, on Capitol Hill in Washington, D.C. Alex Wong via Getty Images

Florida

State lawmakers on Tuesday refused to debate a gun control measure that would have banned any “selective-fire firearm capable of fully automatic, semiautomatic or burst fire,” including the AR-15 rifle, the type used in the Parkland shooting. State Rep. Kionne McGhee (D) pushed to bring the bill out of committee and to the floor, but the proposal was rejected in a 36-71 procedural vote. A Florida Senate committee, however, endorsed a proposal to put law enforcement officers in every school in the state.

Hawaii

Lawmakers in Hawaii are considering a bill that would make it a felony to own or sell multi-burst triggers on firearms and other trigger modifications. H.B. 1908, introduced in January, has passed out of the state House Judiciary Committee, and a second hearing took place on Wednesday before the House Committee on Consumer Protection and Commerce. The bill would amend existing state law such that anyone who manufactures, imports into Hawaii, sells, or owns a bump stock could be charged with a felony.

Pennsylvania

Pennsylvania lawmakers have introduced 11 bills meant to curb gun violence in the week since the Parkland shooting. The measures covered by the bills range from making it harder for citizens to get access to assault-style weapons, like the one used in Parkland, to requiring background checks for all gun sales. State Rep. Warren Kampf (R) introduced seven of the 11 bills, including one to ban bump stocks. Several of the bills would make it possible for individuals to petition a court to remove someone’s guns if they show signs of violence.

Illinois

Illinois state Rep. Marty Moylan (D) introduced a bill two days after the Florida shooting to ban the manufacture, sale, purchase, and possession of “rate of fire enhancements,” a category of devices and accessories that includes bump stocks. Moylan and state Sen. Julie Morrison (D) have also doubled down on their calls to move forward gun control bills introduced before the Parkland shooting, including one to ban assault weapons and one to ban unregistered, often home-manufactured weapons known as “ghost guns.”

Wisconsin

Republican lawmakers on Tuesday blocked Democrats’ attempt to vote on a bill that would implement universal background checks for gun purchases in Wisconsin. Democratic lawmakers had attempted to bring the bill to the floor for a vote, but Republicans used a procedural tactic to avoid the vote and replace the measure with one to fund school grants to provide firearms to safety officers and curb illegal firearm purchases. Lawmakers approved that measure by a 71-24 vote.

Arizona

Republican state lawmakers on Tuesday blocked their Democratic colleagues’ attempt to push for a vote on a bill to ban bump stocks and other rate-of-fire modifications. Nearly a dozen other gun-related measures have stalled in the state legislature recently, only one of which has received a hearing. That bill, which passed out of a state House committee on the same day as the Parkland shooting, would end gun safety requirements previously imposed on foster parents; in other words, it represents an attempt to erode gun restrictions, not strengthen them.

South Carolina

Republicans and Democrats in South Carolina debated measures to curb gun violence in the wake of the Florida shooting. House Minority Leader Todd Rutherford (D) said he planned to introduce a bill to ban the sale of AR-15 rifles to anyone under the age of 20 ― a measure that Republican lawmakers in the state largely oppose. Instead, Republicans have pushed measures to arm teachers and allow concealed-weapon permit holders to carry their firearms in more locations.

Ohio

State Sens. Michael Skindell (D) and Charleta Tavares (D) this week proposed a ban on “assault weapons,” defined in the bill as any automatic or semiautomatic firearm with the capacity to accept 10 or more cartridges. The measure would require owners of assault-style weapons to dispose of the firearms, and would make it a felony to own such a gun.

Oregon

Gov. Kate Brown (D) spoke before the state Senate Judiciary Committee on Tuesday, throwing her support behind a proposal to expand an existing ban on the purchase or possession of firearms or ammunition by people convicted of stalking or domestic violence or who have a restraining order against them. The state House approved the legislation on Feb. 15, a day after the Florida shooting. It is now being considered by the state Senate.

New Jersey

Gov. Phil Murphy (D) signaled his support on Tuesday for a number of bills currently moving through the state legislature, including measures to reduce the permitted size of ammunition magazines, require background checks for private gun sales, and ban certain types of firearms and ammunition.

MissouriA video peddling a conspiracy theory that Stoneman Douglas High School student David Hogg is an actor reached No. 1 on YouTube’s trending page Wednesday morning before the company ultimately removed it.

The video itself was real ― a reuploaded version of a 2017 news clip by CBS Los Angeles in which one of Hogg’s friends gets into a verbal altercation with a lifeguard, which Hogg recorded and uploaded at the time. The reuploaded video also used the same title as the CBS affiliate: “Confrontation Between Lifeguard, Bodysurfer Caught On Camera In Redondo Beach Goes Viral.”

A video suggesting David Hogg is a paid actor reached No. 1 on YouTube's trending page on Wednesday. YouTube

The difference came in the new video’s description, where the uploader, who identified himself as “mike m” wrote, “DAVID HOGG THE ACTOR....”

Hogg, 17, has become the focus of a growing number of conspiracy theories in response to his media appearances following an attack at his Parkland, Florida, school that left 17 dead last week. He is among a number of Stoneman Douglas students calling for the government to act on gun control.

Some of the theories surrounding the student are a result of Hogg saying his father was an FBI agent; some began because people believe he and others have been coached by gun control advocates; and some are a result of people believing the students are paid “crisis actors.”

It’s the last of the three that the trending YouTube video played into, apparently to the delight of many of the video’s commenters.

YouTube

This is, of course, bogus. Hogg’s status as a Stoneman Douglas student has been confirmed. At the time of the video, he was visiting California, where his family used to live, he says.

YouTube eventually removed the video, but not before it had been viewed more than 200,000 times and reached No. 1 on the company’s trending page, where the most popular videos at any moment are on view.

The company said in a statement that its system “misclassified” the video because it “contained footage from an authoritative news source.”

“This video should never have appeared in Trending,” a YouTube spokesperson told HuffPost.

YouTube

“mike m,” the YouTube user who uploaded the video, has a penchant for conspiracy theories, based on his video page. Of the 10 videos he has uploaded, three have to do with Stoneman Douglas, including “David Hogg Can’t Remember His Lines When Interviewed for Florida school shooting.” Another video is titled “BREAKING Disclosure! First Govt NASA Close up UFO Video! They ARE HERE!!!” Others focused on chemtrails, a conspiracy theory favorite of InfoWars creator Alex Jones.

YouTube

“As soon as we became aware of the video, we removed it from Trending and from YouTube for violating our policies,” the YouTube spokesperson confirmed. “We are working to improve our systems moving forward.”

YouTube says it has been working hard to clear its site of such videos. Late last year, CEO Susan Wojcicki announced the company planned to bring the number of “people across Google working to address content that might violate our policies to over 10,000 in 2018.”

But the system clearly still has cracks that YouTube is having difficulty filling. At publication time, the top three search results for “David Hogg” on the video sharing site weren’t related to the student speaking up to combat mass shootings. They dealt in Hogg-related conspiracy theories.WASHINGTON ― Rep. Claudia Tenney (R-N.Y.) claimed Wednesday that people who commit mass shootings are often Democrats.

The first-term Republican congresswoman made the comment at a discussion about last week’s Florida school shooting after criticizing the government for failing to act on several tips that might have prevented the deaths of 17 students and adults.

“It’s interesting that so many of these people that commit the mass murders end up being Democrats. But the media doesn’t talk about that either,” Tenney told WGDJ Talk1300 radio.

Rep. Claudia Tenney (R-N.Y.) did not offer any evidence to back up her mass shooter claim. Tom Williams via Getty Images

Although law enforcement officials said there were “no known ties” between Nikolas Cruz and a particular white supremacist group, the 19-year-old suspect in the Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School massacre had repeatedly expressed racist, homophobic and anti-Semitic views in private group chats, CNN reported.

“I am fed up with the media and liberals attempting to politicize tragedies and demonize law-abiding gun owners and conservative Americans every time there is a horrible tragedy,” Tenney said in a subsequent statement on Wednesday. “While we know the perpetrators of these atrocities have a wide variety of political views, my comments are in response to a question about the failure to prosecute illegal gun crime. I will continue to stand up for law-abiding citizens who are smeared by anti-gun liberal elitists.”

The fact-checking site Snopes found that an online list purporting to show that assassins are more likely to be Democrats was, in fact, wildly flawed: Among other errors, it simply ignored any mass shooting known to be committed by someone with Republican or conservative views, and it identified shooters who were not Democrats as Democrats.

In her interview Wednesday, Tenney also lamented that legal gun owners might face restrictions after mass shootings.

“I think that’s what scares me most is, a lot of these legal gun areas are going to be targeted now,” she said. “In their demographic, they have the least amount of crime than virtually any other demographic.”

Tenney is a top-tier target of the Democratic Party in the 2018 midterm elections. She was criticized last week after she deplored the focus on domestic violence allegations against former White House staff secretary Rob Porter, who resigned after one of his ex-wives released photos of a black eye.

“I’m not saying he’s innocent, but I’m saying we don’t know,” Tenney said. “He could be the worst guy in the world, but now we’re getting into prosecution as far as I know. I guess there was an issue about, maybe the FBI knew about it, but really, is this what we’re talking about at this point?”

Evan Lukaske, a spokesman for the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee, said Wednesday that Tenney’s comments will hurt her at the polls.

“Once again Congresswoman Tenney has demonstrated how completely unfit she is to serve in Congress,” Lukaske said in a statement. “Two weeks ago she called Democrats ‘un-American,’ last week she defended alleged domestic abuser Rob Porter, and now she blames Democrats for mass murder — she is an embarrassment to New York and our country. Tenney’s comments are unhinged, shameful and disgusting, and show why voters will replace her next November.”Ever wanted to learn about women in math, but from an entirely male perspective? Then look no further than Brigham Young University.

That’s the gist of a hilarious (and cringeworthy) flyer that an organization at the university in Utah distributed for its “Women in Math” student-led math club featuring only male professors.

BYU student Stephanie Driggs posted an image of the flyer to Twitter on Tuesday. It invites “all women who love math” to “come learn about research done in data science, topology, number theory, and dynamical systems from four BYU math professors.”

Driggs’ viral tweet, since deleted, included the question: “Is this satire?”

The panel is one of several that the student-led organization puts on throughout the year, the club’s adviser, Martha Kilpack, told Fox 13 Salt Lake City. The flyer, she said, was just an unfortunate placement of words next to photos.

A screenshot of Driggs' deleted tweet. Twitter

As of Wednesday afternoon, her Twitter post had received over 9,000 retweets and 24,000 likes.

“The alternative all female panel can discuss ‘Men in Maths’. I’d go to that!” one Twitter user responded. Another user added that BYU definitely has women faculty in the math department, calling the flyer a “gross oversight.”

BYU’s math department posted a statement to Facebook on Wednesday, clarifying that the flyer is not satire and was simply “poor judgement.”

“The poster featured the pictures of four of our department faculty. It was done with good intentions but with poor judgment and was not meant to be satire, though we did all get a good laugh here at the department,” the department’s statement reads. “The posters have been replaced with a more appropriate message. We very much value the Women in Math organization.”

Some current and former BYU students, however, were not satisfied.

“I’m confused,” Driggs tweeted in response to BYU’s statement. “Do they really think that the poster was the main issue here?”

At least two other students emailed the college to complain about the department’s lapse in judgement. BYU student Talia Ruth tweeted a screenshot of the email she sent the math department.

“It was a shock to see a poster advertising a conference of sorts regarding women in math showing only male faculty,” she wrote. “Women should be represented by women. Please note this error reflects poorly on this department and consider how this will impact the department and university in the future.”

A BYU alum identified as Daxson also shared his email on Twitter, calling the all-male panel a “colossally bad idea.”

“Bad for you, bad for BYU, bad for BYU alumni in the working force,” he wrote, adding: “And most importantly, bad for women who want and need representation in STEM fields.”

Kilpack told Fox 13 on Wednesday evening that she had taken down the posters from campus.

“It was an honest mistake kind of poster,” Kilpack said. “It wasn’t meant to be a political statement. It wasn’t meant to be anything other than encourage female students to come to an activity.”

She added that the club often hosts panels and, this time around, they chose all men. In the past, Kilpack noted, they’ve had many women speakers.

“It’s a chance to see different research that they do, and we let the students pick the presenters,” Kilpack said. “This time, they happened to pick four male presenters.”

This article has been updated to include comments from the BYU math club adviser and to clarify the name of the student-led club.Making jokes about President Donald Trump is usually the core of Stephen Colbert ’s “Late Show” monologue. But not on Tuesday night.

Actor Ryan Reynolds turned up in costume ― and in character ― as the superhero Deadpool. Then Deadpool took over the monologue and delivered a few zingers aimed at Colbert, his audience and, of course, the president.Warning: Spoilers for “The Walking Dead” below!

Dear “Walking Dead” fans: If you haven’t already heard, Carl (Chandler Riggs) is dying this week.

So say goodbye to that guy. No more pudding. No more cowboy hats. Carl is dead. He’s dead, dead, dead.

But a simple death is never enough for “The Walking Dead.”

They’re going to drag this one out.

We already know the show’s midseason premiere is going to be extra long ― reportedly 82 minutes ― and that it’s going to send Carl off into the sunset as he dies a slow, agonizing death from a zombie bite.

If that doesn’t sound cheery enough for you, there’s going to be a sad callback in the episode, too.

Actor Chandler Riggs plays the character Carl Grimes on "The Walking Dead." AMC

Carl got his deadly bite in Season 8, Episode 6, “The King, the Widow, and Rick,” when he was killing zombies with Siddiq (Avi Nash).

Siddiq’s mother apparently believed that killing zombies would free their souls, so Carl helps Siddiq kill some zombies in honor of his mother.

Unfortunately, Carl’s decision to do so leads to his demise.

On the surface, this seems like a really dumb way for Carl to die. After all, he’s been around since Season 1, and still has a lot of story from the comics that the show hasn’t yet touched on. If you dig just a little deeper, yes, the plot turn is still dumb (can’t fix that), but it also seems to have a connection to Carl’s mom, Lori Grimes (Sarah Wayne Callies).

You see, after learning that Siddiq kills zombies because of his mother’s beliefs, Carl asked, “Doing that, doesn’t it just make things harder for you while you’re trying to survive?”

Um, yeah, considering Carl’s bite, it clearly does.

But the line reminded us of when Lori died, and she told Carl to “always do what’s right,” even though it’s not easy. Does killing the zombies make it harder to survive? Yes, but it’s right, so that’s why he did it.

For those who don’t remember Lori’s death, you’re lucky.

In Season 3, a very-pregnant Lori went into labor, and Maggie (Lauren Cohan) had to perform a cesarean section on a dirty floor without pain meds or anesthetic. Baby Judith comes out fine, but Lori doesn’t make it, and Carl has to shoot her to ensure she doesn’t come back as a zombie, as people on “The Walking Dead” are known to do.

Before all that, she said goodbye to Carl, telling him he’s going to “beat this world” (a line that Carl repeats in the Season 8B trailer), adding:

You gotta do what’s right, baby. You promise me, you’ll always do what’s right. It’s so easy to do the wrong thing in this world. So don’t... so if it feels wrong, don’t do it, all right? If it feels easy, don’t do it. Don’t let the world spoil you. You’re so good.

During an interview with “Walking Dead” chief content officer Scott Gimple last year following the midseason finale, HuffPost asked if Carl’s fateful decision to go zombie-hunting was a callback to Lori’s final words.

“It was a story decision, and the only reason I can’t get into that part is I want the story to be told,” Gimple said.

“It’s funny that you bring up Lori. I will say there are parallels there, and it was very much in our mind,” he added. “Things we see even in the very next episode played into exactly what you’re talking about.”

What those things will look like remains to be seen; however, Riggs previously told The Hollywood Reporter that his character’s death turned him into a “humanitarian figure” meant to help Rick (Andrew Lincoln) see the good in people. Just as Lori died imploring Carl to do what’s right, it seems Carl might do the same for Rick.

The upcoming episode is going to be heavy. On the bright side of things, Rick’s ugly cry after Lori’s Season 3 death eventually led to all those Sad Rick/Coral memes. Maybe the next episode’s tragedy will make for another hilarious GIF.

We hope so. Yes, it’s the apocalypse, but would it kill anyone besides Negan (Jeffrey Dean Morgan) to smile every once in a while?Whatever Selena Gomez and Justin Bieber are these days ― a couple, hipster megachurchgoers, a publicity stunt, etc. ― they’ve reached an important and often dreaded milestone in any relationship: wedding season.

Attending someone else’s nuptials can be the “make it or break it” moment for any fledgling couple and, well, these two have made it and then some as the “Wolves” singer joined Bieber for his father’s wedding this week.

Yes, Jeremy Bieber, the man who once complimented the size of his son’s genitals, tied the knot with longtime girlfriend Chelsey Rebelo in Montego Bay, Jamaica, on Monday.

Bieber apparently swooped through Texas to get Gomez on Sunday before traveling together to the Caribbean, according to People, where they were joined by his family for a luxury getaway.

A post shared by Jeremy Bieber (@jeremybieber) on Feb 20, 2018 at 3:42pm PST

A post shared by rebelochelsey (@rebelochelsey) on Feb 20, 2018 at 3:47pm PST

The on-again, off-again couple were reportedly among 30 or so guests, including Bieber’s younger siblings, Jazmyn and Jaxon, at the intimate ceremony held at a private villa.

The “What Do You Mean?” singer wore pink shorts and a matching bow tie that corresponded with the ceremony’s palette.

Gomez, who wasn’t pictured in the official wedding photos, was spotted the same day wearing some dangling gold jewelry and a floral wrap gown that complemented the shade of Bieber’s attire.

A post shared by Selena Gomez Updates (@gomezupdates) on Feb 19, 2018 at 4:07pm PST

Later in the day, the two ditched their matching wedding looks and were spotted packing on the PDA with a shirtless Bieber pulling in Gomez for multiple kisses.

PICTURE EXCLUSIVE: Justin Bieber and Selena Gomez put on a VERY affectionate display at his father's wedding https://t.co/upUiYc6Ona pic.twitter.com/3aZwOn5VuA — Daily Mail Celebrity (@DailyMailCeleb) February 20, 2018

The former lovebirds, who dated from 2011 to 2015 before calling it quits, seemingly rekindled their romance in November.

“I’m 25. I’m not 18, or 19, or 20,” Gomez said of her reconciliation with Bieber. “I cherish people who have really impacted my life. So maybe before, it could have been forcing something that wasn’t right. But that doesn’t mean caring for someone ever goes away.”

AdvertisementAs tearful survivors of the Parkland school shooting watched, the Republican-led Florida House of Representatives on Tuesday refused to discuss a ban on assault weapons. Photos showed a distraught student being comforted in the gallery. Another survivor of last week’s massacre expressed “indescribable” rage on Twitter.

Later in the day, many of the same lawmakers discussed at length a bill that declares porn a public health risk. The bill ― which calls for improved “education, research and policy changes to protect Floridians, especially teenagers, from pornography” — was approved by a voice vote, reported the Tampa Bay Times.

AP: Sheryl Acquarola, a 16 year-old junior from Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School, is overcome with emotion in the east gallery of the Florida House after the representatives voted not to hear the assault rifles ban bill. pic.twitter.com/qA28kFCEig — Micah Grimes (@MicahGrimes) February 20, 2018

“Has anyone had to bury their child because of pornography?” asked Rep. Carlos Guillermo Smith (D), who sponsored the legislation seeking to ban assault weapons and large-capacity ammunition magazines.

Rep. Kionne McGhee (D), tried to bring the gun control bill to the floor, but failed in a 36-71 party-line vote.

State lawmakers shunned the measure less than a week after a 19-year-old shooter with an AR-15-style assault rifle killed 17 people at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School.

A survivor, 16-year-old junior Anthony Lopez, told The New York Times that lawmakers were “inhuman” for failing to discuss gun legislation.

Another student, Emma Gonzalez, who has spoken publicly and powerfully in support of stricter gun control laws since the shooting, reacted with fury on Twitter.

How could they do that to us ? Are you Kidding me ??? #NeverAgain We are not forgetting this come Midterm Elections - the Anger that I feel right now is indescribable https://t.co/Si9wAmFeQO — Emma González (@Emma4Change) February 20, 2018

Others on Twitter lambasted Florida lawmakers for focusing on porn instead of guns.

“I wish you could make this shit up,” Twitter user and activist Kelly Ellis wrote.

Porn isn’t killing students and teachers where they stand during a school day. It isn’t responsible for mass murder. Whether or not you think that porn is bad, @FLGOPMajority declared it a health risk on the same day they refused to do the same for AR-15s. https://t.co/hg59OKCfrz — Jamil Smith (@JamilSmith) February 21, 2018

lol this country sucks so much ass pic.twitter.com/DdLA0T94Sl — KT NELSON (@KrangTNelson) February 20, 2018

Yes. We all remember that time a gang of porn stars walked into a school and murdered a bunch of innocent children and teachers. Thanks Florida House. — Annie (@Anniefromkansas) February 20, 2018

What happened today in the Florida House is straight out of @TheOnion. On the same day, THE SAME DAY, that they refused to debate an AR15 ban in front of the teen survivors of #Parkland, they decided that porn is dangerous and poses a health risk to teens. https://t.co/jxyJi4WecR — Scott Santens (@scottsantens) February 21, 2018

Florida House on porn: the kids...THINK ABOUT THE KIDS!



Florida House on assault weapons: New phone, who dis?



2018...2018....2018. Their day of reckoning will come. pic.twitter.com/XNdcXmBM93 — Nerdy Wonka (@NerdyWonka) February 20, 2018

I am not a fan of porn. Big net negative for society in my uptight opinion. But when the Florida legislature declares porn a health hazard instead of assault rifles, maybe it's time to rethink my life. — Catherine (@catheriness61) February 21, 2018

Refusing to even *discuss* a proposed assault weapons ban, guess what the Florida House of Representatives DID spend considerable time debating and passing today? @RossSpano's bill declaring porn a public health risk.https://t.co/N3ySFEh4zd — Kelly Ellis (@justkelly_ok) February 20, 2018Pennsylvania’s Supreme Court prompted cheers from Democrats on Monday when it released the new boundaries it drew for the state’s 18 congressional districts.

The new map, which the court created after ruling earlier this month that the previous, GOP-gerrymandered map had unconstitutionally disenfranchised voters, gives Democrats the opportunity to compete in eight districts won by Hillary Clinton in 2016, compared with six she carried under the old map.

But in a central Pennsylvania district where two formidable Democratic hopefuls already have raised serious cash, the new electoral map is foreboding.

Pennsylvania’s 16th Congressional District, which leaned modestly Republican, is now the deep red 11th District.

While the previous district included the city of Lancaster, surrounding suburbs and the city of Reading ― which has a diverse population ― the more geographically contiguous new district excludes Reading and adds swaths of conservative, rural York County.

The result is that a district President Donald Trump won by 7 percentage points is now a district he would have carried by 26 points, according to calculations by the New York Times. (Further references to Trump’s margin in the new congressional districts is attributable to the Times.)

It also went from having an R+5 partisan voter index to R+14, according to the Cook Political Report, which compiles the figure to show how a district voted in the presidential election compared to the country as a whole.

“It would be hard to get people to invest further in that race,” a prominent Democrat familiar with the national party’s considerations said of the newly drawn 11th District. “The natural thing for several Democrats ... is either to move or drop out.”

Overall in Pennsylvania, Republicans hold 12 of the 18 U.S. House districts, with one seat that had been in GOP hands vacant. Trump carried the state by less than a percentage point. GOP leaders have indicated they will challenge the state Supreme Court’s redrawn map in federal court, but legal experts give them little chance of having it voided.

That’s good news in general for Democrats as they seek to win the House majority in this year’s midterm elections. Still, in the 11th District, the new boundaries are disruptive because of the heated state of the Democratic primary where many of the national divides between the party establishment and its more populist faction have begun to play out.

Democrat Christina Hartman has been running for the U.S. House in a Pennsylvania district that a new political map has made much more conservative. Tom Williams/Getty Images

The two leading Democrats in the race are Christina Hartman, a former international development specialist running as a mainstream Democrat, and Jess King, a nonprofit leader who is running on a more populist, left-wing platform that includes support for “Medicare for all.”

King and Hartman had both raised more than $300,000 as of the end of 2017.

Upon learning of the new redistricting map, Hartman issued a brief Facebook statement praising the decision and saying she would be “studying these maps closely to determine our next moves.”

Hartman made clear in an interview with HuffPost that the new district, replete with Trump supporters, would make it harder for a Democrat to win the seat. Her victory strategy hinged in part on attracting the backing of moderate Republicans disenchanted with Trump.

She is seriously considering ending her bid, and said she will decide by the middle of next week.

“We have to look at the best strategy moving forward and figure out what that is for my district and for myself,” she said.

Supreme Court of Pennsylvania

King sounded a more upbeat note in her response to the new map, claiming on Facebook that the tough nature of the race is “nothing new.”

“Our campaign has never been about Democrats versus Republicans,” King wrote. “Our campaign is about building an America that truly works all of us, not just for the rich and powerful who rig the game in Washington.”

King’s campaign communications director, Guido Girgenti, told HuffPost in an email on Wednesday afternoon that King walked into the office earlier in the day and said, “I’m all in.”

Girgenti also said that a phone-banking marathon to introduce King to new Democratic and independent constituents would continue as planned this weekend, manned by volunteers in 25 homes.

Meanwhile, an adjacent congressional district is suddenly within Democrats’ grasp. The former 4th Congressional District has become the 10th. With the addition of Hershey and previously excluded sections of Harrisburg, it went from a district Trump won by 21 percentage points to one he would have carried by 9 points.

Democrats Shavonnia Corbin-Johnson, a former Obama administration budget official, and retired career military officer George Scott are already vying to unseat Rep. Scott Perry (R-Pa.) in the district. In light of the new map, Democrats have also approached Pennsylvania Auditor General Eugene DePasquale about jumping in the race.

Petitions for House candidates to be on the ballot are due in Pennsylvania by March 20 and DePasquale said on Twitter that he would make his decision before petition collection starts in earnest.

Rep. Ryan Costello, who represents the 6th District in suburban Philadelphia, is among the Republicans whose re-election chances have been hurt by Pennsylvania's redrawn congressional map. Tom Williams/Getty Images

The biggest swings in Democrats favor were in eastern Pennsylvania districts where party leaders already liked their chances. In Philadelphia’s suburbs, the old 7th District ― infamously gerrymandered to look like “Goofy kicking Donald Duck” ― is now the 5th District.

Clinton won the old district by 2 percentage points, but would have carried the reconfigured one by a 28-point margin. And with the retirement of GOP Rep. Patrick Meehan amid sexual harassment allegations, the seat is now open. Democrat Rich Lazer, who has close ties to area labor unions, is considering a run for the seat, according to Daily Kos, which provided a rundown of other candidates as well.

Republican prospects also have been hurt in suburban Philadelphia’s 6th District, which now includes the heavily Democratic city of Reading. GOP Rep. Ryan Costello already faced a well-funded challenger in Democrat Chrissy Houlahan, a career naval officer, business executive and public school teacher. He must now defeat Houlahan in a district that would have gone for Clinton by 9 percentage points, compared with the 1 point victory she had in it.

In the Lehigh Valley north of Philadelphia, Democrats like their odds more in the new 7th District than they did in the old 15th. The retirement of Republican Rep. Charlie Dent, a popular moderate, had already sent Democrats scrambling to pick up the seat. With the addition of the city of Easton and Democratic-leaning towns in the Poconos region, the district went from one that Trump took by 8 percentage points to one where Clinton would have defeated him by a single point.

Democrats competing for the seat span the ideological spectrum. John Morganelli, a long-serving district attorney in the area who has praised Trump, is running as a self-described moderate. Under the new map, he noted in an email to supporters, the county where he is a prosecutor is now a larger part of the district.

Attorney Susan Wild and pastor Greg Edwards, a civil rights activist with the endorsement of national liberal groups, are vying for the progressive mantle. Thus far, Edwards has outraised Wild ― and his campaign believes the new district helps his chances in the primary.

“General election viability, which is often an excuse to dismiss progressive candidates, is really no longer in play” now that the district leans more Democratic, said Dan Friedman, an Edwards campaign spokesman.

And while the new district boundaries do not affect the March 13 special election for the vacant seat in southwest Pennsylvania’s 18th District, they could help Democrats in that area in November.

The home of Democrat Conor Lamb, a former federal prosecutor running in the special election, has been redistricted into the 17th District. Even if Lamb loses next month, he will have a chance to challenge Republican Rep. Keith Rothfus in the new 17th District that includes more Democratic-leaning Pittsburgh suburbs than before. Trump won Rothfus’ old district, which was then the 12th, by 21 percentage points, but would have carried the new one by just 3 points.

Democratic Rep. Matt Cartwright was re-elected in 2016 in a district in northeast Pennsylvania that also was won by Donald Trump. Under the new district map, Trump would have carried it by the same margin, but Cartwright is confident he can win again. Tom Williams/Getty Images

Finally, there is at least one Pennsylvania district where Democrats’ fortunes appear to remain almost exactly the same. Trump won what was the 17th District in northeast Pennsylvania’s by 10 percentage points, and that would have been his margin in what is now the 8th District.

Rep. Matt Cartwright, a liberal Democrat, was re-elected in 2016 by nearly 8 percentage points. His staff estimated that about 30,000 people in the district voted for him and Trump, Cartwright told HuffPost.

Cartwright may now face a tougher Republican opponent since the geography of the new district enables to former state Revenue Secretary Dan Meuser to jump in.

But Cartwright said he isn’t worried about the electoral impact of the changes.

He plans to hold a March 4 town hall in Pike County to introduce himself to new constituents. And one advantage of the geographically compact new district is that Cartwright’s new constituents were already in his campaign media market, he said.

“Even though they haven’t been represented by me, some of these people know me and know what I’m about,” he said.

This story has been updated to reflect Democrat Jess King’s confirmation that she will stay in the race in the new 11th District.Dontray Williams by the tent he lives in on the streets of Los Angeles. He has been periodically homeless for five years and is hoping to find a job and an apartment. Lucy Nicholson/Reuters

It’s no secret the U.S. is in the midst of an affordable housing crisis. Rents are spiraling out of control while incomes stagnate, with rents increasing at more than triple the rate of wages over the last 50 years.

The increasingly desperate situation has led nine U.S. foundations, including the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation and the Ford Foundation, to announce on Tuesday that they are launching a partnership to tackle systemic problems in the housing market. The aim: to ensure that the more than 11 million families across the country that spend more than half of their paycheck on rent and those who are homeless have access to safe, affordable housing.

The partnership, called Funders For Housing and Opportunity, has divided an initial $4.9 million in grant money between four nonprofits that tackle housing insecurity. This first tranche of money is aimed “mostly in the area of policy, advocacy and organizing,” said Susan Thomas, senior program officer at Melville Charitable Trust and chair of Funders for Housing and Opportunity.

Center for Community Change will get $750,000 to bolster its work with low-income communities, with a focus on California and Washington state. National Housing Trust and Enterprise Community Partners will receive just over $1 million to lead a community coalition to help residents get heard on housing issues. The California-based Partnership for Children and Youth will get $400,000 for its training and advocacy work in housing developments.

The largest grant, $2.7 million over three years, goes to the National Low Income Housing Coalition (NLIHC), which is working to launch a multi-sector housing campaign including organizations from across the health care, civil rights, education and anti-poverty fields.

“The research that’s been building shows us that when people are struggling so much just to afford their homes, they’re suffering in a multitude of ways,” said Diane Yentel, president and CEO of the NLIHC. “They have poor health, their kids are unable to do as well in school as their peers who are affordable housed, they have lower lifetime earnings and they even have have lower life expectancy.”

The NLIHC was behind stark research last year into rent affordability, which found that for those working a 40-hour week on the minimum wage, there is no state in the country where a modest two-bedroom rental home is affordable (defined as costing less than 30 percent of the renters’ income). A renter earning the federal minimum wage of $7.25 an hour would need to work 117 hours a week for a two-bedroom rental home to be affordable.

“I would say the affordable housing crisis has reached historic heights,” said Yentel, who pointed to research showing a shortage of 7.4 million affordable homes available for the lowest income people. “Another way of looking at it is for every 100 of the lowest income people in our country, there are just 35 homes that are affordable and available to them.”

At a time families are “making choices between their housing payments and buying healthy food, medicine or school supplies for their kids,” said Sue Henderson, Habitat for Humanity International’s vice president for the United States and Canada, this new partnership is to be welcomed.

“We need more funders at the table and more work boots on the ground,” she added.

The nearly $5 million initial purse is, of course, peanuts compared to the total resources of these foundations, which collectively manage assets of about $470 billion. But Thomas said this is just the start. More money will be available that will be focused on mobilizing and scaling grassroots projects that work “particularly in the areas at the intersections of housing and education and housing and health care. ... We really feel very strongly that this is a cross-sector issue; it’s not just a housing issue.”

The announcement comes at a time when President Donald Trump’s administration has just unveiled a proposed budget that hacks away at the funding available for affordable housing. “It looks really grim,” said Mary Cunningham, vice president of the Metropolitan Housing and Communities Policy Center at the Urban Institute. “I don’t think philanthropy will be able to make up the losses that we face from the federal budget but certainly getting smarter, targeting affordable housing and helping align the fields is really important work.”

She added, “We really know what the solutions are to ending the affordable housing crisis and ending homelessness and that is building more housing and we just haven’t figured out a way to pay for that.”

For more content and to be part of the “This New World” community, join our Facebook Group.Since a gunman killed 17 students and adults in Parkland, Florida, last Wednesday, gun violence prevention group Moms Demand Action has seen in a surge in new volunteers ― and it’s eager to mobilize them to support the new student-led movement for gun reform.

Moms Demand Action, the grassroots arm of Everytown For Gun Safety, was founded after the 2012 Sandy Hook Elementary School shooting. The group says more than 75,000 people have reached out online or by text to volunteer in the last week.

Local chapters of Moms Demand Action have also reported swelling attendance at events over the past few days, with anywhere from two to 10 times the usual number of people showing up at new member meetings, advocacy days and rallies.

For instance, a meeting in Maine that usually has about 20 attendees had over 250 people turn up on Sunday, a meeting in Raleigh that usually has two dozen participants had more than 350 on Monday, and an “advocacy day” calling for action from legislators in Missouri ― which about 150 people attended last year ― had more than 300 participants this week.

Shannon Watts, the founder of Moms Demand Action, said one of the most encouraging aspects of this influx has been how many new members are young students, mirroring the recent wave of teen activists mobilizing since the Parkland shooting. Students at Marjory Douglas Stoneman High School and beyond have been speaking to news outlets, pressuring legislators on social media and organizing national marches to call for lawmakers to take action on gun violence.

To meet these new members’ needs, Moms Demand Action has just launched a new initiative: Students Demand Action.

“When Sandy Hook happened, those were babies. They weren’t able to use their voices and express their outrage,” Watts told HuffPost on Tuesday. “These are kids who have come of age as the generation of lockdown drills. Our lawmakers are not standing up to the gun lobby, so our children are having to stand up to gunmen.”

“In the wake of the tragedy of last week, there were no excuses that were good enough anymore.” - Evanter Van Hoozer, 68

The Parkland shooting was the 17th shooting incident at a U.S. school in 2018 alone, and it was also a turning point for 68-year-old Ilene Evanter Van Hoozer. She attended a Moms Demand Action event in Falls Church, Virginia, for the first time on Monday, and plans to continue being active with the group.

“In the wake of the tragedy of last week, there were no excuses that were good enough anymore,” Evanter told HuffPost Tuesday. “Feeling sad wasn’t enough. Feeling numb wasn’t enough. It was time to channel it.”

As a clinical social worker who has worked with children for decades, Evanter was most excited to hear students speaking at the event, which was held at a local high school. She plans to attend next month’s student-led March for Our Lives in Washington, D.C.

“I think we’re learning from the students in Florida ― they really are giving us energy and making us as adults look at ourselves and want to support them,” she added.

Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School student Emma Gonzalez speaks at a rally for gun control in Fort Lauderdale, Florida, on Feb. 17, 2018. RHONA WISE via Getty Images

Moms Demand Action is excited to support the young activists organizing now, Watts said, and has already started mobilizing its more than 4 million members to attend the March for Our Lives.

Taking on gun reform in America is “a marathon, not a sprint,” Watts said, adding that local chapters in all 50 states that took years to build up have now been essential in absorbing the thousands of new people seeking to get involved in the gun reform movement.

Since Sandy Hook, the group has had key legislative victories ― such as getting background check laws passed in eight states ― but Watts noted that Moms Demand Action still hasn’t been able to push Congress to close the many loopholes in the country’s background check system. That’s another reason she’s encouraged by this new surge of young activists.New York Daily News Archive via Getty Images

Rev. Billy Graham, the famous evangelist who died on Wednesday, was a charismatic preacher, a counselor to presidents, and a leading figure in American evangelicalism.

As news of his death spread, many Christians took time to reflect on the 99-year-old pastor’s long life and legacy.

During his more than six decades as an evangelist, Graham invited millions of people to make a personal commitment to Christ during revival meetings around the world, which he called crusades. Thousands responded to his altar call, often to the tune of one of his favorite old hymns, “Just As I Am.”

But the gospel of salvation that Graham preached never invited queer Americans to come the altar just as they were. The pastor also held conservative views about women. And while he opposed racial segregation, he was not as active as other Christian leaders during the 1960s civil rights era.

Still, with his crusades and fiery preaching, he inspired a spiritual revival in the lives of generations of Christians. He’s praised for being nonpartisan about politics, at least later on in his life ― meeting with every president from Harry Truman to Barack Obama.

On Wednesday, many reposted on Twitter a quote attributed to Graham, in which the pastor reveals his beliefs about death.

“Someday you will read or hear that Billy Graham is dead. Don’t you believe a word of it. I shall be more alive than I am now. I will just have changed my address. I will have gone into the presence of God.” - Billy Graham — Jonathan Merritt (@JonathanMerritt) February 21, 2018

Others quoted a well-known Bible verse to honor Graham. In the parable, an employer congratulates his servant for wisely using the gifts given to him, saying, “Well done, good and faithful servant.”

Today, we lost a General in the Kingdom of God! You have earned your rest, sir. Well done, good and faithful servant! #RIPBillyGraham #BillyGraham pic.twitter.com/Cu7fuBcRn0 — T.D. Jakes (@BishopJakes) February 21, 2018

Bill Graham has died at age 99. A life of sharing the Good News with the world. Well done, good and faithful servant! — Lee Strobel (@LeeStrobel) February 21, 2018

The tributes poured in from prominent evangelical leaders ...

While it was sad to hear the news of Billy Graham passing, I am rejoicing that he is now home in heaven. Billy was a great man of God who made a tremendous impact all over the globe. His love for people and integrity had a great impact on my life and so many others! pic.twitter.com/m1KshXeSw4 — Joyce Meyer (@JoyceMeyer) February 21, 2018

Billy Graham was, in my view, the most important evangelist since the Apostle Paul. He preached Christ, not himself, not politics, not prosperity. When many saw evangelicals as just so many Emer Gantrys, he carried unimpeachable personal integrity. — Russell Moore (@drmoore) February 21, 2018

I will be forever grateful for Billy Graham's evangelicalism: bold yet winsome, convicting and compassionate, always driven by a love for God and neighbor. This is the soil of faith I was planted into. Thank you for your life, Billy. You ran the good race. pic.twitter.com/RULXtg02xY — Katelyn Beaty (@KatelynBeaty) February 21, 2018

God's greatest messenger is silent today, but we can only imagine the joy in heaven with the arrival of @BillyGraham! https://t.co/tEJHduqBHz pic.twitter.com/2dpV8M08iF — Rich Stearns (@RichStearns) February 21, 2018

There simply will never be another Billy Graham. What a gift of God to this world. — Beth Moore (@BethMooreLPM) February 21, 2018

... and from other strains of American Christianity.

RIP #BillyGraham, a towering figure in American history, who would no doubt prefer to be remembered for what he truly was: a good Christian. "Well done, thou good and faithful servant." pic.twitter.com/8geWnVtjv2 — James Martin, SJ (@JamesMartinSJ) February 21, 2018

“The crusades and ministry of the Rev. Billy Graham was a big tent, a revival tent — big, gracious, welcoming, and deeply grounded in the love that is the way of Jesus.”

- Presiding Bishop Michael Curry



Full statement on the death of Rev. Billy Graham: https://t.co/KN8rTBRJlf — PB Michael Curry (@PB_Curry) February 21, 2018

Billy Graham’s life was about following Jesus & he knew that meant an ongoing commitment to be changed by love. “It’s the Holy Spirit’s job to convict, God’s job to judge, and my job to love,” Graham often said. https://t.co/g6iJsVM326 — Rev. Dr. Barber (@RevDrBarber) February 21, 2018

Some pointed out that his legacy was mixed, especially for LGBTQ Americans and others who are harmed by conservative interpretations of Christianity.

His faith also caused irreparable damage to the thousands of LGBT people whose parents followed Graham's violent beliefs about us. https://t.co/xdmrJips7N — Eliel Cruz (@elielcruz) February 21, 2018

His life reminds me that people of honest and earnest faith can remain blind to suffering and oppression. May we love God as sincerely as he did, but may we also learn to see and love our neighbor. — Science Mike (@mikemchargue) February 21, 2018

Today the world bids farewell to an apostle of racist complicity. He was a uniquely gifted antecedent of the corporatization and ideologization of American Christianity. #BillyGraham — Willie Francois III (@WillieFrancois3) February 21, 2018

But many gave him his due as a towering figure in America’s religious history.

Billy Graham was the last “true” evangelical. He made mistakes for sure, but he always seemed to err on the side of love. He will be missed. #BillyGraham #RIPBillyGraham — Brandan Robertson (@BrandanJR) February 21, 2018

We will spend breath and energy and ink as progressives over his legacy, frankly I don’t care. He preached good news to more people than all of us ever will. We would be wise to respect that. Well done, good and faithful servant. pic.twitter.com/O7Vkj3k6dH — Rev. Rob Lee (@roblee4) February 21, 2018Nikolas Cruz faces 17 charges of premeditated murder in the massacre at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School. Before the shooting, he exhibited dozens of warning signs, but was able to legally purchase firearms. POOL New / Reuters

Despite this, Cruz, 19, was able to legally acquire an arsenal of firearms, including the AR-15 police say he used to slaughter 17 people last week at his former high school in Parkland, Florida.

Without a criminal record or a court declaring him mentally incompetent, Cruz was free to arm himself as heavily as he could afford in his home state.

This would not have been the case in the five states that allow law enforcement or family members to petition a court to temporarily remove guns from individuals who pose a threat to themselves or others.

The policy, alternately called a “red flag” law, “gun violence restraining order,” or “extreme risk protection order,” is getting more attention since the mass shooting at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School.

Federal law prohibits some individuals from buying or owning guns: those who have been convicted of a felony or a domestic violence misdemeanor, are an undocumented immigrant or fugitive from justice, were dishonorably discharged from the military, or have been involuntarily committed to a mental institution.

Some states have gone further, passing laws to prevent individuals who are exhibiting red flags, but haven’t yet committed a crime, from possessing firearms, explained Robin Lloyd, the director of government affairs at Giffords, the gun violence prevention organization established by the former congresswoman and shooting survivor Gabrielle Giffords.

California, Washington, Oregon, Indiana and Connecticut have approved measures that allow a court to temporarily strip gun rights from people who show warning signs of violence.

While each state differs, here’s broadly how they work: A concerned family member or police officer asks a judge to remove guns from an individual they believe is at risk of hurting themselves or others.

A temporary order, which typically lasts for a few weeks, can be issued immediately if there’s evidence it’s needed to prevent imminent danger.

Individuals are given notice of a final hearing, where a judge will decide if they should be prohibited from gun possession for a longer period of time, generally a year. They may contest the evidence against them, and can appeal the decision.

In Cruz’s case, “it’s entirely possible that there could have been an intervention beforehand to remove firearms” if Florida had a red flag law, said Lloyd, noting that police responded to his family home on dozens of occasions. “We know this is a life-saving measure.”

California was the first state to allow family members to petition a court to remove guns from individuals who exhibit alarming warning signs.

The legislation was passed in 2014, a few months after the Isla Vista rampage, in which Elliot Rodger killed six people and injured 13. A month before the massacre, his mother contacted mental health officials, saying she was worried about disturbing videos he was posting to YouTube. Law enforcement performed a welfare check, but said their hands were tied. There was nothing legally preventing him from possessing a gun.

Similar legislation has been proposed in 18 other states this year. Elizabeth Avore, legal and policy director for Everytown for Gun Safety, said passing red flag laws was a top priority for her organization, even before the Florida mass shooting.

“We see over and over again that these mass shooters have demonstrated warning signs prior to the act of violence,” Avore said. “After the Florida school shooting, there is renewed interest ― and bipartisan interest ― in these laws.”

Florida state Rep. Lori Berman (D) introduced a red flag bill last year, and told HuffPost it received no bipartisan support at the time. Now, it seems like her bill may pick up steam. Prominent Florida Republicans, such as former presidential candidates Marco Rubio and Jeb Bush, have come out in support of the approach.

“We haven’t had a serious discussion about gun safety in the state of Florida,” Berman said, noting that she has introduced at least seven bills on gun violence prevention during her time in the legislature. None has ever even received a hearing.

“It saddens me that it took this event to have this discussion,” Berman said.

Rep. Salud Carbajal (D-Calif.) introduced federal legislation last year that would encourage states to adopt red flag laws with grant money. Carbajal said the approach is “sensible and reasonable,” and may have prevented Cruz from committing a mass shooting.Facebook

Two exotic dancers in Nashville, Tennessee, found a shocking way to spotlight the “strict” laws governing their profession ― comparing those rules with lax regulations for buying assault-style weapons in their state.

In an obviously staged video posted on Tuesday, the dancers, known professionally as Mary Jane Watson and Miss Pepper Pots, offer a potential “customer” couch dances for $15 or an AR-15 rifle for $1,100.

The young man, standing in front of the table the two women set up outside the club where they perform, asks if the gun sale is even legal.

Watson explains that, yes, yes it is.

“We can do a private firearms transfer,” she says.

Pots adds that they don’t need to see I.D. or do a background check on the man.

“You just give us $1,100 in cash and we give you the gun,” she says.

The customer acts shocked at how easy it is to get the gun ― the same type of weapon used in the Feb. 14 shooting at a high school in Parkland, Florida, that killed 17 students and staff members ― and Watson agrees.

“That’s just how loose the privatized gun transfer law is in Tennessee,” she said. (State law does prohibit a person from “knowingly” selling a gun to someone “prohibited by state or federal law from owning, possessing or purchasing” a firearm.)

The man then asks about the couch dance option, and Watson and Pots detail the legal hoops they have to jump through to become exotic dancers.

“First of all, we have to get a background check,” Watson says.

“Then we have to go get our fingerprints done,” Pots adds.

Dancers in Tennessee are also required to supply two recent passport photos to the State’s Sexually Oriented Business Licensing Board. along with other paperwork, and then wait through a two-week background check period.

“And only then are we deemed safe to give you a [fully clothed] couch dance,” Watson says.

Watson and Pots don’t actually sell the AR-15 in the video, which was made to protest what they and their employer, Deja Vu Showgirls, deem to be excessive regulation of their business.

The video has been viewed on Facebook by less than 900 people as of Wednesday afternoon, but one of those was Joe Carr, a former Republican member of the Tennessee House who’s now running for the state Senate.

He’s not happy.

“All stunts are meant to generate publicity, and I think this is kind of tragic with what happened in Florida in the school down there and what has happened in a number of schools over the past few years,” Carr told local station WSMV-TV. “It should not be minimized by sensational antics by a handful of women in front of a gentleman’s club.”

Watson said she hopes the video gets people thinking.

“We could sell [the gun] to someone who uses it for God knows what, and yet we have to go through all of this just to give someone a dance? It’s a little insane,” Watson told WSMV.Belcher did not provide details of her policy proposals on her campaign website. But in an Election Day Facebook post, Belcher vowed that a vote for her was a vote for “keeping funding for Bullitt County schools, supporting our working families, and bringing Bullitt County’s share of road and infrastructure funds to the district.”

Belcher first ran for office in 2009 after her husband, then Democratic Rep. Larry Belcher, died in a car crash in October 2008.

During the special election campaign, Johnson implied that Linda Belcher had taken part in a Democratic plot to undermine her husband, according to Louisville’s Courier-Journal.

Belcher denied the accusation.

“I know the pain of losing a husband,” she told WHAS 11 in December. “I’ve been through that. I don’t wish that on anybody.”

Belcher’s election does not affect the balance of power in Kentucky. Republicans continue to hold considerable majorities in both state legislative chambers. Republican Gov. Matt Bevin is not up for re-election until 2019.Ryan Reynolds and Josh Brolin are doing battle on the small screen as well as the big one.

The “Deadpool 2” stars sat down for BBC Radio 1′s “Playground Insults” segment, where they were asked to unload on each other in an effort to make one of them laugh.

“I hate this game so much,” Reynolds said when it was all over.

“Do you know why?” Brolin replied. “Because you’re Canadian, and Canadians are nice.”I am struggling to find the words to express my gratitude at this moment, but I will try.

Filmmaking is a team sport. And our team was made up [of] amazing people from all over the world who believed in this story. Deep down we all hoped that people would come to see a film about a fictional country on the continent of Africa, made up of a cast of people of African descent.

Never in a million years did we imagine that you all would come out this strong. It still humbles me to think that people care enough to spend their money and time watching our film- But to see people of all backgrounds wearing clothing that celebrates their heritage, taking pictures next to our posters with their friends and family, and sometimes dancing in the lobbies of theaters– often moved me and my wife to tears.

For the people who bought out theaters, who posted on social about how lit the film would be, bragged about our awesome cast, picked out outfits to wear, and who stood in line in theaters all over the world– all before seeing the film…

To the press who wrote about the film for folks who hadn’t yet seen it, and encouraged audiences to come out…

And to the young ones, who came out with their parents, with their mentors, and with their friends…

Thank you for giving our team of filmmakers the greatest gift: The opportunity to share this film, that we poured our hearts and souls into, with you.

Sincerely,

Ryan Coogler

P.S. Wakanda Forever