Gun rights advocates often say it’s not the appropriate time to debate gun control in the days after a mass shooting.

The rule apparently doesn’t apply to gun giveaways, though, at least for one congressional candidate.

On Feb. 13, Tyler Tannahill, a candidate for Kansas’ 2nd Congressional District, announced that his campaign would give away an AR-15 semiautomatic rifle.

The next day, a gunman used the same type of weapon to kill 17 people and injure 15 others at a South Florida high school.

Tannahill told CNN on Monday that his campaign considered ending the contest. But, in the end, he decided not to.

“We have to sit down and have these tough discussions,” he said. “I’m a staunch believer in the Second Amendment, and I don’t think those rights should be infringed, but how do we keep our children and teachers safe in schools?”

Another guest in the CNN segment, Virginia-based conservative talk radio show host John Fredericks, shot down Tannahill’s giveaway, saying it was “in really bad taste.”

Fredericks added: “Come on, man. It doesn’t make any sense. You’re not having a legitimate conversation when you’re giving away an AR-15 for free.”

On Feb. 14, the day of the shooting at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Florida, Tannahill posted a link on Facebook to FASTER, a nonprofit program by the Buckeye Firearms Foundation that, according to the website, gives teachers and staff “practical violence response training” in the event of an armed threat to students.

The post has attracted more than 1,900 comments, many calling out Tannahill for continuing with the gun giveaway in the aftermath of a tragic mass shooting.

Tannahill does have some rules for the winner of the AR-15: He or she must be 18 or older and must meet all legal requirements to purchase and own a firearm.

Tannahill told the Kansas City Star the rifle is being held at a gun store and the winner must pass federal background checks before the gun can be released.The New York Daily News tore into President Donald Trump for visiting his Florida golf course while funerals for the Parkland school massacre victims were taking place “just miles away.”

For its Tuesday cover, the tabloid used a photograph of Trump giving a thumbs up alongside a picture of pallbearers carrying the casket of one of the 17 victims:

Remember that time @realDonaldTrump tweeted about how it isn't presidential to visit a golf course after a tragedy? https://t.co/VCpxt1LMwr



An early look at Tuesday's front... pic.twitter.com/GgA1cwfk2m — New York Daily News (@NYDailyNews) February 20, 2018

The president visited Trump International Golf Club in West Palm Beach for several hours on Monday. White House officials have not confirmed whether Trump was golfing during that period, but did say that he avoided playing over the weekend as a mark of respect.Republican efforts to roll back the Affordable Care Act’s insurance reforms continued Tuesday, when the Trump administration proposed regulations that would make it easier for health insurers to sell cheap, short-term policies that leave out key benefits and are available only to people in good health.

Announcement of the proposal, which has been in the works for several months, came two months after President Donald Trump signed Republican legislation eliminating the individual mandate, which makes people pay a financial penalty if they don’t have insurance.

Taken together, the two steps ― getting rid of the mandate and then changing the rules on short-term plans ― could accelerate an evolution already underway for people buying insurance on their own, rather than through an employer.

In many states, premiums have risen substantially in the past few years, as plans have struggled to attract customers in relatively good health. Federal tax credits, which the Affordable Care Act also created, insulate low- and many middle-income people from these increases ― allowing them to get comprehensive coverage, regardless of medical status, at low prices.

But people at higher incomes receive no such assistance and, in some cases, the premiums make it difficult or even impossible for them to get traditional insurance. This is particularly true in more rural parts of the country, and especially for older consumers, thanks to a combination of factors ― some related to the design of the ACA, and some related to the way hostile Republican officials at the state and national level have implemented it.

The regulation that the administration proposed on Tuesday would make it easier for some of these people to get short-term plans, which are generally cheaper because they do not have to follow all of Obamacare’s rules. They do not have to cover mental health and other “essential benefits,” for example, and they can have annual or lifetime limits on the bills they will pay.

But short-term plans are generally not available to people with pre-existing conditions and wouldn’t cover the expenses of people with some serious illnesses anyway. If short-term plans were to draw off a substantial number of relatively healthy customers, they would drive up the price of traditional, fully regulated insurance plans even more.

In the end, the new regulation could allow some people ― especially those who find current coverage unaffordable ― to buy ultra-cheap, relatively skimpy plans.

“It’s time to offer more affordable coverage options,” Seema Verma, administrator of the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, said during a conference call Tuesday. “It’s about allowing individuals, not the government, to make decisions about what works for them and their families.”

But the new regulations would also render the law’s insurance reforms less effective, making it more difficult for people who need or want more comprehensive coverage to get it.

“This is the Trump administration’s end run around Congress,” Sabrina Corlette, research professor at Georgetown University’s Center on Health Insurance Reforms, told HuffPost. “The end result will be higher premiums and fewer plan choices for people with health care needs, as well as for healthy people who want the kind of benefits and financial protection that real insurance is supposed to provide.”

A key variable in all of this is the states, which have authority to regulate such plans on their own. Several already have strong rules on the book, as a recent survey of state policies from the Commonwealth Fund noted. More states could take similar action.

The Kind Of Insurance Obamacare Was Supposed To Eliminate

Short-term plans are a vestige of the old health care system, the one that existed before the ACA took effect and made comprehensive coverage more widely available. At least in theory, these plans are primarily for people with temporary gaps in coverage ― because they are in between jobs, or perhaps about to have a change in their life circumstance like getting married.

Obamacare allowed insurers to keep selling such plans, but it also gave the federal government authority to regulate them tightly.

The Obama administration did just that. When it wrote the rules for the individual mandate, the administration said that short-term plans would not count as qualifying coverage, which meant that people who had these plans would still have to pay the penalty. The administration also limited these short-term policies to durations of just three months — although that regulation just took effect this year, and some insurers have found ways to sell a year’s worth of coverage even with that regulation in force. (Basically, they allow customers to buy four plans, each for a duration of three months, at one time.)

The Obama administration made these decisions because the whole point of the ACA’s private insurance reforms was to transform the market for people buying coverage on their own, so that everybody ― healthy and sick, young and old ― was paying into one pool and was part of the same system. That way, insurers would have enough money to cover the bills of people with serious medical conditions.

But the Obama administration wasn’t simply out to ensure the newly reformed insurance markets could work. Regulations on short-term plans were also meant to protect consumers.

Frequently, people who bought short-term plans ended up facing crushing medical bills, because agents or insurers hadn’t made limits on these plans clear ― or because insurers had found reasons not to cover bills after the fact. In one case that’s currently the subject of a lawsuit in federal court, a heart attack victim who had a short-term policy is on the hook for $900,000, according to a story on short-term plans by Reed Abelson of The New York Times.

Short-term insurance plans will cherry pick healthy people, leaving ACA-compliant plans to cover a sicker pool with higher premiums. — Larry Levitt (@larry_levitt) February 20, 2018

Now, Republicans are undoing these reforms. The regulations that the Trump administration just proposed would rescind the Obama administration’s limit on short-term plans, so that insurers could sell policies that last a full year. Starting in 2019, people buying such plans wouldn’t have to worry about paying the individual mandate penalty, since the GOP’s new tax legislation reduces that penalty to zero.

These steps could help split insurance markets into two ― one with relatively cheap, skimpy short-term plans that would be available to people who are in good health, and one with highly expensive comprehensive insurance that would be available to anybody, regardless of pre-existing conditions.

People who bought the short-term plans would frequently save money, as long as they didn’t get sick and find themselves on the hook for bills the short-term plans don’t cover. But premiums for those comprehensive policies could get even higher than they are now.

The majority of people buying coverage on their own are eligible for tax credits that offset premiums, which get bigger as premiums go higher. In general, they won’t have to pay more for coverage, even as it gets more expensive. But people who earn too much to qualify for the tax credits ― anybody with income above four times the poverty line, or $98,400 for a family of four ― would bear the full brunt of those higher premiums.

It’s a problem that already exists in some states, like Iowa and Tennessee, but it could get worse and affect even more Americans if the Trump administration regulations go into effect, especially if the new measures cause more insurers to abandon markets altogether.

Just how big a difference this regulation would ultimately make is difficult to say. In a fact sheet accompanying the proposed regulations, HHS said that for 2019 it expects 100,000 to 200,000 people to drop traditional coverage and buy short-term policies instead. That is not a huge number.

But over time, the plans could draw even more people, especially if insurers and the independent brokers who sell plans push them aggressively. And some experts think that rough estimate, of just 100,000 to 200,000 people shifting plans initially, is too low.

The Regulation Isn’t Final Yet ― And States Will Have Their Say

The regulations must go through a formal, 60-day comment period before they become final. During that period, the three departments issuing the regulation ― Health and Human Services, Labor, and Treasury ― are likely to hear from a variety of experts, advocates, and industry groups wary of the changes.

One of them is America’s Health Insurance Plans, the largest trade organization representing insurers. “While we are reviewing the proposed rule to understand its impact on the people we serve, we remain concerned that expanded use of short-term policies could further fragment the individual market, which would lead to higher premiums for many consumers, particularly those with pre-existing conditions,” Kristine Grow, group’s senior vice president for communications, said on Tuesday.

But not all insurers will be unhappy if these new regulations are finalized. UnitedHealth, which dropped out of AHIP a few years ago, already sells such policies. In an earnings call in October, the company’s chief executive said the opportunity to sell more of them ― along with so-called “association health plans,” which allow small businesses to buy policies that are also exempt from some of the Affordable Care Act’s regulations ― would be a profit opportunity.

The proposed regulation also seeks comment on the question of whether, somehow, these short-term plans should be “renewable” ― that is, whether insurers should allow people to stay on the same plans, year after year. Of course, doing so would seem to mean they aren’t really short-term plans at all, but rather an alternative form of long-term insurance that simply isn’t subject to regulations protecting people with pre-existing conditions. In theory, that is not legal under the Affordable Care Act.

If and when the regulation becomes final, as seems likely, attention will shift quickly to state officials, who can regulate insurance plans on their own. States could decide to keep the three-month limit in place, for example. Or they could go as far as New Jersey did, and prohibit short-term plans altogether.

They could also decide, separately, to introduce their own form of the individual mandate, as officials in at least some states are already talking about doing.An Idaho Republican state senator has been labeled a “bully” after ranting at college students who traveled hundreds of miles to discuss a birth control bill with lawmakers.

State Sen. Dan Foreman also has been slapped with an ethics complaint for an incendiary follow-up tweet sent from an account allegedly associated with him.

The tense exchange between Foreman and about a dozen University of Idaho students was captured on camera Monday. Video circulating on social media shows Foreman forcefully pointing his finger and belligerently saying “abortion is murder” to the students, who say they didn’t come to discuss abortion at all.

Foreman’s diatribe was “unhinged,” said Paul Dillon, public affairs director of Planned Parenthood of Greater Washington and North Idaho, which is affiliated with the student group. “Even if you disagree with what we have to say, there’s no excuse for that kind behavior. He was being a bully,” Dillon told AP.

The student group had scheduled a morning meeting with Foreman, but the senator reportedly canceled at the last minute. The students say they left a note and some condoms at his office before moving on to meet with other lawmakers.

“We drove 7 hours to make it to our SCHEDULED 9 a.m. meeting,” the message read, noting that the lawmaker was “not doing [his] job” by blowing them off.

Here is the sign that made him so mad! pic.twitter.com/AxzlQF8OOI — nicky (@nicky_skinz) February 19, 2018

The students later saw Foreman in the hallway, triggering the stormy exchange.

“I’m a Roman Catholic and a conservative Republican. I think what you guys are doing stinks,” Foreman told the group, according to the video. He added that he would call law enforcement if the students ever tried to visit his office again.

This is how Senator Dan Foreman, Idaho District 5, treats his constituents. We drove 7 hours to meet with him and he threatened to call the police if we entered his office. SPREAD THIS! pic.twitter.com/SfDzdciqg1 — nicky (@nicky_skinz) February 19, 2018

A Twitter account that appears to be associated with Foreman later tweeted about the incident. One tweet urged the University of Idaho students to “stop harassing me and staff.” Another told them to talk about “killing babies” with Democratic Sen. Maryanne Jordan of Boise.

It's cool. I took screen shots. pic.twitter.com/IQoZrDd4YC — Melissa Davlin (@davlinnews) February 20, 2018

Jordan told the AP on Monday that she filed an ethics complaint against Foreman for the inflammatory tweet.

“It’s one thing to disagree with policy, it’s another thing to position something like that against another lawmaker. This type of behavior is beneath the Idaho Senate,” Jordan said.The official Twitter feed of the Republican National Committee asked people to sign a Presidents Day card for Donald Trump on Monday. The call for holiday wishes certainly drew a response, but probably not the one the GOP was expecting.Chelsea Clinton joined in the criticism of Donald Trump Jr.’s trip to India, with the throwing of some wonderfully subtle shade.

On Monday, The Washington Post revealed that President Donald Trump’s eldest son would give a foreign policy speech alongside Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi during his “unofficial” trip to the country. Trump Jr. was ostensibly in India to promote Trump-branded real estate projects. But since he has no official role in his father’s administration, the news of the speech provoked plenty of criticism, including from Clinton.WASHINGTON – From their first full day in office with claims of massive, record-setting inaugural crowds, President Donald Trump and his top aides have been a virtual juggernaut of dishonesties and falsehoods, seemingly immune to normal White House standards of candor and accuracy.

Until this month.

Two weeks’ worth of shifting explanations about a key staffer accused of domestic violence have accomplished what a full year of fact-checking thousands of untruths could not: put the White House on the defensive and shredded its credibility.

“At long last, something Donald Trump couldn’t bullshit his way out of,” said Rick Wilson, a Florida GOP consultant who has been calling Trump a liar since the start of the presidential primary campaign in 2015.

But why has the Rob Porter story persisted when all the others did not?

“Attachment to a larger narrative and a provocative visual,” said Kathleen Hall Jamieson, a communications professor and director of the Annenberg Public Policy Center at the University of Pennsylvania.

The larger narrative is the Me Too movement, where women across the country and around the world have spoken out about long-quashed experiences of sexual harassment and abuse. And the provocative visual was the photograph of Colbie Holderness’ bruised eye, which she said was the result of a punch Porter threw during the couple’s vacation to Italy in 2005.

Until that photo of Porter’s first ex-wife surfaced, White House chief of staff John Kelly had been offering testimonials for his trusted aide. With the arrival of Kelly in August and his attempts to bring order to what had been a chaotic White House, Porter as staff secretary had become a key player in limiting access and information to Trump.

His work, under Kelly’s direction, dramatically reduced the unscheduled visits Trump received from random West Wing staffers and the number of unverified “news” articles that wound up on his desk.

To protect his aide and ally, Kelly and other top White House staffers praised Porter, even though the White House had received a full FBI security clearance background investigation into Porter last summer, according to Senate testimony by bureau director Christopher Wray. That report almost certainly included stories of abuse from both of Porter’s ex-wives – allegations that typically doom a security clearance approval.

All of that changed when the photo spread across the internet and cable television, putting a human face on Porter’s alleged actions. That set off a dizzying series of revised statements. At first, the White House claimed that Porter resigned on his own but would stay on through a “transition.” But within a day, that had evolved into Kelly having forced Porter to leave within 40 minutes of seeing the photo.

“I think the photo had a real impact on people,” said Rick Tyler, a Republican political consultant who worked for Texas Sen. Ted Cruz in the 2016 GOP primaries. “They went into their normal mode, which is deflect everything, deny everything, fake news everything.”

The problem for the White House was that journalists could see the new explanations contradicting others issued just hours earlier and were quick to point them out. This angered even reporters who in the past year have enjoyed good access to top White House staff.

“Normally reporters don’t know a lie is a lie in real time,” said a Republican official who supports Trump and spoke on the condition of anonymity to candidly discuss his party’s leader. “I’m amazed that this is a story that keeps going. They haven’t found a way to put this thing away.”

One of the reasons for the story’s durability may have been Trump’s reluctance to speak out in favor of the victims. It took him seven days to do so, and even then he expressed irritation.

“I’m totally opposed to domestic violence of any kind. Everyone knows that, and it almost wouldn’t even have to be said,” he said following a Feb. 14 photo opportunity. “So now you hear it, but you all know it.”

Just a day earlier, Trump had twice refused to answer questions about domestic violence. And two days after Porter’s departure, he had wished his former staff secretary well in his career and had pointed out that Porter denied he had done anything wrong. “As you probably know, he says he’s innocent, and I think you have to remember that,” Trump said.

Why it took so long for Trump to come out with what might seem an obvious and politically easy statement is unclear.

In his year in office, Trump has repeatedly shown great deference to what his base thinks about any given issue. It drove his decision to speak well of the neo-Nazis protesting the removal of a Confederate monument in Charlottesville, Virginia – protests that led to the killing of a counter-protester.

Recent HuffPost/YouGov polling shows that only 26 percent of male Trump voters believe that domestic violence is a serious problem in the country. In contrast, 78 percent of women who voted for Democratic nominee Hillary Clinton in 2016 believe it is a serious issue, while 50 percent of female Trump voters think so.

One former Trump aide said the president’s failure to speak about women victims of abuse generally is grounded more in his dislike of being pressured into doing something, particularly when he believes it is the news media doing the pressuring.

“To the president, this is the media playing the fiddle and forcing the White House to dance,” the former aide said. “Donald Trump is absolutely wedded to never dancing to the tune you play for him.”

Ironically, the Porter issue has moved off front pages in recent days, but only because special counsel Robert Mueller released a major grand jury indictment in his probe of Russian influence in the 2016 election and because 17 students and staff were killed in the country’s latest school shooting.

That the Porter scandal will return to the foreground is almost certain, though, given bipartisan congressional interest in how the White House is handling its security clearance process. Several dozen top officials – including Trump’s son-in-law and adviser Jared Kushner – reportedly are still working on interim security clearances.

In the meantime, the White House appears to have fallen back on its old habit of outright falsehoods. Trump personally issued several over the weekend in a series of tweets regarding the Mueller investigation, while deputy press secretary Raj Shah appeared on Fox News and claimed that the new indictment showed that the Russian interference was “about sowing confusion in the electoral process and undermining the next president, not about supporting one candidate over the other.”

In fact, the indictment clearly states that the Russians wanted Trump to win as a way of harming the United States, which matches the Jan. 6, 2017, declassified report by the U.S. intelligence agencies that found the same thing.

Shah declined to discuss his on-air statement to Fox with HuffPost.

Jamieson, the communications professor, said the latest round of untruths will further erode both Trump’s and the White House’s credibility, with journalists as well as the public at large.WASHINGTON, Feb 20 (Reuters) - U.S. Special Counsel Robert Mueller has charged a lawyer with lying to investigators about his communications with Rick Gates, a partner of former Trump campaign manager Paul Manafort who also has been charged in the Russia probe.

The indictment against Alex Van der Zwaan also accuses him of deleting or otherwise not producing emails sought by the Special Counsel’s office, which is investigating possible ties between President Donald Trump’s 2016 campaign and Russia.They stormed Florida’s capital, Tallahassee, on Monday to lobby local lawmakers on gun reform measures, and began organizing a nationwide march to be held next month to demand that national legislators work to end gun violence.

Abzug said he came up with a three-point plan that he brought to his state representatives on Monday. It includes a plan to ban assault weapons, the creation of an agency in each state that facilitates interaction between the FBI and local law enforcement, and the mandatory placement of psychologists in every school to “boost the morale of students so that people who are young don’t grow up to be so hateful of the world.”Democrat Shri Thanedar speaks to voters. Thanedar has drawn scrutiny for past business practices, including the treatment of animals at a shuttered lab he owned. Shri Thanedar Campaign/Facebook

The federal government rebuked the treatment of test animals and the conditions at a chemical lab once owned and operated by Shri Thanedar, a top Democratic candidate for governor of Michigan.

The assessment in a U.S. Department of Agriculture inspection report contradicts Thanedar’s multiple public statements that the lab never harmed the animals and always followed federal guidelines.

Thanedar, a wealthy businessman, has been weathering accusations of animal neglect after HuffPost reported in April that animal welfare groups had to rescue over 170 dogs and monkeys months after his Oxford, New Jersey, facility shut down in 2010.

HuffPost subsequently revealed that contrary to Thanedar’s claims, he fought to sell the animals to new labs, rather than secure new homes for them in animal sanctuaries as a court-appointed receiver had ordered.

Now, the 2009 USDA inspection report obtained by HuffPost shows that Thanedar’s lab, AniClin Preclinical Services, was admonished to correct several violations of federal rules for the treatment of test animals.

The USDA identified “deficiencies” in the lab’s conditions for the test monkeys, including enclosures that were too small and faced a wall, preventing the monkeys from seeing one another. Social interaction is essential for monkeys’ “psychological well-being,” according to the USDA.

“There were six individually-housed nonhuman primates in room 6B, whose enclosures were facing the wall and [the primates] could not see other nonhuman primates,” the USDA report said.

The report also found “evidence” that the monkey’s enclosures previously contained mounted mirrors allowing them to see one another, but that those mirrors were no longer present.

“The mirrors need to be replaced or these animals need to be moved to different enclosures to allow them to see other nonhuman primates,” the USDA advised.

Although it is not clear if the conditions in the enclosures were to blame, the USDA also said AniClin needed to do a better job attending to the needs of two monkeys suffering from alopecia, or stress-related hair loss.

In addition, the USDA detailed other infractions at the lab, including expired medication for the animals and the “disrepair” of its facilities.

Damage to the door leading to the space where the animals’ food and bedding were stored “needs to be addressed to eliminate a living/breeding ground for rodents and pests inside the door,” the USDA said.

A recent poll showed Gretchen Whitmer and Thanedar locked in a close race for Michigan's Democratic gubernatorial nomination. Julie Dermansky via Getty Images

In a statement to HuffPost, Thanedar argued that the USDA citations were the exception rather than the rule at his facility.

“Nearly 10 years ago, when I owned several medical research companies that performed mandatory testing on animals prior to human clinical testing, we consistently maintained valid certifications from multiple agencies throughout the entire period of my ownership,” Thanedar said. “Most inspections resulted in no citation and in the few instances where an issue was raised, it was immediately rectified with corrective action well within the timeframe given to us by the agency.”

But the USDA report, issued less than a year before the test animals were rescued from the then-shuttered facility, contradicts Thanedar’s earlier assurances that the animals always received treatment consistent with federal regulations.

“No animals were ever harmed, and we went to great lengths to exceed the necessary guidelines as outlined by the FDA,” Thanedar told The Detroit Free Press in late April.

Thanedar said much the same in an interview with The Detroit Metro Times earlier this month.

“At no time while I was in control of those companies were animals mistreated in any way,” he said. “In fact, we went above and beyond protocols outlined by the FDA to ensure the animals were never harmed.”

A spokesman for Thanedar did not immediately respond to an inquiry about the apparent inconsistency of these claims with the conditions documented by the USDA.

Thanedar is locked in a contentious three-way Democratic gubernatorial primary with Gretchen Whitmer, the party’s former state Senate leader, and Abdul El-Sayed, a physician and former Detroit health director.

Thanedar held a small lead over Whitmer in an April poll conducted prior to HuffPost’s report about the rescue of the test animals.

Four Republicans are vying for their party’s nomination to succeed GOP Gov. Rick Snyder, who is term-limited.

The primary is scheduled for Aug. 7.

Controversy surrounds others aspects of Thanedar’s business history. An over-the-counter male enhancement supplement, S.W.A.G., that Thanedar’s company Avomeen tested in 2013 was later revealed to contain the prescription drug Viagra. An employee told The Detroit News in March that he had notified Thanedar of that finding, but that Thanedar did not report it to the Food and Drug Administration.President Donald Trump lashed out Tuesday at a woman accusing him of sexually assaulting her in Trump Tower, tweeting that he had “never met” her.

A woman I don’t know and, to the best of my knowledge, never met, is on the FRONT PAGE of the Fake News Washington Post saying I kissed her (for two minutes yet) in the lobby of Trump Tower 12 years ago. Never happened! Who would do this in a public space with live security...... — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) February 20, 2018

....cameras running. Another False Accusation. Why doesn’t @washingtonpost report the story of the women taking money to make up stories about me? One had her home mortgage paid off. Only @FoxNews so reported...doesn’t fit the Mainstream Media narrative. — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) February 20, 2018

Trump appeared to be referring to Rachel Crooks, one of the 21 women to have accused him of sexual misconduct. On Tuesday, The Washington Post profiled Crooks, who is running for state representative in Ohio.

“It all happened at Trump Tower,” Crooks told the Post. “I had just moved to New York, and I was working as a secretary for another company in the building. That’s where he forced himself on me.”

Crooks first publicly accused Trump of sexual misconduct as part of an October 2016 report in The New York Times. She said Trump kissed her without her consent in 2006 when she was a 22-year-old receptionist for the investment firm Bayrock Group, located at Trump Tower in New York City.

“It was so inappropriate,” Crooks told the Times. “I was so upset that he thought I was so insignificant that he could do that.”

Trump has repeatedly denied all allegations of sexual misconduct.

“Never happened!” Trump tweeted Tuesday about the accusation. “Who would do this in a public space with live security ... cameras running. Another False Accusation.”

Trump dismissed ever kissing an accuser in “the lobby of Trump Tower,” though Crooks alleged he “forced himself” on her outside the Bayrock offices on the building’s 24th floor.

Crooks said she quickly alerted her family about the “weird incident.”

“Hey Ma, my day started off rough … had a weird incident with Mr. Trump,” Crooks said in an email to her mother, according to the Post.

In a separate email to her sister, Crooks allegedly wrote: “I must just appear to be some dumb girl that he can take advantage of … ugh!”

Crooks replied to Trump’s tweet on Tuesday with one of her own, encouraging the release of hallway footage from the day of the alleged encounter.

Please, by all means, share the footage from the hallway outside the 24th floor residential elevator bank on the morning of January 11, 2006. Let’s clear this up for everyone. It’s liars like you in politics that have prompted me to run for office myself. https://t.co/ir7EEKoXRU https://t.co/GmkkZ5jUc7 — Rachel Crooks for Ohio (@RachelforOhio) February 20, 2018

Representatives for both Crooks and the White House did not immediately respond to HuffPost’s request for comment. The Trump Organization did not immediately respond about whether it has video footage from the date and location of the encounter.WASHINGTON (Reuters) - In a blow to gun rights activists, the U.S. Supreme Court on Tuesday turned away a challenge to California’s 10-day waiting period for firearms purchases that is intended to guard against impulsive violence and suicides.

The court’s action underscored its continued reluctance to step into a national debate over gun control roiled by a series of mass shootings including one at a Florida school last week. One of the court’s staunchest conservatives, Justice Clarence Thomas, dissented from the decision to reject the case and accused his colleagues of showing contempt toward constitutional protections for gun rights.

The justices also declined to take up a separate gun case involving a National Rifle Association challenge to California’s refusal to lower fees on firearms sales and instead use some of the fee money to track down weapons owned illegally.

The gun rights groups and individual gun owners who challenged the waiting period had argued that it violated their right to keep and bear arms under the U.S. Constitution’s Second Amendment. The challengers did not seek to invalidate the waiting period for everyone, just those who already owned guns and passed a background check.

Thomas scolded his colleagues.

“If a lower court treated another right so cavalierly, I have little doubt this court would intervene,” Thomas wrote. “But as evidenced by our continued inaction in this area, the Second Amendment is a disfavored right in this court.”

Thomas said he suspected the Supreme Court would readily hear cases involving potentially unconstitutional waiting periods if they involved abortion, racist publications or police traffic stops.

The Supreme Court has not taken up a major firearms case since issuing important gun rulings in 2008 and 2010 that established an individual right to own guns for self-defense.

Mike Blake / Reuters

‘EXTREME INTERPRETATION’

Gun control advocacy groups cheered Tuesday’s snub of the waiting period case.

“Once again the Supreme Court has refused to entertain the gun lobby’s extreme interpretation of the Second Amendment,” said Eric Tirschwell, litigation director for Everytown for Gun Safety, a group funded by billionaire businessman and former New York Mayor Michael Bloomberg. “The courts are continuing to recognize that states have the authority to pass reasonable public safety laws to protect their citizens from gun violence.”

The states of California, Hawaii, Rhode Island, Illinois, Minnesota, Florida, Iowa, Maryland and New Jersey as well as Washington, D.C., have waiting periods that vary in duration and type of firearm, according to the Giffords Law Center to Prevent Gun Violence.

The United States has among the world’s most lenient gun laws. With the U.S. Congress deeply divided over gun control, it has fallen to states and localities to impose firearms restrictions in recent years. Democratic-governed California has some of the broadest firearms measures of any state.

Mass shootings including one in which a gunman killed 17 people at a Parkland, Florida high school on Feb. 14 have added to the long-simmering U.S. debate over the availability of firearms.

Lead plaintiff Jeff Silvester, the Calguns Foundation and its executive director Brandon Combs, and the Second Amendment Foundation in 2011 challenged the 10-day waiting period between the purchase of a firearm and its actual delivery to the buyer.

Alan Gottlieb, founder of the Second Amendment Foundation, said in an interview he was disappointed with the decision. “The court should take these cases and give lower courts guidance because at the moment lower courts are all over the map on gun rights issues,” Gottlieb said.

The waiting period gives a gun buyer inclined to use it impulsively a “cooling off” period, which has been shown in studies to reduce handgun suicides and homicides, the state said in legal papers. The waiting period also gives officials time to run background checks and ensure that weapons being sold are not stolen or being purchased for someone prohibited from gun ownership, it added.

The San Francisco-based 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals upheld California’s law in 2016, reversing a federal trial court that had ruled it unconstitutional.R. Kelly was evicted from two homes in Atlanta for unpaid rent. Mario Anzuoni / Reuters

We’re not tryin’ to be rude, but ... singer R. Kelly has been evicted from two Atlanta homes for unpaid rent.

Feb. 13 filings in Fulton County magistrate court indicate that Kelly owes more than $31,000 to SB Property Management Global, the Atlanta Journal-Constitution reported on Monday. The filings indicate that Kelly rented two homes in Saint Devon Crossing Old Homestead Trail, for $3,000 and $11,542 a month.

Last year, BuzzFeed reported that the R&B singer held 19-year-old Joycelyn Savage against her will and was running a “cult” of kept women in his various properties. Many of the claims in that report were corroborated by Dallas radio DJ Kitti Jones, who spoke out against Kelly in October. Jones also alleged that she’d been in an abusive relationship with him.

The Atlanta properties that evicted Kelly do not appear to be the ones mentioned in the BuzzFeed report.

The Fulton County District Attorney’s Office said last week that it would review a file from Johns Creek police in connection with the cult allegations.Canadians Tessa Virtue and Scott Moir won a gold medal in the ice dance Tuesday, their fifth Olympic medal overall. Jamie Squire via Getty Images

Canadian ice dancers Tessa Virtue and Scott Moir won the gold medal in the ice dancing competition at the 2018 Winter Olympics on Tuesday, becoming the most decorated figure skaters in Olympic history.

Virtue and Moir completed two breathtaking routines on Tuesday, with a short dance set to Latin, samba and cha-cha music. Their free dance portion was set to a medley from the film “Moulin Rouge,” and the duo were elated as the final notes rang out and the arena erupted into applause.

French skaters Gabriella Papadakis and Guillaume Cizeron took home the silver after scoring a world record in the free dance portion of the competition. American siblings Alex and Maia Shibutani took home the bronze.

Nobody does it better. @tessavirtue and @scottmoir are the most decorated ice dance team in history with this golden performance. #WinterOlympics https://t.co/fmMl0C4Amf pic.twitter.com/P5M5hB60UO — NBC Olympics (@NBCOlympics) February 20, 2018

The Canadian pair, who were also the team’s flag bearers at the Opening Ceremony, won another gold medal in the ice dance at the 2010 Games in Vancouver, Canada, and took home two silver medals in Sochi in 2014, in the ice dance and team event.

After winning their first gold last week in the team event, Moir said his teammates worked hard to bring home Canada’s first such medal of the Games.

“We wanted to win the team event in 2018, and we believed in ourselves and we talked about it as a team,” Moir told NBC. “We wanted to make sure we got this gold. As Canadians, we were born on the ice.”

With Tuesday’s win, Moir and Virtue now each have five Olympic medals, more than any other figure skaters.

The pair, who came out of retirement last year to stage a comeback in South Korea, said they plan to hang up their skates once again after the competition ends.One of the most powerful scenes in “Black Panther” is during the coup d’état ignited by Michael B. Jordan’s character, Erik Killmonger.

As the Dora Milaje and the Jabari tribes fight to defend Wakanda, W’Kabi (Daniel Kaluuya) charges full steam on the back of a vibranium-armored rhino toward M’Baku (Winston Duke). Danai Gurira’s character, Okoye, steps between them, taking the side of M’Baku, the man who’s helping her save her nation. Okoye stands, spear in hand, ready to take down W’Kabi, her love interest.

“Would you kill me, my love?” W’Kabi asks.

“For Wakanda? No question,” she asserts.

W’Kabi isn’t about that life. He yields to her, dropping to both knees, ending the battle. He has no choice. The things Okoye would undoubtedly sacrifice to serve her country, W’Kabi would hesitate over.

There is a reason this is the last scene in which Okoye appears before the credits roll. It speaks volumes about the power black women possess. Seeing anyone, let alone a black man, submit to a black woman on screen in this way is a rarity.

Gurira thinks the message in that scene is vital for everyone, especially women and girls.

“You expect to use your love for me and our love for each other to actually get me to betray my nation, and I would kill you first. I love that,” she said. “I think women don’t often get to portray that sort of nobility and that sort of integrity, especially [choosing that] over their love.”

Okoye, the General, is the head of the Dora Milaje. She’s a patriot and traditionalist, sworn to protecting the throne and her country. Her strength is only second to the Black Panther, whom she saves throughout the film. She kicks ass for her nation, speaks unapologetically, throws her wig in white mens’ faces and yet is still shown as this multidimensional woman able to give and receive love.

We may not see Okoye’s traits on screen everyday, but they exist on a very real plane. They can be found in the Dahomey Women of West Africa, who were the inspiration for the Dora Milaje. They can be found in the Liberian women who inspired Gurira’s play “Eclipse.” They can be found in black women who are at the forefronts of activist movements today and so many throughout history. They can be found in black moms and caretakers who go the distance to provide for and protect their families.

“Wakanda forever indeed, because it’s showing that this is a world where women are allowed to be all they are ... to the fullest gamut of their potential.”

“There’s so many examples of how women are on the frontline and doing all the work [in real life], but it’s just not respected and not celebrated,” Gurira said.

Wakandan women represent everything that black women are and have always been. The doers, the fixers, the defenders, the lovers. The only thing missing from the real thing is the reverence shown them and the significant political power they hold in “Black Panther.”

Marvel Studios

The world Okoye, Nakia, Shuri and Ramonda live in allows them all of this plus the agency to be their own distinct selves without worrying about the white or male gaze.

Like T’Challa, they, too, are superheroes ― no Heart-Shaped Herb necessary.

“Wakanda forever indeed, because it’s showing that this is a world where women are allowed to be all they are ... to the fullest gamut of their potential,” she said.Lupita Nyong'o and Michael B. Jordan at a press conference for the Seoul premiere of "Black Panther." Han Myung-Gu via Getty Images

So, you saw “Black Panther” like the rest of the world this weekend, and now you’re wondering what else you have to live for.

Well, you can always see the Marvel movie again ― seriously, it’s somehow even better the second time around ― or you can jump on the internet’s thirst train and start shipping the maybe romance between stars Michael B. Jordan and Lupita Nyong’o.

While the two are seemingly just friends who’ve grown close over a nonstop press tour, their chemistry brings more thunder than Thor’s hammer, and has all of us wondering what if?

It all started when Jordan apparently lost a bet on the set of the Marvel movie, which requires him to do pushups at Nyong’o’s behest six times ― preferably when he’s wearing brightly colored and form-fitting sweaters.

She made him drop down during an interview at press event in New York last week while her costars and director Ryan Coogler watched.

Ryan Coogler and actors Danai Gurira, Chadwick Boseman, Lupita Nyong'o and Michael B. Jordan at a SiriusXM event. Cindy Ord via Getty Images

Then, Nyong’o surprised Jordan again at a panel discussion about the movie that streamed live on Twitter.

Nyong’o even brought her own camera for the third time around, when she approached Jordan backstage at a Calvin Klein fashion show.

And on Monday, the Oscar winner got Jordan again before his sit-down with “The View.”

“How many would you like?” he asked.

“I have to see. I want to one now and then we’ll see about the rest,” she fired back.

But we didn’t truly get on board until a now-deleted Twitter exchange that made the internet collectively break out into sweats on Monday night.

Apparently, some of the “Black Panther” cast was gathered for a taping of MTV’s “Safe Word,” a reality game show with celebrities, and things got competitive ― and flirtatious ― between the two.

″@Lupita_Nyongo Bring them chocolate cakes back. You ready for round 2? #youknowyouwanthis,” Jordan wrote on social media.

A post shared by The Shade Room (@theshaderoom) on Feb 19, 2018 at 7:06pm PST

“no dessert until you come correct, @michaelb4jordan!,” Nyong’o wrote back, adding the hashtags #youknowyouwantthis and #youaintready.

A post shared by The Shade Room (@theshaderoom) on Feb 19, 2018 at 7:45pm PSTThis is a reminder that Mitt Romney is still a self-interest-first Republican. He’ll suck up to Trump with the best of them whenever it’s in his interest. https://t.co/CIfKmYMIKhDakota Johnson needs to watch her back.

Because Diane Keaton is quite taken with her boyfriend, musician Chris Martin.

“He’s gorgeous,” Keaton said Tuesday on “The Ellen DeGeneres Show” after talking about seeing him for the first time in person at DeGeneres’ 60th birthday party. “That face got better with time.”

The 72-year-old actress also admitted that she was so was blinded by Martin’s beauty that she didn’t know the handsome man she was drooling over was someone famous.

“I didn’t know who he was, but I saw him and I noticed that he was gorgeous,” she said as she continued to swoon over the 40-year-old Coldplay frontman by giggling and looking a little flustered by her crush. “How about that? How could I not have known it was him?”

To this, DeGeneres handed Keaton a glass of red wine with ice, which the actress happily accepted.

"The Ellen DeGeneres Show"

And although Keaton is interested in Martin’s face, she’s not so intrigued by actress Johnson’s “Fifty Shades” movies.

“Honestly, you know, the things that go on there,” she said of the films. “They do some things, right women? The things I don’t want to go into.”

Interestingly enough, later in the interview Keaton also admitted that she doesn’t have a sex life and that “it’s gone, I don’t participate in that.”Joel Gisler of Switzerland hit the top of the wall during the halfpipe event at the Winter Olympics. Cameron Spencer via Getty Images

There was a scary moment during the halfpipe event at the Winter Olympics on Tuesday when a Swiss skier crashed into the wall hard enough to knock the skis off his feet.

Joel Gisler looked to be about 15 feet above the wall when he came down hard, hit the edge and plunged into the halfpipe below.

Joel Gisler falls after crashing during the halfpipe event. Issei Kato / Reuters

For a few tense moments, Gisler didn’t move as medics rushed to help. Eventually, he sat up and was able to stand and walk off the course with some assistance.

At the time of this writing, his condition is unknown.

how do people not die in this sport pic.twitter.com/fcwf5iPRMt — Timothy Burke (@bubbaprog) February 20, 2018CNN’s Anderson Cooper took Donald Trump to task on Monday for a weekend in which the president fired off angry messages on Twitter about Democrats, the Russia investigation, Oprah Winfrey and more.

“The president tweeted and played golf today, a day that saw two families bury their children,” Cooper said, referring to two of the victim’s of last week’s mass shooting at a Florida high school, which left 17 people dead. “He did not mention them in his tweets.”

Cooper then noted the funerals and memorial services Trump failed to mention over the weekend and lit into the president for a tweet in which he blasted the FBI for focusing on the Russia investigation instead of stopping the shooter.

“For anyone still waiting for the president to pivot, that’s a pivot away from the murder of 17 people to himself,” Cooper said.

Then the CNN host methodically dissected the “factually challenged” tweets Trump sent over the weekend.Implementing more stringent work requirements would burnish Ryan’s legacy by partially fulfilling a lifelong goal: making the American safety net a little less like a “hammock.” Chip Somodevilla via Getty Images

WASHINGTON ― This week, the House of Representatives may vote to add more “work requirements” to the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program, commonly known as food stamps.

Speaker Paul Ryan (R-Wis.) said the measure, part of what is often called the farm bill, will help businesses fill the record number of job openings.

“It’s about workforce development,” Ryan said Thursday, adding that the reforms are “proven to get people off of the sidelines and into full-time employment.”

While the farm bill reauthorizes agricultural subsidies, roughly 80 percent of bill’s spending is SNAP benefits, which help 40 million Americans buy food every month. Implementing more stringent work requirements would burnish Ryan’s legacy by partially fulfilling a lifelong goal: making the American safety net a little less like a “hammock,” as he once called it.

Food stamps already come with work requirements for able-bodied adults, but the bill would expand the number of people required to do at least 20 hours of “work activities,” which can include actual work or signing up for a new government training program.

While the legislation would certainly reduce food stamp enrollment, it’s unclear how much it would actually develop the workforce.

Republicans have shaken their fists at food stamps for much of the program’s existence ― even as it helped eradicate starvation in the U.S. They’ve shaken their fists even more vigorously as SNAP enrollment soared in the wake of the Great Recession. Their antipathy stems in part from the program’s cost, and also the belief that alleviating material suffering can somehow leave people worse off in the long term. As Ryan put it in 2014, liberal governance gives poor people “a full stomach and an empty soul.”

But above all, the Republican argument for reforming food stamps and other benefit programs lately is about funneling more workers into the labor force.

“Our message to Americans who are really trapped on welfare is, ‘We need you,’” Rep. Kevin Brady (R-Texas) told HuffPost. “We think you have great skills and a great future, and we want to find a way to help you.”

“At a time when the economy’s doing great and companies are looking for workers, we have millions of people that gave up because of the bad Obama economy,” Rep. Steve Scalise (R-La.) said. “We want to help those people get back into the workforce and become part of the American Dream again and promote prosperity instead of poverty.”

“My hope is with requiring food stamp recipients to either work or be in job training, there will be more workers available,” Rep. Mac Thornberry (R-Texas) told a local TV station.

Republicans say they love wage increases, particularly when companies say they’re raising pay because of tax cuts. Theoretically, though, increasing the supply of labor would make workers less valuable, since more people would have to compete for limited jobs. Republicans say not enough of that kind of competition has been happening.

With the national unemployment rate down to 3.9 percent, lawmakers say businesses in their districts are constantly complaining about a shortage of available workers.

“The number one problem for employers today is they can’t find people to work,” Rep. Glenn Grothman (R-Wis.) said.

The problem could be more accurately characterized as employers can’t find people to work for what employers want to pay.

Grothman said a trucking company in his district is offering to train new hires at a starting salary of $50,000, but it couldn’t find any takers partly because of food stamps and other programs. “It surprises me how much employers can offer and still complain that they can’t beat what the government pays,” he said.

That salary isn’t bad, but it’s not especially high for truckers, according to Bureau of Labor Statistics data. The average 2017 wage for heavy and tractor-trailer truck drivers in Fond du Lac County, in the center of Grothman’s district, was $48,740. The data suggest the firm that complained to Grothman is not offering a wage that far exceeds what potential drivers could get from other employers in the area. Roughly half of new hires are people leaving other jobs. (Meanwhile, monthly food stamp benefits average $125 per person in a household and can only be redeemed for food items in grocery stores.)

Wages have been rising modestly, but not at a rate that most economists consider consistent with a tight labor market. Annual wage growth has not exceeded 3 percent since the recession ended in 2009. In other words, workers aren’t so scarce that their value is going up in the eyes of employers. Most firms could probably lure good workers by offering more money.

The worker shortage story is not something that just popped up as unemployment dipped beneath 4 percent. In the wake of the recession, lawmakers often lamented a so-called “skills gap” ― there were plenty of workers available, the thinking went, but a shortage of good ones. Jason Faberman, an economist with the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago, found the theory wanting when he and his colleague Bhash Mazumder studied it in 2012. Faberman finds it even less plausible today.

“It would be easier to argue this story if there was a lot more wage growth than we’ve seen,” Faberman said. “Firms are always complaining they can’t find workers to fill jobs.”

Making food stamps less generous is one strategy for increasing the number of people seeking employment, at least theoretically.

“Food stamps provide income separate from working that phases out the more you work,” Matt Bruenig, founder of the People’s Policy Project, a left-wing think tank, said in an email. “Thus it is supposed to reduce labor supply some because people do not need to work as much to get by.”

Food stamp enrollment is already declining as the economy improves. If current trends hold the Congressional Budget Office expects 32 million Americans to be receiving benefits in 2028, a reduction of 8 million. The proposed work requirements would shrink the rolls by an additional 1.2 million over that time.

Most of the $9 billion saved on benefits would be reinvested in a substantial new state-federal training program, though details are sketchy on how it would work. The CBO said even after 10 years, states would only be able to provide training to 80 percent of SNAP recipients subject to the new rules.

Roughly 6.5 percent of current SNAP recipients will be able-bodied adults without dependents next year, meaning they will already be subject to a three-month limit on benefits if they’re not working 20 hours per week. The bill would expand similar requirements to an additional 17 percent of SNAP recipients, such as people in their fifties and parents of children between 6 and 18. About a quarter of those would lose benefits, either because they’re not working or not able to comply with the proposed monthly documentation of their work effort.

Those people would have to rely more on market income to pay for food, and so they might be more willing to take lower-paying jobs. But in a labor market of more than 150 million workers, a million fewer food stamp recipients wouldn’t have a huge impact, said Dean Baker, an economist with the Center for Economic and Policy Research.

“The plausible estimate of how much this could affect labor supply is really pretty small,” Baker said.

The targeted population may be less estranged from the workforce than Republicans think. Looking at working-age adults who received SNAP benefits over several months in 2012, the liberal Center on Budget and Policy Priorities found that a majority worked while they received benefits, and nearly three-quarters worked in the year before or after.

Republicans have seemingly convinced themselves that kicking people off food stamps immediately results in increased earnings for those people, but that’s largely due to a reliance on questionable research. The conservative Foundation for Government Accountability has said that after Kansas kicked 13,000 people off food stamps in 2013, nearly two-thirds of those people eventually wound up working, according to state payroll data.

Republican members of Congress and the Trump administration have cited the FGA’s work to claim that work requirements are a proven policy, as Paul Ryan said last week.

The problem with the foundation’s report is that rather than use a comparison group to show what happens in the absence of the policy change, it just assumed the people who lost their benefits would have indefinitely remained SNAP recipients instead of getting jobs. The Center on Budget’s research suggests that’s not really what happens.

Food stamps exist because American politicians decided it was wrong to let poor people starve to death. There has always been tension between the program’s anti-hunger mission and the fact that it increases the economic independence of its beneficiaries, reducing the hardship of unemployment and making people less dependent on labor income for their survival. Republicans and Democrats tend to agree that the “dignity of work” is one of the most important things a person can have.

Rep. Glenn Thompson (R-Pa.), chairman of the subcommittee that wrote the food stamp parts of the farm bill, said he’s not out to create more workers, contrary to the heap of statements from others in his party. He said that using the program to shunt more people into training programs and jobs will ultimately make them less hungry.“I think it’s very despicable that he would even have the audacity to say that,” student survivor Brandon Abzug said. “Especially in the wake of a tragedy, we really show who we truly are. Just because we’re young we can’t make a difference is not right.”

An aide to Florida state Rep. Shawn Harrison (R) on Tuesday dismissed a pair of outspoken Parkland students as attention-seeking “actors.”

“Both kids in the picture are not students here but actors that travel to various crisis when they happen,” the unnamed aide told Tampa Bay Times reporter Alex Leary.

Survivors are biased because some are related to FBI agentsA former friend of Nikolas Cruz, the 19-year-old who confessed to opening fire on a Florida high school last week, says she told school officials “multiple” times over the last several years that she was concerned about his behavior.

Ariana Lopez is a student at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Florida, where Cruz is suspected of using an assault-style rifle to gun down 17 people on Wednesday. She opened up about her “disturbing” experiences with Cruz during an appearance Tuesday on ABC’s “Good Morning America.”

“He used to sell knives out of his lunchbox, which I thought was like insane because you can’t have knives ... [in] a school,” Lopez said. “He would talk about how he sympathized with Syrian terrorists and how people who opposed them should be killed.”

"He talked about killing our parents, our friends, boyfriends and girlfriends."



Former friend of Florida school shooting suspect speaks out to @VictorOquendo, saying she and her friends reported him multiple times: https://t.co/ZGimiAMj0m pic.twitter.com/gCCo4iEy4G — Good Morning America (@GMA) February 20, 2018

Lopez, who hid in one of the school’s closets to escape the shooting Wednesday, said Cruz would act violently toward his ex-girlfriend, as well as Lopez and her friends.

“He talked about killing our parents, our friends, boyfriends and girlfriends,” Lopez said. “He would hit [his ex-girlfriend], he would threaten her, he would threaten her family and her friends, for talking to other guys.”

Lopez said she reported Cruz to school officials “multiple” times between 2016 and 2017 after he began following her and her friends after school. A representative for Broward County Schools did not immediately respond to HuffPost’s request for comment.

James and Kimberly Snead, the couple who hosted Cruz in their home since his adoptive mother died in November, said Monday they were shocked when they found out about the shooting Wednesday.

“Everything everybody seems to know, we didn’t know,” said James Snead on “Good Morning America.” “We had rules and he followed every rule to the T ... He was very polite. He seemed normal.”

But Lopez said she was far from surprised when police identified Cruz as the shooter.

“Even before they announced that he was the shooter, we all knew it was Nik,” Lopez said about herself and Cruz’s other former classmates. “He was the only person that we could think of that would do something like this because it was obvious that he had the power to do this.”

Advertisement