In 2002, *NSYNC, the boy band of our collective pre-teen dreams, decided to go on hiatus at the height of their career. Lance Bass, JC Chasez, Joey Fatone, Chris Kirkpatrick and Justin Timberlake were stretched a little too thin and in need of some R&R, fans were led to believe.

But as the months rolled on and Timberlake released his first solo album, “Justified,” the situation proved to be a little more murky.

“There’s no reason my solo career and *NSYNC can’t coexist in the same universe. *NSYNC is in no danger. The break we’re on was a conscious move. We all wanted to do it, and we were ready to do it. Performing at stadiums every night for 50,000 fans takes a little out of you ... The time was right; we were all in the same zone,” Timberlake told The New York Post in November 2002, before cryptically adding of his new record “Justified”: “This album is what I wanted to do.”

What Timberlake wanted to do, yes, and perhaps Chasez, who also headed into the studio to work on a solo project.

“For us, it happened organically,” Chasez told me over the phone last month, a few weeks before he was set to reunite with his former bandmates for a Hollywood Walk of Fame ceremony in Los Angeles. “After you do something for a certain amount of time, you get into a rhythm of it and then new things spark your curiosity; you need new brain food. At that time, we just felt like we had exhausted every kind of idea for what we were doing and we just felt like ‘OK, let’s do something different.’ So, that’s what we did.”

All these “we’s” suggest that the break was a unanimous decision, a Kumbaya conclusion that served to benefit everyone. And maybe it was. But an actual breakup? Not so much.

“We thought we were getting back together,” Fatone told me. “It was, ’OK, after [Justin] does his thing, blah, blah, blah, we’ll get back together and move forward and do what we got to do. And then it was like, nope. The record company wanted to push Justin, I guess, is what it was. He got bigger and bigger, which is honestly great for him and I’m totally happy for him in that sense, but it was more or less weird that there wasn’t an explanation to say we’re not going to do it, period. I was a little bit on hold for a moment and it was like, ‘OK, we got to shit or get off the pot.’”

In fact, the band never officially announced the end of *NSYNC. Yet, in his 2007 book Out of Sync ― released five years after their initial rest period ― Bass wrote, “We’re definitely broken up. It’s not a hiatus. Justin made it clear that he wouldn’t be interested in discussing another album any time soon.”

“It wasn’t anything crazy – no big, crazy fight to break us up. We’re all still close and we talk daily, but I guess it just had run its time...” - Lance Bass

When I asked Bass about the hiatus-turned-breakup, he said he always saw *NSYNC “evolving and maturing,” despite its origins as a boy band. “We all decided, ‘OK, six months. We need it. We need the vacation time, we need the downtime,’” he said. “But when we came back, it just … everything changed.”

“It took us a while to naturally say, ‘You know what? I think ... we might be done,’” Bass recalled, laughing. “And that’s how it was. It wasn’t anything crazy – no big, crazy fight to break us up. We’re all still close and we talk daily, but I guess it just had run its time, which was sad because I was really excited for the next album.”

Fatone and Kirkpatrick felt the same way.

“I was upset at first about the ‘why.’ Then you understand the logistics of everything,” Fatone said.

“I don’t know if I was ready for it to end,” Kirkpatrick added. “In my 20s and into my early 30s, I was in a band touring the world every day. You wake up and there’s a schedule on your floor saying you have a photo shoot this time, a meet-and-greet this time, a radio interview this time, a TV appearance this time and a show this time. Then, suddenly, you wake up and there’s nothing. You’re like, ‘Oh man, where do I go now?’”

To fans and music critics alike, it was a strange choice for *NSYNC to throw in the towel after only a few very successful years and three chart-topping albums. In an interview with The Hollywood Reporter last year, Timberlake further explained his leaving. “It started as a fun snowball fight that was becoming an avalanche,” he said. “And, also, I was growing out of it. I felt like I cared more about the music than some of the other people in the group.”

Whether he did or didn’t is up for debate. Chasez produced and wrote multiple *NSYNC songs, and admitted the studio is still his safe haven. And Bass said he spent a good portion of his time off in Nashville writing lyrics for what he thought would be the band’s next album.

“I had several songs that I wrote that I was going to present, so that was definitely sad that I didn’t get to experience that part of making the next album,” Bass said. “I thought our sound just kept evolving ― from ‘*NSYNC’ to ‘No Strings Attached’ to ‘Celebrity,’ you could see the growth there. It would’ve been very interesting to see what our sound would be like today.”

After years apart, the five members of *NSYNC will be back together on Hollywood Boulevard to receive a star on the Walk of Fame. They won’t be performing, though. Instead, the group will be joined by family members and former collaborators, including speakers Ellen DeGeneres and Carson Daly, recruited to commemorate their legacy in the presence of the Chamber of Commerce and fans. There’s even an “immersive experience” (read: a memorabilia mecca) for former followers called The Dirty Pop-Up. It’s a nostalgic affair, laced with an air of anticlimax: *NSYNC is reuniting without really reuniting.

Ahead of the ceremony, I reached out to the former members to see if I could compile an investigation of *NSYNC’s demise. Bass, Chasez, Fatone and Kirkpatrick obliged, mostly eager to reminisce about the good ole days of wide-legged cargo pants, frosted-tip hair and smooth a cappella. But Timberlake, who’s already had a few shots at explaining his side of the story, was too busy to hop on the phone. (He’s currently on the U.S. leg of his Man of the Woods tour.) Perhaps it was for the best, because the other guys got très deep about the beginnings of the group, fame in the early aughts, their unfortunate dissolution and their unlikely-but-high hopes for a legitimate reunion.

Behold: A history of *NSYNC’s breakup (and everything that led to it), according to bandmates not named Justin Timberlake.

It’s Gonna Be Me: The Rise Of Chris Kirkpatrick’s Boy Band

As most histories will tell you, *NSYNC was formed by the now-late and disgraced record producer Lou Pearlman in Orlando, Florida, in the mid-1990s, after he found huge success with their future rivals, The Backstreet Boys. Chris Kirkpatrick was the one who met with Pearlman to discuss starting another boy band, thanks to a connection to Backstreet Boy Howie Dorough.

“I went to school [Valencia College in Orlando] with Howie ― we had chorus together,” Kirkpatrick said. “And there was another kid, Charlie Edwards, who went and became a Backstreet Boy, and I guess he had a falling out with a producer and quit. He’s the one who came to me saying that this guy Lou Pearlman was looking for another band.”

After Pearlman and Kirkpatrick met, Kirkpatrick began helping him audition potential band members, bringing “quartets I was in from school.” They landed on a few potential singers who eventually dropped out before Mickey Mouse Club alum and Tennessean Justin Timberlake walked into the picture, bringing along fellow Mouseketeer and Maryland native JC Chasez. During a bonding night out at Disney World’s Pleasure Island, the newly formed trio happened to run into a mutual friend who seemed like a natural addition: Brooklyn-born Orlando transplant Joey Fatone. And just like that, there were four.

“I was like, ‘Hey, this is my buddy Joey! We both worked at Universal!’ And JC was like, ‘Yeah, we know him. He used to come to the Mickey Mouse Club,’” Kirkpatrick explained. “So we all knew each other and we were like, ‘Hey man, we’re putting together a group!’”

At the time, Fatone was in another group, Big Guys, with Luis Fonsi, but he left to join Kirkpatrick’s budding ensemble, deciding his then-bandmate Jason Galasso would round out the quintet. That’s when the concept for the name “In Sync,” aka *NSYNC, was formed, using the last letters of the guys’ first names: JustiN, ChriS, JoeY, JasoN, and JC. Of course, Galasso didn’t last long. He was soon replaced by Mississippi teen Lance Bass, who allegedly earned the nickname Lansten so the remaining “N” in the group’s name would still make sense.

“Bob Westbrook was Justin’s and my vocal coach, so when they got the group together, Justin called him to see if he knew of any bass singers that would work and he immediately thought of me,” Bass said. “I didn’t think my mom would ever let me do it!”

At 14, Timberlake was the youngest member of the group, followed by Bass, 16; Fatone, 18; Chasez, 19; and Kirkpatrick, 23. Timberlake’s and Bass’ moms stayed with the band as they traveled and rehearsed, since the pair was too young to go without chaperones.

“We’d have my mom and Justin’s mom washing the clothes in hotel sinks every night because we’d wear the same outfit for like six months,” Bass said with a laugh. “We didn’t really have a choice of what we wore at the beginning because it was just whatever we could afford.”

The fresh-faced members of *NSYNC pose in Germany in 1996. ullstein bild via Getty Images

By 1996, *NSYNC signed with BMG Ariola Munich and were carted off to Europe to work with Swedish music producer and songwriter Denniz PoP and producer Max Martin in PoP’s Cheiron Studios. There, they perfected their “boy-band” image ― an image they weren’t quite sure would work with their musical background.

“The only time that we felt like we were kind of pushed with new stuff and new styles was when we were in Europe, because everything was so new to us. We thought we were kind of getting cultured,” Chasez laughed. “We were experimenting and trying to be as excited and open as possible.”

“We basically had label and management people looking down on us saying, ‘Hey, now you have to do this,’ especially the late Lou Pearlman. He was always like [imitating his husky voice], ‘Now I want to see you guys like this,’” Kirkpatrick said. “I think we could’ve been a lot better right out of the gate if he wasn’t there trying to push us into this mold. The word boy band wasn’t even out then, and it was almost like Lou knew what that was.”

In the beginning, a cappella music was *NSYNC’s passion. Kirkpatrick recalled how, during those days abroad, the guys would find a hallway with great acoustics and harmonize ― conjuring an image we always hoped existed, of five beatific friends who just can’t stop singing.

“So to be in this band where it was like, ‘OK, we want you to dress as clowns. OK, now we want you to be in the swimming pool with your shirts off.’ There were so many times where we thought why are we doing this? This is stupid,” Kirkpatrick said.

Although each bandmate emphasized that they weren’t aggressively slotted into personas, they did tick a certain box, respectively, when it came to fitting the five-person boy band mold Pearlman originally envisioned. The boxes weren’t as “cut and dry as the Spice Girls,” Kirkpatrick noted, but they contained certain fan niches.

“We were never like, ‘You have to be the funny one, you have to be the cool one, you got to be the sexy one,’” Fatone said. “Like Chris is always the prankster and the jokester. Justin has a great voice and everyone wants to marry him. And the moms wanted to take me home and cook me dinner. That’s the one I always got.”

“We always thought that the most important thing was to be good at what we were doing, and then the rest we’d let the chips fall where they may,” Chasez said.

That was the mantra when determining who would get the lead solos, too. Kirkpatrick explained that, in the beginning, the guys would take turns singing verses when practicing a cappella, and when it came time to record in studio, it was clear two voices stood out.

“Justin and JC had already been doing this, they were professionals, they knew what they were doing. But they also proved themselves to be the best lead vocals for the songs. I had a really high falsetto, so I would do the backgrounds, octaves and harmonies,” as would Joey and Lance, Kirkpatrick said.

After exploding in Germany with their hit “I Want You Back,” they released their self-titled album under BMG, Ariola Records and Trans Continental in May 1997. It peaked at No. 1 in its second week on the charts. *NSYNC became an overnight success abroad, touring across Europe and garnering the attention of RCA Records, which signed them to an American deal. The label switched out a few tracks on ”*NSYNC” and released the album in the U.S. on March 24, 1998.

But American audiences didn’t automatically swarm. “I Want You Back” wasn’t receiving the attention it had garnered overseas, and the album debuted at only No. 82 on the Billboard 200. So Disney, a bastion of media aimed at tweens and beyond, swooped in and saved the day by offering the band a chance to headline a special, “*NSYNC: In Concert,” which first aired in July 1998.

“We were a little discouraged, thinking, ‘Well, I guess we’ll never be able to create that craziness we had in Europe. We’ll just have a normal career here.’ But that Disney special started to air five times a day for months and we went from zero to 100 overnight,” Bass said.

By October, their debut album reached No. 2 on the Billboard 200 and, well, pandemonium ensued.

The ‘No Strings’ Years: How ‘Clockwork Orange’ Inspired *NSYNC

Justin, JC, Joey, Chris and Lance quickly became household names, their faces peering down from posters in teenage bedrooms. “Tearin’ Up My Heart” ― or their equally successful holiday album “Home For Christmas” ― rang through adolescent boom boxes everywhere. They toured the U.S., appeared on “Total Request Live,” and showed up at events alongside the reigning princess of pop, Britney Spears, Timberlake’s longtime girlfriend. (That’s a whole other story.)

“It was almost like going to college in a way, growing up with these different artists who were pretty much the same age and all starting at the same time: Destiny’s Child, Mandy Moore, Britney, Christina [Aguilera], Backstreet – it was like a pop college,” Bass said. “We all worked together, toured together and became kind of family.”

Britney poses with the guys of *NSYNC at the 1999 MTV Video Music Awards rehearsals. Kevin.Mazur/INACTIVE via Getty Images

Friends, perhaps, but foes nonetheless. Anyone who consumed entertainment news 20 years ago knows of the relentless fan rivalry between *NSYNC and The Backstreet Boys, which the bandmates claim was entirely perpetuated by the press.

“Everybody, mostly the fans, were trying to pit us against each other, but for a while there we had the same management. So everywhere we turned it was like we were doing our thing, they were doing their thing, but it was always ‘Backstreet, Backstreet, Backstreet’ to us and ‘*NSYNC, *NSYNC, *NSYNC’ to them,” Kirkpatrick said. “After a while, that kind of rubs off on you and you feed into it a little bit. I think people just wanted to pick something up and know there’s some kind of huge animosity between us. All the gossip.”

Actually, *NSYNC was focused less on the BSB drama and more on a legal battle with Pearlman, Trans Continental and BMG Entertainment over business practices. The group left mid-contract and signed with Jive Records after claiming Pearlman and the labels misled and exploited them, taking most of the profit from American album sales. A few months after Pearlman and BMG filed a $150 million lawsuit against the band for prematurely breaking a contract, both parties settled out of court. *NSYNC eventually released their third album, “No Strings Attached,” under Jive in the spring of 2000. The concept for the album, which dominated the Billboard 200 for eight consecutive weeks, was slightly inspired by the management snafu.

We thought “nobody is controlling us anymore. This is us, this is who we are, we’re not going to just appease the management and label,” Kirkpatrick said.

That album gave fans earworms like “Bye, Bye, Bye,” “It’s Gonna Be Me” and “This I Promise You.” It also provided some of the most iconic *NSYNC fashion moments: acid-washed denim jackets, leather cargo pants, spiky colored hair.

″‘No Strings Attached’ was like the Pinocchio ‘I Got No Strings’ song. We came up with this whole weird idea of patchwork orange ― a ‘Clockwork Orange’-ish sense,” Fatone said. “This guy Steven, who was on our wardrobe team, came to us with these drawings and we loved them. That’s was how the style of it went down.”

For the “It’s Gonna Be Me” video, the group ― as they did with “Bye, Bye, Bye” ― gravitated toward an on-the-nose marionette concept, portraying themselves as dolls at a toy store. Fatone said it’s one of his favorite *NSYNC music videos.

“It’s a staple, you know? Like ‘Bye, Bye, Bye.’ All our videos kind of stick out because they’re all moments in time.”

The fandom was intense in the “No Strings” era. Young followers weren’t hiding behind iPhone screens or computers tweeting about why *NSYNC was the greatest boy band of all time. They were physically present at meet-and-greets, red carpet events and concert dates.

“You’re like, ‘What the hell is going on?’ Some were die-hard fans and know my birthday or ask about my brother. They talked to you like they actually knew you, even though you’ve never met these people before in your life,” Fatone said. “They’ve followed everything you’ve done and love everything you do and everything about you. It’s a weird, surreal feeling. Even to this day, I’ve never gotten used to it.”

But the chaos was different than what the likes of Justin Bieber face today ― constant praise and scrutiny in public and on the web from admirers and critics alike.

“We were so lucky that we got to have a way more innocent time in this industry than a lot of people do today. We could be stupid teenagers, we could be seen with a beer in our hand at a club and not think someone was going to take a picture of that and send it to someone,” Bass said.

Lance Bass poses for a photo in 2001. Tim Roney via Getty Images

Bass, perhaps, had the toughest task in terms of dealing with wild female fans. During the days of *NSYNC, he had not yet come out as gay, and was facing the “torture” of hiding his identity behind a diluted pop culture persona.

“Being onstage and singing those songs that you don’t really relate to since you’re talking about girls, it all, to me, wasn’t real,” Bass recalled. “Onstage, I just felt like I was playing a character the whole time, but offstage, unfortunately, I didn’t get to have my real life, because I felt like I just had to hide this secret.”

After enduring what he’s described as excruciating guilt during his formative years, the singer came out in a People magazine story in 2006, shocking friends and fans. He said he kept his sexuality under wraps as not to diminish the success of his bandmates.

“The ’90s were a different time,” he said. “If you came out, if anyone knew you were gay, it was a disaster and people really flipped out. I felt like if anyone found out that I was gay, the record label would immediately drop us and the fans would hate us ― these were all the crazy things that went through my head as a teenager. So, I just trained myself into being a certain person and became that person.”

Bass said “it would’ve changed everything” if he had been open about his sexuality during his days with *NSYNC, knowing his bandmates would’ve been completely supportive.

“As long as I’ve known the guys, I’ve known that there’s not one bigoted bone in their bodies, so I knew they would be fine with it, but I also knew that they wouldn’t be able to keep their mouths shut,” he said, laughing. “That’s why I just told no one. I just thought if I even told just one single person it would get out, which it would have. So that secret stayed with me and me only.”

They Were On A Break: The Rise Of Justin And The Fall Of Everyone Else

A few months after the release of their fourth album “Celebrity,” which featured the catchy, Grammy-nominated songs “Gone” and “Girlfriend,” things started to take a turn for *NSYNC. The album sold nearly 1.9 million copies in its first week, but after touring stadiums for months on end, first with the PopOdyssey Tour in 2001 and then the Celebrity Tour in 2002, the boy band was out of fresh ideas. They decided to announce their hiatus.

“You’re thinking, ‘OK, we’ve done this, we’ve done this, we’ve done this. I don’t know what else we can do. I think I have an idea, but it’s not for this, so I’m going to change gears,’” Chasez said. “At that point, everybody had been messing with different things. Chris was messing with clothing line ideas, Lance was working on being an astronaut,” he laughed. “Joey was interested in making movies, Justin was interested in having a solo career, and I was interested in being in the studio. All of us were more interested in what was on our minds.”

That never happened.

*NSYNC, in even more iconic looks, performed in Anaheim, California, in 2002. Julie Clarke via Getty Images

The slide out of celebrity was difficult for some. “I made the mistake of being too complacent and realizing that, man, I got this celebrity-ism and all these things going for me, so I’m going to spend the next few years of my life just partying my ass off,” Kirkpatrick said. “I was young enough where I thought that was the right thing to do. And looking back, I had so many opportunities and there was so much I could have done.”

Kirkpatrick, Bass and Fatone said they didn’t feel pressure to launch their own solo careers, but they were frustrated to see Chasez, whose debut didn’t perform anywhere near Timberlake’s effort, flounder.

“I say the name Justin Timberlake and it’s almost like saying the name Madonna – a name where everybody’s like, ‘Yeah, of course.’” - Chris Kirkpatrick

“No matter what happened with Justin, he was going to end up being Justin anyway, whether or not he started in *NSYNC. But it surprises me that JC isn’t just as big, because JC is as talented,” Kirkpatrick said. “They’re both through that Mickey Mouse Club upbringing with Christina and Britney and all them, and they got their chops all together and they’re amazing talents. I really wish JC was out there doing a little more. He still has so much to offer.”

Even Timberlake praised Chasez, telling MTV in 2006, ”In my opinion, he had the best voice out of all of us. Out of all the boy bands, call ’em what you will, he was the one that could out-sing all of us.”

“It’s flattering coming from someone such as Justin, such a great musician himself. He’s one of my favorite artists,” Chasez said when I reminded him of the compliment. “The feeling is mutual. I think he’s done some of the coolest stuff that’s come out in the last 20 years. At the same time, it’s like, well, yeah, of course your friends are going to say nice things!”

Overall, the four members of *NSYNC who aren’t Justin Timberlake had nothing but nice things to say about him, calling him their super-talented “little brother.” Their admiration could ring as surprising, considering the ultimate cause of the split and the conceivably unfair toll his decision took on their individual trajectories in the industry. But now, as grown men, they seem to understand he had to be selfish to become the global superstar he is today.

“I say the name Justin Timberlake and it’s almost like saying the name Madonna ― a name where everybody’s like, ‘Yeah, of course,’” Kirkpatrick said. “I’m sitting there at the Super Bowl watching him do the halftime show like, ‘Man, this is a big deal.’ He’s really done amazing, and I’m not a jealous person, so it’s awesome to watch because I feel like that’s part of me out there.”

Speaking of the Super Bowl, how did the guys feel about being left off Timberlake’s lineup?

“Everybody wanted it, everybody was waiting for it, but it’s his show and his thing, so whatever he wants to do,” Fatone said. “The guy was doing his job. You do you. If you’re in a position, go for it! People ask if I’m upset and I’m like, ‘Nah, I can’t be. No way.’”

“We already did the MTV VMAs, so what are we going to do ― the same thing again?” Chasez insisted, with Kirkpatrick adding, “Every show’s different, every circumstance is different.”

I Want You Back: ‘If The Stars Align, Then We Get Back Together’

*NSYNC reunites for Justin Timberlake's Vanguard award performance at the 2013 MTV Video Music Awards. STAN HONDA via Getty Images

When it comes to *NSYNC, reunion is still the word.

Although the guys regularly keep up with each other over group text ― “Sometimes I’ll be drunk and be like, ‘Oh my god, I love you guys, you’re so great. Merry Chrismas,’” Fatone said ― they are one of the only boy bands who have not yet reunited for a tour or new album. Their only joint performance since “the break” was that MTV Video Music Awards bit for Timberlake’s Vanguard award in 2013. Now, the guys will all be together at the Walk of Fame ceremony on Monday. (Yes, Justin, too.)

“It’s a chance for us, even though we’re not singing or dancing, to still look at it as a bit of a performance, because whenever we’re together in public, people seem to want to comment on it, so it will be fun,” Chasez said, with Fatone adding, “You always wish you had something like that or some sort of legacy. It’s going to be exciting when we’re there to see all our fans again if they come out or watch it live, and see people we worked with, wrote with ― I think a lot of them are coming out, as well. It’s going to be a great reunion.”

When asked if some iconic *NSYNC looks would be making their way to Los Angeles for the event, the guys laughed the plan down.

“I don’t know if we’re going to crack out any of the old outfits. Although, Joey’s pretty great at hanging onto stuff, so he could probably put an outfit or two together,” Chasez said.

“I have some of them, but I don’t think they would fit me. That’s the problem,” Fatone joked. “What I had back then was probably a little smaller!”

“Those looks are long gone,” Kirkpatrick said, “like the hairstyles!”

JC Chasez, Chris Kirkpatrick,Lance Bass, JustinTimberlake, and Joey Fatone pose for an August 1999 portrait in Los Angeles, California. Bob Berg via Getty Images

And if you’re still one of those fans hoping Justin, JC, Joey, Chris and Lance get back together for a celebratory tour, we have some hopeful news: Never say never. Keep in mind, though, that it’s doubtful Timberlake, who’s selling out venues 15 years after the release of his debut single “Like I Love You,” would go back in time to appease us *NSYNC fanatics. There’s truly no incentive for the triple threat, and Oscar nominee, to reunite with his former bandmates, even if the four of them could benefit ― professionally and financially ― from a Las Vegas residency or summer tour schedule. Dedicated fans will continue living in this bygone time, a perfectly preserved era that’s yet to be sullied by the sight of aging members singing and dancing together onstage once again.

“You never know what’s going to happen,” Bass said. “But maybe it is good that we ended early,” he continued. “It’s almost kind of like when a big celebrity dies early, like Marilyn Monroe. Once you end young, you last forever.”Activists protested at Waffle House’s Atlanta headquarters on Monday, demanding the restaurant chain drop charges against customer Chikesia Clemons, who was violently arrested at an Alabama location on April 22.

Waffle House, however, doubled down on its defense of employees who called the police, and claimed Clemons was threatening the workers with violence.

The activists, including those representing causes like March for Our Lives, the Georgia Alliance for Social Justice, and the NAACP, asked Waffle House to withdraw charges against Clemons, who was charged with disorderly conduct and resisting arrest, according to The Atlanta Journal-Constitution. The activists also asked Waffle House to release video of the incident that “will prove officers threatened Ms. Clemons,” issue a statement rebuking the mishandling of Clemons and take “disciplinary action” against employees involved.

The activists called for a nationwide boycott of Waffle House beginning on Friday.

Clemons, 25, was in a Waffle House in Saraland, Alabama, with a friend when three police officers, summoned by employees, forced her to the floor, exposing her breasts, and handcuffed her, according to a video taken by Clemons’ friend that has since gone viral. Police said Clemons and her friend were drunk and brought alcohol into the restaurant. Clemons, they said, told officers she would “shoot this place up.”

Waffle House quickly released a statement defending the “appropriate” actions of the Saraland Police Department.

On Monday in Atlanta, Waffle House spokesman Pat Warner told demonstrators the chain’s employees are specifically trained to contact police “anytime there is concern about their personal safety or that of their customers.”

“Previously, we stated that upon reviewing security video and eyewitness statements, it was our belief that our associates calling the police was necessary and appropriate,” the company said in a statement.

“In the days since, we have gathered additional details and information. Witnesses say several threats were made to our associates including threats of violence, and that’s why the police were called.”

Just got my hands on an official statement from @WaffleHouse @wsbtv pic.twitter.com/1tDnSM9Ewd — Audrey Washington (@AudreyWSBTV) April 30, 2018

The statement said the company’s investigation into the incident “will conclude this week.”

Police have said they are investigating actions of the officers involved.

Clemons herself spoke publicly for the first time on Sunday, appearing on the MSNBC show “PoliticsNation” with the Rev. Al Sharpton.

Clemons said the arrest has been “so hard” on her. “I can’t eat, I can’t sleep, I’m constantly crying. I have a 6-year-old daughter, I’m trying to be strong for her,” she said.

“She sees me crying, she starts to cry, so it’s very hard on me at the time right now.”

Clemons expressed gratitude to those supporting and defending her.

“I ask you guys continue to be behind me as you fight for justice for me,” she said.

Her attorney, Benjamin Crump, told Sharpton: “There are two independent white women who were in the restaurant that night that said what the waitress did, and, more importantly, what the Saraland police did, Reverend Al, was just unacceptable.”

#ChikesiaClemons (Waffle House police assault victim) asks for the public to continue to stand with her live on #PoliticsNation w/ Al Sharpton pic.twitter.com/OJtN4CsNIY — Reverend Al Sharpton (@TheRevAl) April 29, 2018

Civil rights Attorney Ben Crump discusses #ChikesiaClemons, racism, and hate in the Trump era live w/ me on #PoliticsNation pic.twitter.com/jzBwJIvaBk — Reverend Al Sharpton (@TheRevAl) April 29, 2018

Crump implored viewers to “stand up for our unarmed black women.”

Sharpton, Crump, and other activists will be in Mobile, Alabama, a short drive from Saraland, on Tuesday for a town hall meeting on the incident.

Join me @AttorneyCrump @NationalAction & more to stand with & for #ChikesiaClemons, the young woman assaulted by police officers in a #WaffleHouse in Alabama. Join us 5/1 in Mobile, Alabama at Bethel AME Church for an important townhall to discuss action around this matter. pic.twitter.com/DNbPp9vgPM — Reverend Al Sharpton (@TheRevAl) April 26, 2018“Doesn’t Look Like Anything To Leigh ... And Bill” is HuffPost’s weekly recap in which we break down the craziest thing you might have missed on “Westworld.” This week: Season 2, Episode 2, “Reunion.”

If the connections between “Westworld” and a certain, mysterious stock image have flown under your radar, we have some new information that might finally pique your interest. Remember, back in Season 1 of the HBO series, when Dolores’ (Evan Rachel Wood) father Peter Abernathy (Louis Herthum) short-circuited after discovering a picture of a woman posing in New York City’s Times Square? In the show’s fictional universe, the photo is a shot of Juliet, sister to parkgoer Logan (Ben Barnes) and the eventual wife of William (Jimmi Simpson and Ed Harris), aka the Man in Black. A mere glimpse of the real world beyond Peter’s robotic realm seemingly caused him to malfunction.

HBO

Mr. Abernathy’s frazzled moment was a pivotal “Westworld” plot point, so of course the internet went nuts when fans realized the show had apparently used a Getty stock image of a random woman, rather than hire an actress to play the role of Juliet.

The photographer credited for the photo is Erik von Weber, a name that sounds curiously like Arnold Weber (Jeffrey Wright), one of the characters on the show who helped create Westworld.

Von Weber’s stock images have been used by a variety of websites, including HuffPost, so his involvement in the show didn’t immediately raise red flags. But when fans looked closer at von Weber’s Getty photos, they noticed some other notable pictures: images of horses, cowboys and, most interestingly, samurai, which are all subjects that have a connection to Westworld.

Hmmm. Could von Weber have some secret ties to HBO?

Well, something fascinating just happened: In Season 2, Episode 2, titled “Reunion,” the woman from the Times Square stock photo made an appearance on the show.

HuffPost reached out to the actress, Claire Unabia, to ask her about the experience of evolving from stock photo subject to “Westworld” actress, and she revealed an interesting detail: According to Unabia, the picture she posed for wasn’t originally meant to be a stock photo.

“I’ll be honest with you, I don’t know if they got that photo that way, because that picture, as far as I know, wasn’t for a stock photo,” she said. “I don’t know if that’s actually the way that they got it. I’m not sure. I’ll just put it out there that maybe it wasn’t actually a stock photo.”

Though she doesn’t remember all the specifics of the shoot in question, Unabia recalled it was for a job involving some sort of “technology company.”

“It was for a particular job. What I recall was for technology, [an] internal technology picture, so that’s what I recall taking it for.”

Uh, “technology”? Claire, are you talking about Delos, the company running Westworld?

The actress didn’t think the shoot, which she previously told HuffPost happened about four years before Season 1, was some big HBO conspiracy to take photos of potential “Westworld” stars, but she believes the showrunners “might have had other reasons when they chose the picture.”

She is also suspicious about “Erik von Weber.”

“I don’t recall that name at all,” said Unabia, adding, “Maybe the name is not the actual name.”

When reached for comment on von Weber’s possible connection to the show, HBO reps said they didn’t know if there was any information to share on the topic. We also contacted representatives at Getty Images, who said von Weber has refused all media requests.

But if there is a connection between the photographer and the show, this opens up a wormhole of possibilities. Are the samurai photos on his account associated with the Delos park Shogun World? Do some of von Weber’s other photos hint at future show reveals, too?

Most notably, von Weber’s photos include images of knights and people dressed up like barbarians. Maybe these are peeks into a medieval park world, which was in the original 1973 movie and is rumored to be appearing on the show.

Is this possibly a "Westworld" ax dude? Erik Von Weber via Getty Images

Could this be a "Westworld" knight guy? Erik Von Weber via Getty Images

Is this a "Westworld" king trying to be Stannis Baratheon? Erik Von Weber via Getty Images

In addition to the conspiracy theory, Unabia talked to us about what it was like when HBO tracked her down and put her in the episode.

So when did you really find out your picture was in the show?

It was when [HuffPost’s Carly Ledbetter] reached out asking to talk to me about that and confirm it was me in the picture, and that’s when I found out.

What was your reaction?

I was very surprised. But it’s a kind of a thing where you feel like when you’re putting yourself out there in a way that somehow it will get picked up by the world, so in some way I wasn’t surprised.

When did HBO contact you?

It was after Season 1 finished. They had actually a slightly hard time getting in touch with me as well, and then it was a bit of back and forth with them. They asked me to do a scene and send it to them, and I didn’t hear anything for a while. Then they had some troubles with their shooting and script. They went through a lot of things, so their timeline was put off from what they thought it would’ve been previously. Then, they finally called me in to shoot as if I had known I was coming the whole time. Like, “OK, can you come two days from now or tomorrow?”

What? So were you able to change your schedule?

I did. I was working on some other job, but it was just going to be the last two days of it or something, so I just canceled the last two days and went out.

What’s it like arriving in “Westworld”?

It was a bit magical. You definitely feel like you’re stepping into another world when you arrive at the ranch. It looks a bit just like how it looks on the show, so you feel like you’ve stepped into that world, and I saw some of the set design. It’s crazy how some of it doesn’t feel like these psychotic crazy scary places, but then when I realize what it was, then I had that feeling like, “Oh my gosh. This is that place, and it looks like that place, and it looks like nothing right now, but it’s very scary.”

Was anybody like, “Oh, you’re the person from the photo”?

Yeah, somebody — another director — he came up to me, and he thought he knew me and was talking to me. “Oh, how are you?” and everything. And then it was minutes later that he said, “Oh, my gosh! You’re from the picture!” And he just realized it.

So what was your character, Juliet, thinking when she saw Dolores?

Oh, a world of terrible and suspicious things.

[Laugh] That’s what it looked like.

As a married person, you know, it’s when you have that look and understanding and kind of seeing your whole marriage or life in a way on the edge. It’s very upsetting. Especially in my house? This woman. She comes into my house?

So do you have any theories about the show?

My husband has a theory that I’m going to come back as a robot and kill the Dolores character and have a face off with her. But no, I don’t know anything. I’m not holding fast to any one theory or idea.

So is it weird that Logan is carrying around a picture of his sister in the park?

Yes, I do try to find reasons for that myself. I don’t know. Maybe because there was such excellent history with him and her and the park and his friend that it’s about something more than carrying a picture of your sister.

What’s it like going from a photo to being on the show?

That’s honestly the way that my life always is. Every year it’s some other new, crazy adventure, and I have no plans for it, and things just happened. One year I’m producing a show for a Fringe Festival in Scotland, and then the next year I’m doing something completely different, some acting thing, having kids. That’s the way we live our life. We’re in the art world and the film world. It’s very unpredictable. To read more of HuffPost’s “Westworld” coverage, head here.“I think that there are people who were caught and there were people who were not caught, but the important thing is that they are forever changed,” Silverman told GQ for the magazine’s comedy issue. referring specifically to C.K.

“And if that’s the case, I don’t see any reason why they can’t continue being artists. Now, whether they’re popular artists or not is up to the audience. I have compassion.”

Silverman opened up about the complexities of being friends with someone who falls under the Me Too spotlight. C.K. apologized and acknowledged that several women’s accusations that he masturbated in front them were true. He said he would “step back for a long time” from his career, which included live performances, TV series and movies.

“Fuck you! ‘Let me tell GQ about my conversations with Louie,’” Silverman said when the magazine asked about C.K.

“Life is complicated. Love is even more complicated. But you can’t not do it. I don’t have some definitive sound bite or nutshell of how I feel about it, even to myself. But I’m also okay with that.”

ANGELA WEISS via Getty Images

While some men who have faced Me Too accusations have denied the charges and “continue to be the politicians or the filmmakers that they are,” others, like C.K., have admitted wrongdoing and have vowed to change, Silverman said.

“And yet those are the ones that kind of are excommunicated forever,” she said. He’s my brother, so it’s hard. I may not have a very clear perspective on it, but I’m trying to.”

On Ansari, who was accused by an unnamed woman of impropriety on a date in a now-viral essay, Silverman said: “I was just like, Gross, I don’t wanna know that about Aziz! Hopefully he’s dealing with things, looking inward, and will blossom from it.”

Silverman also talked about the former comedian, ex-Sen. Al Franken (D-Minn.), who stepped down in January after he was accused of inappropriately touching or forcibly kissing eight women.

“I believe in my heart of heart of hearts he never copped a feel,” Silverman said. “The sketch, the whole Leeann Tweeden sketch, is online. You can see it for yourself. It’s not funny, but it’s innocuous. He may have touched some sideboob by accident, or a tush by accident, but I’m telling you, [Franken’s wife] Franni is his best friend and constant companion, and he has eyes for no one else.”

Paul Morigi via Getty Images

Silverman said she believes Franken “got bullied into resigning” and that she’s “never met a more pure person.”

“He’s a Jewish grandpa. He gives you big, Jewish, wet-lipped kisses. This is a guy whose passion was serving people and making the world a better place,” said Silverman. “There’s a lot of baby-in-bathwater stuff, I think. We’ll just get it in the process.”

Reps for Silverman did not immediately respond to HuffPost’s request for further comment.Warning! If you do not want to know who dies in “Avengers: Infinity War,” do not keep reading. You have been warned.

What. Just. Happened?

For fans of the Marvel universe, death has never really meant death. We’ve seen Loki “die” and come back plenty of times. Bucky Barnes and Nick Fury have been assumed dead at various points, only to spring back into existence in the Marvel Cinematic Universe as well.

But this time, it was supposed to be different.

Leading up to the release of “Avengers: Infinity War,” the directors of the film spoke about the movie as a “final chapter.” Marvel boss Kevin Feige talked about the deaths in the movie being “real” this time. In an interview on April 22, one day before the premiere, I asked writers Christopher Markus and Stephen McFeely to define what death means in their recent project.

“Death is death,” McFeely said. “I mean, we’re sensitive to that, and certainly the Marvel universe played with taking characters away and then giving them back to you in some other form. If we say goodbye to some characters, we will say it permanently.”

He continued: “The idea is that this movie’s going to be different and has a potential to be really good is because the stakes are real and choices are real and we know that we’ve cried wolf a little bit on that, so I suppose some audience members might look at that skeptically, but trust us.”

Did you get all that? “Permanent,” he said. “Trust us,” he said.

So I audibly gasped in the theater when certain characters bit the dust. Loki in the film’s first minutes. (Are you kidding me?) Gamora just halfway through the movie. (Holy what?) That is, until the very end, when Spider-Man, most of the Guardians of the Galaxy and Black Panther ― yes, even T’Challa ― crumbled to ash at the snap of Thanos’ fingers, thus rendering everything Marvel said to be pretty much baloney.

As my colleague Matt Jacobs pointed out, these characters are coming back.

New movies are already in the works for “Spider-Man,” “Guardians of the Galaxy” and “Black Panther.” Is the third “Guardians” going to be about Rocket living life as a raccoon on Earth? Is “Spider-Man 2″ going to just focus on Ned putting that Lego Death Star he broke back together?

It all sounds riveting, but I doubt it. These characters will be resurrected one way or another. The creators played up their deaths, insinuating that they would mean something when they, well, won’t. Or can’t. The newly deceased are contractually obligated to come back.

I reached out to a rep for Markus and McFeely to clarify their previous quote, but didn’t hear back as of Monday afternoon.

I could see the studio putting out a press release explaining the sequels have been put on hold ... or something. But it’s not going to change anything.

“Infinity War” was billed as the movie that the previous 18 MCU entires had been building toward. On that count it did not disappoint, but let’s face it: Marvel lied to us.

Captain America can't believe he was fooled by Marvel. Marvel and Disney

Maybe we should’ve seen this coming. After all, the “Infinity Gauntlet” comic, upon which the movie is largely based, is about Thanos killing a bunch of people before the characters eventually just ... reverse everything. But with all the talk of “permanent death” and “real stakes,” it was easy to get caught up in the potential tragedy.

Now we’re left wondering: Were the writers truthful about anything in the run-up to the premiere? Well, maybe. Even before I knew the outcome of “Infinity War,” I asked them, “Wherever Captain America ends up, what was the reasoning for it?”

Markus told me it was a matter of “fulfilling the destiny” of that Brooklyn kid we met back in the 1940s.

“I mean, just continuing to put that guy, Steve Rogers, the asthmatic whatever-other-disease-he-had-at-that-point into the most unbelievable situation ... and taking that to the farthest point,” he said.

This is what “Infinity War” achieves: setting up Captain America (and the other Avengers left standing at the film’s end, aka the actors with soon-to-be-expiring contracts), for one final conflict against Thanos to reverse everything and save the universe at the end of the next movie.

What that involves is anyone’s guess. HuffPost’s Andy McDonald suggested Cap could end up wielding the Infinity Gauntlet in the follow-up movie. I’d be down with that.People wave rainbow flags. paul mansfield photography via Getty Images

Hawaii is set to become the 12th state to ban “conversion therapy” for minors.

The state’s House and Senate passed a bill on Friday that would prevent licensed medical professionals and counselors from conducting sexuality and/or gender identity conversion therapy to people under the age of 18.

Conversion therapy is rooted in the belief, often found in religious communities, that sexuality and gender identity is a choice, and something that can be changed through therapy.

The legislation, SB 270, discusses “sexual orientation change efforts” as a practice that has no scientific backing and can cause “depression, suicidality, loss of sexual feeling, anxiety, shame, negative self-image, and other negative feelings and behaviors,” according to the American Psychological Association.

“The purpose of this Act is to protect the physical and psychological well-being of minors, including lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender youth, against exposure to serious harms caused by sexual orientation change efforts,” the bill reads.

Hawaii Governor David Ige (D) is expected to sign the bill into law.

Michael Golojuch, chair of the LGBT Caucus of the Democratic Party of Hawaii, reacted to the bill’s passage to Hawaii News Now.

“This has been a priority of the caucus for years,” Golojuch said. ”[The measure] ensures that LGQTB youth will not be tortured by mental health professionals.”

JoDee Winterhof, senior vice president for policy and political affairs at the Human Rights Campaign, likened conversion therapy to child abuse when Hawaii’s House of Representatives passed the initial bill in the beginning of April.

“So-called ‘conversion therapy’ is nothing short of child abuse with life-threatening consequences for countless LGBTQ youth,” Winterhof said in a statement. “It is time Hawaii join the growing number of states who are enacting laws to protect LGBTQ youth from this dangerous and discredited practice.”

If Ige signs the bill into law, Hawaii would be the 12th state to ban conversion therapy for minors. New Jersey, California, Illinois and New Mexico are among the 11 states that have implemented legislation banning conversion therapy.Jessica Chastain at the 29th Annual Palm Springs International Film Festival Awards Gala in Palm Springs, California, on Jan. 2, 2018. Mario Anzuoni / Reuters

Jessica Chastain does not like the phrase “be a man” ― and she has a good reason.

The actress debunked the age-old expression in a Sunday morning tweet, writing, “Can we please eliminate the phrase, ‘Stop crying. Be a man?’” She added that the “old fashioned stereotype” just isn’t working anymore.

“Let’s cherish the vulnerabilities of men. Their lives depend on it,” Chastain wrote. “121 Americans die by suicide each day, according to the Centers for Disease Control — and 93 of them are men.”

Can we please eliminate the phrase, "Stop crying. Be a man"?

The old fashioned stereotype doesnt work. Let's cherish the vulnerabilities of men. Their lives depend on it.

121 Americans die by suicide each day, according to the Centers for Disease Control — and 93 of them are men. — Jessica Chastain (@jes_chastain) April 29, 2018

Chastain makes an important point: Suicide is the 10th leading cause of death in the United States and men die by suicide 3.53 times more often than women, according to the American Foundation for Suicide Prevention. White men accounted for seven of every 10 suicides in 2016.

“Men notoriously don’t seek help,” Julie Cerel, president of the American Association of Suicidology and a professor at the University of Kentucky School of Social Work, told NBC News last year. “And as people are aging and at a place in their lives where the world isn’t looking the way they want, men especially don’t know how to reach out and get help or express that they’re feeling pain.”

AdvertisementSEOUL, April 29 (Reuters) - North Korean leader Kim Jong Un has pledged to close the country’s nuclear test site in May in full view of the outside world, Seoul officials said on Sunday, as U.S. President Trump pressed for total denuclearisation ahead of his own unprecedented meeting with Kim.

On Friday, Kim and South Korean President Moon Jae-in vowed “complete denuclearisation” of the Korean peninsula in the first inter-Korean summit in more than a decade, but the declaration did not include concrete steps to reach that goal.

North Korea’s state media had said before the summit that Pyongyang would immediately suspend nuclear and missile tests, scrap its nuclear test site and instead pursue economic growth and peace.

Kim told Moon that he would soon invite experts and journalists from the United States and SouthKorea to “transparently open to the international community” the dismantling of the facilities, the Blue House said.

“Kim said if the United States holds dialog with the North, they would realize that he’s not the kind of person who would fire a nuclear missile toward the South, over the Pacific or targeting the United States,” Moon’s press secretary Yoon Young-chan told a news briefing.

“If the United States meets often and builds trust with us and promises an end of war and non-aggression, why would we lead a difficult life?” Yoon reported Kim as saying.

Kim said there were two additional, larger tunnels that remain “alive and well” at the Punggye-ri test site beyond the existing one, which experts have said had collapsed after repeated explosions, rendering much of the site useless.

Kim’s promise shows his willingness to “preemptively and actively” respond to inspection efforts to be made as part of the denuclearisation process, Yoon said.

To facilitate future cross-border cooperation, Kim pledged to scrap the unique time zone Pyongyang created in 2015. He said the North would move its clocks forward 30 minutes to be in sync with the South, nine hours ahead of Greenwich Mean Time.

Kim also reaffirmed that he would not use military force against the South and raised the need for an institutional mechanism to prevent unintended escalations, Yoon said.

NEXT STEPS

Late Saturday, U.S. President Donald Trump told Moon in a phone call that he was pleased the leaders of the two Koreas reaffirmed the goal of complete denuclearisation during their summit, Seoul officials said on Sunday.

Moon and Trump agreed on the need for an early summit between Trump and Kim, and explored two to three potential locations, the Blue House said.

A senior U.S. official has said Singapore is being considered as a possible venue for the Trump-Kim summit.

“Trump said it was good news for not only the two Koreas but the whole world that they affirmed the goal of realizing a nuclear-free Korean peninsula through a complete denuclearisation,” SouthKorea’s presidential Blue House said. “Trump was looking forward to talks with Kim and there would be a very good result.”

Trump, who called the 75-minute chat “a long and very good talk” on Twitter, said his summit with Kim would take place sometime in the next three to four weeks.

“It’s going be a very important meeting, the denuclearisation of the Korean peninsula,” he said at a campaign rally in Washington, Michigan, on Saturday.

The White House said Trump and Moon during the call “emphasized that a peaceful and prosperous future for North Korea is contingent upon its complete, verifiable, and irreversible denuclearisation.”

Trump had also informed Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe that he would urge North Korea to promptly resolve its abductions of Japanese citizens, the White House said.

Most of the specific commitments outlined in the official declaration signed by Kim and Moon focused on inter-Korean relations and did not clear up the question of whether Pyongyang is willing to give up its arsenal of nuclear weapons and ballistic missiles.

North Korea’s state media on Saturday released the joint statement as part of a multi-page spread with more than 60 photos from the visit, lauding Friday’s summit as a turning point for the peninsula.

It made rare mentions of the denuclearisation discussion, but did not go into detail, instead highlighting the broad themes of peace, prosperity, and Korean unity.

‘AMICABLE ATMOSPHERE’

“At the talks both sides had a candid and open-hearted exchange of views on the matters of mutual concern including the issues of improving the North-South relations, ensuring peace on theKorean Peninsula and the denuclearisation of the peninsula,” KCNA said.

It added that the night wrapped up with a dinner that had an “amicable atmosphere overflowing with feelings of blood relatives.”

The declaration earned guarded but optimistic praise from world leaders, including Trump, who said on Friday that only time would tell, but that he did not think Kim was “playing.”

“It’s never gone this far. This enthusiasm for them wanting to make a deal ... We are going to hopefully make a deal.”

Still, Trump said he would maintain pressure on North Korea and “not repeat the mistakes of past administrations.”

In Sydney on Saturday, Australian Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull praised Trump’s negotiations on North Korea and said he helped bring the two Korean leaders together.

“I have given him that credit because Donald Trump has taken a very, very strong, hard line on the denuclearisation issue and he has been able to bring in the support of the global community and, in particular, China,” Turnbull told a televised news conference, referring to “overwhelming” economic ties between China and North Korea.

“What we’ve now got to do is not relent on the economic pressure until that goal is achieved,” he said.

Australia will send a military aircraft to monitor North Korean vessels suspected of transferring illicit goods in defiance of U.N. sanctions, he said.

Iran, facing a possible U.S. exit from its nuclear deal with world powers, welcomed the inter-Korean summit, but said Washington was not a “qualified” partner in the negotiations.

“Iran sees (the summit) as an important step in the right direction that can contribute to lasting regional and global peace and security,” Iranian foreign ministry spokesman Bahram Qasemi was quoted as saying by state media.

“The U.S. government is not a credible actor, doesn’t comply with its international obligations and doesn’t qualify to take part in arrangements between countries,” Qasemi added.

An editorial in the official China Daily on Saturday said denuclearisation could end hostilities between the two sides and “usher in a new era of development” on the peninsula, but noted Friday’s declaration lacked a plan for achieving the goal.

“The denuclearisation of the peninsula, written into the Panmunjom Declaration, is only a prospect with no specific plan. That is because such specifics can be reached only between the US andNorth Korea, and South Korea has only limited authority to bargain,” it said.LONDON, April 30 (Reuters) - Britain’s interior minister resigned on Sunday after Prime Minister Theresa May’s government faced an outpouring of indignation over its treatment of some long-term Caribbean residents who were wrongly labeled illegal immigrants.

The loss of one of May’s closest allies is a blow as she navigates the final year of negotiations ahead of Britain’s exit from the European Union in March 2019. It also deprives the cabinet of one of its most outspoken pro-European members.

After repeated challenges to her testimony on the deportation of immigrants, Britain's Home Secretary Amber Rudd offered her resignation. Hannah Mckay / Reuters

In a resignation letter to May, Amber Rudd said she had inadvertently misled a parliamentary committee last Wednesday by denying the government had targets for the deportation of illegal migrants. May accepted her resignation.

For two weeks, British ministers have been struggling to explain why some descendants of the so-called “Windrush generation,” invited to Britain to plug labor shortfalls between 1948 and 1971, had been denied basic rights.

The Windrush scandal overshadowed the Commonwealth summit in London and has raised questions about May’s six-year stint as interior minister before she became prime minister in the wake of the 2016 Brexit referendum.

“The Windrush scandal has rightly shone a light on an important issue for our country,” Rudd said in a resignation letter to May.

Rudd, who was appointed Home Secretary in 2016, said voters wanted those who had the right to reside in Britain to be treated fairly and humanely but also that illegal immigrants be removed.

MAY TO BLAME?

The opposition Labour Party, which had repeatedly called on Rudd to resign, said May was responsible and should explain her own role in the government’s immigration policies.

“The architect of this crisis, Theresa May, must now step forward to give an immediate, full and honest account of how this inexcusable situation happened on her watch,” said Diane Abbott, Labour’s spokeswoman on interior affairs.

Abbott called on May to give a statement to the House of Commons explaining whether she knew that Rudd was misleading parliament about the deportation targets.

Facing questions over the Windrush scandal, Rudd, 54, told lawmakers on Wednesday that Britain did not have targets for the removal of immigrants, but was forced to clarify her words after leaked documents showed some targets did exist.

The Guardian newspaper on Sunday reported a letter from Rudd to May last year in which she stated an “ambitious but deliverable” aim for an increase in the enforced deportation of immigrants.

After repeated challenges to her testimony on the deportation of immigrants, Rudd telephoned May on Sunday and offered her resignation.

“I feel it is necessary to do so because I inadvertently misled the Home Affairs Select Committee over targets for removal of illegal immigrants,” Rudd told May.

With her Conservative Party split over Brexit, May will have to be careful to preserve the uneasy balance in the cabinet after the loss of such a senior pro-EU minister.

Possible contenders who could replace Rudd include Environment Secretary Michael Gove, Health Secretary Jeremy Hunt, Communities Secretary Sajid Javid, Northern Irish Secretary Karen Bradley and former Northern Irish Secretary James Brokenshire.

WINDRUSH CRISIS

The government has apologized for the fiasco, promised citizenship and compensation to those affected, including to people who have lost their jobs, been threatened with deportation and denied benefits because of the errors.

But the controversy over policies which May is closely associated with has raised awkward questions about how the pursuit of lower immigration after Brexit sits alongside the desire to be an outward-looking global economy.

The immigrants are named after the Empire Windrush, one of the first ships to bring Caribbean migrants to Britain in 1948, when Commonwealth citizens were invited to fill labor shortages and help rebuild the economy after World War Two.

Almost half a million people left their homes in the West Indies to live in Britain between 1948 and 1970, according to Britain’s National Archives.

A week before local elections, May apologized to the black community on Thursday in a letter to The Voice, Britain’s national Afro-Caribbean newspaper.

“We have let you down and I am deeply sorry,” she said. “But apologies alone are not good enough. We must urgently right this historic wrong.”

The crisis has focused attention on May, who as interior minister set out to create a “really hostile environment” for illegal immigrants, imposing tough new requirements in 2012 for people to prove their legal status.

Rudd’s resignation comes four months after another close ally and her then most senior minister, Damian Green, was forced out of his job for lying about whether he knew pornography had been found on computers in his parliamentary office.

Anna Soubry, a Conservative lawmaker, predicted Rudd may one day return to a senior job in government.