"Republicans will never do anything on gun control," says former GOP Rep. David Jolly. "The idea of gun policy in the Republican party is to try to get a speaking slot at the NRA and prove to that constituency that you are further right." pic.twitter.com/4ijiJ4ZwKW — CNN (@CNN) February 15, 2018

If Americans want gun control legislation in the wake of Wednesday’s mass shooting at a Florida high school, they need to vote Republicans out of office, a former GOP lawmaker said.

“Republicans will never do anything on gun control,” former Rep. David Jolly (R-Fla.) said on CNN Wednesday.

Jolly said Republicans refuse to enact any gun control laws, even after a member of Congress was shot at a baseball practice last year.

“The idea of gun policy in the Republican party is to try to get a speaking slot at the NRA and prove to that constituency that you are further right than generations past on guns,” Jolly said.

Then, he called on voters to take to the ballot box in November:

“If this is the issue that defines your ideology as a voter, there are two things I would suggest tonight. First, flip the House. Flip the House. Republicans are not going to do a single thing after this shooting we saw today.”

Democrats should then bypass Republicans and go directly to the law enforcement community and work on real solutions for gun control, Jolly said. He also suggested it might be time to give his party the boot since Republicans in Congress have done little to keep President Donald Trump in check.

“We do know that we have a president who very well might put this nation at risk and this Republican Congress has done nothing to check his power,” Jolly added. “Democrats could, and we might be better off as a republic if they take the House in 2018.”Kelly Ripa has had enough. Mark Sagliocco via Getty Images

Talk show host Kelly Ripa declared that “thoughts and prayers are not enough anymore” the morning after a gunman killed 17 people and injured at least 15 others at a South Florida high school on Wednesday.

″[I] don’t know how how many times this is going to happen,” Ripa said on “Live With Kelly and Ryan” on Thursday. “I don’t know how many times it has to happen for a school shooting, a mass shooting of this caliber, before somebody does something, before people really get into it.”

Ripa also got out in front of people who would criticize her, as a celebrity or a talk show host, for talking about an issue like gun violence.

“In this moment, I am a mom of three kids that go to school and I had to talk my kids off a ledge this morning because they were afraid to go to school,” she said, adding that her kids have grown up practicing active shooter drills.

Kelly Ripa on the recent Florida school shooting:



“And people are gonna say, ‘Oh, you’re a talk show host, shut up.’ In this moment, I am a mom of three kids that go to school and I had to talk my kids off a ledge this morning because they were afraid to go to school.” pic.twitter.com/dpVpYMU0Ef — Michael Blackmon (@blackmon) February 15, 2018

“The fact that our country has such unparalleled mass shooter violence is staggering to me,” Ripa said.

“Somebody needs to have a conversation that is larger than in this moment, and, again, I just say it as a concerned citizen and parent and human being that something needs to change. There needs to be a bigger, better dialogue because we are failing in this area,” she added as the audience broke into applause.

Ripa ended with a powerful message about those in power who continue to send “thoughts and prayers” instead of taking serious action.

“Offering thoughts and prayers are not enough anymore,” she said. “And I can’t imagine the horror of the parents of that school, or any school, when this happens. Or any place where this happens.”

Ripa is one of many people who spoke up after Wednesday’s massacre at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Florida, which was the 17th school shooting incident of 2018.

David Hogg, a 17-year-old senior who survived the shooting after a janitor helped him hide, told lawmakers they need to “take some action.”

“We need to dig out of this hole,” Hogg said in an interview with KTRK. “There is something seriously wrong here. And some of our policymakers need to look in the mirror and take some action, because without action, ideas stay ideas and children die.”

"There needs to be a bigger, better dialogue because we are failing in this area." pic.twitter.com/mQhlzMiN4D — Michael Blackmon (@blackmon) February 15, 2018Florida Republicans Sen. Marco Rubio and Gov. Rick Scott were swift to condemn the horrific school shooting in their state on Wednesday afternoon, offering prayers after a gunman killed at least 17 people at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland.

Scott called for “thoughts and prayers” as news of the shooting emerged, and Rubio sent off a tweet calling the shooting an event “you pray never comes.”

Shortly after the shooting in Parkland, Florida, on Wednesday, Sen. Marco Rubio (R) tweeted that "Today is that terrible day you pray never comes." Drew Angerer via Getty Images

But both men have a history of coziness with gun advocates, receiving “A+” ratings and endorsements from the National Rifle Association ahead of their respective elections in 2014 and 2016. The distinction is reserved “for legislators who have excellent voting records on Second Amendment issues and who have vigorously fought to promote and defend the right to keep and bear arms.”

During a Republican presidential primary debate in 2015, Rubio said new gun laws were “ineffective” and “infringe on the rights of law-abiding people and do nothing to keep guns out of the hands of dangerous people.” A few months later, he went out and bought a gun on Christmas Eve. Critics were quick to remind the lawmakers of their track records of voting against gun restrictions that could help prevent tragedies like the one in Parkland.

Marco Rubio has faced no political pushback from constituents for his NRA-friendliness, despite 3 mass shootings in his state. Tell him so. https://t.co/HkomPFjlPi — Heidi N Moore (@moorehn) February 15, 2018

Terribly sad. Incompetent or evil? It doesn't matter anymore cause these NRA owned Republicans & their Russian money buddies are murdering our children & they all have to go. @FLGovScott lets people die inhumane deaths in old folks homes too so he's extra special. #BlueWave2018 https://t.co/C8Ui0kX2mw — Tom Arnold (@TomArnold) February 15, 2018

Some discussed Rubio’s longtime acceptance of campaign donations from the NRA. An analysis by The New York Times last year found he had received more than $3.3 million from the group.

$3,303,355 — Bess Kalb (@bessbell) February 14, 2018

Rubio rejected calls for gun control in an interview with Fox News after the Parkland shooting, saying it was the wrong time to discuss such efforts “because people don’t know how this happened.”

“I think it’s important to know all of [the facts] before you jump to conclusions that there’s some law we could have passed that could have prevented it,” he said. “There may be, but shouldn’t we at least know the facts? I think that we can always have that debate, but ... you should know the facts of that incident before you run out and prescribe some law you claim could have prevented it.”

Later on Wednesday, Rubio said federal authorities told him the shooting was a “clear attack” that was “designed and executed to maximize loss of life.”

Scott has also long resisted gun control efforts. Shortly after the massacre at Pulse nightclub in Orlando in 2016, the Florida governor repeatedly said the Second Amendment “didn’t kill anybody.”

“Let’s remember, the Second Amendment has been around for over 200 years,” Scott told CNN at the time. “That’s not what killed innocent people; evil killed innocent people.”

Broward County Sheriff Scott Israel said Wednesday that the shooter in Parkland was armed with an AR-15 assault-style rifle, a high-capacity weapon that has become synonymous with many of America’s deadliest mass shootings. The shooter in the Orlando attack used a similar weapon, which is easier to obtain in Florida than a handgun. HuffPost reporters purchased an AR-15 in Orlando in just 38 minutes only two days after the shooting.

Many lawmakers have been urging Congress to take action to rein in access to such weaponry, but those efforts have mostly failed.

A bipartisan effort to ban “bump stocks,” which give semiautomatic weapons the capability to fire long bursts of ammunition, gained steam shortly after 58 people died in a mass shooting at a Las Vegas music festival last year. Rubio said he was open to legislation that would ban bump stocks and that Congress should move “to prevent such attacks in the future.”

But four months later, the effort has largely failed at the national level, even as states and cities have moved to ban their sale.

Sen. Chris Murphy (D-Conn.), who had just been elected when the Sandy Hook massacre took place, slammed his colleagues on Wednesday after the attack, saying Congress’ inaction had led to such shootings.

“This happens nowhere else other than the United States of America,” Murphy said. “This epidemic of mass slaughter ... it only happens here, not because of coincidence, not because of bad luck, but as a consequence of our inaction.”Baltimore told y’all.

They said it during West Wednesday rallies in memory of Tyrone West, a black man who died during a 2013 traffic stop in Northeast Baltimore. They said it when victims who had been paid to keep quiet still chose to speak out about police violence. They screamed it at the top of their lungs after unarmed Keith Davis Jr. was shot in the face by a city cop in June 2015. Maybe you heard when they burned police cars after Freddie Gray died in police custody in 2015. Or maybe when they talked about their certainty that no officer would be punished in Gray’s death.

On Monday, a federal jury actually found two former Baltimore police officers guilty in a major corruption case. Detectives Daniel Hersl and Marcus Taylor, former members of the city’s now-disbanded Gun Trace Task Force, had been charged with racketeering and robbery.

Six other officers on that task force had already pleaded guilty on similar charges. Four of them had testified against Hersl and Taylor, proving once again what many black folks in Baltimore had known for decades: The Baltimore Police Department is a disgustingly corrupt example of how law and order falls on the heads of black citizens.

Testimony in the corruption case revealed that officers would drive their patrol cars toward groups of people, provoking them to flee, in order to justify unwarranted searches. They carried toy guns in case they killed an unarmed person and needed to plant something. They planted drugs. They tracked some of their targets with illegal GPS tracking devices. They robbed civilians. They sold drugs and guns. They put in for overtime hours even when they weren’t working and pocketed hundreds of thousands of taxpayer dollars. They levied “taxes” on local drug dealers.

“Yes, cops take money from drug dealers. Cops rape. Cops lie in their reports,” University of Baltimore professor and Baltimore native D. Watkins wrote last month for Salon. “Cops beat people. Cops sell drugs. Cops threaten citizens. Cops intimidate other cops. Cops are gang-affiliated; they’ll snatch a blunt out of your hand and smoke it, hide extra guns in the dope house, aim their pistol at you for fun, plant drugs on you, make you sell drugs for them or with them, make you rob and steal, and then expect to be called ‘hero’ no matter what they’ve done. Politicians from every side — from those as progressive as Obama to those as racist as Trump — break their necks to co-sign their hero status.”

In light of the latest revelations, a Maryland state lawmaker has even called for disbanding the city’s police force, citing the dissolution of the Camden, New Jersey, police department in 2013. “The decision came in the wake of record high murder rates and an extremely inefficient police budget ― both of which are problems that Baltimore City currently faces. It was a bold, nearly unprecedented decision, but it worked,” said Del. Bilal Ali, who represents part of Baltimore.

A 2016 Justice Department report described how officers in the Baltimore Police Department routinely abused residents’ civil rights, targeted black individuals, performed unconstitutional searches, retaliated against individuals and failed to hold cops accountable for misconduct. The report said that the department was racist “at every stage of [its] enforcement actions” and that these practices “erode[d] the community trust that is critical to effective policing.”

In 2016, the No Boundaries Commission and the West Baltimore Commission on Police Misconduct, two local advocacy groups, released their own report detailing the abuse inflicted on residents of the Sandtown-Winchester neighborhood by police. Fear of law enforcement’s retaliation was so great that only 39 of the 450 residents who spoke with researchers were willing to be quoted, even under a pseudonym.

“It used to be that if you did something illegal, they patted you down, they arrested you, and they locked you up,” one resident told researchers. “Now, they don’t even arrest you; they just take you in the alley and they beat you up. It doesn’t matter what you do.”

Another resident said that one “officer picked me up and slammed me on my face, took my backpack off, and threw all my books out, and when they didn’t find anything kicked me in my stomach. I was just happy they didn’t lock me up and bounced.” (If this sounds crazy, please note that according to testimony in the corruption case, Gun Trace Task Force supervisor Sgt. Wayne Jenkins thought men over the age of 18 with bookbags looked suspicious.)

The report also took statements from people had witnessed officers robbing drug dealers.

But it shouldn’t take a federal trial, a federal report, a new local report or really any institutional confirmation to convince people of the way that many police departments ― including those outside Baltimore ― take advantage of the most vulnerable citizens. The people of Baltimore have been saying this stuff for decades. Yet it required a Justice Department investigation and a trial involving almost cinematic incidents of corruption for other folks to believe them. That itself is part of the problem.

Maybe, Watkins suggested, Freddie Gray’s death might not have gone unpunished in a country that wholly accepted the premise that cops are not always heroes, but often damaged individuals who readily harm black (and Latino, LGBTQ and other marginalized) citizens.

“How might a case like this have changed public perception around Gray’s death?” Watkins wrote, referring to the corruption trial. “Even though they stopped Gray for no reason and then he died while in their custody, people still saw them, at worst, as heroes who made a mistake. Because if all cops are heroes, those cops couldn’t have done anything intentionally malicious to cause Freddie Gray’s death, right?”Ryan suggested waiting on “the facts” when asked Thursday morning whether the shooting should prompt a debate on gun control.

“It’s just a horrific, horrific, horrible, horrible shooting. I mean, I think we need to pray,” he said during an interview with Indiana radio station WIBC. “Our hearts go out to these victims. I think as public policy makers, we don’t just knee-jerk before we even have all of the facts and the data.”

But collecting such data is difficult in the U.S. thanks to a 1996 law that restricts federal funding for research on gun violence.

Known as the Dickey Amendment, after former Rep. Jay Dickey (R-Ark.), the law states that “none of the funds made available for injury prevention and control at the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention may be used to advocate or promote gun control.”

The language effectively ended federal research on gun violence. The CDC’s National Center for Injury Prevention funds research on a wide array of topics, including motor vehicle safety, domestic violence, and falls by elderly Americans.

Dickey himself later countered lawmakers’ belief that the CDC is forbidden from adding gun violence to its list of research interests. In a 2016 open letter, the former congressman wrote that “funding for research into gun-violence prevention should be dramatically increased” and said he does not consider “the congressional language against using federal funds ‘to promote or advocate gun control’ as a barrier to this research.”

However, the amendment continues to serve as exactly that ― a barrier.

“I wish we had started the proper research and kept it going all this time,” Dickey told HuffPost in 2015. “I have regrets.”

Whether lawmakers will take any action on gun control after Florida’s tragedy remains unclear. Ryan pointed to legislation on background checks introduced after a deadly shooting at a Texas church in November as evidence that the Republican-controlled House has not ignored gun violence entirely.

“It’s not as if nothing has been done to enforce the laws we have on the books and make sure that people ― bad people ― who aren’t supposed to have guns don’t get rights,” he said Thursday. “But I don’t think that means you then roll that conversation into taking away citizens’ rights ― taking away a law-abiding citizens’ rights. Obviously this conversation typically goes there. Right now, I think we need to take a breath and collect the facts.”

During his weekly press conference Thursday, Ryan again urged the public to “step back and count our blessings.”

“We need to think less about taking sides, fighting each other politically, and just pulling together,” he said.

Ryan once again touted a comprehensive mental health bill that was included in an even larger bill ― the 21st Century Cures Act ― and said lawmakers needed more time to figure out if there were additional steps they needed to take in the implementation of that law.

Ryan said officials needed more time to investigate the shooting in Florida. Still, there is more the government can do right now in order to look into the cause and effects of gun violence more broadly.

Allowing the CDC to study gun violence is one obvious step. Holding hearings in Congress about background checks or other gun control measures would be another. Democrats on Thursday also suggested forming a special committee on gun violence.

When asked about forming a special committee, Ryan said Congress was already doing its job.

“Look, we passed mental health legislation two years ago because of the underlying mental health problems that were behind these shootings,” Ryan said.Donovan Mitchell inked messages onto the side of his shoes during Wednesday night's game. Gene Sweeney Jr. via Getty Images

Utah Jazz guard Donovan Mitchell sent a powerful message about gun violence during his team’s Wednesday night win over the Phoenix Suns.

The 21-year-old NBA player inked two messages onto his shoes in response to the horrific mass shooting hours earlier at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Florida.

Mitchell wrote “End Gun Violence” on the side of his right shoe:

Shoes worn by Donovan Mitchell of the Utah Jazz during the second half of a game against the Phoenix Suns at Vivint Smart Home Arena on February 14, 2018, in Salt Lake City. Gene Sweeney Jr. via Getty Images

And on his left shoe, he penned, “Pray for Parkland.”

The sneakers of Donovan Mitchell of the Utah Jazz during the game against the Phoenix Suns on February 14, 2018, at Vivint Smart Home Arena in Salt Lake City. Melissa Majchrzak via Getty Images

After the game, Mitchell explained to reporters why the shooting prompted him to take a stand:

“My mom’s a schoolteacher. I was about 15, 20 minutes away during the Sandy Hook shooting. It’s kind of scary. I’m not saying all shootings make me feel the same way, but especially school shootings, with my mom being a nursery teacher, it’s kind of scary that that could happen at any moment, anywhere.”

Mitchell also called for “something” to be done about gun violence in the U.S.NBC doesn’t seem to be budging from its mispronunciation of “Pyeongchang.”

Despite guidance from the Asian American Journalists Association, among others, that confirms the Olympic host city is pronounced “Pyeong-ch-ah-ng” (like the “ah” sound you make at the doctor’s, according to the video), NBC is sticking with the incorrect pronunciation “Pyeong-ch-ay-ng” (rhymes with slang).

The outlet reportedly discussed the pronunciation internally, settling on the mispronunciation because “it’s cleaner,” Mark Lazarus, chairman of NBC Broadcasting and Sports, told Sports Business Journal in November. A network spokesperson did not immediately respond to a HuffPost request for comment.

NBC’s deliberate mispronunciation isn’t sitting right with the Asian community and journalists on social media, who have criticized the network for disrespecting the host city.

NBC has taught me that “PyeongChang” has three and a half syllables…



…when you don’t really care to spend the three and a half seconds it takes to learn the correct pronunciation and stop sounding like an obnoxious foreigner. — Aijaz Ansari (@_aijaz_) February 14, 2018

"Here's how you pronounce our city in our land. We even transliterated the name into the alphabet you guys use."

"Thanks but I don't give a shit." — T.K. of AAK! (@AskAKorean) February 14, 2018

NBC's official approach to the correct pronunciation of PyeongChang: fuck it. https://t.co/pVhrO4Je3V — Angry Asian Man (@angryasianman) February 15, 2018

Wait a minute. @NBC is deliberately mispronouncing the name of the #Olympics host city because they they've decided their way is "cleaner"? #pyeongchang2018 https://t.co/M8nzy4iHPP — melissa block (@NPRmelissablock) February 15, 2018

The AAJA’s MediaWatch has also encouraged journalists to “use the accurate pronunciation of the host city for the 2018 Winter Olympic games,” and the group’s co-chair, CeFaan Kim, told The Washington Post’s Erik Wemple that “unless you’re pronouncing it the way our guidance shows, it’s incorrect.”

However a spokesperson for NBC Sports told HuffPost in a statement that the network made its decision.

AdvertisementFox News’ host Laura Ingraham aired a segment on her show Wednesday night about the assault weapon used in the Parkland, Florida school shooting.

Throughout the segment, Ingraham spoke with her guest, Aaron Cohen, about the safety of the AR-15 semiautomatic assault rifle, and repeatedly lambasted Sen. Chris Murphy (D-Conn.) for calling on lawmakers to pass legislation that would limit access to such weapons.

“Didn’t take him long to go right to gun control,” Ingraham said.

“Is this a problem with the gun or the shooter?” she added. “Let’s look at the AR-15, what makes it so popular and overwhelmingly what makes it so safe.”

Ingraham and her guest continued to highlight the benefits of the AR-15 for home defense, with Cohen noting that Murphy wasn’t “really qualified” to offer a commentary on its safety.

“This is a security issue. It’s not a weapon issue,” Cohen said. “That kid had parents. Where’s the parents?”

At least 17 people were killed on Wednesday and more than a dozen injured in the shooting at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School. The suspect, 19-year-old Nikolas Cruz, allegedly used an AR-15 assault-style rifle and had “multiple magazines” on him, the Broward County Sheriff said.

The AR-15 was developed for the battlefield and designed to kill people as efficiently as possible. In most states, the weapon is relatively cheap and customizable to hold 60 or 100 rounds at a time.

Ingraham said the AR-15 was an “extremely popular” type of rifle. It has been used in several mass shootings, including the 2012 Sandy Hook massacre and the deadly attack on a Las Vegas music festival last year.

Murphy was elected to the Senate just before 27 people were killed in the Sandy Hook shootings. On Wednesday, he took to the Senate floor to urge his colleagues to take action and stop what he called an “epidemic of mass slaughter.”

Murphy also laid a heap of blame on Congress.

“We are responsible for a level of mass atrocity that happens in this country with zero parallel anywhere else,” he said.President Jacob Zuma, South Africa’s fourth democratic head of state, resigned Wednesday amid an acrimonious battle for control of the nation and the governing party, the African National Congress.

He told South Africans during a late-night televised address that, although he disagreed with the decision by the ANC to remove him, he would leave “with immediate effect.”

It is an ignominious end to a presidency beset by charges of corruption, bad governance, opportunism, economic stagnation and criminality. When South Africa’s National Assembly convenes Thursday, it is expected to elect Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa, a Nelson Mandela protégé, as head of state.

Zuma, disgraced, will depart the presidency nine years after he was elected. He now faces prosecution and is likely to be ostracized by a party that once reportedly aided and abetted his pillaging of the state but which will now do its best to distance itself from its former leader.

While Zuma assumed the presidency under a cloud of corruption and amid deep doubts about his integrity, he once had the support of a large part of the electorate who was willing to give him the benefit of the doubt. Many believed that once he was elevated to the position once occupied by a figure as beloved as Mandela, he would rise to the occasion and become more effective than his predecessor, Thabo Mbeki, in advancing the national project of building a new society.

For a while, at least, he was a colossus upon South Africa’s political and national terrain, dominating his party and directing the affairs of state. But his repurposing of the nation to serve his personal interests undermined and wounded institutions, violated the constitution and reduced the ANC, which once fought to defeat white minority rule, to a patronage network.

Zuma saw the state as his personal protection racket, a network he could use to dispense patronage and wealth. But he also appeared determined to use his office to manipulate key institutions to ensure that he stay out of jail. He quickly took control of key institutions, including the police and intelligence and judicial systems, installing a succession of subservient political figures to protect him and his network.

Once he had neutered systems of accountability, he turned his attention to the economic sphere. He cleaned out the South African Revenue Service, installing as its commissioner a minion who engineered the wholesale gutting of one of the jewels in the civil service system.

Next up was National Treasury. His good friends and family benefactors, the Gupta brothers, needed access to state coffers, and when ministers of finance seemed to get in the way on two occasions, in December 2015 and again in March 2017, Zuma removed the ministers without consultation.

As a result of this so-called state capture, trust in government ― and in the ANC ― suffered greatly, and that eventually led to Zuma’s downfall.

A customer reacts while watching a telecast in a bar in Randburg, Johannesburg, as South African President Jacob Zuma announced his resignation Wednesday. WIKUS DE WET via Getty Images

Zuma took the reins of a governing party with an electoral majority of close to 70 percent. He went on to mold the ANC in his image: He became the ANC, and the ANC became him.

Today, the party is much diminished, its electoral future an uncertainty. The party, which has lost control of major cities, including Johannesburg and Pretoria, could dip below 50 percent in next year’s election and is now deeply divided. Its national conference in December led to a fragile and uncertain détente between battling factions ― one attempting to reform the party and the other seemingly still determined to use it as vehicle for maximum rent extraction from the nation.

But if there is a silver lining in the events of the last few months ― which included reporting by an independent press and the display of courage by public servants who called out or investigated corruption ― it is that it reminded South Africans of the lofty ideals that they built their democratic state on in 1994.JOHANNESBURG, Feb 15 (Reuters) - After weeks of tortuous discussions to convince scandal-plagued Jacob Zuma to step down as head of state, South Africa’s great negotiator, Cyril Ramaphosa, has fulfilled his long-held ambition to lead the country.

Deputy president since 2014, Ramaphosa has been the country’s dominant politician since he replaced Zuma as leader of the ruling African National Congress in December.

But he had to strike a fine balance between applying pressure on Zuma, a 75-year-old anti-apartheid veteran, and affording him a dignified exit.

Facing waning electoral support for his party, Ramaphosa needed to avoid alienating ANC members still loyal to Zuma despite the economic stagnation and sleaze allegations that tainted his nine years in power.

Ramaphosa, 65, used the same painstaking negotiating strategy he employed in talks to end white minority rule, when he negotiated on behalf of the ANC. He ignored frustration from some sections of the media and opposition parties who have been howling for Zuma to go for years.

Ramaphosa’s dealmaking skills have been apparent for decades.

Nelson Mandela turned to the former trade union leader when he needed a tenacious negotiator to lead talks to end apartheid. The successful conclusion of those talks paved the way for Mandela to sweep to power in 1994 as head of the victorious ANC after South Africa’s first democratic vote.

Mandela wanted Ramaphosa to be his heir but was pressured into picking Thabo Mbeki by a group of ANC leaders who had fought apartheid from exile.

It has taken more than two decades for Ramaphosa to get another chance to run the country.

“Ramaphosa’s ambition for the presidency has been clear through his whole adult life. He was quite clearly wounded by his marginalization in the Mbeki period,” said Anthony Butler, a politics professor who has written a biography of Ramaphosa.

Ramaphosa faces a major challenge in turning the country round. But his pledges to boost growth and fight corruption have gone down well with foreign investors and ANC members who thought Zuma’s handling of the economy could cost the party dearly in a parliamentary election next year.

Financial markets have seen a “Ramaphosa rally” since he defeated Zuma’s preferred successor and ex-wife Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma in last year’s ANC leadership contest.

LABOUR LEADER

Unlike Zuma, Ramaphosa was not driven into exile for opposing apartheid, which some of the party’s more hardline members hold against him.

He fought the injustices of white minority rule from within South Africa, most prominently by defending the rights of black miners as leader of the National Union of Mineworkers.

A member of the relatively small Venda ethnic group, Ramaphosa was able to overcome divisions that sometimes constrain members of the larger Zulu and Xhosa groups.

A massive miners’ strike led by Ramaphosa’s NUM in 1987 taught business that “Cyril was a force to be reckoned with,” said Michael Spicer, a former executive at Anglo American.

“He has a shrewd understanding of men and power and knows how to get what he wants from a situation,” Spicer said.

The importance of Ramaphosa’s contribution to the talks to end apartheid is such that commentators have referred to them in two distinct stages: BC and AC, Before Cyril and After Cyril.

Ramaphosa also played an important role in drafting South Africa’s post-apartheid constitution.

INVESTOR FAVORITE

After missing out on becoming Mandela’s deputy, Ramaphosa withdrew from active political life, switching to business.

His investment vehicle Shanduka - Venda for “change” - grew rapidly and acquired stakes in mining firms, mobile phone operator MTN and McDonald’s South African franchise.

Phuti Mahanyele, a former chief executive at Shanduka, recalled that Ramaphosa required staff to contribute to charitable projects aimed at improving access to education for the underprivileged.

By the time Ramaphosa sold out of Shanduka in 2014, the firm was worth more than 8 billion rand (now $685 million), making him one of South Africa’s 20 richest people.

To his supporters, Ramaphosa’s business success equips him for the task of turning around an economy grappling with 28 percent unemployment and credit rating downgrades.

Pravin Gordhan, a respected former finance minister, told Reuters that Ramaphosa’s election as ANC leader was enough to change “the whole narrative about South Africa’s economy” within three months.

But Ramaphosa has his detractors too.

He was a non-executive director at Lonmin when negotiations to halt a violent wildcat strike at its Marikana platinum mine in 2012 ended in police shooting 34 strikers dead.

An inquiry subsequently absolved Ramaphosa of guilt. But some families of the victims still blame him for urging the authorities to intervene.

“My conscience is that I participated in trying to stop further deaths from happening,” Ramaphosasaid of the incident.

Others have warned Ramaphosa that he should not take their support for granted.

“Cyril has got to be wiser than President Zuma,” said Sdumo Dlamini, president of South African trade union federation COSATU and a member of the ANC’s national executive.

“He leads as part of a collective, and we need to see a serious turnaround to address the challenges of joblessness and inequality, which are huge.”A series of videos released this week show former USA Gymnastics and Michigan State University team doctor Larry Nassar calling himself a victim and blaming a woman who accused him of sexual assault for not saying something about feeling violated.

“That’s my self-torture, I guess you could say. Yes, she was victimized. Yes, I was victimized, to myself,” Nassar says in one clip from 2014.

The videos were obtained through Freedom of Information Act requests by WXYZ in Detroit and show Nassar being interviewed by officers with the MSU Police Department after various complaints were made against him in 2014 and 2016.

In a clip from August 2014, Nassar is seen talking to a detective about a complaint from a graduate student who said the former doctor assaulted her during an appointment. A colleague told Nassar about the complaint, which he relayed to the officer.

“She felt violated, that I was doing, like, I touched her breast and I moved her underwear out of the way. And I’m like, yeah. I do that all the time,” he says in the video.

Nassar is seen taking out his laptop to show the detective videos of himself conducting certain procedures and treatments that involve him having contact with intimate parts of patient’s bodies. Nassar even argued that he had to penetrate his patients sometimes, all as part of procedure.

When the officer argued that the student complained that Nassar was “massaging her breast,” Nassar replied, “It’s the rib cage, you know what I mean?”

“You’re going to be on the chest wall, you move the breast down, you move the breast down to get down to the wall. It’s like giving someone a mammogram almost,” he said.

Nassar also argued that he didn’t “get” why the patient’s complaint was coming through at that time.

“Why didn’t she say something if she was, if she was ... if she was feeling violated in any way, shape or form,” he says in the video. “There was no communication.”

The officer also asks Nassar about other abuse complaints. The doctor claims, in response, that he’s noticed a commonality in the “few times” he’d been accused before. Nassar said that the only women who accused him of sexual abuse had been previously sexually abused.

“There has been a few times where that has been brought up. OK? And each and every time, they were sexually abused,” says Nassar. “So, that’s what, that’s what I’m saying, when they’re uncomfortable about that, there’s been three cases. And all three of them were sexually abused. OK? So that’s why I’m like, yeah. That’s why I’m like, is there something more? What am I missing?”

University police submitted a warrant request for a fourth-degree criminal sexual conduct charge as a result of the 2014 allegations, which prosecution denied.

Scott Olson via Getty Images

In another video from 2016, an officer interviewing Nassar mentions allegations that the doctor would get aroused while with patients.

The complainant this time was Rachael Denhollander, who, by going public with her complaint, would ultimately lead a wave of similar allegations and Nassar’s eventual conviction. During this interview, the doctor stutters while trying to explain why he might have gotten an erection in a treatment session.

“If there was arousal it’s, it’s, it’s…you know what I mean?” he says. “It would be because of, whatever, I don’t know.”

When the officer pressed him to clarify “whatever,” Nassar said that, “when you’re a guy, sometimes you get an erection.”

Nassar was sentenced earlier this year to 40 to 125 years in prison for sexually abusing young athletes under the guise of medical treatment. He had recently been sentenced to 40 to 175 years in prison for other abuse charges, and was serving an additional 60 years on child pornography charges.WASHINGTON, Feb 14 (Reuters) - Congressional Democrats introduced legislation on Wednesday that would provide more than $1 billion to boost cybersecurity of U.S. voting systems, and Vice President Mike Pence defended the administration’s efforts to protect polls from hackers.

The measure followed warnings on Tuesday from U.S. intelligence officials that midterm races in November are likely to see renewed meddling from Russia and possibly other foreign adversaries.

“We cannot let the Russians laugh about and take joy in the success they had in the last election,” Nancy Pelosi, the Democratic leader in the House of Representatives, told a news conference. “Their goal is to undermine democracy.”

Lawmakers have introduced several bills, some with bipartisan support, to bolster election security since the 2016 polls in which Republican Donald Trump was elected president. None have become law.

The new bill is the most comprehensive to date and is aimed at bolstering protection for the midterms and subsequent elections. It has no Republican co-sponsors in the House, which the party controls, and is therefore unlikely to succeed.

Pence, speaking at an event hosted by the online news site Axios, said Americans could trust the 2016 election results and that it was an “ongoing effort” of Trump’s administration to protect election infrastructure.

He also incorrectly said it was the “universal conclusion” among intelligence agencies that Moscow’s efforts had no impact on the 2016 election outcome.

The agencies said in a January 2017 report that no assessment was made about the impact of Russian meddling but that Russia used hacking and propaganda to try to tilt the election in Trump’s favor. Russian President Vladimir Putin has denied this.

A Pence representative did not respond immediately to a request to clarify the discrepancy between Pence’s comments and the intelligence assessment.

The Democrats’ Election Security Act would allocate $1 billion in grants, overseen by the U.S. Election Commission, this year to help states buy voting machines that incorporate backup paper ballots, hire security staff and conduct risk assessments.

It would provide up to an additional $175 million in 2019, 2021, 2023 and 2025, for a total of about $1.75 billion.

The measure would create a $20 million grant program for states to perform post-election audits. It would also require the Department of Homeland Security to expedite security clearances for state election officials and direct the president to develop a strategy to guard U.S. institutions, including elections, from cyber attacks and influence operations.

The department said last year 21 states had experienced initial probing of their systems from Russian hackers and a small number of networks were compromised.

Virtually all 50 states have taken steps since the 2016 election to purchase more secure equipment, expand the use of paper ballots, improve cyber training or seek federal assistance, according to groups that track election security.A lawyer representing the woman who settled a sexual harassment lawsuit with Olympic snowboarder Shaun White last year called out the athlete for minimizing sexual harassment on the world stage.

In a statement provided to USA Today, Lena Zawaideh’s attorney Lawrance Bohm said White’s comments were damaging to his client’s character.

“Mr White’s comments, on the world stage, directly impugn the character of Ms. Zawaideh,” he wrote. “No woman wants to be called a ‘gossip’ or liar by the harasser.”

BREAKING: Attorney for Lena Zawaideh, who alleged harassment and breach of contract in lawsuit that was settled last year, on @shaunwhite's comments: "Hopefully, before our country declares someone 'the best of the U.S.,' there will be investigation and due diligence.” — A.J. Perez (@byajperez) February 15, 2018

The sexual harassment allegations, which were first filed in a 2016 lawsuit, resurfaced this week as White’s quest for a history-making gold medal in Pyeongchang heated up. NBC, the official broadcaster of the Winter Olympics in the U.S., repeatedly referred to him in promotional materials as “the best of the U.S,” prompting Slate to wonder why the network had been mum on the allegations.

Following his win on Wednesday, White was asked about the allegations during a news conference and dismissed them as “gossip.” He later walked back his comment, saying it was “a poor choice of words to describe such a sensitive subject in the world today.”

Zawaideh, a former bandmate, accused White of repeatedly sexually harassing her and sending her lewd text messages.

AdvertisementMike Segar / Reuters

PYEONGCHANG (Reuters) - American Mikaela Shiffrin put on a show of grace, power and consistency to win her first gold medal of the Pyeongchang Olympics in the women’s giant slalom on Thursday.

With all the top 30 having completed their second runs and a huge margin separating them from the rest of the field, the 22-year-old was assured of victory, with Norway’s Ragnhild Mowinckel taking silver and Italy’s Federica Brignone bronze.

After days of frustrating weather delays, it was the perfect start for Shiffrin, who won the slalom in Sochi four years ago and could compete in four or five more events here.

In a contest of sharply fluctuating fortunes between the morning and afternoon runs, her placings of second and fourth-fastest gave her a combined time of two minutes, 20.02 seconds, and a comfortable margin of 0.39 seconds over Mowinckel.

Italy’s Manuela Moelgg was the last of the top 30 to race, having beaten Shiffrin by 0.2 seconds in the morning, but she fumbled her chance of winning an Olympic gold at the age of 34 and finished the competition in eighth place.

Sweden’s Estelle Alphand posted the fastest afternoon time but was only 26th in the morning, leaving her 16th overall.

With many competitors struggling to avoid mistakes and several wiping out altogether on the steep 1,250 meters-long slope, with a vertical drop of 400 meters, Shiffrin was conspicuous by her smooth, attacking style and easy rhythm.

The giant slalom was the first women’s Alpine skiing race to take place at the Pyeongchang Games, after high winds forced it to be rescheduled from Monday and also caused Wednesday’s slalom to be postponed.

(Additional reporting by Rory Carroll; Editing by John O’Brien)Cecile Richards speaks during the 2017 Forbes Women's Summit at Spring Studios on June 13, 2017, in New York City. Taylor Hill via Getty Images

Cecile Richards stands with the thousands of Dreamers asking Congress for a clean Dream Act, legislation that would give young immigrants a path to citizenship without stipulations that could harm immigrant communities.

The president of Planned Parenthood Federation of America expressed solidarity with Dreamers in an essay for Time magazine, published Wednesday. Richards said reproductive justice and immigrant justice go hand in hand.

Many undocumented women seek care at Planned Parenthood, she said, “because our centers are one of the few affordable places they can go, regardless of status, and feel comfortable seeking the care they need.” But many others, she added, forgo treatment for fear of detention or deportation.

“Fear stands in the way of undocumented people seeking out health care professionals for treatment of illnesses and basic reproductive care including birth control,” she wrote. “The simplest necessary actions like going to the doctor, picking up a prescription or getting health insurance can become practically impossible. Today, immigrant communities have higher rates of unintended pregnancy and cervical cancer, and some have higher rates of HIV. Almost half of non-citizen women of reproductive age with low incomes lack health insurance.”

“At Planned Parenthood, we understand that reproductive justice and immigrant justice are part of the same fight,” she added. “Because when women can share their medical histories openly and access reproductive health care without fear, they are better able to build healthy families, participate in the workforce and control their destinies.”

In September 2017, President Donald Trump announced he would rescind the Obama-era program Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) that protects undocumented immigrants who were brought to the U.S. as children. His decision will leave the nearly 700,000 DACA-recipients, known as Dreamers, at risk of deportation. Trump gave Congress until March 5 to act before an estimated 1,000 people per day begin losing protections, although some DACA-recipients have already been affected.

Two federal judges have issued preliminary injunctions blocking Trump’s cancellation of the DACA program, as the White House and many congressional Republicans attempt to use the deadline to add stipulations into a Dream Act that would also increase funding for border security, a border wall, Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) raids and detention centers.

Activists have been pushing for a clean Dream Act in response, one that doesn’t punish immigrant communities, with Richards echoing their sentiment in her essay ― in which she notes that Dreamers “enrich and strengthen our country, and they deserve better than to be used as a political bargaining chip.”But instead of tightening lax gun laws, Congress is looking into loosening some restrictions further.

President Donald Trump has spoken vaguely about the need to curb shootings, saying after the Las Vegas massacre in October that the U.S. would start “talking about gun laws as time goes by.”

But on Thursday, Trump focused on reports that the gunman was “mentally disturbed” and didn’t even mention guns in his first public remarks about the slaughter. He suggested in a tweet that teachers and students could have done more to prevent the attack.Voters in Phoenix, seen here waiting for polls to open at dawn in November 2016, had to wait as long as four hours to vote during the presidential primary earlier that year. Minority communities have not benefited as much as white communities have from innovations to shorten lines. Matt York, The Associated Press

By Matt Vasilogambros

On the day of Arizona’s 2016 presidential primary, the line outside the Maryvale Church of the Nazarene, the Maricopa County polling place for 213,000 mostly Latino, low-income people, extended through the parking lot, down busy North 51st Avenue, and into a neighborhood lined with palm and eucalyptus trees on the western edge of Phoenix.

Some voters waited for four hours or more in the 80-degree heat to cast their ballots, according to Martin Quezada, a Democrat who represents the area in the Arizona Senate. Quezada said the long wait time was more than an inconvenience.

Latino voters don’t trust the system, Quezada said. “If they don’t have a good experience on Election Day when they are casting their ballot, their likelihood of participating in a system they don’t trust again in the future becomes that much harder.”

Across the country, elections officials are marshaling data on registered voters, historic turnout, parking spaces and other information to reduce wait times at polling places. Also helping to decrease wait times is voting by mail, which is available in 22 states, and early voting, which is now offered in 37 states — though a couple of states have rolled back their early voting.

But white voters are benefiting far more from such innovations than Hispanic or black voters are. As the nation gears up for what is shaping up to be a high-energy midterm election this November, the disparity is likely to loom large.

In the 2016 presidential election, black voters, on average, waited 16 minutes to vote, while Latino voters waited 13 minutes, according to a Massachusetts Institute of Technology survey of voters. In the same election, white voters waited 10 minutes. In 2012, black and Latino voters stood in line for more than 20 minutes to cast their ballot, nearly twice as long as white voters.

Stephen Pettigrew, a political scientist at the University of Pennsylvania, has found if there are two neighborhoods in the same city, and one is majority-white and the other has more blacks and Hispanics, voters in the white neighborhood have a shorter wait.

Voting rights advocates call the disparity a “time tax.” They argue that it violates the fundamental right to vote — and that it is often intentional.

“We are in a state of threat to voting rights,” said Denise Lieberman, co-director of the Power and Democracy program at the Washington, D.C.-based Advancement Project, a civil rights organization. “Some actions, like changing polling places, may seem benign on its face, but they are creating havoc.”

Fewer Resources

In poorer counties and cities, long lines may stem from a lack of resources. But even in wealthier counties, minority communities tend to get fewer polling places, voting machines and poll workers than white neighborhoods in the same county, according to a 2014 study from the Brennan Center for Justice at New York University’s School of Law. “Minority precincts have tended to get the short end of the resource allocation stick,” the study concluded.

Lieberman argues that in many counties, election officials are less inclined to provide minority communities with the resources that can shorten lines.

It’s one of many policies that are “creating a climate of discrimination,” Lieberman said, in the same vein as restrictive voter ID laws, the slashing of early voting in states like Florida and North Carolina, and the consolidation of polling places, all of which adversely affect communities of color. Local officials and state lawmakers are trying to suppress the minority vote, Lieberman said.

“None of this is a coincidence,” Lieberman said. “The folks who pass these laws know their impact. … Communities of color bear the brunt of a lack of legal protection.”

In North Carolina, a federal court agreed in 2016, saying many of the state’s restrictive voting laws, including strict voter ID requirements and a rollback of early voting, “target African-Americans with almost surgical precision.” North Carolina lawmakers said the laws were passed to protect state elections against fraud and to save counties money.

Cutting Voting Lines

Local election officials know how to keep voting lines short, which makes this time gap so frustrating for voting scholars such as Charles Stewart III, the director of MIT’s Voting Technology Project.

U.S. voters’ wait time shrank to 11 minutes in the 2016 presidential election, down from 14 minutes in 2012, according to MIT’s quadrennial survey. Further, the survey found, fewer voters waited more than an hour to cast their ballot than in the previous election. County officials should be using best-practice tools to decrease wait times in all precincts regardless of their racial makeup, Stewart said.

Many of those tools were implemented after the 2012 presidential election, where hellish voting lines in states such as Florida made national news. (On average, according to MIT’s survey, it took Florida voters 46 minutes to cast their ballots that year.) President Barack Obama took notice, and in 2013 he appointed a bipartisan commission, led by the chief lawyers from his campaign and Republican nominee Mitt Romney’s campaign, to solve the issues that plagued the country’s electoral system.

One of the commission’s primary recommendations was to use data, such as voter registration numbers and parking availability near polling places, to better manage polling places, which would in turn decrease the size of lines. The commission’s goal was to make sure no American ever waits more than a half-hour to vote.

Tammy Patrick, a senior adviser at the nonprofit Democracy Fund and a member of the commission, said that because election officials are following its recommendations, “the preponderance of lines is going down.”

Stewart, for his part, launched an online “toolkit,” which he said is now used by a quarter of the country’s local election officials to help them deploy enough poll booths, poll workers and ballot scanners to handle Election Day voting.

“If you’re not gathering that data,” Stewart said, “you’re running blind.”

Michael Scarpello, the registrar of voters in San Bernardino County, California, has embraced that lesson.

To serve the largest geographic county in the contiguous 48 states, Scarpello and his analytics department take a large swath of data — registered voters, historic turnout, parking spaces, voter behavior, capacity of polling places — to assign poll workers, distribute supplies­­ and assign voters to specific polling locations, freeing up busy locations and utilizing underused places. Using this data, Scarpello is able to update polling place capacity by the hour in a county of nearly 900,000 registered voters.

“If there are lines, they are short,” Scarpello said. At most, voters wait five minutes.

The county’s immediate response to Election Day voter behavior lowers the length of lines, the cost of elections, and the time it takes to count ballots. Between 2008 and 2016, the county cut its ballot-counting time nearly in half, from 16 hours to nine, Scarpello said.

“Our job is to make voting as convenient as possible for voters,” Scarpello said. “If voters are motivated, we don’t want to put any barriers in their way.”

Closing the Gap

Voting lines in Orange County, California, never surpass nine minutes, said Neal Kelley, the county’s registrar of voters. That’s significant because the county is the fifth-largest voting jurisdiction in the country and because a third of the electorate is Latino.

There is no difference in wait times between Orange County’s majority-white Newport Beach and majority-Latino Santa Ana, Kelley said. Countywide, the average wait time for voters dropped drastically in recent years after Kelley began using sophisticated data techniques to change how they allocate the county’s 11,000 voting booths and 9,000 poll workers among 1,300 polling places.

As the county prepares for a potentially competitive congressional election for 15-term Republican U.S. Rep. Dana Rohrabacher’s seat this November, Kelley said he’s relying on data from 2010, the last hotly contested midterm election, to estimate turnout for this one.

Kelley said he will monitor precincts closely on Election Day. “One booth could make all the difference in the world.”

In Maricopa County, where Quezada and his neighbors waited so long to vote in 2016, the official in charge of that election has paid a price.

Helen Purcell, then Maricopa County’s recorder since 1989, had reduced the numberof polling places for the 2016 primary, recommending 60 polling places in the fourth-largest county in the United States, down from 200 in 2012.

In the aftermath of the election, The Arizona Republic found that low-income, Latino neighborhoods bore the brunt of the decrease. Purcell, a Republican, denied that race was a motivating factor, but she faced widespread criticism and lost her reelection bid to Democrat Adrian Fontes, who became the first Latino elected as Maricopa County recorder.Colorado’s U.S. senators from both sides of the aisle got into the Winter Olympics spirt on Wednesday afternoon.

Republican Cory Gardner and Democrat Michael Bennet set aside their political differences to indulge in an impromptu curling match, using makeshift equipment, in a Senate hallway:

Since Colorado has the most #WinterOlympics athletes of any state, @SenBennetCO and I decided to have our very own bipartisan Senate-style Olympics. But it's a good thing the pros at @usacurl are representing us in #PyeongChang2018. pic.twitter.com/UAkj61yf5m — Cory Gardner (@SenCoryGardner) February 14, 2018

In the above video that Gardner shared to Twitter, the pair also wished good luck to Colorado athletes who are representing Team USA in Pyeongchang, South Korea.

“We’re proud of you. Thanks for being great representatives of Colorado and our country,” Gardner said.Sure, it was just a group-play match between the United States and Canada in women’s hockey at the Winter Olympics on Thursday in Pyeongchang, South Korea.

But intensity still ran high between the archrivals, culminating in the final frantic seconds in which the Americans tried to push across a goal. Then tempers flared.

Let's check on the United States and Canada...#PyeongChang2018 pic.twitter.com/T7xDQZpuM3 — Alec Gearty (@gearty83) February 15, 2018

Oh yeah, Canada hung on to win, 2-1. Both teams advanced to the semifinals.

Canada defeated the United States in group play but both teams advanced to the semifinals. BRENDAN SMIALOWSKI via Getty Images

The two North American neighbors are the giants of international women’s hockey. However, their Olympics history is a tad one-sided. After the Americans captured the first gold medal in 1998, Canada has won the last four. Thursday’s win gave Canada its fifth straight victory of late over Team USA.

Just another spirited match between the U.S. and Canada Thursday in Pyeongchang, South Korea. Maddie Meyer via Getty Images

Kendall Coyne scored the only U.S. goal early in the third period to cut Canada’s lead to 2-1. The U.S. outshot Canada 45-23 but Canadan goaltender Genevieve Lacasse made several key saves. She stopped a penalty shot by Jocelyne Lamoureux-Davidson in the second period.

A wild finish to a heated game between these two rivals. #WinterOlympics pic.twitter.com/3Ox54GvyIj — NBC Olympics (@NBCOlympics) February 15, 2018

The game ended with a determined effort by the U.S. to score but the Americans came up short. Not surprisingly, a scuffle broke out because, well, it’s U.S.-Canada.

The teams are heavy favorites to meet again in the final.Senate Judiciary Chairman Chuck Grassley says the attorney general shouldn't have weighed in on a drug sentencing reform bill that's currently in Congress. Joshua Roberts/Reuters

WASHINGTON ― Sen. Chuck Grassley (R-Iowa) lashed out at his former colleague Attorney General Jeff Sessions on Thursday, saying the nation’s top law enforcement official had stepped out of his lane by weighing in on a drug sentencing reform bill that had bipartisan support.

Grassley, who chairs the Senate Judiciary Committee, supports the Sentencing Reform and Corrections Act, which passed the committee 16-5 on Thursday but faces a tough road ahead. Sessions’ letter on the bill, which would reduce mandatory minimum sentences for certain nonviolent drug crimes, warned it would benefit “a highly dangerous cohort of criminals.” While there’s been growing support for criminal justice reform among Republicans in recent years, Sessions has generally opposed such measures.

Grassley said during a markup hearing that while he considered Sessions a friend, he was “really irritated that he would send that letter.” He noted his support for Sessions through the confirmation process as well as when the attorney general has been targeted by President Donald Trump.

“The president was going to fire him last spring and I went to his defense,” Grassley said. (Though it has been widely acknowledged that Sessions wrote a resignation letter, the Justice Department has taken the position that admitting that Sessions authored a resignation letter would violate his personal privacy.)

Here's Sen. Chuck Grassley going off script this morning as he continued to lay into Attorney General Jeff Sessions for sending Congress a letter opposing bipartisan drug sentencing reform. pic.twitter.com/ifeP1YY8g0 — Ryan J. Reilly 🤔 (@ryanjreilly) February 15, 2018

“It was almost as if it was Senator Sessions being back on this committee, and not [Attorney] General Sessions. That’s a problem. He is now the attorney general and is charged with executing the laws that Congress passes, not interfering with the legislative process,” Grassley said.

If Sessions wanted to be involved in marking up legislation, Grassley said, “maybe he should have quit his job and run for the Republican Senate seat in Alabama.” That was a reference to the fact that the Republican nominee ― who was accused of sexual misconduct ― lost to a Democrat.

A Justice Department spokesman declined to comment on Grassley’s remarks.