Andrew R. Wheeler, the nominee for EPA deputy administrator, testified before the Senate Environment and Public Works Committee on Nov. 8. Senate EPW

Andrew Wheeler, the former coal lobbyist President Donald Trump nominated as the Environmental Protection Agency’s deputy administrator, spent a decade as a Senate aide and four years as an agency staffer under Presidents George H.W. Bush and Bill Clinton, where he built a reputation as the skillful operator the White House needs to execute on its deregulatory agenda.

But during his time as a counsel to the Senate Environment and Public Works Committee, he was accused of abusing his power to target his opponents, which raises concerns for some about how he’d run an increasingly political agency. The same committee voted along party lines last week to advance his nomination to the full Senate for confirmation as the next-in-line to lead the EPA.

In January 2005, the Senate panel convened a hearing to discuss the Clear Skies Act, a bill Wheeler’s former boss Sen. James Inhofe (R-Okla.) sponsored in 2003. The legislation rewrote federal air pollution rules under the Clean Air Act to reduce power plant emissions of sulfur dioxide, nitrogen oxides and mercury, while allowing planet-warming pollution like carbon dioxide to continue unabated.

At the hearing, John Paul, a regional air pollution officer from Dayton, Ohio, who spoke as a representative of the Association of Local Air Pollution Control Officials and its sister group, State and Territorial Air Pollution Program Administrators, testified that the bill was “simply not protective enough” and was “far too lenient” on polluters.

In response, Inhofe took the unusual step of asking the groups to turn over six years of IRS filings and all records of grants they received from the EPA. Wheeler took ownership of the demands in a March 1, 2005 interview with E&E News. But he denied that the requests were politically motivated.

“STAPPA receives apparently ... most if not all of their funding from the U.S. taxpayers,” Wheeler said. “That is part of our legitimate oversight activities on grant oversight. It has nothing at all to do with Clear Skies.”

But Bill Becker, who served as STAPPA’s executive director for 37 years before retiring in June, said the tax probe broke with ordinary protocol for requesting filings and “was meant for no other purpose than to intimidate and retaliate for positions ... against their bill.”

“It was merely a fact-finding witch hunt against our association, with the hope that they could find something and use that against us to temper what we said,” Becker told HuffPost by phone Monday. “They treated us at the time in a mean-spirited, political way for merely questioning a policy.”

In a photo from July 2005, Donald Trump (R), then president of the Trump Organization, listens as Sen. James Inhofe (R-Okla.) testifies before the Federal Financial Management, Government Information, and International Security Subcommittee on the topic of "U.S. Financial Involvement in Renovation of U.N. Headquarters." Joe Raedle via Getty Images

The groups complied with the request, and Becker said nothing more came of it. But the existence of the Senate probe marked the associations in Washington, leaving some wondering whether the groups had done anything suspicious to warrant the investigation, Becker said.

“He got nothing, but he left the impression that somehow our association was being accused of doing something that we didn’t do, and others saw that,” he said. “So we went through a period where it was uncomfortable.”

Environmentalists and Democrats opposed the Orwellian-named “Clear Skies” bill, but the nonpartisan associations’ criticism carried particular weight because state regulators were the ones tasked with actually implementing the legislation.

“We could home in on the details and quickly discover if something would really weaken the Clean Air Act, so that testimony was really important,” said Becker. “Sen. Inhofe and his staff, including Andy [Wheeler], knew this and I think wanted to intimidate us or undermine what we were saying.”

The EPA declined HuffPost’s request to interview Wheeler, but defended his qualifications in an emailed statement.

“Andrew Wheeler has spent his entire career working to improve environmental outcomes, including many years on Capitol Hill and at EPA’s Office of Pollution and Prevention and Toxics during the George H.W. Bush and Bill Clinton administrations,” Liz Bowman, EPA spokeswoman, wrote in the email. “We look forward to having him back at EPA.”

Faegre Baker Daniels, the law firm where Wheeler currently works, did not respond to an interview request.

Chris Miller, a former Democratic aide who worked on the Senate committee at the same time as Wheeler, said Inhofe frequently made decisions or requests that seemed like political plays, but the STAPPA probe stood out.

“Nothing rose to the level of what the STAPPA extra scrutiny was,” Miller, who now works at the lobbying firm AJW, told HuffPost. “The states were more allied with the public health side than the industry side, and Sen. Inhofe didn’t like that.”

“Wheeler acted like a real bully in his dealings with the state and local agencies.” - Frank O'Donnell, president of Clean Air Watch

Becker said STAPPA tried to avoid a partisan fight over the tax probe, noting that its president was a Republican who had twice voted for then-President George W. Bush.

“It wasn’t as if we were an association that leaned Democrat,” he said. “We were far right of the [Natural Resources Defense Council] and [Environmental Defense Fund] and environmental groups, but we were left of a conservative EPA and some of the elected officials.”

Still, Becker at the time told a reporter friend about the incident when he called looking for news tips, and in mid-February of 2005, Cox News Service published a wire story. Days later, The New York Times picked up the story. In March, the Baltimore Sun published an editorial lambasting Inhofe for “auditing the messenger” in what “looked for all the world like bullying.”

Citizens for Responsibility and Ethics in Washington, a government accountability and transparency watchdog, said the 13-year-old tax probe “raises serious concerns as to Wheeler’s judgement.”

“An investigation into policy opponents, if in an attempt to intimidate them, raises questions of abuse of power and government resources,” Jordan Libowitz, the group’s communications director, told HuffPost by email.

Yet the incident didn’t come up during Wheeler’s initial confirmation hearing in November. Instead, Republicans recalled chummy anecdotes of his time working for Inhofe and at the EPA. (Republicans steamrolled calls from the Sierra Club last week to postpone the confirmation vote after The Intercept published a report detailing fundraisers Wheeler held for Sen. John Barrasso (R-Wyo.) and Inhofe in May.)

Democrats hammered Wheeler for lobbying ties he had to coal magnate Bob Murray until late last year. The bombastic chief of Murray Energy has wielded unprecedented influence over the Trump administration, providing the White House with an “action plan” that called for a federal bailout of coal-fired plants, repeal of the Clean Power Plan and a challenge to the 2009 EPA “endangerment finding” that determined carbon dioxide pollution poses a risk to public health.

Despite mincing words over whether he believes humans are causing climate change, Wheeler escaped the intense scrutiny put on Kathleen Hartnett-White, the Council on Environmental Quality nominee whose failure to answer basic science questions captured Democrats’ attention. While Hartnett-White stammered and struggled to defend her record of taking extreme stances against environmental regulation, Wheeler remained calm, spoke in polished legalese and projected a familiar Beltway aesthetic.

Bob Murray at a press conference after six miners were trapped 1,500 feet beneath the surface in August 2007. Justin Sullivan via Getty Images

That seemed to put Democrats at ease. The party raised ire over Hartnett-White ― who credited coal with abolishing slavery and said carbon dioxide emissions were good for the planet ― and Michael Dourson, the EPA’s chemical safety division nominee whose research firm was described in 2014 by InsideClimate News as the “one-stop science shop” for chemical and tobacco industries seeking friendly conclusions. Both withdrew their nominations as support waned.

But no Democrats raised concerns over Wheeler when EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt testified last month before the Senate for the first time since taking office. Still, no Democrats voted to advance Wheeler’s nomination last week, though Sens. Joe Manchin (D-W.Va.) and Heidi Heitkamp (D-N.D.) ― who tend to vote with Republicans on fossil fuel issues ― could guarantee an already-likely confirmation in the full Senate. Jonathan Kott, a spokesman for Manchin, said the senator hadn’t decided on whether to vote for Wheeler yet. A spokeswoman for Heitkamp did not respond to a request for comment.

In a statement, a spokeswoman for Inhofe denied that the probe was politically motivated or connected to the Clear Skies bill.

“Sen. Inhofe’s investigation into STAPPA was a part of a broad investigation into EPA’s grant management process,” Leacy Burke, the spokeswoman, wrote in an email to HuffPost.

Mike Danylak, a spokesman for the Republican majority on the Senate Environment and Public Works Committee, declined to comment on the STAPPA probe.

A Senate vote on Wheeler’s confirmation is not yet scheduled. But if, and more likely when, he is confirmed, he could be mere months or years away from becoming the nation’s top environmental regulator. EPA administrators under Republican presidents have tended to leave office early over the past three decades. When Inhofe, 83, retires, Pruitt is said to be considering a bid for his seat, or a run for governor of Oklahoma. He is also eyeing the job of attorney general if Jeff Sessions steps down, according to Politico. In that case, Wheeler would become the EPA’s acting administrator.

“I am astonished there hasn’t been louder objection to his nomination from more progressive voices on Capitol Hill,” Frank O’Donnell, president of the environmental group Clean Air Watch, told HuffPost.

“Wheeler acted like a real bully in his dealings with the state and local agencies,” he added. “To me, that was an abuse of power, and it makes me concerned about what he might do with even more power at the EPA. If you cross him, would he take retribution?”The same New York magazine article reported that Trump’s media diet was now “mainly a complete dosage of Fox.” “Side effects may include decreased worldview, verbal diarrhea and Lou Dobbs disease,” quipped Colbert. “Remember, if your Tucker Carlson lasts more than four hours, it’s because he’s a dick.”The National Portrait Gallery unveiled its official portraits of Barack and Michelle Obama on Monday, and already the paintings are being turned into even newer forms of art.“Behind every kit is a person — a sexual assault survivor — waiting for justice,” the nonprofit foundation said in a press release.

A rape kit is used to collect physical evidence left on the victim’s body. When that evidence is tested for DNA, it can be used to prosecute the attacker and, in some cases, to identify serial predators. But an untested rape kit does nobody any good.Rapper Meek Mill received a sentence of up to four years in prison for probation violations -- and his supporters say the punishment was unjust. Arik McArthur via Getty Images

A Slovenian snowboarder has imprisoned musician Meek Mill’s back.

With TV cameras trained on Tit Stante during halfpipe qualifying at the Winter Olympics on Tuesday, the athlete showed off his board with the words ”#FreeMeekMill” on it.

Slovenian Tit Stante has a message for the world: pic.twitter.com/5fs8UC5RxO — Deadspin (@Deadspin) February 13, 2018

Rap artist Mill has received support from celebrities calling for a pardon after he was sentenced in November to two to four years in Pennsylvania state prison for probation violations. The violations stemmed from a fight in a St. Louis airport (those charges were dropped) and a reckless driving incident.

In 2008, the Philly rapper served eight months on drug and gun charges.

Stante’s show of solidarity with the “All Eyes On You” performer might have been the most remarkable part of his day.Did you miss her? Just when we’d adjusted to the Kylie Jenner-sized hole in our social media feeds, the reality TV star is back on her game and making her triumphant return to Instagram.

More than a week after giving birth to daughter Stormi Webster, Jenner has shared the first real photos of herself, racking up almost 7 million likes in less than 24 hours. Tracksuits are having a moment ― just ask Armie Hammer ― and, well, so is Jenner, so, of course, she’s rocking a head-to-toe ruby red look in the pics.

The beauty mogul kicks back at the wheel of her Bentley with her eyes closed in two photos sans caption she shared on Monday.

A post shared by Kylie (@kyliejenner) on Feb 12, 2018 at 5:38pm PST

Over the weekend, the 20-year-old was spotted for the first time since welcoming her first child with rapper Travis Scott. Sporting a Prada fanny pack, bicycle shorts and tennis shoes, Jenner was photographed exiting her SUV with BFF Jordyn Woods by her side in Los Angeles.

After taking a monthslong break from the public eye to keep her pregnancy private, the new mom revealed the baby girl’s name in a record-breaking post last week that even put Beyoncé’s Instagram popularity to shame.

A post shared by Kylie (@kyliejenner) on Feb 6, 2018 at 1:14pm PST

“I’m sorry for keeping you in the dark through all the assumptions,” Jenner previously said of withdrawing from the spotlight. “I understand you’re used to me bringing you along on all my journeys. My pregnancy was one I chose not to do in front of the world. I knew for myself I needed to prepare for this role of a lifetime in the most positive, stress free and healthy way I knew how.”

She went on to share an emotional 11-minute video to give fans a peek at her pregnancy and how she spent her time away.A former coal mine near Hazard in Perry County, Kentucky. As coal has waned, the Appalachian community faces increasingly frequent water shut offs due to crumbling infrastructure. The Washington Post via Getty Images

On a frigid day in mid-January, Pam Brashear woke up in her home on a hill above a creek in Viper, Kentucky, and tried to turn on the faucet. Nothing came out. She sighed. It wasn’t anything new — this happens every year around this time.

“Every winter, the water goes off,” she said. “For days. Then you have to boil it for days.”

Brashear’s water was out for eight days, which she said pales in comparison to her neighbors up the mountain who had none for nearly a month. The county government handed out bottled water, which she saved — her family doesn’t drink the tap water anyway because of its sulfur-like taste — and she hiked up a coal bank nearby to carry five-gallon buckets of clean creek water to fill the toilet and brush her teeth.

“People were calling the county every day,” she said. “When I called, I asked them how long it would be. They’d say, ‘No ma’am, no idea, might be tomorrow.’”

Viper is an unincorporated community — an area without its own municipal government — a few miles up the road from Hazard in Perry County, an Appalachian coal mining community with a 30 percent poverty rate. The water is sourced from the nearby Kentucky River and controlled by Hazard Utilities, though many people still use well water because they say the utility’s water is unreliable. When freezing temperatures slammed the Southeast earlier this winter, the utility reported that major waterline breaks and a water shortage from some of its 9,000 customers letting their faucets run (done to prevent pipes from freezing) caused the shutoffs.

The crumbling infrastructure here is just a snapshot of the larger water crisis in the U.S. In 2017, the American Society of Civil Engineers (ASCE) gave the U.S. a “D” in drinking water infrastructure. According to ASCE, the U.S. loses about 6 billion gallons of treated water everyday, making it a $1 trillion problem to fix.

“It’s in pretty tough shape,” said Greg DiLoreto, a retired water utility executive and chair of ASCE’s infrastructure committee. “It has a huge effect on our economy, and puts a big burden on small and rural communities.”

In Appalachia, as the coal industry has waned, the money that local governments receive from coal severance tax funds (a fee on the amount of coal extracted) — which helped pay for utility and other infrastructure upgrades — has drastically decreased. And as the water shuts off or runs out more frequently, with little communication to customers, it has huge ripple effects on communities: businesses have to shut down, workers get sent home and lose wages, and schools close. American families lose $3,400 a year because of poor infrastructure, DiLoreto said, thanks to lost wages or expenses like buying bottled water or fixing their cars because of potholes.

“Mostly, I think folks don’t really know what to do,” said Ivy Brashear, Pam’s daughter and the Appalachian Transition Coordinator at Mountain Association for Community Economic Development. “Inevitably [the county] will be able to put small patches on what the problem was, but obviously that’s literally just putting a Band-Aid on a broken system.”

There are large-scale solutions to address these types of basic infrastructure problems. In January, a Kentucky lawmaker introduced a bill to combine some eastern Kentucky counties so they can better pool resources. Perry County recently hired a full-time grant writer to find more funding for economic development initiatives, especially those that use abandoned mine land or Appalachian Regional Commission funds.

Some utilities in cities like Milwaukee and Washington, D.C., are selling biosolids from wastewater treatment to fund water infrastructure improvements; in other places, private water companies are buying out smaller, struggling public water companies.

Instead of waiting for these expensive, long-term changes, however, residents in Appalachia and elsewhere are taking matters into their own hands. In Martin County, Kentucky, which has its own failing water district that shut off water to residents this year, residents have started a Facebook group called Martin County Water Warriors to draw attention to the issue and share resources. In Marion, North Carolina, activists have hosted community forums that bring together city government officials, local residents, organizations and other stakeholders to strategize how to build better infrastructure. In Jackson, Mississippi, and Knoxville, Tennessee, residents are organizing to get community leaders to run for city council or public service commissions.

The key to finding solutions is to look at infrastructure and development more holistically, said DiLoreto. “It’s all connected,” he said. “Wastewater treatment is typically the largest user of electricity in a community, so if the electric grid goes down, the wastewater treatment doesn’t work. It goes into the stream, polluting [drinking] water sources.”

Smarter electric grids and more widespread broadband networks can help solve these types of problems, said Christopher Mitchell, director of the Community Broadband Networks initiative at the Institute for Local Self-Reliance, which works with electric cooperatives to expand internet access and introduce programs that make it easier for outages to be monitored and repaired, or introduce energy efficiency programs.

That could make a huge difference in places like Perry County, which has seen the state utility, Kentucky Power, try to raise rates by 9 percent. The state’s public service commission is working to decrease the rate by 4 percent; some customers say they are paying anywhere from $600 to $1,000 per month for electricity. “Now that we have the water back, I’m working with a group on electricity,” Pam Brashear said.

Expanded internet access could also create more opportunities for work in rural areas. Jackson County, Kentucky, for instance, has a fiber-optic network that has “enabled job creation because people can work from home,” he said.

Getting these types of projects started is often the biggest challenge, but it’s what will lead to economic transitions in rural communities, said Elizabeth Wright, education coordinator for the Highlander Center in Tennessee. She works on the Appalachian Transition Fellowship, which partners community leaders with host communities so they can create solutions from the ground up. Past programs have focused on renewable energy development, abandoned mine land development, environmental testing or community education, while others are interested in infrastructure.

“Appalachia has historically been a region that people have come in and extracted from natural resources, and from experiences and culture here, so there’s a history of exploitation and forcing dependence on people with one major industry,” Wright said. “There’s a monopoly on people’s ability to take care of themselves and take care of their families.”

But that’s changing, she said. “People who live here know better, and I think they’re getting creative and are excited about this opportunity that now exists. There are hardships along with that, but these conversations are really happening.”White House press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders stalled her press briefing on Tuesday by bringing out Transportation Secretary Elaine Chao to tout President Donald Trump’s infrastructure proposal.

But what was supposed to be “Infrastructure Week” had already been preemptively derailed after the White House began the week, as it often does, with a self-inflicted crisis that continues to expand.

Staff secretary Rob Porter resigned from the White House last Wednesday, one day after The Daily Mail and The Intercept reported that he allegedly behaved violently with both of his ex-wives, Colbie Holderness and Jennie Willoughby.

Day after day, administration officials have extended the saga by putting forth conflicting narratives and providing no clarity on key questions, from why Porter was allowed a temporary security clearance to when top officials, especially chief of staff John Kelly, learned about Porter’s alleged abuse.

Tuesday was no different, with Sanders repeating stale talking points and qualifying her responses with varying ways of claiming that she did not know.

The train wreck of a press briefing came after FBI Director Chris Wray contradicted a major part of the White House’s story at a Tuesday morning Senate hearing. The FBI, conducting a background check on Porter, informed White House officials last March about Porter’s alleged domestic violence and completed its initial investigation last July, Wray said.

Yet White House officials have asserted that they found out only through the reporting last Tuesday and that Porter’s background check had been ongoing.

“Wray’s FBI timeline makes one thing clear: the Kelly coverup is unraveling right before our eyes,” a White House source told Axios.

Kelly’s role in the saga immediately raised questions. The chief of staff, who some claimed would bring order and discipline to the perpetually teetering Trump White House, defended Porter’s character, even after the allegations were reported last Tuesday.

But, curiously, he released a different statement Wednesday night, after multiple news outlets reported that Kelly may have known about Porter’s alleged abuse much earlier.

Since then, White House officials have continued to revise their explanations regarding Kelly’s handling of the situation. For instance, Kelly claimed that he acted “within 40 minutes” to dismiss Porter from his post after he learned about the allegations. Sanders said that Porter was gone from the White House “within 24 hours.”

But the White House accelerated Porter’s departure as its explanations started to fall apart.

Sanders initially had said last week that Porter would “stay on to ensure that there’s a smooth transition moving forward.” She said his departure was “a personal decision that Rob made, and one that he was not pressured to do, but one that he made on his own.”

After reportedly being prepared to resign, Kelly now maintains that everything is fine, telling The Wall Street Journal on Tuesday that “it was all done right.”

In place of definitive answers, Sanders has found new excuses and sources of blame. On Monday, when asked whether it was ill-advised for Porter to have had an interim security clearance to handle sensitive information, she instead accused reporters of endangering national security by publishing stories using leaked information.

On Tuesday, among other talking points and deflections, she suggested that a delay in personnel processing by White House “career officials” was to blame in explaining why the White House and FBI explanations were so different.

But she insisted that “we relay the best and most accurate information we have” and that “I’ve done the best I can.”

Trump’s only public statements on the matter have involved defending Porter and implying that Holderness and Willoughby are liars.WASHINGTON ― The White House’s attempts to explain why it allowed a top aide accused of domestic violence by both of his ex-wives to keep his job took another hit on Tuesday, this time from FBI Director Christopher Wray.

President Donald Trump’s other top aides have been claiming that they did not know about the domestic violence allegations against former staff secretary Rob Porter until recently and that they did not appreciate the full extent of the accusations until photographs of one woman’s injuries were published by news outlets.

But Wray, who was named to that job by Trump, told the Senate Intelligence Committee that the FBI had given the White House a preliminary report on Porter nearly a year ago.

“I can’t get into the content of what was briefed,” he said in response to a question from Sen. Ron Wyden (D-Ore.). “What I can tell you is that the FBI submitted a partial report on the investigation in question in March and then a completed background investigation in late July.”

Wray added that the FBI “soon thereafter” received a request for a follow-up from the White House, which it completed and returned in November.

The FBI closed its investigation in January, but then received “additional information” in early February, which it passed along as well, Wray said.

White House press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders, however, said those reports never made it to key officials like Chief of Staff John Kelly and Counsel Donald McGahn. Responding to Wray’s remarks later on Tuesday, she said it was the White House’s personnel security office that received the information from the FBI, requested the follow-up information and, even after Wray said the bureau had closed the investigation, was still trying to reach a final determination on Porter.

“The White House personnel security office, staffed by career officials, received information last year in what they considered to be the final background investigation report in November,” Sanders said, reading from a prepared statement. “But they had not made a final recommendation for adjudication to the White House because the process was still ongoing when Porter resigned. In the view of [the] personnel security office, the FBI’s July report required significant additional investigatory fieldwork before [the] personnel security office could begin to evaluate the information for adjudication.”

Bradley Moss, a Washington lawyer who handles security clearance issues, said it was possible the security office would not have finished its work after nearly a year, although not likely. “It is not typical for that office to drag things out so long, but it isn’t impossible that there were unrelated delays,” he said.

The White House’s handling of the situation, meanwhile, drew bipartisan criticism from members of the Senate Intelligence Committee after their hearing.

“The White House story over the last few days clearly doesn’t add up. The FBI director has now made clear that that’s the case,” said Wyden, who had asked Wray the original question.

“I just feel like they really made some errors in their own communication and what they’re really trying to say,” said Sen. James Lankford (R-Okla.), who added that he wished Trump himself had spoken out on the issue early.

“Clearly this is somebody that’s right next to him all the time,” Lankford said. “He can say, ‘This has been a good employee, but we don’t stand for domestic violence and don’t allow that. We wish him well, but he can’t be here and represent the country and also be a participant in this because this isn’t consistent with our values as a country.’”

After the first news report of the domestic abuse allegations against Porter was published by the London-based Daily Mail on Feb. 6, the White House offered statements fully supporting Porter, who functioned as Kelly’s top assistant.

It was the next day, after The Intercept published photos showing one of Porter’s former wives with a heavily bruised eye, that Sanders said Porter was resigning of his own volition but would stay on through a transition period.

And it was later on the night of Feb. 7 that Kelly released a statement saying that he was “shocked” by the latest reports and that Porter had been told to leave.

Wray’s testimony on Tuesday corroborates reporting by HuffPost that Kelly, who took over the chief of staff job in early August 2017, learned of the charges against Porter in November but kept him on anyway because he valued Porter’s help in bringing order to what had been a chaotic White House.

Trump himself has not spoken at all about the two women accusing Porter, but last week said that he feels bad for Porter, wishes him well and hopes he will have a good career. Then over the weekend, the president tweeted his concern that too many lives were being destroyed by a “mere allegation.”

“Some are true and some are false. Some are old and some are new. There is no recovery for someone falsely accused - life and career are gone. Is there no such thing any longer as Due Process?” he wrote.JungKang via Getty Images

WASHINGTON ― Democratic consultant Jim Walsh resigned from both of his digital strategy firms on Tuesday, facing allegations of sexual misconduct.

Walsh was the co-founder of the two firms, DSPolitical and Rising Tide Interactive.

“After an incredible 7 years helping to build DSPolitical and Rising Tide Interactive, I’m leaving the team I love,” he wrote Tuesday afternoon on Facebook. “It has been an incredible experience and we’ve achieved so much with our amazing clients. Some of you have already heard from me, but for the rest of you, I’m looking forward to catching up soon. Thanks to you all!”

HuffPost spoke with a woman who said Walsh sexually assaulted her over a decade ago, when she was 21 years old and was looking for advice about how to get into politics. She is involved in politics in Washington state, so she brought her concerns to the Democratic Legislative Campaign Committee, the national organization that the party works with.

This woman said she spoke with the DLCC on Friday, and the official there expressed concern over the allegations and said they would be investigated.

Mara Sloan, the communications director of the DLCC, confirmed that the group had received a complaint against Walsh, and that their legal team had launched an investigation.

The woman also said she recently told her colleagues about her experience with Walsh, and explained that she did not want the party working with his firm. One of her co-workers confirmed that she heard from the woman about a week ago on this topic.

The woman said she first brought her story to her supervisors about a year ago, when they were looking for a digital firm to work with. She wanted to make sure that they did not choose DSPolitical, so she told them what had happened with Walsh.

More recently, she told the DLCC what happened because the organization was going to be hosting an event that she would be involved with, and she wanted to ensure that Walsh would not be participating.

Walsh’s biography and information was quickly taken off the websites of both of his firms.

On Tuesday night, the leadership of DSPolitical and Rising Tide Interactive sent HuffPost a statement on Walsh:

This evening, the HuffPost published an article detailing the exceptionally alarming allegations against our former business partner, Jim Walsh. We are deeply saddened and distressed by the accusations both as individuals and as progressive firms who live our values. The foundation of our firms is the desire to move the progressive movement forward and help elect individuals who share those values. We will continue to prioritize inclusion, respect, safety and dignity within our own companies and with our industry. There is no place in our movement – or in our firm – for the kind [of] behavior alleged in the article. This article, and work like it, helps shine a light on unacceptable sexual behavior in many industries, including ours. We will continue to work tirelessly to advance the progressive causes in this country and in our own backyard.KUWAIT (Reuters) - Rebuilding Iraq after three years of war with Islamic State will cost $88.2 billion, with housing a particularly urgent priority, Iraqi officials told an international conference on Monday.

Donors and investors have gathered in Kuwait this week to discuss efforts to rebuild Iraq’s economy and infrastructure as it emerges from a devastating conflict with the hardline militants who seized almost a third of the country.

Iraq declared victory over Islamic State in December, having taken back all the territory captured by the militants in 2014 and 2015.

About $22 billion will be required in the short term and another $66 billion in the medium term, the director-general of the country’s planning ministry, Qusay Adulfattah, told the conference, without indicating any timeframe.

“Rebuilding Iraq is restoring hope to Iraq, and restoring the stability of Iraq is stabilizing the states of the region and the world,” said Planning Minister Salman al-Jumaili, adding that the reconstruction was therefore also the responsibility of the international community.

About $22 billion will be required in the short term and another $66 billion in the medium term to rebuild Iraq. Marius Bosch / Reuters

The United States, which leads an international coalition that provided Iraq with key air support in the fight against Islamic State, does not plan to pledge any money at the Kuwait conference, U.S. officials said.

Nations could help by acting as guarantors with lenders, allowing Iraq to take out soft loans to fund infrastructure projects, Mahdi al-Alaq, the Secretary-General of Iraq’s Council of Ministers, told the conference, adding that there were preliminary indications that some states would do so.

The housing sector has the most urgent need for funds, said Raja Rehan Arshad, the lead disaster risk management specialist for the World Bank.

Around 138,000 housing units had been damaged and half of them were completely destroyed, said Mustafa al-Hiti, who runs Iraq’s Reconstruction Fund for Areas Affected by Terroristic Operations.

About 2.5 million Iraqis remain displaced by the fighting, he added.

Iraq has been plagued by violence over the past 15 years.

A U.S.-led invasion toppled Saddam Hussein and was followed by years of insurgency, sectarian bloodletting between Sunnis and Shi’ites, as well as ethnic tensions between the Arabs and Kurds, all before Islamic State emerged in 2014.LONDON (Reuters) - All flights to and from London’s City Airport were cancelled on Monday after an unexploded World War Two bomb was found in the River Thames at George V Dock, the airport said.

Police said the ordnance was found during work at the airport on Sunday and they set up a 200-meter exclusion zone.

The Metropolitan Police said properties within the exclusion zone had been evacuated and a number of roads were cordoned off.

Robert Sinclair, CEO of London City Airport, the city’s fifth biggest and the most central, said: “Theairport is cooperating fully with the Met Police and Royal Navy and working hard to safely remove the device and resolve the situation as quickly as possible.”

Regional airline CityJet said its flights from the airport had been rescheduled to land and take off from London Southend airport. Italy’s Alitalia said it would operate flights from London Stansted airport.

British Airways said it was trying to minimize disruption for passengers after the airport’s closure.“Bohemian Rhapsody,” the Queen biopic starring a spectacularly glammed-up Remi Malek as frontman Freddie Mercury, is almost ― finally! ― here.

Twentieth Century Fox on Tuesday released an official trailer for the much-anticipated film that tells the story of the band preparing for its iconic 1985 Live Aid performance in London. Sacha Baron Cohen was originally slated to star in the film, which Bryan Singer directed before vanishing from the set and later getting fired.

Malek is captivating as Mercury, Queen’s bisexual lead singer whose powerfully flamboyant performances rocketed the group to stardom before he died from AIDS-related causes in 1991.At first glance, the most objectionable thing about the new “Peter Rabbit” movie is either James Corden voicing the mischievous bunny or Rose Byrne wasting her considerable talents on this film at all.

But some viewers are upset for another reason: The live-action/CGI adaptation of the beloved children’s stories makes light of food allergies.

In one scene from the movie, which opened nationwide last week, a gang of rabbits pelts Peter’s foe, Mr. McGregor (Domhnall Gleeson), with blackberries, knowing he is allergic to them. When one lands in Mr. McGregor’s mouth, the character starts choking and collapses before injecting himself with an EpiPen.

In response to the film, concerned parents and some allergy awareness groups have expressed their disappointment, calling for a boycott on Twitter and launching a Change.org petition demanding an apology from Sony Pictures. As of Monday afternoon, the petition had already accumulated more than 11,000 signatures.

“Someone I love has a food allergy. it’s not fun, it’s terrifying especially when they are children,” one social media user wrote. “@SonyPictures makes a kids movie and a character is attacked with food he is allergic to and causes anaphylaxis.”

Kenneth Mendez, the president and chief executive of the Asthma and Allergy Foundation of America, also penned an open letter to the filmmakers about the very serious consequences of mocking food allergies.

“Making light of this condition hurts our members because it encourages the public not to take the risk of allergic reactions seriously, and this cavalier attitude may make them act in ways that could put an allergic person in danger,” the letter read.

The Sony Pictures filmmakers and writers associated with the project have since issued an apology.

“Food allergies are a serious issue. Our film should not have made light of Peter Rabbit’s archnemesis, Mr. McGregor, being allergic to blackberries, even in a cartoonish, slapstick way,” the joint statement read.

The statement added: “We sincerely regret not being more aware and sensitive to this issue, and we truly apologize.”

AdvertisementTeam USA’s Mirai Nagasu has made history at the Pyeongchang Winter Olympic Games, becoming the first U.S. female figure skater — and third woman ever — to nail a triple axel during an Olympic competition.

Nagasu, 24, was competing in the women’s free skate in the team event on Monday when she landed the difficult jump. Nagasu received a score of 137.53 for the routine — a personal best.

"HOLY COW!" You just witnessed a historic triple axel from Mirai Nagasu. #WinterOlympics https://t.co/NsNuy9F46h pic.twitter.com/jCMTb4LtXv — NBC Olympics (@NBCOlympics) February 12, 2018

Viewers, naturally, went wild.

I SHRIEKED when Mirai hit that triple axel. I haven't even had any wine. #Olympics - J — Heather & Jessica (@fuggirls) February 12, 2018

Take a bow, @mirai_nagasu. First US woman to land a triple Axel in the #WinterOlympics, third ever. Emotion POURING out after she's done #PyeongChang2018 pic.twitter.com/6cCnclVFlH — Nick McCarvel (@NickMcCarvel) February 12, 2018

That’s the first triple axel by a US woman at the Olympics. Only Japan’s Midori Ito and Mao Asada have done it before. Adam Rippon leaped from his seat when he saw it. pic.twitter.com/LeD88SGOuw — Christine Brennan (@cbrennansports) February 12, 2018

Now that’s a reaction. Mirai Nagasu really was terrific. Rose to the occasion. 137.53 points. Just what she needed to do for the Americans. pic.twitter.com/B4kFdpyeXA — Christine Brennan (@cbrennansports) February 12, 2018

Watching Team Canada erupt into applause when American skater Mirai Nagasu became only the third woman to land a triple axel at the #Olympics almost made me tear up. pic.twitter.com/VKBg7Tnmkh — Derek Lewis (@dereklew) February 12, 2018

FLAWLESS triple Axel!!!!!!! Been waiting all season for that!!!! — Jeremy Abbott (@jeremyabbottpcf) February 12, 2018

Even Kristi Yamaguchi, the former Team USA figure skater and Olympic champion, said she was shedding “tears of joy” over Nagasu’s achievement.

Nagasu, who also landed a triple axel at the U.S. International Figure Skating Classic last year, is among just a handful of women who have successfully executed the jump in competition. Tonya Harding was the first American woman to achieve the feat, nailing the move at the national championship in 1991.

The Players’ Tribune shared a video on Twitter showing how athletes like Nagasu train to land the challenging jump. It includes using an off-ice skating harness, which can help athletes get a feel of a jump’s rotations.

AdvertisementAn athlete from doping-tainted Russia is behind one of the more heartwarming sportsmanship stories to emerge at the Winter Olympics.

Chris Mazdzer, who won the first singles luge medal in U.S. men’s history by taking silver over the weekend, said a Russian luger offered to lend him his sled in January when Mazdzer was mired in a slump.

“I guess this goes against every U.S.-Russian stereotype ever,” Mazdzer said, according to Reuters.

Mazdzer noted that the luge was state-of-the-art. He said the unnamed competitor didn’t think he was going to the Olympics. But the athlete wanted to see how his sled would fare.

Mazdzer took it for a practice run at an event in Latvia but decided he was too big for it.

“I think what it shows is that we do care about each other and there is this human connection we have that crosses countries, crosses cultures,” Mazdzer told reporters, according to USA Today. “And sport is an amazing way to accomplish that.”

Chris Mazdzer won silver in the luge event over the weekend. Sergei Bobylev via Getty Images

Mazdzer found his groove without the sled, making Team USA history after two 13th place finishes in previous Olympics. But he remembered the gesture.

“That friendship and trust was really moving,” he said

Russia was officially banned from the games for systemic doping. Some of its athletes were later allowed in on the unaffiliated OAR team, Olympic Athletes from Russia, if they could prove they were clean.by Kevin O’Keeffe

Good riddance to bad attitude.

I don’t want to spend much time in this recap talking about Milk, mostly because I said a lot of what I feel about her in last week’s RuPaul’s Drag Race All Stars season three recap. And in fact, the other queens sum it up well this week: She’s talented, but incredibly deluded when it comes to her All Stars performance.

However, Milk is a disaster in the improv comedy challenge this week — a parody of “The Bachelor” called, appropriately, “The Bitchelor” — ignoring the challenge’s directions to not talk over her partner, thus doing Trixie Mattel a disservice by hogging all their time together. She probably costs Trixie the win this week, a fact Trixie and the other queens know well. And instead of owning her mistakes, she whines that she’s better than the other bottom three queens.

It’s a big miss for Big and Milky, as the whole season has been.

Drag Race is not the right place for Milk’s skills. I’m excited to see what she does next, particularly since she’s been taking a more activist role in her social media presence as of late. But whether it was the editing, her own ego, or a mix of the two, Milk did not come off well this season. It’s a mixed blessing to go home, but a blessing most surely.

So let’s instead talk about the other seven queens, and considering we haven’t done it yet this season, let’s do it as a power ranking. (Since she’s been eliminated, we won’t include Milk; for the record, she’d have been last.) On a scored average of runway — category is: wig reveals! — and challenge performance, here’s where the remaining seven All Stars stand this week.

7. Bebe Zahara Benet

Runway: 6 Challenge: 3 Overall: 4.5

Well, this isn’t going to make the “Bebe is a mole” conspiracy theorists any less suspicious. Bebe is way out of her depth this week. She plays her assigned role for “The Bitchelor” — a virgin — with an interesting twist. She’s an African princess, and her virginity is sacred, only to be given to her eventual husband. Unfortunately, that pretty good premise doesn’t go much of anywhere, and she doesn’t have many real jokes. Additionally, her Asian-inspired runway look is just solid in a sea of spectacle. She easily deserved bottom three this week.

6. Chi Chi DeVayne

Runway: 8 Challenge: 3 Overall: 5.5

Chi Chi is pretty defeated this week after the judges knock her for what she’s well aware is a bad challenge performance. She didn’t get much of a prompt for her character beyond “is into the Bitchelor” — which, yes, all the contestants are — and “is polyamorous.” Unfortunately, Shangela gets all the good beats of their duo (admittedly not many good beats), and an ambitious, sensual runway look isn’t enough to keep her out of the bottom. I hope her spirits pick up soon; she was my favorite pre-season, and I hate to see her spirit broken.

5. Shangela

Runway: 7 Challenge: 5 Overall: 6

This is about as safe as safe performances get. Her corn runway, complete with popcorn wig reveal, is fun, and her jokes as an uptight, bisexual dom in “The Bitchelor” mostly land. But coming off her Mariah Carey, it’s something of a letdown. My instinct is Shangela wanted to keep a relatively low profile this week, but we’ll see.

4. Aja

Runway: 10 Challenge: 4 Overall: 7

It is such a bummer that Aja’s Needy Girl misses the mark for the judges. Quite frankly, I’m with her — I thought her definition of needy was totally fine. But her performance of even that definition was somewhat lacking. On the other hand, her runway was astonishing, the perfect execution of her new, “kawaii” (as she calls it) aesthetic. Not only did she have a wig underneath a wig headpiece, she had another wig on underneath! There were a couple of triple wig reveals on the runway, but none as strong as this.

I also have to give Aja props for basically acting like there was no way she was going home during deliberations. Because really, there wasn’t. She knew she was fine. And good for her! No need to break a sweat over nothing.

3. Trixie Mattel

Runway: 8 Challenge: 7 Overall: 7.5

What’s going on here? Yeah, Trixie kinda got fucked up by Milk this week, and still managed a solid third-place spot (both on the show and in our ranking) by playing the Fake Bitch with aplomb. (I wish her voice was a little separate from her typical Trixie voice, but her gags with her cell phone are still good.) Her runway is a psychedelic dream, and easily the best thing she’s worn on Drag Race.

And yet so far, what seemed during pre-season to be a Trixie coronation season is proving to be anything but. She’s the queen of safe, and this week, she can’t even win an improv comedy challenge — her specialty! Trixie has until Snatch Game to get it together because if she can’t win that one, she’s got no hope at the crown.

2. BenDeLaCreme

Runway: 7 Challenge: 9 Overall: 8

Increasingly, I wish RuPaul would’ve held off and given Ben’s win from the first week to Shangela or Kennedy instead. That variety show win was somewhat dubious; her dynamo Julie Andrews last week and incredible cougar character this week (who enters “The Bitchelor” crotch-first) are clear home runs. But it’s tempting to get frustrated with Ben’s win in this challenge because it feels like she can do no wrong in Ru’s eyes.

Frankly, though, Ben’s not really doing anything wrong. She’s operating on a completely different level than she was in season six of the flagship show. Her fidelity to her character this week is unreal — she actually chews a banana, spits it out, then eats it again. And then makes a joke about it that lands perfectly!

Whereas her competitors are thinking about the game as it happens, Ben is thinking three or four steps ahead. That makes her better at the challenges than it does the runway (where she’s still doing OK, if not being outshone), but luckily for her, All Stars is much more about the performance challenges than it is the runways.

Does it matter that she lost the lip sync this week? Not really. She’s won every challenge of the season. She’s set for as long as she can keep this up.

1. Kennedy Davenport

Runway: 8 Challenge: 10 Overall: 9

Flawless victory. This was incredible work from Kennedy, both on the runway — which, I agree with Michelle Visage, was pure Davenport in all its pageant glory — and in the main challenge. Kennedy is one of a handful of pageant queens to really show their comedy chops on “Drag Race,” alongside girls like Alyssa Edwards and Trinity Taylor. Her character, a hard-living party girl with bad teeth and a big ass, is a gonzo characterization like Alyssa is able to create, but pairs that with sharp timing like Trinity’s. She commits to every stunt and fall completely.

Ross Mathews questions why he doesn’t think of Kennedy as a comedy queen, considering she won Snatch Game in her season (with a top-10 all-time performance as Little Richard). I admit, I forget how funny she is too. Part of the issue is that Kennedy takes drag very seriously; her negative reaction to both Thorgy Thor’s crude mirror message to Shangela and Milk’s defense of said message is an extension of that seriousness. Drag is not just a hobby or an artistic interest for her. Drag is Kennedy’s life and work. But that severity of purpose, in a weird way, makes her a great comedy queen. She conceptualizes a character, delivers it full-force, and shocks the hell out of everyone. Hers is a deserved win and makes this episode a great showcase for one of Drag Race’s most underrated queens.

A few short thoughts, plus a longer coda:

The lip sync this week is to “Green Light” by Lorde, a song I’ve hoped this show would do since it came out. Oddly enough, Ben and Kennedy both opt for a slower burn treatment, Ben saying she can’t camp it up a third week in a row. While I admire her instincts, I think she needed to go bigger here; she looks a little awkward, neither fierce nor controlled. Kennedy, meanwhile, earns major points for subverting the expectation that she’d flip all over the place, instead, drawing a ton of attention to her lips and eyes. It’s not quite Latrice Royale’s “Natural Woman,” but it’s commanding.

Highly annoyed that the judging suddenly shifted back to having a bottom three this week. Stay consistent, Mama Ru. (Did love, however, that when Bebe called it the gag of the season, and Aja said that it happened last season, Bebe responded with, “Well, to me, this is a gag.”)

Despite All Stars season three not being the Trixie steamroll I thought it’d be, I did fully cackle at her descriptions of her shorter second wig as “Tatianna Same Parts,” “Dennis the Menace,” and “Naomi Smalls.”

“Have you ever taken out a catheter?” Ben had me howling in the challenge. I’m rapidly warming up to her, though I think her playing characters other than the “BenDeLaCreme” character for the last two weeks has helped.

Good for Bebe, mixing it up with the other girls during deliberations! Her blunt honesty about Milk’s performance, paired with her general distaste for the “sugar coat, cool cool cool, woo woo woo woo woo” atmosphere among the girls, is a new look for her. She even gets shady in her confessional about Milk’s delusion: “That performance? I mean, how can you not tell?” Keep them in line, mother.

Constance Zimmer and Jeffrey Bowyer-Chapman were terrific guest judges, as game to have fun as they were constructive in their critiques. I cheered when Constance helped coach Chi Chi through her runway breakdown. Special plaudits to Jeffrey for playing the part of the Bitchelor so gamely.

I feel bad about how hard I laughed at Shangela’s “Somebody put something in her cocktail — Cosby?” joke.

Finally, a note on the last episode: There’s been discussion online (and even obliquely during this week’s opening) about whether “Drag Race” favored certain contestants in the VH1 “Divas Live” challenge. My answer to that: Of course it did. You could take one look at the parts divided up (as Thorgy did) and notice how tilted the challenge was. Shangela got a comedy routine as Mariah Carey (which she executed perfectly), while Thorgy got a tricky character and not many jokes as Stevie Nicks. The same thing happened with Alyssa Edwards’ Annie Oakley and Katya’s Princess Diana, respectively, in “All Stars” season two’s Herstory of the World Challenge.

I’m less interested in calling out obvious manipulations and more interested in how contestants fight back against these limitations. Reality competitions are never a 100 percent even playing field; the best contestants know how to play against disadvantages to create their own success. Violet Chachki saw a villain edit coming in season seven, and challenges that favored her rival, Ginger Minj. But she figured out a way to beat both the edit and Ginger, and she won the crown.

So I empathize with Thorgy, who knew the bus was coming her way, but she got too far in her own head to beat the odds. “Drag Race” isn’t just a reality show; it’s a mind game that consistently rewards the cleverest queens who aren’t just great at drag, but understand the inner machinations of the show itself.

For that reason, even though Ben is the strongest competitor so far, I’m still betting on Shangela or Trixie to take the crown home this time. In both their performances and their commentary, they demonstrate that they truly get Drag Race. That’s more important than all the challenge wins in the world.

AdvertisementThe budget document President Donald Trump released on Monday doesn’t really matter. It will have no effect on government spending or tax levels. It will not build bridges or defund public housing programs. Congress controls federal spending, not the president, and for the past several years lawmakers have jettisoned the formal budget process in favor of a series of backroom deals.

The president’s budget has thus become an elaborate Washington ritual in which an administration expresses its values and priorities in the technocratic jargon of modern bureaucracy. It’s an administration’s way of telling the public how it would govern if it didn’t have to work with Congress, and of demonstrating how much it cares about these proposals by working out in fine detail how much it all would cost.

Trump’s budget shows he doesn’t care very much about anything. The signature proposal, hyped ahead of the release as a $1.5 trillion program to rebuild America’s infrastructure, turns out to include just $200 billion in new spending ― offset by $240 billion in cuts to existing infrastructure programs, including the Highway Trust Fund, Amtrak and the Army Corps of Engineers’ civil works initiatives.

The infrastructure plan is a good example of how Trump’s supposedly populist campaign has not translated into populist governance. Trump’s budget director, Mick Mulvaney, is a former member of the conservative House Freedom Caucus, which rabidly opposes spending on the social safety net.

“As a nation, we face difficult times – challenged by a crumbling infrastructure, growing deficits, rogue nations, and irresponsible Washington spending,” Mulvaney said in a statement on Sunday ― even though the budget doesn’t close deficits or un-crumble infrastructure.

Another budget bullet point ― seemingly making good on Trump’s campaign promise to end the opioid crisis ravaging America ― comes to just $1 billion a year, a pathetically low number for a national public health crisis. Trump’s boost to opioid spending accounts for less than 1.5 percent of the Department of Health and Human Services budget, which Trump would also slash by about 20 percent from last year’s level. By contrast, total defense spending would increase by about 25 percent over the course of the next decade. That’s real money, but it doesn’t tell us anything important about American military objectives in places like Afghanistan, Yemen or Niger.

Public education advocates are understandably angered by Trump’s call to cut overall federal education funding by $7.1 billion, while spending $1.1 billion on vouchers that families can use to pay for private school. But even this is a half-hearted measure. Trump has said he wants to spend $20 billion a year on the vouchers.

One area where the Trump administration showed some enthusiasm for policy innovation is in cracking down on food stamp recipients and their supposedly lavish and unhealthy diets. The budget would cut the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program ― the official program name for food stamps ― by about 25 percent, replacing a portion of beneficiaries’ monthly stipend with canned goods and other healthy food chosen by the government. The idea is almost unheard-of on Capitol Hill and has little chance of being taken seriously by the committee that oversees the program.

Trump would also eliminate all funding for public housing repairs ― a move that reflects general meanness about the lives of the poor, but only costs about $2 billion ― and eliminate $1 billion in Section 8 vouchers to help poor families pay rent.

About 40 million Americans live in poverty each year, according to U.S. census data, including about 3.2 million who live on less than $1.90 a day, every day, according to The World Bank.“This cost-effective approach supports American agriculture, prevents certain types of program abuse, provides state flexibility in delivering food benefits, and ensures the nutritional value of the benefits provided,” the budget says.

The USDA said the program would be called America’s Harvest Box. Agriculture Secretary Sonny Perdue called it “a bold, innovative approach to providing nutritious food to people who need assistance feeding themselves and their families ― and all of it is home-grown by American farmers and producers.”

The USDA said states would have flexibility to work out distribution, which could include home delivery or existing partnerships. The Commodity Supplemental Food Program works with local agencies which in turn partner with nonprofits to give out the food, often from distribution sites rather than by delivery.

The Trump administration also wants stricter “work requirements” for nondisabled SNAP recipients, a shared priority of Republicans in the House of Representatives. Members of the conservative House Freedom Caucus and House Speaker Paul Ryan (R-Wis.) have said they hope to tackle “welfare reform” this year.

Last year, Rep. Jim McGovern (D-Mass.) said he wondered whether the Trump administration’s food stamp ideas were designed as a “setup” to make congressional Republicans seem more reasonable by comparison.

The new budget says the proposed changes would save $213 billion over 10 years. That would be a big cut to food stamps ― but it would also be less than 1 percent of projected federal spending over that time.

This article has been updated with comments from Agriculture Secretary Sonny Perdue and White House budget director Mick Mulvaney.

Clarification: Language has been updated to indicate more clearly that $125 is the average benefit for a SNAP recipient.When Democratic legislators gathered in a hotel in Portland, Maine, for a two-day policy conference last August, they were joined by a host of corporate interests who have good reason to want in on those conversations.

The meeting of the Democratic Legislative Campaign Committee, the party arm responsible for supporting state legislative candidates, was closed to the press and billed as an off-the-record event, but HuffPost has exclusively obtained a copy of the agenda, which shows the members of the DLCC’s finance council.

The finance council includes companies, trade groups, labor unions and public interest organizations, who pay anywhere from $12,000 to more than $100,000 to the DLCC. In return, the conference provided an opportunity for donors to interact with state legislators ― many of whom head their respective chambers ― from around the country.

The Portland conference included prominent representation from the pharmaceutical and health insurance industries, including lobbyists from America’s Health Insurance Plans, a national trade group that is currently lobbying against Vermont Sen. Bernie Sanders’ Medicare For All bill. Representatives from the Association for Accessible Medicines, Eli Lilly, Sanofi, Sunovion Pharmaceuticals, Anthem, Merck, Novartis and Vertex also attended.

There was also a panel titled “Nicotine Without Smoke: How to Reduce the Harm of Smoking,” featuring Dr. Saul Shiffman, a University of Pittsburgh professor and adviser to Pinney Associates, a pharmaceutical consulting firm that works with tobacco giant Reynolds American. The company, which also produces e-cigarettes and is currently lobbying Congress for “harm reduction” approaches to tobacco regulation, sent no fewer than four lobbyists to the conference, according to the agenda.

Representatives from the Edison Electric Institute, the powerful national trade group advancing utilities’ interests, were also present, as were the American Fuel & Petrochemical Manufacturers, the Nuclear Energy Institute, McDonald’s, Coca-Cola, Comcast, Monsanto, eBay and Wells Fargo.

Major labor unions also attended, including the International Union of Painters and Allied Trades, Iron Workers International and International Brotherhood of Teamsters, as well as a representative from Americans for Responsible Solutions, which advocates for gun control.

The finance council members who paid $35,000 or more to the DLCC were granted the opportunity for one-on-one meetings with state legislators slated for 90 minutes during the second day of the conference, according to the agenda.

DLCC communications director Mara Sloan said the policy conferences are forums for legislators to engage with each other and share new ideas, as well as “an opportunity for legislators to interact with industry leaders and learn more about policy positions of both the legislators and the organizations.”

Sloan said that finance council members take part in setting the agenda, as part of “a collaborative process, with those planning to attend weighing in on what they would like to see in upcoming policy sessions, breakout panels or skills building workshops.”

Council members have historically attended, and at times presented at, such conferences in order to “talk with legislative leaders about their priorities in states, such as expanding access to affordable health care, fixing crumbling roads and bridges, expanding broadband access to rural areas, and beyond,” said Sloan. She added that public policy challenges often require public-private partnerships, and conferences such as the one in Portland provide “an opportunity for that dialogue” that includes industry, unions and progressive groups.

But one state legislator, who asked not to be named because he’s received assistance from the DLCC, said he “felt uncomfortable” about the abundance of corporate interests.

Other legislative attendees HuffPost reached out to declined to comment on the relationship with the council. Democratic Maine state Sen. Rebecca Millett focused on the value of sharing strategies with colleagues across different states and campaigns.

“There has been real excitement about seizing the momentum that began with the marches last year and the wins across the country in state legislatures,” she said. “In my six years as state senator, this is the most excited and motivated I’ve seen our base about running and supporting local and state campaigns.”

The DLCC conference also featured former Democratic Alaska Sen. Mark Begich, who joined the legal and lobbying firm Brownstein, Fyatt, Farber & Schreck as a strategic adviser after leaving Congress in 2015. Begich backed Alaska’s oil and gas industry in his six years in the Senate and co-founded the NewDEAL, a centrist Democratic group initially described as supporting “pro-business progressives” that now defines itself with the more neutral “pro-growth progressives” tag. Brownstein, Fyatt, Farber & Schreck’s robust energy and mining practice includes such clients as Freeport LNG, CITGO Petroleum, Cobalt International Energy and Colorado Oil & Gas Association.

Begich also runs his own Anchorage-based consulting shop, Northern Compass Group, and in late 2016 called for opening the Arctic to offshore drilling.



Begich’s office did not respond to a request for comment. Sloan said he “talked about connecting with voters on the issues they really care about and the strategy it took to win the Alaska House in a red state like Alaska,” and was not “attending as a representative of any company.”

“The DLCC does not take policy positions, and there is no quid pro quo expected from anyone attending our conferences,” said Sloan. “We are working every day to close the fundraising gap with Republicans, who regularly outraise us.”

Still, as the DLCC gears up for many crucial 2018 state races ― seats in 87 of 99 state legislative chambers are on the ballot ― it will need to reckon with thorny questions over political identity and policy, the merits of courting corporate and wealthy donors, and the role of lobbyists and high-powered consultants.

And there’s a growing chorus of progressive activists surrounding the party that won’t let those issues go away, including groups like Our Revolution and the Working Families Party, who have recently proved successful in running more progressive Democrats at the state level.