John Leguizamo is very excited about Marvel’s “Black Panther,” especially because of what the film will mean for young people.

The star and creator of Broadway’s “Latin History for Morons” spoke about the importance of representation during an interview with Ricky Camilleri at Build Studio in New York on Friday. He also told a moving story about a young boy’s reaction to the Wakanda Prince and superhero.

When Camilleri asked the actor about portraying federal agent Jacob Vazquez in Paramount Network’s recent TV miniseries “Waco,” Leguizamo said he took the role because it was a positive portrayal of a Latino.

He said that whenever he gets “the chance to have a positive Latin role model out there, I jump for joy.” It’s part of his effort to stop “the negativity out there” that plague many Latino characters.

Leguizamo then said that the representation of people of color on television had improved, but there was still a lot of work to be done in film. That’s when he brought up “Black Panther” and the power of seeing yourself on-screen.

“This ‘Black Panther’ thing is so exciting for me,” he said. “The other day I was doing a Q&A for ‘Latin History for Morons’ and this mom said that her son said, ‘Look, black people can be superheroes too?’ Her son was like flabbergasted. If you see yourself represented positively, imagine what it does to the youth. It’s going to make me cry.”

He added that when kids see themselves represented in a positive way, “it undoes the negative messaging that’s out there constantly. How do you project yourself into the future positively if you haven’t seen yourself positively represented.”

Leguizamo previously said that he was motivated to write his one-man show about Latin history because he felt it was important for Latinos to see the important role they’ve played in history. That’s a subject he touched on during a 2015 interview with HuffPost Live.

“We’re not taught anything that we contributed to this country and we’ve been around for 500 years,” Leguizamo said about high school history courses at the time. “Just imagine, you’re a white kid and all of a sudden everybody’s Latin and everything they’re teaching you is Latin and you don’t hear anything about yourself or about your contributions ... and you feel like you haven’t contributed anything. How would you feel? How would you think of your future? How would you think of your participation in American culture?”EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt is often booked into first or business class seats, often costing taxpayers thousands more than similar seats in coach. Bloomberg via Getty Images

Scott Pruitt, the administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, regularly flies first or business class, often costing American taxpayers thousands of dollars more than equivalent seats in coach, The Washington Post reported on Sunday.

Several such flights last June cost more than $90,000 in total, including an hour-and-a-half trip between Washington D.C. and New York booked first class for $1,641, the outlet noted, citing EPA receipts obtained by the Environmental Integrity Project through Freedom of Information Act requests.

The Post said Pruitt is often booked in premium cabins for unspecified security reasons, and the EPA said his schedule is not released in advance ― a major point of consternation among political watchdogs ― for similar reasons. Pruitt regularly travels with a large contingent of aides, but they’re usually booked in coach. It’s unclear if members of his security detail fly in first class with him.

HuffPost reached out to the agency for comment, but EPA spokeswoman Liz Bowman told the Post Pruitt’s trips amounted to an effort “to further positive environmental outcomes and achieve tangible environmental results.”

“He’s communicating the message about his agenda and the president’s agenda,” she said.

The Hill notes that federal regulations mandate government employees “consider the least expensive class of travel” for their needs, but there are provisions for “exceptional security circumstances” that allow for premium bookings. The EPA pays for Pruitt to have an extensive, 24/7 security detail at a cost of nearly $2 million a year, excluding costs like travel.

Such protection is relatively unusual for an EPA administrator, and CNN reported last October that no previous head of the agency had ever had a full-time detail. But the agency’s inspector general, Patrick Sullivan, said Pruitt gets “at least four times ― four to five times the number of threats” than his predecessor, Gina McCarthy got while she held the position.

Pruitt has drawn the ire of many environmental groups and activists since he took over the agency. During his first year, he helped spearhead efforts to roll back the Clean Water Act and the Clean Power Plan, urged President Donald Trump to withdraw the U.S. from the Paris climate accord and moved to eviscerate the agency’s science advisory panels.

The Post notes that Pruitt often cites security reasons for his upgraded tickets, even for short, domestic flights. In July, he was booked on two round-trip tickets to Alabama and Georgia that totaled more than $4,600.

Pruitt’s use of military and private flights are currently under investigation by the EPA’s inspector general after the Post reported last September that the administrator took four such flights costing taxpayers more than $58,000. He is also under investigation over frequent trips to his home state of Oklahoma.A week after that thing that Justin Timberlake underwhelmed at, the couple have apparently since touched down in Costa Rica, where they were photographed kissing in front of a sunset.

The football star even made light of his 41–33 loss in the caption, writing, “This Sunday’s outcome is a lot better than last Sunday’s!” He addded the hashtag #losingstreakstopsatone and a couple emojis for good measure.

A post shared by Tom Brady (@tombrady) on Feb 11, 2018 at 4:22pm PST

The longtime New England Patriots quarterback was visibly upset after the big game following his team’s loss to the Philadelphia Eagles.

Last week, former supermodel Bündchen, who shares children Vivian and Benjamin with the football star, posted a photo of herself pulling him in for an emotional post-Super Bowl hug. She congratulated the opposing team on their win before turning her attention to Brady.

“We are incredibly proud of you because we are able to see every day all the commitment, sacrifice and hard work that you have devoted to become the best in what you do,” she wrote of her husband alongside the family photo.

A post shared by Gisele Bündchen (@gisele) on Feb 5, 2018 at 5:15am PST

Days after the game, Brady reflected on his Super Bowl journey ― he’s won five previous games ― and posted a photo of himself and teammate Rob Gronkowski. In a lengthy Instagram caption, the 40-year-old athlete expressed gratitude to various people, including the Eagles players, whom he thanked for “bringing out the best in us and being gracious winners.”

“It has taken me a few days to reflect on our SB loss as well as the great season our team had,” Brady wrote. “There are many emotions when you come up short of your goal. And they are all part of learning and growing in this journey of life. Learning turns everything into a positive. And the number one feeling I have had the past 4 days is gratitude.”

He went on to thank his teammates, coaches, fans and his family and friends who “love and support my dreams.”

A post shared by Tom Brady (@tombrady) on Feb 9, 2018 at 6:28am PSTDonald Trump vowed during the 2016 election campaign that he would “drain the swamp.” On Monday’s broadcast of “Late Night,” host Seth Meyers checked in on the president’s purported efforts to reduce outside influence In Washington.

And he wasn’t enamored with what he found.

“I’m sorry but after all your scandals, the phrase ‘drain the swamp’ is now devoid of all meaning. You might as well chant ‘We Like Ike’ or ‘Brooklyn Dodgers,’” joked Meyers.

“Trump’s cabinet has had one corruption scandal after another and his personal fixer is literally selling personal access to the president,” Meyers added, referencing the Michael Cohen controversy. “Trump didn’t drain the swamp. He bottled it and sold it as Dr. Trump’s Miracle Healing Elixir.”Mirai Nagasu gives herself a well-deserved cheer after her performance in the figure skating team event at the 2018 Winter Olympics. ARIS MESSINIS/AFP/Getty Images

With the landing of a historic triple axel at the Winter Olympics in Pyeongchang, South Korea, Mirai Nagasu instantly became a role model to many younger American skaters.

But the 24-year-old draws her own inspiration from Asian-American skating legend Michelle Kwan, who won Olympic silver and bronze.

In an interview with NBC News, Nagasu, whose parents run a sushi restaurant in Arcadia, California, said that she’s long admired Kwan and noted their similar backgrounds.

"HOLY COW!" You just witnessed a historic triple axel from Mirai Nagasu. #WinterOlympics https://t.co/NsNuy9F46h pic.twitter.com/jCMTb4LtXv — NBC Olympics (@NBCOlympics) February 12, 2018

“Her parents owned a restaurant and my parents own a restaurant. We’re both from California. So I really looked up to her,” Nagasu told NBC News. “As role models, I think Kristi [Yamaguchi] and Michelle are setting the bar really high.”

For both Nagasu and Kwan, their Asian immigrant backgrounds come with stories of sacrifice.

Nagasu’s parents, Kiyoto and Ikuko, came to the U.S. from Japan about three decades ago to open their own sushi restaurant, according to the Los Angeles Times. The couple currently run Kiyosuzu, which on special occasions offers the “Mirai Roll” ― according to USA Today, it’s a combination of tuna, tuna tataki, avocado, mentaiko (pollock roe), shrimp and tempura. They were unable to watch their daughter’s historic performance in the team competition live due to the dinner rush Sunday night, USA Today reported.

Michelle Kwan won two Olympic medals, five World championships and nine U.S. national championships. Theo Wargo via Getty Images

But next week, the couple will close the restaurant and head over to South Korea to watch their daughter compete in the individual figure skating contest.

“The business is important, but it is special to be able to watch Mirai,” Ikuko told USA Today. “We will shut the restaurant, go quickly, and come back quickly.”

Like Nagasu’s family, Kwan’s is no stranger to long hours. She told The Cut that her parents worked hard to achieve the American Dream. Kwan’s father, Danny, bought a Chinese restaurant after saving up enough money working as a bus boy and then a telephone company employee, according to the Chicago Tribune.

“My parents didn’t have the means to provide brand-new skates, flashy costumes, or ice time. They were barely juggling multiple jobs, providing a roof over our heads, feeding us, working at the restaurant, my dad was working at a phone company, and then they gave me this crazy opportunity to ice skate!” Kwan told The Cut. “Maybe I didn’t get new skates, but I got used skates. I made it to the national championships in used skates that were custom-made for another girl.”

Her parents still found the time to dish out important advice, like urging their talented daughter to appreciate her accomplishments along the way.Speaking to the Washington Post aboard Air Force Two on his way home from the Winter Olympics in South Korea, Pence – who avoided any direct contact with North Korean officials attending the Games – said Washington would keep up its “maximum pressure campaign” against Pyeongyang but would be open to possible talks at the same time.

Pence’s comments suggested that the administration of President Donald Trump, which has mostly taken a hard line over any potential engagement with North Korea, might be looking more favorably at diplomatic options.

“The point is, no pressure comes off until they are actually doing something that the alliance believes represents a meaningful step toward denuclearization,” Pence was quoted as saying. “So the maximum pressure campaign is going to continue and intensify. But if you want to talk, we’ll talk.”

Pence was reported to have said he reached the new understanding with South Korean President Moon Jae-in, who has been pushing for diplomatic solution to the standoff over North Korea’s nuclear and missile programs, in two substantive conversations during his visit to South Korea.

A North Korean delegation, the highest-ranking to visit the South and led by the younger sister of the North’s leader Kim Jong Un, concluded its visit on Sunday after charming and intriguing the South Korean public, but still faces deep scepticism over Pyongyang’s sincerity towards improving relations.

Moon gave qualified consent to holding a future summit with Kim, the first between the two Koreas since 2007.

North Korea has made clear that it does not intend to negotiate away its nuclear and missile programs in return for relief from international sanctions.

During Pence’s visit, Moon assured the vice president he would tell the North Koreans clearly that they would not get economic or diplomatic concessions for just talking, only for taking concrete steps toward denuclearization, the newspaper said.

Based on that assurance, Pence was cited as saying he felt confident he could endorse post-Olympic engagement with Pyongyang.

Pence was quoted as describing the approach as “maximum pressure and engagement at the same time.”

Speaking to reporters on his flight home on Saturday, Pence said the United States, South Korea and Japan were in complete agreement on isolating North Korea over its nuclear weapons program.

The White House did not immediately respond to a request for comment. South Korea’s presidential Blue House also had no immediate comment.

Trump, who has at times exchanged taunts and threats with Kim, said in early January after the first intra-Korean talks in over two years that the United States was willing to speak to North Korea “under the right circumstances,” although it was far from clear whether this would pay dividends.

In December, U.S. Secretary of State Rex Tillerson’s offered to start talks with North Korea without pre-conditions, but the State Department later said there would first have to be a “period of calm” in which Pyongyang suspends testing before any negotiations could begin.The statement from the Ministry of Unification came after a high-level North Korean delegation concluded a three-day visit which included an invitation for South Korean President Moon Jae-in to travel to Pyongyang for talks.

″(The visit) shows North Korea’s will to improve inter-Korean ties is very strong and if needed it will take unprecedented and aggressive measures,” the ministry said.

The visit of the delegation, which included North Korean leader Kim Jong Un’s younger sister Kim Yo Jong, intrigued many in South Korea, but also met scepticism about the North’s sincerity and willingness to give up its pursuit of nuclear weapons.

“Although many Koreans are welcoming North Korea’s participation in the Pyeongchang Winter Olympics, there are also significant criticism and concerns both domestically and internationally,” the statement said.

During the visit, Kim Yo Jong had delivered a letter from her brother asking South Korean President Moon Jae-in to visit Pyongyang at his earliest convenience. Moon had replied, “Let’s create the environment for that to be able to happen,” according to the presidential Blue House.

Such a meeting, if it came about, would mark the first inter-Korea summit since 2007.

The two Koreas are still technically at war after the 1950-53 conflict on the Korean peninsula ended in a ceasefire and not a truce.

The Unification Ministry said steps regarding the improvement of ties would be led by the two Koreas, but also in cooperation with related countries and the support of the international community.

“We will fully cooperate with international efforts regarding sanctions against North Korea based on our stance for a denuclearised Korean peninsula and a peaceful solution (to the North Korea nuclear issue),” the statement said.

“If there is certain progress to set the conditions for denuclearisation, a full-fledged progress in inter-Korean relations will become possible,” it said, without elaborating.

In previous years, North and South Korea have held reunions to bring together family members who have been separated by the war.

Seoul made a standing offer to North Korea last year regarding another such reunion, details of which have yet to be hammered out between North and South Korea.

Kim Yo Jong and her delegation spent three days dining with top government officials, including Moon, watching the opening ceremony of the Pyeongchang Winter Olympics and cheering for the united women’s ice hockey team the two Koreas have fielded at this Olympics.by Elizabeth Van Brocklin

Hours after a gunman killed 58 people and injured hundreds more in Las Vegas last October, donations for victims and their families began pouring in. A GoFundMe campaign launched by local leaders would raise $11 million in three weeks. Uber gave free rides to blood-donation sites and hotels offered complimentary rooms for relatives. One group of hospitals treated 71 victims, then promised to waive all of their medical bills.

The influx of relief for mass shooting victims is not unique to Las Vegas: at least $28 million was donated after the massacre in Newtown, Connecticut; $2.4 million after San Bernardino; $31 million after Orlando.

Yet mass shootings, despite the attention they receive, are not the norm. Each year, tens of thousands of people are wounded in incidents of gun violence that have become almost routine. The injured are disproportionately young black men, who have few services specifically geared to support them in the jarring wake of violence. Some victims require extensive therapy to relearn how to write, speak, or walk. There may be follow-up surgeries to remove bullet fragments, treatment for pain and infections, and counseling for stress, anxiety, and depression. Some miss work because of their injuries, or can’t work at all. Roughly one third of hospitalized gunshot patients are uninsured.

A resource does exist to help vulnerable crime victims, including gunshot survivors, though many never tap into it. Victim compensation programs in every state reimburse victims and their families for expenses like medical bills, mental health counseling, lost wages, and funeral costs. Revenue for the state-run programs comes from offender fees and fines, along with federal grants under the Victims of Crime Act, or VOCA. In 2016, compensation programs paid more than 250,000 claims totaling more than $348 million, according to federal data.

Victim advocates, anti-violence activists, and social workers interviewed by The Trace said that victims of violent crime face numerous hurdles in applying for the funds. They say that for traumatized victims, the eligibility criteria can be daunting, the applications toilsome, and processing times long. Even the most basic requirements to receive compensation, like reporting the crime to law enforcement, can deter victims, especially those from neighborhoods where distrust of the criminal justice system runs high.

Most vexing, advocates say, is that state laws that govern compensation programs can ultimately exclude people at the highest risk of being shot. While black men disproportionately experience violence, they are also more likely than whites to have been convicted of a felony, which in some states can disqualify people from receiving funds.

Victim compensation “is set up to really help victims, and yet it’s ironic, because it often really adds to the pain that they are going through,” said Alicia Boccellari, a clinical psychologist and founder of the University of California-San Francisco’s Trauma Recovery Center, which provides mental health services and case management for violent crime survivors. “It puts a lot of expectations on them, when they really have so few inner resources to deal with all this. Sometimes the victim ends up feeling further victimized.”

As part of my ongoing reporting on gun violence, I interviewed more than two dozen gunshot survivors and loved ones of homicide victims to better understand how the compensation system fit into their experiences. About half had not applied for compensation in the first place. Several had misconceptions about the existence of compensation and how to access it. Some felt that pursuing compensation would be a waste of time — one likened victim compensation to “an urban legend.” Others said they were denied because they did not meet their state’s eligibility criteria.

Kellie Cors-Atherly’s 13-year-old son Todd was killed in Pleasantville, New Jersey, in 2012. She didn’t know about compensation until it was too late to apply, and says she dipped into her savings in order to move to a safer neighborhood. “If I would have known there was relocation money, if I would have known there was counseling money, yes, I would have applied for it,” she said.

Cors-Atherly now runs a local nonprofit to support survivors of violent crime, work that includes spreading the word about compensation. “A lot of the families I’ve come across, they don’t even recollect having someone from victim compensation reach out to them,” she said.

Navigating the compensation process from a wheelchair

On the morning of December 13, 2015, Ernest Edmonds, Jr., was leaving a club in Newark when, he says, a man asked him for a cigarette. According to Edmonds, the man tried to rob him, and as he fought back he heard a loud crack. Looking down, he saw red blooming through the stripes of his Houston Astros baseball jersey. He then blacked out. Hours later, police found Edmonds on the ground with a cut lip and a gunshot wound to the back. Halfway down the block, an officer discovered his hat, lighter, and watch in a pool of blood.

Edmonds, 35, awoke from a coma several weeks later to find he was paralyzed from the waist down. The bullet had pierced his back, only to be stopped by his spine.

“Figure you got 32, 33 years of walking, and then you’re just not walking anymore,” he said “It’s completely different.” Before the shooting, he’d lived in his cousin’s peach-colored house in East Orange, New Jersey. Thirteen steps led to the front porch. Then two more flights to reach his bedroom. Now reliant on a wheelchair, Edmonds wondered, How am I going to do this?

At the physical rehabilitation center, Edmonds heard there was financial assistance for crime victims like him. He searched online and found a phone number for New Jersey’s Victims of Crime Compensation Office. In his state, eligible victims may receive up to $2,500 in relocation expenses, and up to 104 weeks of lost earnings, among other benefits.

Edmonds says he would use the money to pay for his own place and make up for lost income. “I need it so much,” he said. “It could help me getting into a wheelchair-accessible apartment. It could help with a lot of backed-up bills. I can’t do for my kids like I used to.” Since he was a teenager, Edmonds worked for a family-operated construction business, where he said he made around $650 per week. He now has to make a$766.25 disability check last the whole month.

A shooting in 2015 left Ernest Edmonds, Jr., paralyzed and isolated. He misses attending family gatherings and picking his sons up from school. He's now staying in the living room of his mother's apartment, but hopes to move into a wheelchair-accessible home of his own soon. Demetrius Freeman for The Trace

After talking to New Jersey’s compensation office, Edmonds received a blank application and started to fill it out. The application asks crime victims to include supporting documentation, including copies of itemized receipts, bills, insurance information, and work pay stubs. “It’s like a list of 15 things that they’re asking for, and I was only able to obtain, like, six of them,” Edmonds recalled. Stuck, he set the form aside.

One morning last November, Edmonds shifted on a special mattress prescribed to help prevent bedsores. His makeshift bedroom had taken over the dining room of his cousin’s house, where swathes of fabric covered the windows. He used a claw-grabber to lift a bottle of Sprite from a nearby table. Cloying incense mixed with smoke from Edmonds’ cigarettes, which he chain-smoked; talking about what had changed since the shooting made him feel stressed.

“It's like a prison in here. He can't get out, he can't move around,” said Nicole, Edmonds’ younger sister. “He might as well board up the windows and soak away.”

The shooting transformed Edmonds’ life. He lost the ability to bathe or dress on his own. While living in his cousin’s house, he rarely left except for doctor’s appointments, and then he needed two or three people to bump him in his wheelchair down the front steps. To get something from his old room, his cousin would have to FaceTime him from the third floor. “Being dependent on so many people, I think that’s the hardest thing,” he said. “Without my family, my sister, seeing my children, I really might have given up.”

Last spring, a former roommate saw Edmonds struggling and encouraged him to restart the victim compensation process. They filled out the application together and enlisted the help of a local lawyer. Still, there were roadblocks — Edmonds could not easily go down to the police department to get the incident report, so he had to wait months for the detective to bring it to him. At one point someone stole his phone and he lost all his contacts, including the number for the lawyer.

December marked the two-year anniversary of his shooting. That month he moved to his mother’s apartment, where there are no steps to get in the front door. He can move around more easily there, but it’s still hard to take a shower on his own; the counters and cabinets are not built for someone in a wheelchair. On Christmas Day, he stayed home and watched basketball while his family celebrated at his grandmother’s house. Afterward, his sister brought him a plate of food.

As of this article’s publication, his application had not yet been submitted.

Victims question eligibility criteria

States began establishing victim compensation programs in the 1960s, to extend a financial lifeline to victims and incentivize them to report crimes. In 1984, Congress enacted the Victims of Crime Act, which created a federal fund to supplement state compensation efforts and also support agencies and organizations that work on behalf of crime victims. At the beginning of 2018, the fund’s estimated balance was $11.8 billion. Just a portion of that will ultimately go directly to victims.

Compensation funds are designed for the most vulnerable, those who’ve exhausted all other options for covering their expenses. It is a “payer of last resort,” meaning it only fills gaps other financial resources don’t cover. “If a person has any type of insurance, even if it’s Medicaid, we can’t do a whole lot for them,” said James McCurtis, manager of the Division of Victim Services in Michigan. “We’re limited by statute in terms of what we can do.”

Those limits can end up excluding people who say they desperately need help.

Rita Jolly of Southfield, Michigan, says her state’s compensation program failed her. In 2013, her son Terry was murdered on the playground of his old elementary school in Detroit. In her grief, Jolly had to take a personal leave from work, without pay. She eventually received money for the burial through her son’s life insurance policy, but it did not cover the extra expenses: the flowers, funeral programs, and clothes Terry would be buried in — gold and blue hoodie, pants, and socks, representing his love of the University of Michigan’s basketball team. “I couldn’t dare put him in a suit, because he didn’t wear a suit,” Jolly said. “He was a 16-year-old kid!”

Rita Jolly's children, Terry Jones, Jr., and Shalita Renee Hunter, were killed in separate incidents of gun violence, three years apart. Rita Jolly

To cover those costs, she turned to victim compensation. But the insurance policy made her ineligible, and her claim was denied. “Even though a person has an insurance policy, it’s other expenses that come along with death that the crime victim compensation could have helped with,” she said.

Compensation applications may be denied or closed for a number of reasons, the most common being “incomplete information,” followed by “ineligible application” and “ineligible crime,” as defined by the Office for Victims of Crime, which administers federal VOCA grants to states. Every state has its own appeals process, but there are no current national figures on how many denied applicants pursue it.

Three years later, Jolly confronted the unthinkable: Her daughter Shalita was found in the street in the city of Pontiac with a gunshot wound to the head. This time Jolly did not bother applying for compensation. “I kept all my receipts and everything, but I never followed up,” she said. “Why waste my time when they denied me for the first one?” To pay for her daughter’s funeral, she says her family depended on contributions from friends, coworkers, and a GoFundMe account. Even then, it still wasn’t enough to buy a headstone.

Few state programs track victims of gun violence.

Jolly belongs to a group of mothers of homicide victims who’ve spoken out about their state’s eligibility criteria, which they say is too strict and capriciously applied. Others around the country have voiced similar complaints. An investigation published last year by the Dayton Daily News revealed that among the thousands of victims in Ohio denied compensation annually, some were rejected because of criminal or drug histories, even if neither played a role in the crime that left them needing assistance. (Ohio is one of several states that restricts people with felonies from getting compensation payouts.) In Pennsylvania, victim advocates claim that black families are being denied because of illegal activity on their murdered children’s records.

In 2016, an estimated 1.4 million people ages 12 or older experienced at least one serious violent crime, defined as sexual assault, rape, robbery, and aggravated assault, according to the Department of Justice. It is impossible to know how many of those victims could benefit from compensation. The same year, a total of about 204,000 individuals identifying as direct survivors of violent crime applied for compensation.

Three years ago, the Office for Victims of Crime began requiring states to report more detailed demographic information. The data the office has collected reveals some patterns: Applicants tend to be female, white, and between the ages of 25 and 59. However, the office’s reports do not provide the same details about compensation recipients, meaning it isn’t possible to identify trends in approvals or denials among certain groups. Most victim compensation programs — like many American cities — do not distinguish gunshot victims from other kinds of assault victims.

Exceptions include the Ohio Victims of Crime Compensation Program, which breaks out gun homicide as a specific category, and the Louisiana Crime Victims Reparations Program, which marks cases that involved firearms. Statistics obtained by The Trace reveal that compensation goes to a small portion of the overall number of shooting victims in Louisiana. In 2016, the compensation board made rulings on 161 firearm-related cases from from all over the state, of which 149 were approved. That year, more than 580 people were shot in New Orleans alone.

Misconceptions about the funds

Roughly half of the gun violence survivors I spoke with hit barriers before even starting an application. Some described victim compensation as a mythical benefit they’d heard about but had seldom seen work in real life. Loved ones of homicide victims described being too grief-stricken to follow through with the process, or reluctant to appear as though they were begging for a handout. A couple of gunshot survivors said they were interested, but had no idea how to start the process.

Isiah Johnson was shot in Milwaukee twice within one year. He did not apply for compensation. “Both times nobody contacted me,” he said. “Nobody ever said where or how to do it.” Nicole Byrd of Absecon, New Jersey, needed help with funeral expenses after her son was murdered in 2010, but said a conversation at the prosecutor’s office left her thinking her state’s compensation program doesn’t help families of gunshot victims. (It does.) Roy Brumfield, shot eight times in New Orleans on two separate occasions, didn’t believe victim compensation was available in his city. “They don’t do that in New Orleans,” he said. (Louisiana’s program serves residents statewide.)

Perhaps the most fundamental flaw of compensation programs is how few crime survivors know that they exist. “Because victim compensation is not as well-known as other forms of compensation (i.e., workers compensation), lack of awareness is often the primary obstacle that victims and survivors must overcome,” wrote Douglas Evans, a researcher at the John Jay College of Criminal Justice in a 2014 report. A survey of California crime survivors conducted a year earlier showed that one in three was unaware of victim compensation.

“Gaps remain when it comes to addressing the specific needs of gun violence victims.”

Victim compensation programs have long been tied to the criminal justice system. In order to qualify for compensation, victims must report the crime; they also often need to obtain a police report to include with their application. But only 60 percent of firearm violence is ever reported, and shooting victims fearing retaliation may be reluctant to interact with police. “When the only portal into compensation is law enforcement, and you have violence in communities where there’s already a perception of mistreatment by police, that leaves a lot of victims without a way to get help,” said Stacey Wiggall, a clinical social worker and technical assistance administrator at the Trauma Recovery Center in San Francisco.

From the policing side, law enforcement officials are required to notify victims about compensation in at least two-thirds of states, but there’s evidence that this doesn’t happen consistently. Alabama’s compensation program, for instance, reported that “many police jurisdictions are still reticent to inform victims of their constitutional rights to receive information on crime victims compensation.”

Even when the information is given, it can be lost to the moment. “Sometimes in the swirl of the incident, our advocates are giving a lot of information and I can imagine that some families or individuals are just not digesting that information,” said Katherine Carter, a spokeswoman for the Essex County Prosecutor’s Office in Newark, New Jersey.

Compensation administrators acknowledge that there is a gap between the total number of victims and those who apply. “We run a program that people generally aren’t aware exists until they need to know it exists,” said Robert Hamill, administrator of Iowa’s Crime Victim Compensation Program. He said the responsibility to notify victims falls to advocacy organizations, law enforcement, and prosecutors — with the largest share falling to his own staff. “We have an obligation to make sure that people know that we’re out here to help them,” he said.

Wading through red tape with a broken jaw

Accessing compensation requires an applicant to be enterprising and organized at a time when it may be hard just to get out of bed. Claudiare Motley of Charlotte, North Carolina, was shot during an attempted carjacking while visiting Milwaukee for his high school reunion in June 2014. The bullet blew a hole through his jaw. He learned about compensation from a liaison in the hospital and sent off his application about a month later. After his third surgery, his insurance carrier dropped him, leaving him truly desperate for financial aid. Wisconsin’s compensation program told Motley he was eligible, but advised that he would have to wait to receive all his medical bills before they could determine a payout.

“The bureaucracy is so thick and there are so many financial and emotional stressors during that time that take your attention away,” said Motley, 46. “Sometimes they don’t get back to you right away. Sometimes they’re very short with you. It can become very frustrating.”

Despite the frustrations, Motley was fortunate to have resources to help him persist. Six months after he was shot, he graduated from law school. He read the victim compensation statute and learned about victims rights in Wisconsin. Between infections and surgeries to rebuild his jaw, he juggled phone calls with the hospital, the compensation office, the insurance company, and creditors.

As he waited to hear about his claim, his case was passed from one person to another to another. Motley kept at it, at one point driving to the compensation office in Madison so he could check on his application in person.

One of Motley's hospital bills, totaling $34,885. Claudiare Motley

“I definitely feel that I had a distinct advantage,” Motley said, referring to his tenacity with the process. “I could have easily fallen through the cracks.”

About two and a half years after he applied for compensation, Wisconsin’s program paid his dentist, doctor’s office, and hospital a total of $40,000 — the state’s maximum award. Motley says the money was both a “godsend” and a “drop in the bucket.”

As of early February, Motley had undergone 10 surgeries and procedures. He estimates he still owes $130,000 in medical bills.

Making compensation available to more victims

In 2015, the International Association of Chiefs of Police launched a national project to train law enforcement on how to improve victims’ access to compensation. At the state level, Nevada passed a bill to allow undocumented immigrants to receive compensation. In Massachusetts, a proposed measure would ease the rules about whether funds can go to a victim or to family members if the victim contributed to his or her own injuries.

Gaps remain when it comes to addressing the specific needs of gun violence victims. Among 11 compensation offices The Trace reached out to, only Iowa’s program responded saying it targets outreach toward those victims. California’s program, which administers the oldest and largest fund in the country, has pledged to improve access for underserved victims, including “communities affected by gang violence.” The program also administers grants to support trauma recovery centers, which provide victims with mental health treatment and practical assistance, including help applying for compensation. Ohio recently followed California’s lead, and has seven trauma recovery centers currently in development.

“There is this money that’s just sitting there and underutilized because people don’t know about it or are unable to access it,” said Jennifer Alvidrez, a program official at the National Institute on Minority Health and Health Disparities, who evaluated California’s victim compensation program in the past. “It’s kind of a no-brainer to make that money more accessible to the people that it’s really there for.”Right now is the “only opportunity” for Israelis and Palestinians to reach a peace agreement, according to President Donald Trump ― but he expressed doubt over whether Israel is up to the task.

“I don’t know frankly if we are going to even have talks, we will see what happens,” he said in an interview published Sunday with the Israeli newspaper Israel Hayom. “Right now, I would say the Palestinians are not looking to make peace, they are not looking to make peace. And I am not necessarily sure that Israel is looking to make peace.”

One of the primary issues is the continued Israeli push to build settlements on Palestinian territory. In a possible jab at Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, whose time in office has been defined in large part by settlement expansion, Trump acknowledged that settlements are making the peace process more difficult.

“Israel has to be careful with settlements,” Trump warned. “The settlements are something that very much complicates and always have complicated making peace.”

He appeared to contradict himself, expressing doubt about the likelihood of a peace process but also proclaiming that the opportunity has never been more ripe. U.S.-Israeli relations are at an all-time high, he said, and the chance to make peace “will never happen after this.”

Trump officially recognized Jerusalem as the capital of Israel in December, announcing an imminent embassy move from Tel Aviv. Protests raged for days following the announcement, although Trump says he views the decision as one of the highlights of his first year in office.

“The capital, having Jerusalem be your great capital was a very important thing to a lot of people,” Trump said. “I have been thanked and in some cases not thanked, to be 100% honest about it. But it was a very important pledge that I made and I fulfilled my pledge.”

Netanyahu praised the move, while a furious Palestinian Authority President Mahmoud Abbas said he would refuse to let the U.S. serve as a peace mediator going forward.The athletes did not fly through the air with the greatest of ease during the wind-whipped women’s slopestyle at the Winter Olympics on Monday. But reigning Olympic champion Jamie Anderson tamed the conditions enough to win the gold medal in Pyeongchang, South Korea ― defending the gold she won four years ago in the same event.

She became the first female snowboarder to win multiple golds and notched the second gold for the United States at this year’s games.

Mother Nature couldn't stop a force of nature. Jamie Anderson won gold for Team USA in women's slopestyle. #BestOfUS #WinterOlympics https://t.co/E1XuTKthTN pic.twitter.com/zUSS5G2wpf — NBC Olympics (@NBCOlympics) February 12, 2018

“I’m feeling so happy,” Anderson said, per the Olympics’ news service. “I’ve gone through so much this last year just preparing for the Games and defending the gold is definitely not an easy position to be in.”

Jamie Anderson celebrates her victory Monday. Sergei Bobylev via Getty Images

Much of the drama was created by the wind, which wiped out Sunday’s qualifying. So the whole field got to compete in Monday’s final in two runs for the gold.

Anderson took the lead on her first run. Mike Egerton - PA Images via Getty Images

But the conditions remained dangerous. After a 75-minute delay, Anderson and the rest of the field went to work. Much of the field struggled mightily against the elements, but Anderson managed to record an 83 on her first run to take the lead, and that score held up.

Canada’s Laurie Blouin and Finland’s Enni Rukarvi took silver and bronze, respectively.

AdvertisementTHE NEXT RECESSION IS GOING TO BE WORSE And it may be sooner than you think. [HuffPost] [Tweet | Share on Facebook]

WHAT YOU MISSED AT THE OLYMPICS THIS WEEKEND Meet the 17-year-old snowboarder Red Gerard who took home the first gold medal for the U.S. in Pyeongchang. Congrats to figure skater Mirai Nagasu, who became the first U.S. woman to land a triple axel at the Olympics, helping team USA win bronze in the team skating event in the process. America fell in love with the “Shib Sibs,” the U.S. brother-sister duo who took second place in the team short dance. The U.S. women’s hockey team survived a brief scare in its opening game. Luger Chad Mazdzer won silver at the Olympics, taking home the first medal for an American man in the event. But really, Leslie Jones’ Winter Olympics Twitter game might be the true star. [HuffPost]

MIKE PENCE: THE U.S. WOULD BE OPEN TO TALKS WITH NORTH KOREA He said on his way home from the Winter Olympics. South Korea continued peace efforts by saying “it will try to arrange more reunions for families divided by the Korean War.” [Reuters]

EPA ADMINISTRATOR SCOTT PRUITT LIKES TO FLY FIRST CLASS And it’s costing the taxpayer a pretty penny. [HuffPost]

PROGRESS IN THE FIGHT AGAINST PROMOTING OPIOIDS TO DOCTORS “The maker of painkiller OxyContin will stop promoting opioid drugs to doctors and will slash its sales force by half, a decision that follows the company receiving a barrage of lawsuits that cite the ongoing opioid epidemic.” [HuffPost]

HUFFPOST PERSONAL: WHY JUDY BLUME MATTERS For author Judy Blume’s 80th birthday, musician Amanda Palmer talks about “just how much Blume has shaped our inner and outer worlds.” [HuffPost]Olympics officials confirmed on Sunday that a cyberattack during the opening ceremony last week disrupted Wi-Fi and television at Pyeongchang Olympic Stadium and knocked servers offline for about 12 hours.

International Olympic Committee spokesman Mark Adams told Reuters the attack didn’t affect any critical operations, though South Korea’s Yonhap News Agency notes it did prevent some would-be spectators from printing tickets to the games.

Adams declined to comment further on the source of the attack, a decision reached in tandem with the Pyeongchang organizing committee.

“We decided with the IOC we are not going to reveal the source (of the attack),” committee spokesman Sung Baik-you told Reuters. “All issues were resolved and recovered yesterday morning.”

A report on the attack by Cisco’s Talos Intelligence Group concluded the hackers likely compromised the network well ahead of the games, meaning the timing of the attack ― during the opening ceremony ― was intentional and intended to embarrass Olympics organizers.

“The actors behind this were after embarrassment of the Olympic committee during the opening ceremony.”

Also telling: The hackers didn’t attempt to steal information once they’d gained access. Instead, they tried to destroy the system and leave it inoperable.

“Disruption is the clear objective in this type of attack,” the Talos researchers concluded, “and it leaves us confident in thinking that the actors behind this were after embarrassment of the Olympic committee during the opening ceremony.”

Other experts reached similar conclusions.

“It says something sad and frightening that the question of a cyber attack on the Winter Olympics was a matter of when, not if,” Mike Baukes, co-CEO of the cybersecurity firm UpGuard, noted in an email to HuffPost.

“In this instance, the attacker had gained a high degree of familiarity with the Olympic IT infrastructure, extracting technical details such as usernames, domain and server information, and even passwords - a slew of information that would provide any malicious actor with the tools necessary to launch an attack.”

While IOC officials aren’t assigning blame, there’s plenty of speculation that Russia was behind the attacks.

The IOC banned Russia from competing in the Pyeongchang Games in response to a widespread doping program, thus providing a possible motive. (Scores of individual Russian athletes are nonetheless competing in the games under the Olympic flag.) And, as the source of increasingly brazen state-sponsored hacking efforts, Russia certainly has the means.

Amid speculation in the security community that Russia could hack the Winter Olympics, the country professed its innocence in advance, issuing a statement days before the games began.

“We know that Western media are planning pseudo-investigations on the theme of ‘Russian fingerprints’ in hacking attacks on information resources related to the hosting of the Winter Olympic Games in the Republic of Korea,” Russia’s foreign ministry said in a statement obtained by Reuters. “Of course, no evidence will be presented to the world.”

In 2016, the World Anti-Doping Agency said a Russian cyberespionage group had hacked, then leaked athletes’ medical files from the Summer Olympics in Rio, presumably in retaliation for the IOC’s decision to ban 119 Russian athletes from those games for doping. The Kremlin denied responsibility at the time.U.S. Sens. Jeff Flake, an Arizona Republican, and Claire McCaskill, a Missouri Democrat, eat barbecue during an event in Congress to introduce the Earmark Elimination Act to demonstrate that Congress can “eat pork without spending it.” Tom Williams/CQ Roll Call via AP

When Democratic Gov. Jerry Brown and California legislative leaders needed a handful of votes last year to push a gasoline tax hike over the finish line, they turned to a well-tested, yet widely disparaged, tool: “earmarks” for wavering lawmakers’ pet projects.

They agreed to fund nearly $1 billion worth of special items, from $100 million for a University of California-Merced parkway project (to corral Democratic Assemblyman Adam Gray), to a $400 million extension of the Altamont Corridor Express commuter rail line (to win the support of Republican state Sen. Anthony Cannella).

Brown defended what he called the “arrangements” as a way to push through a much-needed increase in the gas tax, which is expected to raise $5.2 billion annually over 10 years for roads, bridges and other infrastructure.

“I don’t think I’ve ever seen anything as big as this particular transportation bill,” Brown told reporters after the late-night vote. “So I would say some of the arrangements that were entailed in this process, they may look large, but relative to $52 billion, it’s all pretty modest.”

The U.S. Congress placed a moratorium on the use of federal earmarks in 2011, hoping to curb wasteful spending. But in California and some other states, they never went away. Many state leaders argue that inserting money for local projects into broader bills isn’t wasteful — it’s an indispensable tool for winning votes. They say earmarks promote bipartisanship and break gridlock.

Now President Donald Trump and some lawmakers from both parties are calling for a revival of federal earmarks as a way to address the dysfunction in Washington. As Congress weighs the issue — it held hearings last month — the experience of states is instructive.

The California lawmakers who got money for projects in their districts defended the deals as beneficial to their constituents.

“This effort will certainly benefit the entire state by improving our dilapidated roadways, but my focus has always been ensuring my district is a participant in California’s growth,” Cannella said in a statement.

But critics, mostly opposed to raising the gas tax altogether, called the giveaways unseemly. A group of Republicans is currently mounting a petition drive to put a measure to scrap the gas tax hike on the November ballot.

A Big Mistake?

Congress stopped using earmarks following the disclosure of some especially egregious abuses. At the behest of Alaska lawmakers, for example, Congress in 2005 earmarked $223 million to link Ketchikan to the island of Gravina, home of only 50 souls, and already served by a ferry. Outrage over money spent on a Bridge to Nowhere ensued.

That was followed by the conviction of former U.S. Rep. Randy “Duke” Cunningham, a California Republican, who in 2006 was sent to prison for seven years for taking at least $2.4 million in bribes from defense contractors as payback for steering earmarks to their companies.

But in recent weeks Trump has repeatedly evoked a time when, thanks in part to earmarks, Congress had an easier time getting things done. “Our system lends itself to not getting things done, and I hear so much about earmarks — the old earmark system — how there was a great friendliness when you had earmarks,” he said in January.

“In the old days of earmarks … they went out to dinner at night and they all got along, and they passed bills,” Trump said. “A lot of the pros are saying that, if you want to get along and if you want to get this country really rolling again, you have to look at [earmarks].”

Some longtime Washington watchers agree.

“The whole focus on bashing earmarks has been a big mistake,” said Jonathan Rauch, senior fellow at the Brookings Institution. “Politics is about making deals, and making deals is difficult and complicated. Votes sometimes put [members] in trouble in their home districts. It’s very helpful to offer them some protection in the form of an earmark.”

Many lawmakers also miss the days of earmarks — but not all of them, including the Speaker of the House.

“Taxpayers were rightfully angered to learn of their hard-earned tax dollars squandered on the infamous Bridge to Nowhere in Alaska and the Rain Forest Museum in Iowa,” Republican Speaker Paul Ryan of Wisconsin says in a statement posted on his website. “More troubling than these egregious examples of waste is the corruptibility of the process.”

“Earmarks aren’t inherently problematic, but when former members of Congress are in jail for selling earmarks, there’s something seriously wrong with the process,” he wrote.

And shortly after Trump made his remarks, U.S. Sens. Jeff Flake, an Arizona Republican, and Claire McCaskill, a Missouri Democrat, introduced the “Earmark Elimination Act,” to further underscore their opposition and put the current, self-imposed ban by the House and Senate into law.

Good and Bad Earmarks

By definition, earmarks skirt the normal process through which legislatures pay for projects, said Gian-Claudia Sciara, an assistant professor at the University of Texas-Austin who has studied them. Sciara cites transportation projects as an example. In a perfect world, state or regional transportation authorities would perform a cost-benefit analysis on every proposed project and lawmakers would decide which ones to pay for. Such a system ensures that taxpayer dollars aren’t being wasted.

But circumventing the process doesn’t always produce bad results, Sciara said. “Some people would say the great thing about earmarks is that sometimes the projects we want aren’t in those state and regional plans.”

In some states — New York, New Mexico, North Carolina and Pennsylvania among them — capital spending bills routinely include the priorities of individual lawmakers, whether they have been requested by state agencies or not. Democratic Gov. Andrew Cuomo of New York came into office railing against the state’s “member item” system, which allowed projects to get funded without scrutiny. So in 2012, the State and Municipal Facilities Program was created, which was supposed to provide more oversight. Lawmakers still are allowed to sponsor projects, but state agencies must review them before any money is spent.

In North Carolina, the state’s $23 billion 2017 budget included $70 million in special earmarks, according to an analysis by The News & Observer. The earmarks include $830,000 for a new sewage system at an upscale golf community called River Landing owned by a hog-farming magnate who also made large political donations to legislators. All of the parties say the contributions had nothing to do with the funds and that the project was a worthy one.

Earmarks also persist in New Mexico.

Paul Gessing, president of the Rio Grande Foundation, an Albuquerque think tank espousing limited government, noted this year’s capital projects bill in New Mexico contains lots of bond issues and outlays for projects such as $14,100 for improvements to the Los Volcanes senior center in Albuquerque and $2 million for infrastructure improvements at Santa Fe community college. He has no quarrel with any of the projects individually, but with the process itself and what he says is a lack of oversight and vetting.

“These dollars are jealously guarded, especially in rural areas. For a lot of these legislators there’s not a heck of a lot going on in their districts,” Gessing said. “But obviously, more often than not, it tends to work for the benefit of narrow special interests and hurts John Q. Public.”

The same is true in Pennsylvania, according to Nate Benefield, vice president and chief operating officer of the Commonwealth Foundation, another free-market think tank. His group spotted $65 million in earmarks last year in the state’s “fiscal code” bill, which is part of the budget process. Pennsylvania went nearly a year without a budget, and funding in the fiscal code bill “helped solidify” some of the votes in the budget that eventually passed, he said.

“It’s hard to pinpoint exactly because sometimes the way they are written is so obscure,” he said. “But over the years a lot of these earmarks have been used to get members on board, as part of the budget process.”

For example, his group found that an earmark for $5 million for “a hospital in a city of the third class in a home rule county that was formerly a county of the second class A” was likely meant for Crozer-Keystone Health System in Chester City. And an earmark for $850,000 for “a special rehabilitation facility in Peer Group Number 13 in a city of the third class with a population between 115,000 and 120,000 based upon 2010 census data” was probably going to a facility in Allentown.Plans to sell Harvey Weinstein’s movie company reportedly crumbled on Sunday after New York’s attorney general filed a lawsuit against the studio and its co-founders, accusing them of committing civil and human rights violations.

A group headed by former Small Business Administration chief Maria Contreras-Sweet was expected to finalize a roughly $500 million deal ― which included the assumption of debt ― to purchase Weinstein Co., The Wall Street Journal reported.

Just before the deal was signed, Attorney General Eric T. Schneiderman filed his lawsuit, which demands civil penalties and victim compensation should any sale of the company be made.

An attempt to sell Weinstein Co., which was co-founded by disgraced media mogul Harvey Weinstein, was reportedly derailed on Sunday by a lawsuit filed by New York's attorney general. GUS RUELAS / Reuters

“Any sale of the Weinstein Company must ensure that victims will be compensated, employees will be protected going forward, and that neither perpetrators nor enablers will be unjustly enriched,” Schneiderman said in a statement.

Contreras-Sweet’s investor group has previously said that it would create a settlement fund for women who have accused Weinstein of abuse, should the company’s purchase be finalized.

Weinstein Co.’s board, responding to news of Schneiderman’s lawsuit, has disputed the accuracy of “many of the allegations” against the company.

Former Small Business Administration chief Maria Contreras-Sweet headed a group that was reportedly planning on purchasing the Weinstein Co. J. Countess via Getty Images

“We are disappointed that the New York attorney general felt it necessary to file” the lawsuit, the board said in a statement obtained by the WSJ. “Many of the allegations relating to the board are inaccurate and the board looks forward to bringing the facts to light as part of its ongoing commitment to resolve this difficult situation in the most appropriate way.”

The company, which reportedly has debts totaling $225 million, could be forced into bankruptcy if it is unable to find a buyer, according to The New York Times.

Weinstein was fired from his company in October after widespread allegations of sexual misconduct and assault against him emerged. Multiple actresses have shared detailed recounts of the abuse they say they experienced at his hands, including Rose McGowan, Daryl Hannah, Mira Sorvino, Ashley Judd and Asia Argento.

Bob Weinstein, Weinstein’s brother and business partner, is among those accused of having had knowledge of the misconduct.

AdvertisementJim Carrey has taken aim at the National Rifle Association and its new president, Oliver North, with his latest politically charged portrait.

The actor/artist depicted North as a snake underneath blood dripping from the letters “NRA” in the piece that he shared on Twitter over the weekend:

Someday they’ll say we turned a blind eye to the suffering and slaughter of our own children and gave ourselves over to scoundrels and sadists. The NRA is a national disgrace. The venom of greed is killing America. pic.twitter.com/bhiMMHTVGN — Jim Carrey (@JimCarrey) May 13, 2018

“Someday they’ll say we turned a blind eye to the suffering and slaughter of our own children and gave ourselves over to scoundrels and sadists,” Carrey captioned the artwork. Carrey also described the NRA as a “national disgrace” and said that “the venom of greed is killing America.”

The NRA named North, a retired lieutenant colonel infamous for the part he played in the Iran-Contra scandal of the 1980s, as its new president last week. He has since claimed the gun group is a victim of “civil terrorism.”

Carrey also released this portrait of former New York Mayor Rudy Giuliani, who is now a personal attorney to President Donald Trump, over the weekend:

In his desperate and neverending quest for significance, bleaching the bottom teeth just wasn’t a priority. Giuliani was back! And his breath was badder than ever! pic.twitter.com/oZyCiUiEPX — Jim Carrey (@JimCarrey) May 13, 2018

And this artwork in criticism of Vice President Mike Pence:With Adam Rippon’s dazzling debut and Mirai Nagasu’s history-making routine, Team USA clinched a bronze medal in the figure skating team event at the Pyeongchang Winter Olympics.

Team USA amassed a total score of 62, behind the Olympic Athletes from Russia team, which won the silver medal with 66 points. Canada scored 73 points to take the gold.

They've done it!



Team USA earns bronze in the figure skating team event. #BestOfUS pic.twitter.com/3NtaOyuQlF — NBC Olympics (@NBCOlympics) February 12, 2018

Rippon, who competed for the U.S. in the men’s free skate on Monday and made history as the first openly gay U.S. figure skater at the Winter Games, wowed fans with his near-flawless Olympic debut. He finished third in his event, with 172.98 points.

In the women’s free skate, Nagasu also made history, becoming the first U.S. woman — and third overall — to nail a triple axel at the Olympics. She received a personal best score of 137.53 for the routine, ranking second in the event.

"HOLY COW!" You just witnessed a historic triple axel from Mirai Nagasu. #WinterOlympics https://t.co/NsNuy9F46h pic.twitter.com/jCMTb4LtXv — NBC Olympics (@NBCOlympics) February 12, 2018

Watching Team Canada erupt into applause when American skater Mirai Nagasu became only the third woman to land a triple axel at the #Olympics almost made me tear up. pic.twitter.com/VKBg7Tnmkh — Derek Lewis (@dereklew) February 12, 2018

Brother and sister duo Maia and Alex Shibutani, known as the “Shib sibs,” also impressed with their free dance routine on Sunday, coming in second with 112.01 points. The day before, the siblings finished second in the short dance event.

Nathan Chen (men’s short program), Bradie Tennell (ladies’ short program) and Alexa and Chris Knierim (pairs’ short program and pairs’ free skate) also contributed to Team USA’s third-place finish. The Knierims came in fourth in both their events, as did Chen in his. Tennell ranked fifth in the ladies’ short program.

Advertisement