The NBC commentator who was skewered by viewers for insensitive remarks he made during the Winter Olympics opening ceremony in Pyeongchang, South Korea, is no longer covering the games, the broadcaster announced on Monday.

“Joshua Cooper Ramo has completed his responsibilities for NBC in Pyeongchang, and will have no further role on our air,” an NBC spokesman told Reuters. The network also said Ramo had been hired only for the opening ceremonies of the games.

Ramo, a former journalist who served as an on-air analyst for NBC, infuriated Koreans on Friday when he flippantly commented on the history between Japan and South Korea during the opening ceremony. Spotting Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, Ramo mused that “every Korean will tell you that Japan is a cultural and technological and economic example, has been so important to their own transformation.”

Joshua Cooper Ramo pictured in 2010. Johannes Simon via Getty Images

Facing intense backlash, including displeasure from the Pyeongchang Organizing Committee and a petition signed by thousands who called Ramo’s comments “deeply hurtful and outrageous,” NBC publicly apologized on Sunday for his remark.

“We apologized quickly both in writing and on television for a remark made by one of our presenters during Friday night’s opening ceremony,” a spokesman said. “We’re very gratified that Pyeongchang’s organizing committee has accepted that apology.”

AdvertisementPresident Donald Trump's proposed budget would run a deficit of over $900 billion. MANDEL NGAN via Getty Images

In 1959, President Dwight D. Eisenhower attempted the single boldest peacetime experiment with fiscal policy in American history. With the economy slipping into recession, Eisenhower ran a budget deficit of over $12.8 billion.

This was a lot of money at the time. Adjusted for inflation, it was more than double the size of the deficits that Franklin D. Roosevelt ran in the late 1930s as he tried to lift the economy out of the Great Depression.

But not many people got worked up about Ike’s suddenly spendthrift ways. Economists expected the deficit to boost jobs and restore growth. It did both, and presidents have been deploying similar strategies ever since. Richard Nixon ran deficits of over $23 billion in consecutive years, which, adjusted for inflation, amounted to about a 10 percent bump on Eisenhower’s tab. Gerald Ford pushed the deficit to over $73 billion, and Ronald Reagan grew it to more than $221 billion. George H.W. Bush’s biggest deficit was about $290 billion; his son’s biggest deficit was over $377 billion.

The Republican Party hasn’t governed as if it cares about government spending or budget deficits in over 80 years. What is surprising about President Donald Trump’s latest proposal to run a $900 billion-plus annual deficit into 2022 isn’t the red ink itself, but the blunt acknowledgement of it in his official budget plan.

Sure, Republicans screamed from the rooftops that President Barack Obama’s stimulus package and health care reforms would bankrupt the nation. And yes, some excessively credulous Washington journalists presented the dire warnings about federal debt and deficits from then-House Budget Committee chair Paul Ryan (R-Wis.) as serious policy ideas. But the crisis never materialized, and nobody familiar with the way Republicans have governed historically took Ryan ― who had voted dutifully for George W. Bush’s spending and deficits ― at his word.

The truth is, nobody in Washington who actually exercises power cares about the deficit. Leaders of both parties understand it as a rhetorical tool ― an ostensibly objective number that can be deployed to help resolve a genuine divide over values. When House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi (D-Calif.) and Sen. Patty Murray (D-Wash.) talked about immigration reform during the Obama years, they sometimes pointed to the impact on government resources: A path to citizenship for the undocumented would lead to more people paying income taxes, which would reduce the deficit. More frequently, Ryan would fret that the country was on the verge of a “debt crisis” if it didn’t immediately cut Medicaid and Medicare.

In both cases, the central question ― should our society treat its people with basic human decency? ― was sidestepped in favor of a question about whether we could afford to treat people with basic human decency, or afford not to. This was a silly exercise for leaders of the richest country in the history of rich countries to engage in, but it has become a standard Washington ritual.

Which is a shame, because the deficit doesn’t really matter ― at least not in the way that politicians pretend to believe that it does. The federal government cannot run out of money. Unlike a household, the government can print money when it needs it. If the deficit gets too big, we won’t see a sudden financial market crash like we did in 2008. Large deficits won’t prevent the government from paying its bills. There isn’t even recent empirical evidence that running a big deficit makes worried investors demand higher interest rates on government bonds to compensate for their increased risk. Since the George H.W. Bush presidency, interest rates on bonds have steadily declined, while government debt has steadily increased.

What persistent large budget deficits can do is create inflation, by forcing the government to pump more money into the economy than workers and businesses can reasonably soak up with increased productivity. When this happens, prices rise.

Heavy inflation isn’t great. It erodes savings and makes it harder to plan a family budget in the face of rising prices. But it’s not a sudden crash or calamity of unknowable proportions ― it’s something governments know how to deal with by restricting the amount of money in the economy.

And what’s more, we don’t see much evidence of imminent inflation right now. The Federal Reserve has set a 2 percent annual increase in prices as its goal for several years, and we have persistently undershot that figure. There seems to be plenty of room for additional deficits right now.

Even if the evidence of looming inflation were strong, how the government actually goes about creating deficits matters at least as much as the size of the deficit itself. Building a high-speed rail network that people actually used would make transportation more efficient and help a host of other businesses that rely on speedy transport. This spending would translate into more economic activity rather than simple price increases. Growing the deficit by cutting taxes for the super rich, by contrast, cuts the other way, giving people who already have more money than they can spend extra cash to bid up prices.

Democrats who don’t like President Trump’s policy priorities don’t need to scream about the deficit to make their point. The budget document he published on Monday is pretty clear about what he thinks government should and should not be doing: He wants to slash Medicaid by $250 billion and food stamps by over $200 billion, cut public education funding and dramatically reduce taxes for the wealthy, while pouring more money into the Pentagon and charging people more to immigrate here. His infrastructure plan includes just $200 billion in actual spending, along with about $240 billion in cuts to existing infrastructure programs and proposals to “streamline and improve” privatization of public assets.

The central questions for all of these policies don’t have much to do with their real long-term financial costs. Nobody in their right mind thinks creating a few extra points of inflation matters next to civilian deaths and global stability.Then-President Lyndon B. Johnson signs the 1964 Civil Rights Act, which established a Justice Department office to provide confidential services to ease tensions in communities facing racial and other conflicts. The Trump administration's budget proposal would eliminate the office. Photo 12/UIG via Getty Images

WASHINGTON ― The Trump administration has proposed the elimination of a historic Justice Department office known as the federal government’s “peacemakers.” The Justice Department’s Community Relations Service, a non-investigative office founded by the Civil Rights Act of 1964, provides communities facing racial and other conflict with confidential services to ease tensions.

Under a proposal in the Trump administration’s fiscal year 2019 budget, the duties of the office would be shifted to the Civil Rights Division, which unlike the Community Relations Service works on criminal matters.

“This budget would basically take [the Community Relations Service] and transfer it to the Civil Rights Division, and we would have a separate entity within the Civil Rights Division handle the work of [the Community Relations Service] today,” Justice Department official Lee Loftus told reporters on Monday.

Loftus called the Community Relations Service a “small entity in Justice today” and said it has just 54 authorized positions, not all of which are filled. The unit had a budget of about $15 million in recent years.

Jobs will be cut as the office is eliminated. The administration believes it can support the office’s functions with fewer people and less of a regional presence around the country.

Loftus said the DOJ would try to “look out for our people” and look for various options for Community Relations Service employees.

“We’re going to look and make every effort to make sure that we can take care of our folks. ... We have time to prepare, and with support from the Hill we can look at ways to help the current staff,” Loftus said.

Responding to a question from HuffPost about the idea of folding a non-investigative office into the Civil Rights Division, Loftus said the administration took that into account.

“We are very aware that there are some potential issues if you combine them, because there needs to be some segregation between CRS and its responsibilities under the Civil Rights Act and the functions that [the Civil Rights Division] may have in its regular investigative and prosecution responsibilities,” Loftus said.

“So when CRS moves in, there’s going to have to be some type of segregation, so that we don’t cross those lines,” Loftus said. “We’re very mindful of that, and to the extent that we need different authorizing language in our legislation, that will be part of the FY 2019 budget process that we work out with the Hill.”

Becky Monroe, the acting head of the Community Relations Service during the Obama administration, criticized the decision in a post for the Lawyers Committee on Civil Rights Under Law.

“One of the reasons CRS is effective is because it is not an investigative nor prosecutorial component of the DOJ. Instead, it works through regional offices [to] deliver services tailored to a community’s needs. For mayors, chiefs, sheriffs, and community leaders alike, the fact that CRS is not involved in prosecutions or investigations makes it possible for leaders to ask for the assistance without fear of facing a lawsuit,” Monroe wrote. “The historic and important contributions made by CRS are not just a line item to be tossed aside, as Trump’s budget suggests. The civil and human rights of all individuals are too priceless for that.”

DOJ’s Community Relations Service has long faced fire from some on the right. A few years ago, the unit was unfairly accused of providing “support” for anti-George Zimmerman rallies.

Todd A. Cox, policy director of the NAACP Legal Defense Fund, said that ending the Community Relations Service “by callously draining it of its resources is yet another move by this Administration to circumvent their legal obligations and strip minority communities of federal protections.”

“We need the Justice Department’s ‘peacemakers’ now more than ever, and cutting off funding for the CRS ― like so much of Trump’s proposed budget ― is irresponsible and shameful,” Cox said.

This post has been updated with reactions from Becky Monroe and Todd A. Cox.For the best athletes in the world, there’s a moment in the journey where it’s do or die, where they either rise to greatness and become legendary, or fall forever into oblivion.

South Korean figure skater Alex Kang-chan Kam experienced that moment Sunday. No, it wasn’t on the ice, but rather on camera. During NBC’s broadcast of the 2018 Winter Games in Pyeongchang, South Korea, the camera fell on Kam, donning some quirky sunglasses made to look like the iconic Olympic rings.

Kam leaned into the camera like a man who’d been training for this moment his whole life and, without missing a beat, removed those sunglasses to reveal a second pair of sunglasses.

The move went without a hitch, without a doubt earning Kam a 10/10 from the judges ― as well as the praise of the entire internet.

I'M IN TEARS THAT WAS SO SMOOTH https://t.co/mb06BCNgiJ — rip jonghyun star in the sky (@MarsNBeyond) February 12, 2018

This is everything. I want nothing else than to live forever in this moment — Spencer Becker-Kahn (@SpencerTHughes) February 12, 2018

Cooler than the other side of the pillow. — The Borax (@ispeakforno1) February 12, 2018

The 22-year-old competes in the paired skating competition with partner Kim Kyu-eun.

You’ve already won, Alex. You’ve already won.

AdvertisementBy: Landon Peoples

To be a supermodel means to embody an era; to lend not just a face and figure but a voice to what’s going on. It’s why we fell in love with people like Naomi Campbell, Cindy Crawford, Christy Turlington — muses who were as close as family and thick as thieves, and brought Girl Power to the runway. We admired them for their honesty, their aggressive personalities, their ability to fuse fantasy with reality, and their respect for the craft.

But the industry has changed. These days, having a famous last name has superseded having a skill, and the ones who get the most work are more likely to have already been on a reality show. What they stand for? Sometimes, just a paycheck. But there’s another community of rising models like none before them: They’re brave, they’re diverse, and they know how to sell clothes. That they’re transgender is not the point — but it definitely matters.

Teddy Quinlivan, Leyna Bloom, Casil McArthur, Gia Garison and Geena Rocero are fashion’s present and future. Beyond being featured in some of the world’s most prestigious magazines and runways, they’re changing how the industry views women, and what a model should be. The fact that they’re advocates, not just spokespeople — each in different ways — makes them more than worthy of the ‘supermodel’ title. Because, the very nature of modeling means that their bodies are valuable, desirable, and beautiful, which is a fight, a statement, and a protest in and of itself.

When we think of what makes a model a ‘super,’ it’s not only the ability to win fans, but also to turn the runway into a global stage on which they represent the best of what’s to come. Whereas getting on the catwalk was once the entire point, now, it marks the beginning of something more. We’re in the middle of some revolutionary shifts in our culture, and models have been vocal about keeping the industry honest and pushing it forward. From calling out racial inequality and sexual harassment, to confronting body shamers, and turning their platforms into political stages, they’re not afraid to fight for justice — and to not take no for an answer.

After several seasons that saw an increasing number of transgender models on the catwalk — from 12 to 45, during spring 2018 — transgender visibility is increasing, though it’s all but clear. Teddy, Leyna, Casil, Gia and Geena are some of the biggest names in the community, and it’s time the world knows them by their first names, too. Though their stories are different, they all possess an honest investment in where fashion is going, and how their presence in the industry contributes to the cultural zeitgeist at large.

“We’re in the middle of some revolutionary shifts in our culture, and models have been vocal about keeping the industry honest and pushing it forward.”

BURBERRY SOFT-TOUCH PLASTIC OVERSIZED CAR COAT, $1,995, AVAILABLE AT BURBERRY. PHOTOGRAPHED BY DAVID URBANKE. DESIGNED BY ISABEL CASTILLO GUIJARRO.

Last season Teddy Quinlivan revealed her gender identity via CNN Style. By doing so, she acknowledged from that moment on the fashion industry would refer to her as a 'transgender model' — instead of 'a model,' as they had for years.

"I think the fact that I’m transgender isn't what makes me successful, but it is what makes me special and unique," she says. "Is it the most important thing about me? No. But is it a part of me? Yes. I didn’t want anyone to be able to say, 'Oh, well you just got that show because you're trans.' I wanted to make sure that nobody could say that about me or use that against me because your genitals do not play a factor in how successful you can be as a model."

Quinlivan entered the industry without disclosing her gender and reached global success, which makes her story both frustrating and revealing. It means that she's considered to be the first transgender model to walk the runways of dozens of major fashion houses, like Versace and Prada, not to mention her endless editorial work. Her passing privilege has won her a career many models, transgender or otherwise, will never achieve in a lifetime — and she openly admits it.

Helmut Lang shirts and belt; Stuart Weitzman Clingy Kitten Bootie, $288, available at Stuart Weitzman PHOTOGRAPHED BY DAVID URBANKE.

"I honestly wish I had some drama to tell you about being a transgender model, but it's really no different for me. However that doesn't mean that every chance you get in the industry, people aren't constantly trying to push you down," she quips. As a result, Quinlivan developed her own insecurities. But after scoring her first major exclusive, with Louis Vuitton no less, she began to see herself for what she is: someone who was born for this. "'Are my cheekbones high enough? My jawline narrow enough?' I thought, Well, if my face is good enough for Dior, Louis Vuitton, and Gucci, then it must be okay.'"

Quinlivan's experience in the industry is unique, and the factors that play into her success aren't exactly secondary to the obvious. But she's even more read on what it's like for people who don't look like her; that with the odds of becoming a model being slim, the odds for a trans model are even slimmer. "We're a very, very tiny minority, so I think it's important to understand that while there are a lot of transgender women in the world, there are not a lot of transgender models," she says. She recounts a story from a season past, where she was set to walk for a luxury fashion brand. Upon asking the casting team if she was the only transgender model to walk the show, she was told there was supposed to be one more — but they couldn't fit the shoes.

Burberry Soft-Touch Plastic Oversized Car Coat $1,995, Available at Burberry; Model’s own underwear. PHOTOGRAPHED BY DAVID URBANKE. DESIGNED BY ISABEL CASTILLO GUIJARRO.

It's these types of provisions that ratify the idea that designers design with one type of model in mind, leaving hopefuls with only one option: imagining what the industry would look like if they didn't. When faced with the question of whether or not she'd suggest more transgender hopefuls try their hand at modeling to make up for the imbalance, her answer can be summed up in one word: "reconsider." And she means it: "Don't do it. The world needs serious help right now. Forget about having your picture in a magazine to validate your attractiveness. Because regardless of your gender, you can spend ten years waiting around for Steven Meisel to call — it probably will never happen." Because even if that phone does ring, she knows her fortune won't last forever.

"I'm one of the only success stories I've ever heard. And that's all you hear about: success stories or the model who became successful and then had a drug overdose and lost it all. Why put yourself through all of this bullshit for a photo in a magazine? I ask myself that question on a daily basis."

PHOTOGRAPHED BY DAVID URBANKE. DESIGNED BY ISABEL CASTILLO GUIJARRO.

From the suburbs of Chicago, to sleeping on trains in New York City, to appearing in the pages of Vogue India (the first transgender model to do so), Leyna Bloom is the embodiment of a success story — nay, the American dream. An Afro-Filipina whose voice is tender yet tough, Bloom has all of the qualities of what it takes to be taken seriously as a model, and she’s got the proverbial scars to prove it.

When she broke into the industry just a few years ago, Bloom knew exactly who she wanted to be. After all, her time spent serving face on the floors of vacant Harlem theaters and dance halls in the ballroom scene prepared her for it. Eyes wide, she goes down the list: “I had a beautiful group of girls I was inspired by: Tanay Pendavis, Onjenae’ Milan, Tracey ‘Africa’ Norman, Octavia Saint Laurent, Carmen Xtravaganza... thinking about them gives me chills.”

Y/Project Denim Jacket With Exaggerated Sleeves, $1,485, available at Farfetch; A.P.C. jeans; Kenneth Cole Alyssa Patent Leather Boot, $185, available at Kenneth Cole. PHOTOGRAPHED BY DAVID URBANKE.

Though Bloom was inspired by the many greats before her, she's an example that very few women of color who are also transgender manage to go all the way. "Before I knew anything about being trans, I was a human knowing my soul comes from Africa, from true queens and kings. That gives me the ideology to know where I come from and where I'm going. But I've had more issues with racism than transphobia. Due to the fact I am cis-passing, people on the day-to-day just see a brown skin girl. The 'wow' factor is always me being trans."

But when it comes to identifying with her own gender identity and race, and in what order, Bloom has it mapped out to a T. "I'm a person of color, first, a woman, second, the third, filled with possibilities, and lastly, I'm trans — each of them giving me strength," she declares. And though each characteristic is a vital component of her character, she acknowledges that non-cis identifying models need to fight harder for their place in the industry. That when it comes to equal hiring and treatment, the fashion industry goes from being one of the only safe spaces for transgender women and models alike, to yet another workplace that requires transgender people to work harder than others.

Helmut Lang Disco Dress, $1,495, available a Helmut Lang. PHOTOGRAPHED BY DAVID URBANKE. DESIGNED BY ISABEL CASTILLO GUIJARRO.

"The biggest setback I've been directly affected by is the lack of money being spent on myself and other trans models of color. They're making so much money and press off of us, but they're not paying us and that really fucks with me. Our clients need to pay us," Bloom holds. "The majority of trans people of color, especially trans women, have the worst living situations. We are homeless, we are starving, we need medical aid. Society has rejected us in public spaces to live normal lives, ignoring how badly we want to."

And when backed up with the fact that, since December, more than 28 transgender women have been murdered (most being transgender women of color), with nearly all of their stories unreported in the media, Blooms words hold even more significance. "It's crucial that we're paid for our stories and talents so we're not subjected to other means of survival that's common with our lifestyles. Don't fetishize us, protect us."

PHOTOGRAPHED BY DAVID URBANKE. DESIGNED BY ISABEL CASTILLO GUIJARRO.

Before Casil Mcarthur caught the eyes of industry heavyweights, he was held up in Colorado, exploring his gender through cosplay. McCarthur considered the form of fantasy dress up to be one of the only outlets he had to explore, and get comfortable with, his gender identity. "It takes a lot of hard work, a lot of dedication — a lot of late night conversations with yourself," he says, admitting he didn't like himself before transitioning.

"I had no energy, no drive. I felt like I was a black hole. I had pretty bad gender dysphoria up until I was able to get my top surgery done, even though I had been on hormones for a good amount of time leading up to then." Last year, photographer Collier Schorr shot him for Italian Vogue, pre-surgery, which led to a 16-page spread with Steven Meisel in W, a campaign for Kenneth Cole, stints on the Coach and Marc Jacobs runways at New York Fashion Week, and more. "I've always been comfortable in front of the camera, but that weight on my chest caused massive insecurity no matter what I did."

Lorod jacket and pants; Uniqlo turtleneck; Frye Heirloom Harness Back Zip Boot, $558, available at Frye. PHOTOGRAPHED BY DAVID URBANKE. DESIGNED BY ISABEL CASTILLO GUIJARRO.

Upon his entry to the fashion industry, he was met with another identity challenge: Would he model openly as a transgender man? Or did he even have to? "Because I started modeling so young (at 10 years old), there was no point in hiding that part of me going into male modeling. It was out there already," he maintains. But McArthur was hesitant, not wanting to be seen as a transgender model, and thus separated from his peers. "I just wanted to be a male model. I was scared to be seen as a trans man." His concerns with his outer appearance are valid, considering the physical requirements for male models, too — and, at one point, McArthur thought transitioning would mean the end of his career. Being open about his gender allowed him to pursue his dream without the fear of being outed, being made to fit in a gender that wasn't his, or the ultimate trap: being typecast.

"Being open about my gender in the industry, I don't have anxieties over people finding out I am trans. It forces me to love myself as a trans person and to see the beauty in this experience. It helps me realize that this is completely normal, and every trans individual deserves to feel normal about themselves," he says. Sentiments like this are frequent on his Instagram, where McArthur often calls on the industry for radical improvements to the way it regards transgender models. "We are not modeling being transgender. We are modeling the clothing, the art, the fashion, and so many other things that are not focused on our gender. Your gender can't hold you back."

Stella McCartney Trench Coat; Janessa Leone Michel Cap, $212, available at Janessa Leone. PHOTOGRAPHED BY DAVID URBANKE. DESIGNED BY ISABEL CASTILLO GUIJARRO.

It's a nice idea, but on set, it's not necessarily the most realistic expectation to have. While it's known that male models are just as prone to hyper-sexualization, which is just now coming to light, female-to-male models experience a heightened type of fetishization, including personal questions that move the line and then cross it. As he says, "Don’t ask us about our dead name. It's dead. Don't tell us that we can trust you won't tell anyone as a way of guilting us into it." McArthur's referring to deadnaming, the act of calling a transgender person by their old name, which denies them the progress they've made in their transition.

And he's not done: "Coming from a point of being trans male, don't refer to us as butch lesbians. We're not butch lesbians. We are men. We are also not tomboys. I know that when I first started modeling people loved to use the, 'You have such a tomboy look!'" It's hard to believe people actually still commit these types of social snafus, given the progress that's been made, but the harsh reality is that they do, and most of the bubbled fashion industry is still unbriefed on the most basic of gender politics and terminology. "It's unprofessional to not educate yourself. At the end of the day, it's all about respect and boundaries. If you want to change the world, you have to tell them you're here to do that."

Calvin Klein 205W39NYC Wool Shirt, $468, available at MyTheresa. PHOTOGRAPHED BY DAVID URBANKE. DESIGNED BY ISABEL CASTILLO GUIJARRO.

If fashion is art and the industry is a museum, Gia Garison is the Mona Lisa. Still a teenager, Garison is both a veteran and rookie of Brooklyn nightlife — a persona that, via social media, has drawn the eyes of the industry her way. In just a few years, Garison has secured her stake among the fashion elite, attending and hosting parties that would otherwise require cocktail attire with Garison showing up in next-to-nothing glam — chokers, chains, and miniskirts.

"I'm always the black sheep wherever I go. I could never be a full-blown commercial model, and I don't know if I ever really want to be. I don't conform to a lot of traditional standards of beauty," she says, looking at her stiletto nails. Garison doubles as a DJ on the weekends, and a Pat McGrath favorite during the week. "I definitely receive a lot of negative attention for things like that, but I wish our society was more open to letting me do whatever the fuck I want." For the most part, Garison marches to the beat of her own drum.

Balenciaga Cotton Shirt With Vest, $805, available at MyTheresa; Balenciaga Scuba Skirt, $1,015, available at MyTheresa; model's own necklace. PHOTOGRAPHED BY DAVID URBANKE.

Garison didn't find herself as a transwoman until later on in her life, which means she and those around her don't associate her outer appearance with [conventionally] feminine qualities as easily as her peers. "It's not like I could really hide it or act like I was a woman my entire life. But I've never been one to hide anything about myself," she says, changing her tune. "The bottom line is: Being trans is really hard; some people just want to fit in as a cis-passing person. It can be so overwhelming to constantly be fighting for your existence, so I totally respect if one would want to just keep quiet about that and just try and lay low."

Unlike the passing privilege inherited by cisgender-appearing trans models, Garison often modifies her look to fit in. "I definitely change myself to sort of fit a mold, or sometimes be someone that I'm not. People sometimes make me think I’m not feminine enough," she admits. "But a lot of it is just because I don’t want to deal with people harassing me. Some days I don't even want to leave my house because I have to shave my face or put on makeup just to get by. But I don't feel like doing that every day. It gets so stressful and expensive; beauty products are not cheap. Sometimes the combination of everything just makes it hard to even go outside."

Calvin Klein 205W39NYC leather shirt, $920, available at MyTheresa; model’s own shoes. PHOTOGRAPHED BY DAVID URBANKE. DESIGNED BY ISABEL CASTILLO GUIJARRO.

She's since hit her stride and is no longer stuck between her gender identity and her gender expression. "People still commonly misgender me (as in, for a male model), but now that I've become more feminine looking because of the hormones, it's made people more aware," she says. Though walking through the outside world may be tough, when it comes to the business side of fashion, it's what makes Garison one of the only models out there who are a true chameleon. "If I go to a casting sometimes, people won't know what to do with me or what I am. It sounds so dark — but why does it have to be like that?," she asks.

Garison points out that most of the jobs she's gotten are due to her "interesting" appearance; that is, not necessarily because of her trans-ness, but because uniquely beautiful women are currently trending. It's these very qualities, ones that introduce mainstream audiences to cultures they've yet to immerse themselves in, that are behind the diversity movement happening in fashion right now. It both helps and hinders her.

DESIGNED BY ISABEL CASTILLO GUIJARRO.

"A lot of people associate being transgender with this idea that we're more crazy or wild, or open to doing things that cis people wouldn't normally do," she reveals. "But you can't act like everyone is the same. We don't all have the same lengths we'll go. I feel like being trans would only make someone feel like they could take control of you just because they feel like you're less-than, or damaged in someway."

Burberry top. PHOTOGRAPHED BY DAVID URBANKE. DESIGNED BY ISABEL CASTILLO GUIJARRO.

From wrapping a T-shirt around her head as a child in the Philippines and telling her mom she was a girl, Geena Rocero's every step between the activism and fashion communities is rooted in the belief that gender is a destiny. After meeting a transgender beauty pageant manager at 15, she decided to give the modeling thing a try — and won. Rocero went from the boy who used fashion to express what he felt on the inside, to a woman representing transgender beauty queens across the Philippines. But Rocero acknowledges the transgender icons who came before her, who inspired her to "come out," and who didn’t have it so easy — see: Lauren Foster, Crimsona Kaiser, Caroline Cossey, and more — women who paid a price when they got "outed."

Frame Leather Crop Moto Jacket, $696.99, available at Frame; Stella McCartney pants; Kenneth Cole Alyssa Leather Boot, $250, available at Kenneth Cole. PHOTOGRAPHED BY DAVID URBANKE.

"When I started modeling, there wasn't an out, trans-identified, fashion model, so I made the decision to not share my trans herstory to my agent," she says. After being discovered by a photographer, Rocero was signed to NEXT Model Management, working as a model for the next decade. "After many years of living a life of constant paranoia, of thinking When will they find out?, I'd had enough. And I've learned to truly love and accept myself, and work through and heal the shame that I've had."

She expands on her decision to reveal her trans identity in the middle of her career. "I needed to be ready before I made the decision to share my journey for the first time," she says, referring to her viral TED Talk from 2014 when she came out as transgender on International Transgender Day of Visibility. During her talk, Rocero told her story, that includes a religion that contains it own set of transgender roots, and a set of supportive parents — both advantages not experienced by many of those from the Western world. It changed her life.

"When I decided to share my story, I was referred to by the industry and media as a 'transgender model'. It was an important moment in the American zeitgeist when the conversation on what it means to be trans was happening," she says. Despite it being an epithet that isn't technically necessary, the term comes with a degree of humanization. "For the longest time, trans models were invisible. And the sudden mainstream conversation was an opportunity for trans people to proclaim our space, to be seen as we are. It allowed me to bring my full self into my career — no more hiding and paranoia."

While she isn't modeling, Rocero plays the role of producer, and is the founder of her own trans-focused and trans-specific company, Gender Proud Productions. Through her various projects, Rocero and co-founder Allie Hoffman seek to elevate the transgender conversation, providing more (paid) opportunities for transgender people. "When I produce through our company, I try my best to be conscious of not just what stories are being told but also giving opportunities to trans and gender nonconforming people behind the scenes," she describes. It's through her own company that she sets the example for other working experiences for transgender people that are acceptable, furthering the point that trans-led projects are too few and far between.

Burberry top. PHOTOGRAPHED BY DAVID URBANKE.

"I recently executively produced a documentary with LogoTV called Made to Model, on the history of trans models. One of the models that we featured said she experienced misgendering and mistreatment about 80% of the time during shoots. It's incredibly sad, but common," she explains. "I think it's important to set intentions on the work environment. Before the shoot, educate the whole production team on language and pronouns, along with the goal of making the day on the job fun, inclusive, and supportive."

In terms of support, it's helpful to remember that Rocero, like most transgender models, didn't adhere to a formula for revealing her gender identity. There is no blueprint to coming out as gay, transgender, or anything — paths arguably less traveled when it comes to equal rights for all. For Rocero, that wasn't exactly a bad thing. "I wish when I was starting out there were a lot of out, celebrated trans-identified models. But I also think of the many trans youth seeing me and others on social media; I can only hope that it gives them a sense of reflection that they, too, can claim their space.

Special thanks to Vandervoort Studio.

AdvertisementBoston’s police department is facing backlash after posting a tweet on Sunday that honored a white basketball coach for Black History Month.

In the since-deleted tweet, which Boston Mayor Marty Walsh slammed as “completely inappropriate” on Monday, the department recognized former Celtics coach and president Red Auerbach.

The Boston PD's Tweet honored former Boston Celtics coach and president Red Auerbach, whose statue is seen in the city's Faneuil Hall Market. Paul Marotta via Getty Images

Auerbach, the police department noted, was the first NBA coach to draft a black player. He also hired the league’s first black coach, Bill Russell.

It didn’t take long for the department to receive backlash over the posting, and not just from the general public.

Only in #Boston do the @bostonpolice honor Red Auerbach for #blackhistorymonth. So we already have the shortest month and now this. Please file this under Hell Nah aka Not Having it aka Not Ok. #bospoli #Boston #mapoli https://t.co/Jv38uutK0e — Tito Jackson (@titojackson) February 12, 2018

siri show me the most boston police thing ever pic.twitter.com/IbtiOW2hJc — KT NELSON (@KrangTNelson) February 12, 2018

Mayor Walsh released a statement on Monday that called the tweet “completely inappropriate and a gross misrepresentation of how we are honoring Black History Month in Boston.”

“We are celebrating the accomplishments and limitless contributions of the Black community to our city and the entire country, from Harriet Tubman to great leaders of today such as Chief Justice Ireland, artists like New Edition and Michael Bivins, powerful activists including Mel King and Superintendent Lisa Holmes, the first African-American woman to lead the Boston Police Academy training program,” he said.

The Boston PD deleted the tweet Sunday night and replaced it with one that solely recognized Bill Russell. The tweet led with the hashtag #ICYMI, shorthand for “in case you missed it.”

#ICYMI: In honor of #BlackHistoryMonth we pay tribute to Bill Russell, one of the greatest @celtics of all time and the first African-American head coach in the history of the NBA when he was named @celtics coach on November 15, 1966. pic.twitter.com/gKX7zpcUQt — Boston Police Dept. (@bostonpolice) February 12, 2018

Roughly three hours later, the department issued a new tweet acknowledging the previous tweet’s deletion and apologized to anyone offended by the earlier tweet.

Still, many people weren’t convinced that the tweet conveyed that the department understood why the initial tweet was offensive.

#ICYMI Is this for people who actually missed it? Are you trolling? pic.twitter.com/yRgUIwD9A7 — Daniel (@RealFakeDaniel) February 12, 2018

ICYMI: the point is not that you didn’t acknowledge black athletes like chuck cooper and bill Russell, it’s that you paid tribute to a white man at all. This month is about the struggle and the accomplishments of black men and women, not the white people who hired them. — mollyburg (@mollyburg1) February 12, 2018

That point was emphasized by the city’s NAACP chapter, which called the tweet “beyond perplexing” and “very sad.”

“Every time we think there may be some signs of hope...we get a reminder that we have a long way to go. A mighty long way to go,” a Monday Facebook post from the chapter read. “The people of Boston deserve an apology...and not the tweet that says ‘may have offended some’...or ‘not our intention’. That does not matter. The tweet was offensive. Period.”

Black History Month, or African-American History Month, in the U.S. began in 1976 after initially running as a weeklong national event, according to a website created in part by The Library of Congress.Malaysia criminalizes sexual behaviors "against the order of nature," which it defines as including homosexuality. Gary John Norman via Getty Images

A Malaysian newspaper has come under fire from activists after for a “how to spot a gay person” checklist it published last Friday.

The Sinar Harian article said gay men like beards and mustaches, as well as wearing tight clothes to show off their “six pack” and going to the gym to check out other men rather than exercise, The Guardian reports. As for lesbians, they tend to hug each other, hold hands and belittle men.

Guide info for LGBT dalam Sinar Harian. Simpan janggut dan misai??? Kesian Fatah Amin 🤣 pic.twitter.com/9aT569g6OM — juan ahmad (@_sayacakap_) February 9, 2018

The article sparked instant controversy on social media and spotlighted Malaysia’s stance on LGBTQ rights. The Muslim-majority country has retained a colonial-era penal code that criminalizes sexual behaviors “against the order of nature,” which it defines as including homosexuality.

Malaysian activist and social media personality Arwind Kumar blasted the article in a video that can be viewed below:

“I’m not sure who wrote this article, but ... don’t try to be God. Take a step back down, take a seat back on your chair, do what you do and don’t do this, because there are much more important issues in this country that need to be addressed,” Kumar, who boasts more than 323,000 Facebook followers and 75,000 YouTube subscribers, said in the clip.

He continued, “If you really want to educate society, then explain to them the traits of a pedophile, a molester, a murderer, a kidnapper ― those people who actually endanger the lives of another.”

Others were similarly incensed by the article.

GUYS! Finally a comprehensive, fool proof list of 'How to Spot a Gay' courtesy of Malaysian paper Sinar Harian. If you're worried, terrified or just plain curious then here you go! #LGBT PS: Homosexuality is illegal there FFS. Someone give them a ring & let them know its 2018. pic.twitter.com/RceKFaLKGH — Annabelle Knight (@MissBelleKnight) February 12, 2018

@sinarharianSH you serious? You're allowing this kind of homophobic, baseless, senseless article on your paper? This generalisation is unbelievable! What rubbish is this?!



No wonder people mostly use Sinar Harian to bungkus nasi lemak! Because it's not worth keeping! pic.twitter.com/wPwE9QqEEN — Hubert Mr. Marvellous (@iHubertLee) February 9, 2018

Malaysia’s conservative views on LGBTQ rights have made headlines a number of times in recent years. Last spring, the release of Disney’s live-action “Beauty and the Beast” remake was delayed after director Bill Condon announced that the film would include a gay character ― LeFou, the goofy sidekick to villain Gaston ― for the first time in the company’s history.

Though Malaysian officials considered releasing an edited version of “Beauty and the Beast” with its “gay moments” removed, the movie arrived in theaters intact ― albeit with a 13-plus age rating.

When Adam Lambert visited Kuala Lumpur as part of his Glam Nation Tour in 2010, the Pan-Malaysian Islamic Party staged a series of protests outside of the concert, accusing the singer of promoting “gay culture” with “lewd dancing” in his performances.A Republican lawmaker from California has been reportedly operating his own news website.

Tavlian told Politico he did not run the website and was not familiar with it.

The California Republican, who is chairman of the House Intelligence Committee and was a member of President Donald Trump’s transition team, has been offline since the Politico report, but a version cached by Google contained the following disclaimer:

Paid for by the Devin Nunes Campaign Committee · FEC ID #C00370056

The Facebook page did not appear to contain a similar disclaimer.

Nunes has not yet responded to the accusations.

One headline on the website ― “Understanding the process behind #ReleaseTheMemo” ― referred to the controversial and partisan memo drafted by staffers in Nunes’ office, which Trump incorrectly claimed vindicated him in the Russia investigation. The story, written before the memo was made public, summarized and linked to a story in the conservative National Review that called on lawmakers to release the memo.

Democrat Andrew Janz, who hopes to unseat Nunes in the coming midterm elections, slammed his rival on Twitter for creating the fake news site:The Pizzalchik promotional video features the owner in sombrero and brown face paint, speaking in a fake Mexican accent. Facebook

A restaurant owner in Boise, Idaho, is under fire for promoting a burrito menu in a truly tasteless manner.

Pizzalchik owner Brad Breakell recently filmed a promotional Facebook video in which he dressed as a stereotypical Mexican named “Billy Burrito,” complete with sombrero, brown face paint and exaggerated accent. He talks about his restaurant’s menu and name drops his friends “Tony Tortilla” and “Lenny the Landscaper.”

Although the video was filmed around Christmas, Breakell only took it down this past weekend after receiving complaints that it was racist.

However, the clip was saved by Aaron McFarland, who posted it on his own Facebook page.

Breakell has a history of promoting Pizzalchik by posting wacky videos in which he dons wigs and costumes and assumes cartoonish personas. This is not the first time his advertising has led to accusations of racism.

Last summer, he made a big splash when he decided to dress up as a character named “Jacklyn Jaws.” The costume consisted of a cardboard shark body with a cutaway in the mouth for Breakell’s face.

However, when he painted his face black to blend in with the mouth and his lips bright red for contrast, he looked less like a shark’s mouth and more like a guy in blackface.

When Breakell took down that video, he also posted an apology on Facebook, trying to explain his intent. “I am so sorry if I have offended anybody,” he said in the clip. “I hope you can see that I am genuine in my apology to those of you who I’ve hurt, because this is not who I am.”

What a difference half a year makes, because Breakell seemed more defiant when HuffPost contacted him on Monday.

“This is a menu for selling burritos and Billy Burrito is an acting part,” he told HuffPost. “It’s not racist. It’s a character so I’m not being racist.”

Breakell offered another apology of sorts: “Sorry if I offended anyone, it’s not my intent. I’m just trying to market a menu.”

That’s unlikely to appease Yelp reviewers, who have been complaining about the video for the past five days. Comments include:

“The flavors of racism overshadow cheese on these pizzas. Don’t support this business.”

“Racist owner who posts black face video, apologizes, proceeds to post a brown face video.”

“The owner has repeatedly used racist black and brown face costumes, with heavily stereotyped accents to promote his restaurant.”

Breakell’s comments to HuffPost suggested that he still doesn’t get why Mexicans or anybody else might be insulted by “Billy Burrito.”Environmental Protection Agency Administrator Scott Pruitt was granted around-the-clock security starting his first day on the job after he personally requested it, new documents reveal.

EPA Inspector General Arthur Elkins said in a letter to senators on Monday that Pruitt requested 24/7 protection “once he was confirmed as Administrator.” Don Benton, then a senior White House adviser supervising the EPA, also asked for around-the-clock security for Pruitt for at least his first week on the job, according to emails obtained by The Washington Post.

“There will be several Executive Orders signed when [Pruitt] is sworn in that will likely stir the hornets nest and with the security issue in the Atlanta office last week as well as the lady who threatened former administrator [Gina] McCarthy not showing up for court and at large in DC it is best to be on the safe side,” Benton wrote on Feb. 12, 2017.

The EPA in the past has justified Pruitt’s security expenses as necessary because of a sharp uptick in threats against him, including what a spokesman referred to as “an unprecedented amount of death threats.” Pruitt reportedly was “approached at the airport numerous times, to the point of profanities being yelled at him.”

The agency hadn’t before revealed that Pruitt’s extensive security began his first day on the job.It’s beginning to look a lot like Cardi B’s 2017 luck has spilled well over into 2018.

On Saturday, the rapper sat next to Vogue editor-in-chief Anna Wintour at designer Alexander Wang’s fashion show for the New York Fashion Week.

Those seats closest to the runway are often the most coveted, and Cardi joined Wintour in the front row.

When Anna met Cardi pic.twitter.com/LFTqVfmO9X — Matthew Schneier (@MatthewSchneier) February 11, 2018

So when photographer Matthew Schneier captured Cardi and Wintour together moments before Wang’s show was set to begin, Twitter proceeded to lose its collective mind.

A few social media users noticed that Wintour, who is notorious for her seemingly cold demeanor, actually gave a rare smile upon their introduction. And while there is no official audio of the exchange, the smile appears to show that Cardi’s famously infectious personality has even won over fashion’s most powerful woman.

Cardi’s Bronx, New York, accent and ceaselessly upbeat personality have long attracted fans around the country. Expressing herself through motivational Instagram blurbs or through memorable red carpet interviews, the rapper is known for her outspokenness.

And now Wintour has witnessed the Cardi B magic too.

Cardi B and Anna Wintour sitting side by side at fashion week.. I wish this was mic’d up — Annie (@AnnieHaIl) February 11, 2018

Anna THEE Wintour, who never appears to be happy, is smiling at Cardi B. This is a moment! pic.twitter.com/v3qXi8ld4v — Globethotter 🌍 (@BrianMcLight) February 11, 2018

Give Cardi B the September cover. https://t.co/rrUZQ3pYfC — Tyler McCall (@eiffeltyler) February 11, 2018

But this moment isn’t Cardi’s first time in the fashion spotlight.

As her popularity has skyrocketed, her style has also evolved. The hip-hop artist has given Fashion Nova brand shoutouts and has collaborated with designer Steve Madden in the past year.NBC Olympics commentator Katie Couric managed to tick off plenty of people in the Netherlands when she attempted to explain the country’s dominance in speed skating.

Couric called skating “an important mode of transportation” in the city of Amsterdam.

“As you all know, it has lots of canals that can freeze in the winters,” Couric said during the Opening Ceremony. “So, for as long as those canals have existed, the Dutch have skated on them to get from place to place, to race each other and also to have fun.”

While that might sound like a nifty explanation, it’s not entirely accurate. Amsterdam has canals, which can freeze in winter. Certainly, some people enjoy skating on them at those times. But the canals don’t freeze all winter and in plenty of years, they don’t freeze at all.

The Dutch Review said the country’s dominance in speed skating was more likely due to the sport’s popularity there combined with big investments in Olympic-level training. This was quickly pointed out to Couric on Twitter:

Rush Hour in the Netherlands. pic.twitter.com/RRpDBV9pDX — DirkJanMoedt (@moedtdj) February 11, 2018

In summer us Dutch swim to work and grocery store via the canals. You'll hear that next summer Olympics. — Jos Duijvestein 🇳🇱 (@JosDuijvestein) February 10, 2018

Hey @nbc This is the equivalent of a flat tire while on my way to work pic.twitter.com/F2rB4ZlKQS — Tien (@queentien75) February 11, 2018

Dear @katiecouric, the Dutch do NOT skate to work.

Skating on clogs is too hard, even for us. https://t.co/WkwQ0yQTIf — Gert van Dijk (@Gert_van_Dijk) February 11, 2018

Dutch commuting to work in tulip farms and windmills using special ‘clog’ skates pic.twitter.com/fClJfJq2kJ — Jonathan Williams (@jonwilliams80) February 11, 2018

Next up: Why Russians are so good at biathlon (mostly from chasing James Bond in the snow). — davepaisley (@davepaisley) February 11, 2018

It’s true..this is one of my friends going ice skating on a Dutch canal last winter pic.twitter.com/MbZYh62DZt — chris (@cpd32) February 11, 2018

Here's me thinking you get to work by propelling yourselves from windmill to windmill. Silly me, least i've now been suitably educated by NBC — Mo Talib (@motali86) February 11, 2018

This is is the truth, and nothing but the truth. Here a picture of The Netherlands during summer. pic.twitter.com/shU6FRpF6M — Barth-Jan (@SonOfTalmai) February 11, 2018

Last week I got a speed skating speeding ticket. — Niels (@NielsvanWeert) February 11, 2018

No visitor to Amsterdam can have missed the hordes of Dutchvolk speeding past, borne on modified clog-skates, and propelled by tactically placed windmills. https://t.co/lV60AprAZa — Seamas, based on the novel Push by Sapphire (@shockproofbeats) February 11, 2018

We in Australia all use the Uber Kangaroo service to get from A to B. Skippy managed to get me across town by leaping single buildings in one bound the other day. — Sash Dordevic (@bks8472) February 11, 2018

Yes and here in Canada we take the dog sled from our igloo home to our igloo office. — Jos Duijvestein 🇳🇱 (@JosDuijvestein) February 11, 2018WASHINGTON — The infrastructure plan unveiled Monday by President Donald Trump would give Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke the unilateral power to greenlight construction of pipelines through national parks — one of the many proposals in the document that has environmentalists seething.

Currently, building an oil or gas pipeline on land administered by the National Park Service requires an act of Congress. The administration sees that as a burden to economic growth and is looking to make the process as simple as installing electric lines, communication facilities or water infrastructure.

“Obtaining congressional approval for each pipeline crossing and facilities necessary for the production of energy is time consuming and delays construction,” the infrastructure plan stated.

The White House says that granting the secretary of the Interior Department the power to approve rights of way for pipelines and other energy production infrastructure on Park Service land “would reduce the delays and uncertainties caused by requiring congressional approval.”

White House/screenshot

“Our nation can’t run on pixie dust and hope,” he said at a March signing ceremony for Trump’s executive order to roll back Obama-era policies aimed at curbing greenhouse gas emissions.

Trump’s new infrastructure plan also proposes to fix roads, bridges and buildings at America’s national parks and refuges using revenues from new oil, gas and mining operations on federal land. Zinke has repeatedly promised to address the ballooning $11.3 billion maintenance backlog at national parks.

In October, the administration proposed drastically hiking entrance fees at 17 of America’s most popular national parks, including Yellowstone, Yosemite and Glacier. The move, NPS said, “would generate badly needed revenue for improvements to the aging infrastructure of national parks.”

Meanwhile, Trump’s 2019 budget proposal, also released Monday, calls for slashing NPS funding by 7 percent.

John Garder, senior director of budget and appropriations at the National Parks Conservation Association, blasted the proposals in a statement Monday.

“Repairing our national parks is long overdue but should not rely on revenue from increased energy development, which only further threatens the well-being of parks, clear air and water and public health,” he said.WASHINGTON ― President Donald Trump is unveiled his long-delayed infrastructure proposal on Monday, an initiative meant to spur investment in the nation’s crumbling roads, bridges, and waterways. However, the plan is believed to be a far cry from his populist campaign rhetoric, in which he promised to unleash a grand national renewal not seen since the days of Dwight Eisenhower.

While the plan includes a shiny topline number ― a $1.5 trillion investment in infrastructure ― the substance of the package is decidedly less than meets the eye. The proposal seeks to turn just $200 billion in direct federal spending over the next decade into nearly seven times that number by leveraging state and local tax dollars as well as private investment. The American Society of Civil Engineers, meanwhile, says the U.S. needs to invest $4.59 trillion in infrastructure by 2025.

Trump himself seems skeptical of the scheme, according to NBC News. Indeed, in private conversations with lawmakers last year, the president repeatedly criticized the plan’s core concept of using public-private partnerships to finance infrastructure projects.

The administration’s proposal would theoretically spur additional investment in infrastructure by sharply reducing federal cost-sharing for projects to no more than 20 percent of the costs, down from the traditional 80 percent. The massive reduction in federal dollars would place a greater onus on state and local officials to find revenue to fund the construction of new projects ― which in many cases would likely mean allowing more tolls or usage fees to create revenue streams to lure in private investors.

The task is especially difficult for rural communities, where fewer people are available to help spread the cost of new infrastructure. It is likewise tough to attract investors for projects not directly used by consumers, like dams and waterways. The federal government, for example, provided at least half of the funding to New York’s new Tappan Zee Bridge.

“Using federal money as an incentive for private investment in infrastructure will work well for projects that can produce revenue, including toll roads and airports,” said Kevin Heaslip, associate professor of civil and environmental engineering at Virginia Tech University. “But the return on investment for larger-scale projects, such as a road through a small town, is unclear.”

“Trump’s infrastructure plan flips the traditional capital expense funding model from 80 to 90 percent federal funding to 10 percent federal funding,” Heaslip went on. “The majority of the funding mandates get pushed to the states and private funding, with the administration taking credit for the investment.”

Democrats last week unveiled their own $1 trillion infrastructure proposal, which consists entirely of direct federal dollars. They called the administration’s plan a disappointment, and argued that the president missed an opportunity to provide a much-needed federal injection of dollars into the country’s infrastructure grid by taking advantage of tax reform. The new GOP tax law allows U.S. companies to repatriate cash they have stowed overseas ― but it uses a portion of the repatriation, not on infrastructure, but as a way to offset the cost of the tax cuts.

“This is a fake infrastructure plan,” Rep. Peter DeFazio (D-Ore.), the ranking member of the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, said last week.

Rather than creating new sources of revenue, such as calling for an increase in the federal gas tax ― which is supported by groups like the U.S. Chamber of Commerce ― White House aides have suggested that lawmakers pay for Trump’s infrastructure proposal by cutting funding from other transportation programs like Amtrak or the Highway Trust Fund. To that end, the White House on Monday released its 2019 fiscal year budget, which proposed cutting existing infrastructure programs by at least $240 billion.

Funding infrastructure by cutting other infrastructure programs in such a way would amount to a “bait and switch,” the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities warned last month.

But the prospect of slashing funding to domestic programs seems unlikely, given that Congress last week sealed a budget deal that allowed for an extra $300 billion to be spent over the next two years. The sharp increase in spending was preceded by an unpaid $1.5 trillion tax cut ― a one-two punch that is expected to usher in a new era of trillion-dollar budget deficits in Washington.

Trump is scheduled to host a bipartisan meeting of congressional leaders at the White House on Wednesday to discuss the proposal, but it’s difficult to see how it gains traction with either party. Conservatives in Congress are angry about the raft of new spending, while Democrats are leery about the prospect of cooperating with an unpopular president during an election year ― especially one who spent much of his first year in office antagonizing their base during bitter fights on health care and immigration.

One portion of the plan Trump is excited about is its rollback of regulations, reforms he says are needed in order to simplify the lengthy and expensive process of receiving federal permits to construct new infrastructure projects.

“Any bill must also streamline the permitting and approval process — getting it down to no more than two years, and perhaps even one,” Trump said last month in his State of the Union address.

But environmental and progressive groups say Trump is merely seeking to undo key environmental regulations. The administration, for example, has already sought to reverse more than 60 environmental rules, including those relating to flood building standards, bans on pesticides, methane reporting, greenhouse gases, offshore drilling, protections for wild animals, sewage treatment, fracking, and train safety, according to an analysis by The New York Times.

“With such a public record of promoting the interests of corporate polluters over communities and the environment, no one should be fooled by Trump’s infrastructure scam,” wrote Christy Goldfuss, senior vice president for energy and environment policy at the Center for American Progress. “It is little more than a Trojan horse designed to gut the environmental protections that are necessary for the clean air, clean water, wildlife, and national parks that truly make America great.”