Bill Cosby after his conviction on three counts of aggravated indecent assault in Norristown, Pennsylvania, on Thursday. An earlier trial had ended with a hung jury. Mark Makela via Getty Images

On an overcast Friday morning in February, three lawyers gathered at their office in Washington, D.C., to discuss a particularly difficult sexual assault case. They knew the behavior of Erica Layne, an 18-year-old college student who said she was raped by a group of four other students, would be hard for a judge and jury to understand.

The night of the alleged crime, Layne had been drinking heavily: four shots of vodka in her dorm room, followed by two or three cups of Kool-Aid mixed with Everclear at a house party on a Saturday night. She was already drunk when her crush, a junior football player named Ryan Boland, suggested they do a few shots of tequila. Layne didn’t feel well, but how could she say no? After they made out in the kitchen, Boland took her hand and suggested they go upstairs to his room for more privacy.

He asked to take a video of her giving him a blowjob. Layne agreed, and the last thing she remembers is passing out in his bed. She woke up alone, naked and with a sore vagina. She was confused, but on Monday, the events became clear. A Snapchat video of a football player having sex with her while three other guys, including Boland, watched and talked about “going for a ride,” was making the rounds on campus. She texted him: “Can you call me?” He didn’t respond.

The prosecutors knew the fact that Layne was drunk and had consensual oral sex with Boland would make a judge and a juror question her credibility. But they were most worried about what happened next: A few weeks after reporting the assault to the police, Layne posted a photo of herself to Instagram. She was at a football game, topless and giving the middle finger to the camera. A few students shared the shot on their own accounts, with the caption: “Is this what a real rape victim looks like?”

The lawyers needed the jury to understand that Layne’s actions — however baffling they might seem to the average person — did not make her a liar. They decided to bring an expert witness on the stand, someone who could explain that it was common for victims to act out in a sexual or emotional way after an assault to cope with the trauma.

― ―

Here’s a curveball: Erica Layne’s case is fake and the “lawyers” are actually Georgetown University law students. They’re taking a course on sexual assault cases run by AEquitas, an organization that wants to transform the way prosecutors think about sexual violence through interactive training that involves role-playing and mock trials.

Sexual assaults are the most difficult kind of crimes to prosecute: Of the 31 percent of cases that are reported to police, less than 2 percent result in convictions, according to the Rape, Abuse & Incest National Network. One of the biggest reasons these numbers are so low is that, despite the complexity of sexual assault trials, lawyers are not required to go through any specialized training before handling them. Many prosecutors throw out cases, mistreat complainants and botch lawsuits in court because they don’t understand victim behavior.

“Everyone thinks they are doing the right thing,” says Jennifer Long, AEquitas’ CEO. “And they might not realize that while some practices in their jurisdiction are really good, others are not good.”

Comedian Bill Cosby’s recent sexual assault conviction is a rare victory for victims, but it will take much more than a high-profile guilty verdict to change a legal system with a long history of mistreating survivors. The public has many misconceptions about how sexual assault survivors should act — misconceptions that trained legal professionals and jurors bring into the courtroom every day.

There’s a stereotype that offenders are creepy-looking strangers who attack unsuspecting women in dark parking lots and that any credible victim should put up a fight, run away and immediately report the assault to the police. When survivors instead act in seemingly counterintuitive ways — seeing their offender again, delaying a police report or posting a topless photo on Instagram — even the lawyers tasked with explaining this behavior to a judge and jury are quick to label victims as liars.

“Prosecutors at their very core are just human beings,” said Richard Smothermon, the district attorney for two Oklahoma counties and a champion of sexual violence training. “We all have these inherent biases that have been built in from hearing about them or seeing them on television.”

Andrea Constand, the main accuser in the Bill Cosby retrial, leaves the courtroom in Norristown, Pennsylvania, on Thursday. DOMINICK REUTER/AFP via Getty Images

AEquitas’ trademark program is a 3½-day course that uses a mix of mock trial exercises and short lectures to run through all the steps involved in prosecuting a sexual assault case, from victim interviews to closing arguments (the organization also offers courses on related crimes, such as domestic violence and human trafficking). Each training begins with participants examining police reports full of the kind of sexual assault victims society tends to disbelieve: an underage, intoxicated college student; a woman whose husband is a deputy sheriff; and a recent U.S. immigrant who works as a scantily clad bartender. The participants, usually gathered in a hotel conference room, use the scenarios to act out mock bail hearings, meetings with police officers and victim interviews. They don’t just learn to litigate these complex cases, they come face-to-face with their own biases about sexual assault victims.

These sessions equip lawyers with the skills they need to support complainants and, ultimately, to win more cases. Yet, due to a lack of resources and an excess of red tape, AEquitas holds its multiday trainings only a few times a year — reaching a very small number of the almost 25,000 prosecutors in the U.S. The organization receives $1.5 million in primarily government funding annually, which barely stretches to cover the more than 4,300 hours of training and technical assistance the 12 staff members provide each year. There is also an approximately 90-day government approval process for every 3½-day course and shorter trainings, which makes it logistically difficult to hold more of them, according to Christina Supinski, AEquitas’ chief operating officer.

AEquitas wants more funding. But the government and nongovernmental organizations — donations from NGOs make up 5 percent of AEquitas’ budget — tend to prioritize giving money to frontline organizations, such as women’s shelters and advocacy groups, Supinski says.

AEquitas wants potential funders to know that fixing a broken legal system is a key part of reducing violence against women. When the legal systems fails survivors, “it discourages victims and survivors from coming forward in future cases because they don’t believe that justice will be done on their behalf,” Supinski said. “And then perpetrators go unchecked and assault more victims.”

Without better-trained prosecutors, victims will never trust a legal process that re-victimizes them and sides with their abusers.

“If you don’t understand the dynamics of sexual assault and the dynamics of trauma and the gender bias that plays into violence-against-women crimes in America, you’re not going to be as successful in the courtroom,” said Casey Gwinn, a former prosecutor and president of Alliance for HOPE International, an organization that provides services to victims of sexual violence. “[You] are going to re-victimize victims and do a terrible job.”

What prosecutors need to know about victims

The way prosecutors interview victims before a trial is a crucial part of sexual violence cases. Yet too often lawyers make a series of faux pas, said John Wilkinson, an attorney adviser at AEquitas who runs trainings. When dealing with victims, prosecutors tend to rush the process, ask judgmental questions and assume victims are lying if they have a scattered memory or appear unemotional, he said. Many don’t know that in traumatic situations the body releases a series of hormones that may cause victims to freeze and prevent their brains from forming memories. Or that survivors might laugh or speak with a flat affect while recounting the assault, due to a flood of natural opiates and oxytocin in the body that help people cope with pain.

Wilkinson himself used to be terse with sexual assault victims before he understood how trauma affects their behavior.

“I was a classic elements-checklist type of interviewer, cutting victims off and getting what I needed,” he said of the seven years he spent working as a state prosecutor in Fredericksburg, Virginia. “I’d say things like, ‘OK, I know that didn’t happen. Now tell me what really happened.’ But in a really crappy way, like, ‘You’re a child.’... It’s not like I was trying to be a jerk, but I was kind of being a jerk.”

Wilkinson trains prosecutors with similar attitudes. In one exercise, lawyers take turns interviewing “Elena Boginskaya,” a 22-year-old bartender who was sexually assaulted after finishing her shift at a club. The police report notes the bar’s dress code for young female staff ― “tight pants or skirts and tight shirts” ― and that the offender took a body shot off Boginskaya’s stomach earlier in the evening. The attorneys often ask questions during role-playing that reveal their own biases, according to Wilkinson.

“I’ve seen prosecutors start to question the victim, and they are sort of going down a fine line — and some jump right over the line — and start asking questions about whether or not she’s a prostitute,” he said. “And some of the victims [played by facilitators] just shut down and say, ‘I don’t want to answer any of your questions.’”

Through a combination of mini-lectures and role-playing, AEquitas trainers and guest lecturers teach a “trauma-informed” approach to dealing with victims, encouraging prosecutors to slow down, withhold judgment and form a trusting relationship with complainants. Prosecutors take turns playing the victim, to feel what it’s like to have a stranger pelt them with questions about trauma.

“If [the interviewer] comes in hot, and they are like, ‘Just the facts, ma’am,’... you immediately see the ‘victim’ tense up and ... they start becoming defensive,” said Supinski from AEquitas. “It’s eye-opening for folks when they go through that to be like, ’Wow, this is all pretend, but still, the questions you were asking me made me feel like it was a real invasion of privacy or made me uncomfortable.”

John Young, an assistant attorney general for the Cherokee Nation in Tahlequah, Oklahoma, said he became more patient and compassionate during interviews after taking an AEquitas course in 2016. Before he learned how trauma fragments memory, he expected victims to have a detailed, linear account of their assault and didn’t know to ask them open-ended questions. “I wanted to hear a story and [would say,] ‘Let me frame this visually: Tell me where you started and tell me what happened next and kind of walk me through it,’” he said. “I don’t think it really dawned on me until after the training that this is not how people tell you these stories.”

How do you convince a jury to believe a victim?

Even the best victim interviews won’t lead to fair trials if prosecutors can’t convince a jury to believe a survivor’s story. But it’s incredibly difficult to fight biases in the courtroom. A recent study by British psychologists found that jurors who scored high in “rape myth acceptance” rejected facts that didn’t match their narratives of the case and were likely to side with the defendant.

“[Being] raped is not a consequence of getting drunk ― that’s a consequence of a rapist being around when you’re vulnerable.” - John Wilkinson, attorney adviser at AEquitas

AEquitas teaches prosecutors to pick less-biased jurors by asking specific questions during the selection process, such as “Is there anyone here who believes that rape is only committed by people who are strangers?” or “Do you have any expectation about how a person would react after a traumatic event?”

“[Being] raped is not a consequence of getting drunk ― that’s a consequence of a rapist being around when you’re vulnerable,” Wilkinson explained. “You have to say that right into the face of the jury: ‘Who needs force when you have alcohol?’ That might be the theme of your alcohol-facilitated case because that’s going to hook that jury. You’re going to talk about the facts in the case and repeat that theme.’”

Does any of this make a difference?

Although AEquitas’ success stories are mostly anecdotal, there is research that shows education can help change people’s attitudes about sexual assault survivors. Jurors who learned about victim behavior, either from an expert witness or a judge, were less likely to think a complainant who delayed reporting an assault or who spoke with a flat demeanor was not credible, according to a 2009 study by researchers at the University of Leeds and the University of Nottingham. And AEquitas developed a program to help district attorneys’ offices track their progress on sexual assault cases using a mix of statistics, victim feedback and case analysis.

There is plenty of demand for AEquitas’ work, Supinski said, but the government does not prioritize prosecutor training. The amount of grant money available for AEquitas from the Department of Justice’s Office on Violence Against Women has declined by around 25 percent in the past nine years, which Supinski says is in part because organizations that provide direct resources for victims in danger, such as shelters and advocates, take precedence.

“If you have $5, who are you going to give it to?” she said. “Mostly likely not an agency that provides training and technical assistance for prosecutors … [even though] it’s contributing to the prevention of these crimes.”

But the real problem is that many lawyers aren’t interested in taking courses on sexual assault, Gwinn, the Alliance for HOPE president, argued. “Prosecutors’ offices across America have never treated violence against women as a high priority offense historically,” he said, adding that prosecutors have “large egos” and often consider themselves jacks-of-all-trades. “I believe specialization is crucial — prosecuting a murder case is not the same as prosecuting a sexual assault case or a domestic violence case. But you can go to lots of places where elected district attorneys will say, ‘I’m tired of everyone ... [focusing on] their own little area. If you work for me, you’re going to do everything.’”

Smothermon, the district attorney in Oklahoma, agrees that prosecutors tend to have an “I can try any case” attitude. But a bigger issue, he argued, is that offices can’t afford to send lawyers to a 3½-day training and cover their caseloads.BURNS, Tenn. — Police formed a tight perimeter around a Tennessee state-owned hotel Saturday, guarding a white nationalist conference inside the building from anti-racist protesters gathered outside.

American Renaissance, a racist Virginia-based organization listed by the Southern Poverty Law Center as a hate group, reserved the 125 rooms inside Montgomery Bell State Park Inn for the weekend conference. Attendees not staying at the hotel arrived there early Saturday morning. Nearly all of them were men. They wore suit and ties — mandatory dress for the event — and didn’t respond to reporters’ questions as police escorted them inside.

Police perimeter around the white supremacist conference #AmRen is intense. We heckling them like hell. pic.twitter.com/mMYd8vave9 — Lacy MacAuley (@lacymacauley) April 28, 2018

Anti-racist protesters arrived a short time later. State park rangers subjected each protester to a metal detector test before allowing them to enter a fenced-off area across from the hotel.

One protester, Beth Foster, grew upset when park rangers wouldn’t allow her to bring a purse inside, as bags were prohibited in the protest zone.

“This is absolutely absurd,” she told the officers. “Nazis” from out of state, she told them, were allowed to rent out an entire Tennessee taxpayer-owned hotel, and yet she wasn’t allowed to bring a tiny purse inside a section of her own state park. Eventually Foster — co-director of the Mercy Junction Justice and Peace Center in Chattanooga, Tennessee — left her purse and walked through the security checkpoint.

“It’s anti-racist activists that the state sees as the enemies,” she told reporters. “Not the Nazis or the white supremacists who are in our buildings, using our public restrooms, and eating in our public restaurant, plotting genocide.”

“It’s the anti-racist activists the state sees as the enemies, not the Nazis & white supremacists in our buildings, using our public restrooms, using our public restaurant, to plot genocide,” says Beth Foster after going through the security checkpoint. pic.twitter.com/0e32vqWnzU — Christopher Mathias (@letsgomathias) April 28, 2018

The Inn at Montgomery Bell State Park — nestled in a 3,850-acre state park 30 miles west of Nashville — has hosted American Renaissance’s annual conference since 2012. Privately owned venues had repeatedly canceled or denied reservations to American Renaissance before that, after pressure from anti-racist activists. Legally, it’s more difficult for publicly owned venues like the park’s inn to deny reservations to racist groups.

But this year’s American Renaissance conference was marked by a much larger police presence than in years past. Over 100 officers from local and state law enforcement were in the park Saturday. A handful were stationed on the roof of the inn, looking down at protesters. A helicopter circled overhead. Police rode around on horseback. Police dogs sniffed at cars. At one point, police opened and searched a vehicle that appeared to belong to an anti-racist protester.

Since the deadly “Unite The Right” white supremacist rally in Charlottesville, Virginia, last August — which erupted into violence and ended with a neo-Nazi driving his car into a crowd of anti-racist protesters, killing 32-year-old Heather Heyer and injuring 19 others — cities across the country have aggressively policed white supremacist events.

At the American Renaissance conference Saturday, the 60 or so anti-racist protesters — from groups including Nashville AntiFa, Anti-Racist Action Nashville, the Tennessee Anti-Racist Network, Women’s March Tennessee and Shelbyville Loves — were kept about 100 yards away from the hotel behind a police barricade. Over 50 police officers stood guard outside the inn.

“Those are the most influential white supremacists in the world meeting at this rural location in Tennessee!” Lacy MacAuley, an anti-fascist activist from Washington, D.C., yelled at the cops. “You all are protecting absolute evil right now and you’re looking at us as if we’re the problem!”

Marisa Richmond, a history professor at Middle Tennessee State University, said she has come to multiple protests against American Renaissance. In previous years, protesters were allowed to go into the building, to use the bathroom, buy some food, and occasionally confront the white supremacists face to face.

“I’m a Tennessee taxpayer and I grew up here and I’m not even allowed to enter the building now,” she said. “We pay for that.”

Marisa Richmond at a protest against the white nationalist group American Renaissance on April 28, 2018. Christopher Mathias HuffPost

Police also prohibited protesters from wearing masks at this year’s protest. When one young protester briefly wore a bandana around the lower half of his face, police charged at him, grabbed him by the arms and walked him out of the protest pen. Other protesters followed, swarming the police and chanting “Let him go!” and “Shame!”

A comrade was harassed for wearing a rainbow mask momentarily, and hot-headed cops entered protest pen and militantly escorted them out. Most of crowd followed to chant and support comrade. Comrade was not arrested, was allowed to walk away with others. Protest continues. #amren. pic.twitter.com/enpSct7uEc — Lacy MacAuley (@lacymacauley) April 28, 2018

Police did not arrest the masked protester but forced him out of the protest area. In an act of solidarity, a group of his fellow protesters then donned masks of their own and stared down police for an hour. This time the police did nothing.

8 protesters put on masks. Earlier cops hopped the barricade and forcibly removed another protester for wearing a mask. #AmRen pic.twitter.com/iSxvCtZjNc — Christopher Mathias (@letsgomathias) April 28, 2018

The Southern Poverty Law Center, a legal advocacy group that tracks extremism, describes American Renaissance as a “self-styled think tank that promotes pseudo-scientific studies and research that purport to show the inferiority of blacks to whites — although in hifalutin language that avoids open racial slurs and attempts to portray itself as serious scholarship.”

Its founder, Jared Taylor, has said: “Blacks and whites are different. When blacks are left entirely to their own devices, Western civilization — any kind of civilization — disappears.” He’s discussed sterilizing mothers who are on welfare, and has advocated for the creation of a whites-only country, or ethnostate, within the U.S.

Jared Taylor at the 2006 American Renaissance conference. David S. Holloway via Getty Images

Previous American Renaissance conferences have attracted some of America’s most notorious white supremacists, including David Duke and Richard Spencer, who called for “peaceful ethnic cleansing” in the U.S. at a prior year’s event.

American Renaissance denied this HuffPost reporter press credentials to report from inside this year’s conference. (“There will be plenty of media at our conference,” Taylor wrote in an email. “You, on the other hand, have a record of covering any form of racial dissidence, not as a journalist, but as a closed-minded bigot.”)

The conference was billed on the American Renaissance website as an opportunity for speakers and attendees to “plot a course for the years ahead” after some “startling setbacks” over the last year, likely referring to infighting that has fractured the white nationalist movement since last year’s rally in Charlottesville.

Paul Adams at a protest against the white nationalist group American Renaissance on April 28, 2018. Christopher Mathias HuffPost

Paul Adams, a 65-year-old U.S. Navy veteran, drove over 50 miles from Smyrna, Tennessee, for Saturday’s protest. “If my neighbor had a rattlesnake in his backyard, I’d sure come over and tell him,” he explained.

He held a sign showing a giant Uncle Sam preparing to crush a group of Nazis. “You again?” it said. “Stop the ‘alt-right.’ We beat ’em before. We’ll beat ’em now.”

Daryle Lamont Jenkins, a longtime anti-racist activist and executive director of the One People’s Project, which monitors far-right groups, said “the suit and ties” that typically attend American Renaissance conferences are especially concerning because “they’re the ones that have real careers, they’re the ones that get into academia, they’re the ones that get into politics.”

“You gotta maintain vigilance against groups like this,” he said. “You gotta say, ‘We’re watching.’”

The American Renaissance attendees appeared content to hunker down in the hotel all day Saturday, offering protesters few chances to heckle them. When one older man in a suit and tie was escorted by police into the event, protesters yelled “Nazi scum!”

Protesters yell at man being escorted by cops into white nationalist conference in Tennessee state park building. #AmRen pic.twitter.com/zcsDbSZaBt — Christopher Mathias (@letsgomathias) April 28, 2018

The protesters also did their best to try and be heard inside the hotel, breaking out in chants of “Heather Heyer! Say her name!” and blaring Billie Holiday songs through a megaphone.

Some protesters lit candles for those murdered by white supremacists. Others denounced the Tennessee state House of Representatives for declining last month to pass a resolution condemning neo-Nazis and white supremacists.

Rumors spread that police were preparing for a mass arrest, but by 3:30 p.m., it became clear that was just a rumor. Protesters walked out of the protest pen, many retiring to a park pavilion for drinks and food, taking in the beautiful spring day.

The white nationalists, whose conference lasts through Sunday, stayed fortified in the hotel. A large contingent of police remained outside, standing guard.SAN DIEGO ― President Donald Trump whipped himself into a fury earlier this month after learning that a caravan of hundreds of Central Americans was traveling through Mexico, planning to seek asylum in the United States. Shortly after learning about it, he mobilized the National Guard. He railed against what he viewed as a “crisis” at the border, despite the fact that illegal entries have plummeted to their lowest level since 1971. The secretary of homeland security issued a statement likening the caravan’s organizers to “smugglers” and the attorney general threatened to prosecute them.

But hundreds of participants in the caravan made their way to the U.S.-Mexico border on Sunday anyway. And despite Trump’s fulminations against them, it’s unclear whether his administration has any practical way to stop them from crossing in the coming days.

The caravan’s organizers, immigrant rights activists and legal observers marched toward International Friendship Park, which straddles the U.S.-Mexico border, as the caravan’s participants marched from Tijuana to San Diego on Sunday morning.

Young woman climbs down face of border fence from Mexico side to US side to retrieve a banner, she made it halfway down, successfully grabbed banner back, climbed back up - crowd cheers pic.twitter.com/oPqiPmoJ3G — Matt Ferner (@matthewferner) April 29, 2018

On the U.S. side of the border, a group of about 100 people chanted, “No borders! No wall! Sanctuary for all!” as they marched along the beach toward the port of entry. Roughly 200 of their counterparts in Mexico gathered in front of the metal fencing that divides the two countries, with more than a dozen people hoisting themselves atop the barrier.

“We have to push back against this administration,” demonstrator Laiken Jordahl, a borderlands campaigner for the nonprofit Center for Biological Diversity, told HuffPost. “Its culture of hate, bigotry and fear cannot be accepted. The administration doesn’t even talk to us, we had to come out and march.”

Another demonstrator, Roberto Saravia from Los Angeles, said: “This goes back further than the Trump administration. I find it ridiculous that any time there is an issue in the U.S., immigrants get scapegoated, they get mistreated, they get criminalized just for existing. This border is just a divide that shouldn’t be here and I want to see it gone ― it shouldn’t divide us.”

By Sunday afternoon, a group of about 150 of the caravan’s members had begun crossing into the U.S., along with legal advisers, organizers said.

But U.S. Customs and Border Protection warned it would limit the number of asylum-seekers making claims at the San Ysidro port of entry. “Depending upon port circumstances at the time of arrival, those individuals may need to wait in Mexico as CBP officers work to process those already within our facilities,” CBP Commissioner Kevin McAleenan said in a statement.

The 150 migrants, many of whom were children, spent the night sleeping on the ground outside, waiting to present their claims to U.S. immigration officials. By Monday morning, they had yet to speak to immigration officials and remained on the Mexican side of the border, organizers said.

“They’re using the excuse of capacity to keep people from coming,” said Nicole Ramos, an attorney with the nonprofit group Al Otro Lado, who has provided legal services to the migrants traveling with the caravan. “The people that are waiting outside are children, infants, a disabled woman who relies on her mother to take care of all her needs, trans women ― these are the most vulnerable asylum seekers. What the U.S. is doing is creating a humanitarian crisis that doesn’t need to be created.”

The Trump administration is hoping that it won’t have to let the migrants into the U.S. at all. And his administration’s threats appear to be dissuading some. Between 150 and 200 Central American migrants plan to present asylum claims in the coming days, organizers said, while roughly another 150 have yet to decide whether to cross.

But for all the noise and slow-walking of the asylum seekers’ claims, it remains to be seen whether the White House’s actions do anything to push away those who do make asylum claims.

Trump’s ire at the caravan stems from larger concerns he’s expressed since he first started running for president three years ago. He wants the U.S. to stop releasing unauthorized immigrants caught at the border with notices to appear in immigration court instead of uniformly detaining or deporting them — a practice he and his supporters disparagingly call “catch and release.” Attorney General Jeff Sessions is one of his most enthusiastic partners in that project.

Unfortunately for them, ending the practice is not currently possible under U.S. law. When space in detention centers runs out, there’s simply no place to put people who can’t be quickly deported. Many immigrants from Mexico can be deported quickly. But many of the people crossing the border these days are Central American children and families, who aren’t as easy to deport — and generally can’t be detained for long. Unaccompanied children must be released to the Office of Refugee Resettlement, and the mothers cannot usually be locked up with their kids for longer than three weeks due to a federal court order. Migrants have a right to apply for asylum, whether or not they get detained in the process. And immigrants who get picked up within the interior of the country often qualify for bond hearings.

A group of several dozen immigrant rights activists and legal observers march toward the U.S.-Mexico border in San Diego on April 29. They're there to witness the arrival of a caravan of Central American migrants who plan to request asylum in defiance of repeated threats from Trump administration officials. Matt Ferner/HuffPost

None of this matters to the Trump administration, whose actions and statements have likened the arrival of a few hundred Central Americans seeking asylum to a national security crisis. In an attempt to deter them, Trump mobilized the National Guard to help patrol the four Southwest border states, despite the fact that its presence will be purely ornamental — the National Guard can’t make immigration arrests, and the caravan’s members plan to travel through legal ports of entry.

Homeland Security Secretary Kirstjen Nielsen chipped in with a similarly aggressive but toothless statement last Wednesday, saying the department was “monitoring” the caravan’s movements. She encouraged asylum-seekers to stay in Mexico.

“Let me be clear,” Nielsen’s statement read. “We will enforce the immigration laws as set forth by Congress. If you enter our country illegally, you have broken the law and will be referred for prosecution. If you make a false immigration claim, you have broken the law and will be referred for prosecution. If you assist or coach an individual in making a false immigration claim, you have broken the law and will be referred for prosecution.”

Nielsen’s repeated statements targeting the caravan met with criticism from Rep. Bennie Thompson (D-Miss.), the ranking member of the House Committee on Homeland Security.

“It’s overkill,” Thompson told HuffPost. “You would have expected [Trump] to have been briefed by intelligence officials exactly who was headed this way. … We know who they are. We know where they are. And we even know why they’re coming. So to try to elevate this into some heightened sense of threat, it just didn’t measure up.”

Homeland Security Secretary Kirstjen Nielsen testifies before a House panel on April 11. Yuri Gripas / Reuters

Sessions had his own response to the caravan, issuing a statement Monday saying he’d “directed our U.S. Attorneys at the border to take whatever immediate action to ensure that we have sufficient prosecutors available.”

It’s unclear what practical consequences any of these threats will have. The people whom Nielsen accuses of “coaching” the caravan’s members are lawyers and immigrant rights advocates counseling migrants about the process for claiming asylum. And crossing through a legal port of entry to ask for asylum, as the caravan’s members plan to do, doesn’t expose them to prosecution, as Sessions contends.

“It’s typical anti-immigrant fear-mongering,” said Alex Mensing, a project coordinator for the caravan’s main organizing group, Pueblos Sin Fronteras. “The right-wing media and the administration have been trying really hard to make it look like there are no legitimate asylum-seekers, and that’s just not true. And it’s not for them to decide anyway.”MSNBC

Joy Reid has apologized for writing anti-LGBTQ posts on her old blog, but she still has not answered important questions about her honesty and journalistic integrity.

A weeklong saga surrounding her claims that The Reid Report, her now-defunct blog, was subject to a cyberattack culminated with the MSNBC host apologizing ― once again ― for previously espousing homophobic positions.

The host of “AM Joy” said on air Saturday that her opinions have evolved since writing “offensive” statements several years ago. She echoed an apology she delivered in December after screenshots surfaced of blog posts she wrote between 2007 and 2009 that accused a former Florida governor of being a closeted gay man.

Many of her most vocal supporters online have enthusiastically accepted her apologies, concluding ― and rightly so ― that people should be allowed to re-examine their beliefs over time.

What stands out, though, is the ease with which her supporters have accepted her hacking claims, ignoring monumental gaps in plausibility.

“Surely people needn’t condemn Reid’s character to eternal damnation over this incident, but the public can ― and should ― demand transparency and truth from journalists.”

After screenshots appearing to capture dozens of her past homophobic blog posts were tweeted the previous week, Reid told Mediaite last Monday that she didn’t author the posts. According to her initial statement, “an unknown, external party accessed and manipulated material ... to include offensive and hateful references.” Reid said that the newly revealed content “seems to be part of an effort to taint my character with false information.”

“I can state unequivocally that it does not represent the original entries,” she said. “I hope that whoever corrupted the site recognizes the pain they have caused, not just to me, but to my family and communities that I care deeply about: LGBTQ, immigrants, people of color and other marginalized groups.”

But the hacking claims fell apart under scrutiny from several media outlets. Documents and statements provided to HuffPost by Reid’s hired cybersecurity consultant, Jonathan Nichols, failed to prove Reid’s blog had been hacked or that the disputed posts were in fact fraudulent.

"I genuinely do not believe I wrote those hateful things because they are completely alien to me," Reid said on her TV show Saturday. NurPhoto via Getty Images

What’s more, these homophobic statements Reid has been accused of writing aren’t a major departure from what she’s already owned up to, nor are they far from the liberal blogging norms of the mid-2000s, as Richard Kim noted in The Nation.

Nichols also told HuffPost that the alleged posts captured in the recent batch of screenshots never existed on Reid’s blog. But HuffPost and other outlets found this simply wasn’t true. You can view the alleged posts in full here.

Many of Reid’s followers either cast doubt on reports calling into question the veracity of her hacking claims or pledged unwavering support even if the claims proved untrue.

Reid returned to her show this Saturday, after nearly a week of noticeable silence on her social media pages. She addressed the alleged hacking, saying her hired cybersecurity experts could not prove it happened, but that she doesn’t think she wrote the posts.

“When a friend found them in December and sent them to me, I was stunned,” Reid said. “Frankly, I couldn’t imagine where they’d come from or whose voice that was. In the months since, I’ve spent a lot of time trying to make sense of these posts.”

“I hired cybersecurity experts to see if somebody had manipulated my words or my former blog, and the reality is they have not been able to prove it,” she continued. “But here’s what I know: I genuinely do not believe I wrote those hateful things because they are completely alien to me. But I can definitely understand based on things I have tweeted and have written in the past why some people don’t believe me.”

Her comments appeared in stark contrast to her initial statement.

.@MSNBC's Joy Reid addresses homophobic blog posts:



"I genuinely do not believe I wrote those hateful things ... But I can definitely understand, based on things I have tweeted and have written in the past, why some people don't believe me." pic.twitter.com/PWjdPfs5KB — MSNBC (@MSNBC) April 28, 2018

Reid apologized for her past anti-trans comments about conservative host Ann Coulter, who Reid called a “dude” and a “drag queen” on Twitter in 2011. She explained that she grew up in a household that had “conservative views” on the LGBTQ community.

The next 30 minutes or so of Saturday’s show were dedicated to discussion with a panel of LGBTQ activists on the ways “hurtful speech” imperils marginalized communities.

Reid did not say whether her hired cybersecurity experts were continuing to investigate the alleged hacking, nor did she provide new details about the FBI’s alleged investigation into the matter, as confirmed by her attorney Wednesday. She did not address the posts at all during her show Sunday, nor did any of her guests bring them up.

Support from Reid’s defenders, including several MSNBC reporters, flooded Twitter over the weekend.

Everyone of us will walk in @JoyAnnReid ‘s shoes some day - filled with remorse and regret over something we have said or done, but I predict that few will do so this eloquently. Sending support and admiration to you and your amazing panel and team @JoyAnnReid https://t.co/qV26Rcy6D9 — Nicolle Wallace (@NicolleDWallace) April 28, 2018

Brains, guts, heart and soul -- beloved Joy Reid has always been a treasured and brilliant colleague, but I've never been prouder to work with her than I am now. https://t.co/J95uL3CjMv — Rachel Maddow MSNBC (@maddow) April 28, 2018

Big Love to @JoyAnnReid AND her brave panel for taking this issue head on and moving our understanding of LGBTQ issues forward — Ali Velshi (@AliVelshi) April 28, 2018

I support my friend @JoyAnnReid. I cannot speak for the LGBTQ communities who were surely hurt, but I considered this apology to be thoughtful and humble. I hope that it, and the discussion that followed on her Saturday show, were helpful. Nothing to add. pic.twitter.com/RSEfzXXRdY — Jamil Smith (@JamilSmith) April 29, 2018

Joy Ann Reid apology. Appropriate. Heartfelt. This unique and compelling voice for tolerance and equality should not be silenced. We learn - and change - from our mistakes. She has. — Eric Holder (@EricHolder) April 28, 2018

It is striking ― and disturbing ― that Reid’s colleagues and her employer aren’t demanding answers about her seemingly contradictory statements on the alleged hacking. In her initial statement, Reid said a cybersecurity expert had “identified ... unauthorized activity” on her blog that resulted in numerous “fabricated” posts. But on Saturday, Reid said her hired experts couldn’t prove it.

MSNBC has not publicly released a statement supporting Reid. On Sunday, a MSNBC spokesman told NPR’s David Folkenflik that network executives “remain supportive of Reid.”

MSNBC had basically been silent on Joy Reid. Here's statement from MSNBC spokesman today: "MSNBC executives remain supportive of Reid. They believe she did well in her statement on her show on Saturday and have noted the large outpouring of positive support she’s received." — David Folkenflik (@davidfolkenflik) April 29, 2018

To be clear: this is not an *official* network statement. It does reflect direct remarks of MSNBC exec offering mindset of MSNBC brass. — David Folkenflik (@davidfolkenflik) April 29, 2018

A representative for MSNBC declined to provide HuffPost with evidence suggesting Reid’s blog had been subject to “unauthorized activity,” as Reid claimed in her initial statement. Nichols did not respond to a request for additional comment.

MSNBC also hasn’t responded to a request for comment about whether the network is conducting an internal investigation into Reid’s story.

If the network can’t be trusted to seek truth in its own organization, how can it expect its viewers to trust it to seek truth from the highest levels of the government?

Memory is malleable, and it’s possible that Reid, when first confronted with the latest batch of screenshots, genuinely believed that she did not write them. But as a journalist and public intellectual, she had an obligation to thoroughly examine whether she wrote the items that she now views as hateful. Instead, she waved away this responsibility by declaring that she does not “believe” she wrote them.

At a time when the press is routinely attacked by the Trump administration, integrity should be of the utmost importance to every media organization. Reid is obviously well-liked by liberals, and as a female political analyst of color she offers a voice that’s often underrepresented on cable news.

Surely people needn’t condemn Reid’s character to eternal damnation over this incident, but the public can ― and should ― demand transparency and truth from journalists. As some of Reid’s most high-profile defenders have noted in the past, our democracy depends on it.Rawpixel / Getty Images

In spite of enduring threats to LGBTQ rights in the U.S., a recent poll found that Americans overall are more supportive of same-sex marriage than ever before.

Gallup’s annual Values and Morals poll, conducted May 1 through 10 and released on Wednesday, found that 67 percent of Americans surveyed said same-sex marriage should be legally valid.

That’s up 40 percentage points from 1996, when Gallup first asked the question, and it is the highest level of support on record.

Gallup

Same-sex marriage has been legal nationwide since the Supreme Court’s landmark 2015 ruling in the Obergefell v. Hodges case. The decision was a historic victory for gay rights activists, who fought for years in lower courts for marriage equality, and it came over a decade after Massachusetts became the first state to legalize same-sex marriage. By 2015, 37 states and the District of Columbia already recognized marriage equality.

Activists have noted, though, that despite the steady rise in popular support, same-sex marriage faces very real and persistent threats. Fewer than half the Republicans polled — 44 percent — said gay marriage should be legal, according to Gallup. Other polls have found support to be even lower among the most conservative Republicans and Christian evangelicals, who dominate the GOP base, which President Donald Trump has catered to since declaring his candidacy. From signing discriminatory “religious liberty” orders to banning transgender people from the military, Trump and social conservatives have found ways to challenge LGBTQ rights.

Trump’s Supreme Court appointee, Justice Neil Gorsuch, is known to oppose same-sex marriage and in 2017 sent a message to state courts that they should challenge the Obergefell decision.

As HuffPost editor-at-large Michelangelo Signorile warned, “The greater threat in the short term than outright overturning Obergefell is the effort to turn same-sex marriage into second-class marriage.”

Despite such obstacles, the percentage of LGBTQ Americans in a same-sex marriage has steadily grown since the Supreme Court ruling. As of June 2017, when Gallup last released findings on the topic, just over 10 percent of adult gay and lesbian Americans said they were married to their partner.

That was far below the 50 percent for American adults overall, according to Pew Research, but was up from roughly 8 percent pre-Obergefell. “It’s likely that the percentage of married LGBT adults in the U.S. will continue to grow as new generations of same-sex couples enjoy their newfound rights,” Gallup writer Justin McCarthy said.

This rise in gay marriages means that Americans are increasingly likely to know someone who has wed a same-sex partner, which Gallup said may play a role in reversing previously held opposition to the legal status of such unions.Smartphones with the logos of T-Mobile and Sprint are seen in this illustration taken September 19, 2017. (REUTERS/Dado Ruvic/Illustration) Dado Ruvic / Reuters

By Greg Roumeliotis

(Reuters) - T-Mobile US Inc agreed on Sunday to acquire peer Sprint Corp, in an all-stock deal for $26 billion that will combine the third and fourth largest U.S. wireless carriers and is expected to attract regulatory scrutiny over its impact on consumers.

The agreement caps four years of on- and off- talks between the companies, setting the stage for the creation of a carrier with 127 million customers that will be a more formidable competitor to the No.1 and No. 2 wireless players, Verizon Communications Inc and AT&T Inc.

U.S. regulators, which have challenged in court AT&T’s $85 billion deal to buy U.S. media company Time Warner Inc, are expected to grill Sprint and T-Mobile on how they will price their combined wireless offerings.

The breakthrough in the companies’ negotiations, first reported by Reuters on Thursday, came after T-Mobile majority-owner Deutsche Telekom AG and Japan’s SoftBank Group Corp, which controls Sprint, agreed on a structure that will allow Deutsche Telekom to continue to consolidate the combined company, which will have a market value of over $80 billion, on its books.

Deutsche Telekom will own 42 percent of the combined company, and will control the board of the combined company, nominating nine of the 14 directors.

The implied equity valuation for Sprint is $6.62 per share based on T-Mobile’s closing share price on Friday.

The all-stock transaction is at a fixed exchange ratio of 0.10256 T-Mobile shares for eachSprint share, or the equivalent of 9.75 Sprint shares for each T-Mobile US share.

Sprint’s and T-Mobile’s first round of merger talks ended unsuccessfully in 2014 after U.S. President Barack Obama’s administration expressed antitrust concerns about the deal.

Under U.S. President Donald Trump’s administration, regulators have continued to fret about consumer prices. The U.S. government has opened a probe into alleged coordination by AT&T, Verizon Communications and a telecommunications standards organization to hinder consumers from easily switching wireless carriers, a person briefed on the matter said earlier this month.

The second round of talks between Sprint and T-Mobile ended in November over valuation disagreements, although Deutsche Telekom CEO Tim Hoettges, left the door open at the time, saying: “You always meet twice in life.”

Since then, Sprint’s shares lost about a fifth of their value amid questions about how the company can compete effectively under the weight of its long-term debt of more than $32 billion.

Softbank has been looking to trim its own debt as well, which reached 15.8 trillion yen ($147 billion) as of the end of December. It has said it is planning to raise cash by taking its Japanese mobile phone unit public this year.

Failure to clinch a deal last November left SoftBank CEO Masayoshi Son, a dealmaker who raised close to $100 billion for his Vision Fund to invest in technology companies, in search of other options for Sprint.

INVESTING IN 5G TECHNOLOGY

Even though Sprint’s customer base has expanded under CEO Marcelo Claure, growth has been driven by discounting. Analysts say that, without T-Mobile, Sprint lacks the scale needed to invest in its network and to compete in a saturated market.

T-Mobile has fared better than Sprint, even if it remains a distant third to Verizon and AT&T. It has managed to score sustained market share gains, as innovative offerings, improving network performance and good customer service attract new customers, according to Moody’s Investors Service Inc.

T-Mobile became the first major U.S. carrier to eliminate two-year contracts, a shift quickly embraced by consumers and copied by competitors. The company has also badgered rivals with its unlimited data plans.

Both Sprint and T-Mobile are far behind Verizon and AT&T in upgrading their network to accommodate next generation 5G wireless technology. Even after their merger, the combined company’s budget to invest in 5G will be smaller than Verizon or AT&T’s.

However, Sprint and T-Mobile hope the deal will give them more firepower to participate in auction for spectrum to develop 5G. They plan to participate in a spectrum auction in late fall.Comedian Michelle Wolf took a moment Sunday to remind critics that her comments about Sarah Huckabee Sanders on Saturday night were focused on the White House press secretary’s professional conduct, not her physical appearance.

While performing at the White House Correspondents’ Association dinner, Wolf roasted Sanders ― among many others ― in brutal takedowns that both won praise from fans and prompted criticism among several high-profile media voices.

“All these jokes were about her despicable behavior,” Wolf tweeted in response to New York Times journalist Maggie Haberman, who complimented Sanders for sitting through a routine that attacked her physical appearance and job performance.

“Why are you guys making this about Sarah’s looks?” Wolf also said, responding to MSNBC’s Mika Brzezinski, who tweeted multiple messages about how “deplorable” it was for Sanders to be “humiliated on national television for her looks.”

That @PressSec sat and absorbed intense criticism of her physical appearance, her job performance, and so forth, instead of walking out, on national television, was impressive. — Maggie Haberman (@maggieNYT) April 29, 2018

Hey mags! All these jokes were about her despicable behavior. Sounds like you have some thoughts about her looks though? 😘 https://t.co/JRzzvhBuey — Michelle Wolf (@michelleisawolf) April 29, 2018

Watching a wife and mother be humiliated on national television for her looks is deplorable. I have experienced insults about my appearance from the president. All women have a duty to unite when these attacks happen and the WHCA owes Sarah an apology. — Mika Brzezinski (@morningmika) April 29, 2018

Why are you guys making this about Sarah’s looks? I said she burns facts and uses the ash to create a *perfect* smoky eye. I complimented her eye makeup and her ingenuity of materials. https://t.co/slII9TYdYx — Michelle Wolf (@michelleisawolf) April 29, 2018

Wolf’s remarks about Sanders seemed to strike a nerve with conservatives in particular. On Sunday morning, Fox News reporter Ed Henry called on the White House Correspondents’ Association to issue a public apology to the press secretary.

But Wolf’s jokes about Sanders, which took up a mere fraction of her set, had little to do with the press secretary’s appearance. She joked that Sanders “burned facts” to create the “perfect smokey eye.” She also likened the press secretary to a macho softball coach, mocking her confrontations with reporters including CNN’s Jim Acosta.

Check out Wolf’s comments about Sanders in the video below.President Donald Trump was met with silence at a campaign-style rally in Michigan Saturday night when he asked if there were any Hispanics present, then repeated his demand for a border wall.

Trump skipped the White House Correspondents Dinner to instead regale his fervent supporters in Washington, Michigan. After taking credit for Hispanic unemployment numbers dropping, the president said this:

“Any Hispanics in the room?” Trump asked to relative silence. “Naw, not so many? That’s OK.”

TRUMP: Are there any Hispanics in the room?



[crowd boos]



TRUMP: Not so many? That's okay... and in fairness, Kanye West gets it! pic.twitter.com/CegLcNzDXy — Aaron Rupar (@atrupar) April 29, 2018

Then he took a swerve into: “In all fairness, Kanye West gets it. He gets it.” The president was referring to the rapper’s recent show of support for him.

Satisfied the audience was lacking in Hispanics, Trump launched into a tirade repeating his demand for his border wall, and said those illegally crossing into the U.S. are somehow voting for Democrats in elections.

“All of these people pouring across are gonna vote Democrat,” he claimed, even though studies have shown undocumented people very rarely vote for anyone, Democrats or otherwise (except in the few municipalities where their votes are specifically allowed in local elections).

“They do it for a lot of reasons,” Trump said. “A lot of times they don’t even know what they’re doing or why they’re doing it, but we have to have borders and we need it fast.”

He threatened to “close down the country” if he doesn’t get funding for his wall in next year’s budget.

Before Trump attempted to reach out to Hispanic voters in South Florida earlier this month, he employed a similar tactic of surveying the audience.

“Are there any Hispanics in the room?” Trump asked during a roundtable discussion on tax cuts, The Washington Post reported.

He didn’t wait for an answer.Comedian Michelle Wolf took the bold route during the White House Correspondents’ Association dinner on Saturday night.

She roasted those in ― and out ― of the room, focusing on President Donald Trump’s questionable wealth, slamming Democrats for not doing anything, and going after Trump administration officials who attended.

Kellyanne Conway, a target of Wolf’s jabs, was expressionless as the comedian suggested journalists stop bringing Conway on their news shows.

“If you don’t give her a platform, she has nowhere to lie,” Wolf said. “It’s like that old saying: If a tree falls in the woods how do we get Kellyanne under that tree?

“I’m not suggesting she gets hurt,” Wolf clarified. “Just stuck.”

Check out Wolf’s boldest moments during the 30-minute roast below.

Michelle Wolf: "It's like that old saying, 'If a tree falls in the woods, how do we get Kellyanne under that tree?' I'm not suggesting she gets hurt, just stuck."



Kellyanne:



👀🔥 #WHCD pic.twitter.com/N576VpXW4l — Jo Yurcaba (@JoYurcaba) April 29, 2018

1. When she wanted her appearance to be over, like a porn star “when she’s about to have sex with a Trump.”

The comedian started the roast by getting straight to the point.

Michelle Wolf: “Like a porn star says when she's about to have sex with a Trump, 'Let's get this over with.'” (via CNN) pic.twitter.com/m08sI3rR6o — Kyle Griffin (@kylegriffin1) April 29, 2018

2. When she was “starstruck” over Sarah Huckabee Sanders and her “perfect smoky eye.”

“Maybe she’s born with it. Maybe it’s lies. It’s probably lies.”

Michelle Wolf destroys Sarah Huckabee Sanders at #WHCD pic.twitter.com/pKGSSOCu8d — Sarah Reese Jones (@PoliticusSarah) April 29, 2018

3. When she said Trump’s personal lawyer is the only person who can shut her up.

“It’s 2018 and I am a woman. So you cannot shut me up unless you have Michael Cohen wire me $130,000.”

Michelle Wolf: "It's 2018 and I am a woman, so you cannot shut me up, unless you have Michael Cohen wire me $130,000" #WHCD https://t.co/S1lN9shfwC — Erick Fernandez (@ErickFernandez) April 29, 2018

4. When she hit Trump where it hurts the most.

“Mr. President, I don’t think you’re very rich. Like, you might be rich in Idaho, but in New York, you’re doing fine,” Wolf said, before leading the audience in a back-and-forth on how broke Trump really is.

"Mr. President, I don't think you're very rich. Like, you might be rich in Idaho, but in New York, you're doing fine."



- Michelle Wolf, #WHCD host https://t.co/MQgzj8CUpg pic.twitter.com/cX9Q0DuAGI — CNN (@CNN) April 29, 2018

5. When she called out the news media for being obsessed with Trump.

“I think what no one in this room wants to admit is that Trump has helped all of you.”

“[Trump] has helped you sell your papers & your books & your TV. You helped create this monster & now you’re profiting off of him. And if you’re gonna profit off of Trump, you should at least give him some money because he doesn’t have any.” #WHCD pic.twitter.com/KFl01FRM6e — Sarah Lerner (@SarahLerner) April 29, 2018

6. When she knew she wasn’t Roy Moore’s type.

“I’m 32 years old, which is an odd age. Ten years too young to host this event and 20 years too old for Roy Moore.”

Michelle Wolf at #WHCD: “I'm 32 years old, which is an odd age. Ten years too young to host this event and 20 years too old for Roy Moore.” pic.twitter.com/yYXkYLzXj3 — Washington Examiner (@dcexaminer) April 29, 2018

7. When she supported Trump’s plan to arm teachers with guns.

They need to get those school supplies somehow.

"Trump is an idea guy - he wants to give teachers guns. And I support that because then they can sell them & things they need like supplies" #WHCD @michelleisawolf #WhiteHouseCorrespondentsDinner pic.twitter.com/4CGPdKPzHK — Khary Penebaker (@kharyp) April 29, 2018

8. When she said it was too easy to make fun of Republicans.

“Democrats are harder to make fun of because you guys don’t do anything.”

Michelle Wolf: “Democrats are harder to make fun of because you guys don't do anything. People think you might flip the House and Senate this November, but you guys always find a way to mess it up.” #WHCD pic.twitter.com/axKkQjM7sX — Ryan Saavedra 🇺🇸 (@RealSaavedra) April 29, 2018

9. When she explained why Trump was off-limits.

“I would drag him here myself, but it turns out the president of the United States is the one pussy you’re not allowed to grab. He said it first. Yeah, he did.”

Michelle Wolf at #WHCD: “I would drag [Trump] here myself, but it turns out the president of the United States is the one pussy you're not allowed to grab.” pic.twitter.com/BjDy1K4c0f — Washington Examiner (@dcexaminer) April 29, 2018

10. When she admitted that she doesn’t want Trump to be impeached.

“Because just when you think Trump is awful, you remember Mike Pence.”

“Mike Pence is what happens when Anderson Cooper isn’t gay"



"Mike Pence @VP is the kind of guy that brushes his teeth & then drinks orange juice and thinks ‘mhmm!” @michelleisawolf #WHCD #WHCA #WhiteHouseCorrespondentsDinner https://t.co/eicRGuSQiT pic.twitter.com/q7CUVP2sLb — Khary Penebaker (@kharyp) April 29, 2018

11. When she went for Hillary Clinton.

Well, Michigan is pretty close to Washington, D.C.

Michelle Wolf: "It is kind of crazy the Trump campaign was in contact with Russia when the Hillary campaign wasn't even in contact with Michigan." (via CNN) pic.twitter.com/zPInTbsrBB — Kyle Griffin (@kylegriffin1) April 29, 2018

12. When she reminded everyone what’s going on in Flint, Michigan.

It’s been four years.

AdvertisementPresident Donald Trump and his crew can’t seem to dodge Stormy Daniels’ telegenic attorney Michael Avenatti.

He didn’t have anything to say to CNN Saturday at the White House Correspondents’ Association dinner in Washington about romantic entanglements involving his client, who has said she had a brief affair with Trump several years ago. But Avenatti did engineer a slick photobomb of Trump aide Kellyanne Conway.

It happened while Conway was talking to CNN’s Kaitlan Collins about Trump’s future messaging. “I predict confidently that next year he’ll have more great economic and security news to tell,” she says on the video — as White House press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders stands with her and tries to keep her cool during the smirking Avenatti’s photobomb.

Check it out above.

Avenatti was a guest of The Associated Press. He said Daniels, whose real name is Stephanie Clifford, turned down several invitations and skipped the gala, according to The Hollywood Reporter.

He tweeted that he met Conway at a party the night before, and they had a “spirited” discussion.WASHINGTON, Michigan (Reuters) - U.S. President Donald on Saturday threatened to shut down the federal government in September if Congress did not provide more funding to build a wall on the border with Mexico.

“That wall has started, we have 1.6 billion (dollars),” Trump said at a campaign rally in Washington, Michigan.

“We come up again on September 28th and if we don’t get border security we will have no choice, we will close down the country because we need border security.”

Trump made a similar threat in March to push for changes in immigration law that he says would prevent criminals from entering the country. The government briefly shut down in January over immigration.

A $1.3 trillion spending bill, which Trump signed last month, will keep the government funded through the end of September. A government shutdown ahead of the November mid-elections is unlikely to be supported by his fellow Republicans who are keen to keep control of the U.S. Congress.

Trump cited the hundreds of Central American migrants traveling in a “caravan” as one of the reasons for strong border security.

“Watch the caravan, watch how sad and terrible it is, including for those people and the crime that they inflict on themselves and that others inflict on them,” said Trump.

“It’s a horrible dangerous journey for them and they come up because they know once they can get here they can walk right into our country.”

Migrants, who include women and children, have said they fled their homes in Guatemala, El Salvador and Honduras because of death threats from gangs, the murder of family members or political persecution.