UPDATE: Feb. 12 ― Immigration and Customs Enforcement has decided to allow Jesus Berrones ― an undocumented father in Arizona whose five-year-old son is battling cancer ― to stay in the U.S. temporarily.

“In an exercise of discretion, ICE has granted Jesus Armando Berrones-Balderas a one-year stay of removal on humanitarian grounds,” ICE spokesperson Yasmeen Pitts O’Keefe said in a statement Monday.

Last week, ICE had denied Berrones’ request for a stay and planned to deport the 30-year-old, who is originally from Mexico and has been living in the U.S. since he was one and a half years old. But following significant media coverage of Berrones’ situation, the agency reversed its decision. After the one-year stay, Berrones will have to file for a renewal.

PREVIOUSLY:

Immigration and Customs Enforcement plans to deport an undocumented man from Mexico whose child is battling cancer.

On Thursday, ICE denied an extension to remain in the U.S. for 30-year-old Jesus Berrones, who lives in Arizona with his pregnant wife and five children. The immigration agency ordered Berrones to appear on Monday to be deported, according to his lawyer Garrett Wilkes.

Berrones has been living in the U.S. since he was 1½, when his parents brought him here in 1989, according to his wife, Sonia. In 2006, at age 19, Berrones was caught driving with a fake license and deported to Mexico. He then twice re-entered the country unlawfully to rejoin his family.

In 2016, ICE granted Berrones a stay of removal based on his son’s illness. Even when it has grounds for deportation, the agency can use its discretion to grant stays and has commonly done so in the case of individuals caring for a sick child.

Last year, under the new Trump administration, Berrones went to ICE to refile a stay, and officials told him it was not necessary because he was no longer a deportation priority, Wilkes said. But in January, Berrones got a notice from ICE that he would be deported. The lawyer filed another request for a stay, but it was recently denied.

Berrones’ 5-year-old son has been battling leukemia since 2016 and is undergoing chemotherapy. Berrones is the family’s sole breadwinner.

“He’s a hard-working man,” Sonia Berrones, who is a U.S. citizen, told HuffPost on Friday, in tears. “We’re scared. The kids will ask me: ‘Where’s Daddy?’”

HuffPost reached out to ICE for comment, but did not receive a response by early Saturday.

The Berrones' 5-year-old son, Jayden, is undergoing chemotherapy for leukemia. Sonia Berrones

On Friday, Berrones took refuge at Shadow Rock United Church of Christ in Phoenix, which is a “sanctuary church,” according to Wilkes. The church is one of hundreds of congregations nationwide that have welcomed immigrants facing deportation to live in their church until they are no longer under threat. ICE has designated churches as “sensitive” places to avoid when carrying out arrests.

“We’re just fulfilling our mission to provide a safe place for people, to keep families together,” Shadow Rock’s Rev. Ken Heintzelman told HuffPost on Friday, when asked about providing sanctuary for Berrones. “We think the immigration policy and its enforcement is unjust.”

The Trump administration has made it a priority to crack down on illegal immigration. ICE Acting Director Thomas Homan said in June that undocumented immigrants should “look over [their] shoulder.”

Berrones plans to remain at the church until ICE grants a stay or Wilkes is able to find a legal resolution. The lawyer is considering filing a petition that argues Berrones was not granted the opportunity to go before an immigration judge when he was first deported in 2006.Immigration activist Ravi Ragbir leads a protest outside of a federal building in New York, U.S., Feb. 1, 2018. Lucas Jackson / Reuters

A well-known immigrant rights activist who was on the cusp of being deported this week has filed a lawsuit that allows him to stay in the U.S., for now.

Ravi Ragbir, executive director of the immigrant advocacy group New Sanctuary Coalition, was detained by Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) officials in January during a routine check-in with the agency. What’s more, ICE sent him to a detention center more than 1,000 miles away in Florida. Ragbir was released more than two weeks later after Manhattan federal Judge Katherine Forrest called ICE’s decision “unnecessarily cruel.”

Despite his release, Ragbir was still scheduled for deportation for Saturday, Feb. 10. A suit filed Wednesday by Ragbir and other pro-immigration groups in federal court accuses ICE of targeting activists. For instance, Jean Motrevil, a co-founder of New Sanctuary Coalition, was deported Jan. 16 by ICE and sent to Haiti.

The lawsuit also discusses Ragbir’s time while in custody with ICE.

″[Ragbir’s] movements were restricted and monitored,” while in custody, according to the complaint. “Contact with his wife and his counsel was extremely limited, particularly while detained in Florida. He was unable to receive calls at all, nor could he make outgoing calls unless funds were placed in his phone account.”

The lawsuit adds that ICE officers knew that Ragbir was an activist.

On Thursday, a federal court agreed to halt Ragbir’s upcoming deportation while his case is considered. Saturday will now be a check-in for the activist instead.

“Like so many people who are living in this country under the threat of deportation, I know how important it is to raise our voices against the injustices in the system,” Ragbir said in a statement. “This lawsuit is not just about me, it is about all of the members of our community who are speaking out in our struggle for immigrant rights.”Lupita Nyong'o pulls a double finger heart at the Seoul premiere of "Black Panther" earlier this month. Han Myung-Gu/Getty Images

A new Olympics has begun, allowing us to momentarily bask in the sweet esprit de corps humanity might enjoy on a more regular basis if our world’s nations quit talking about hurling nukes at one another.

Encapsulating the games’ spirit of cheerful camaraderie, athletes in Pyeongchang are starting to catch on to a neat little hand gesture South Koreans have been using for years now.

The gesture, formed with the thumb and pointer finger, is just a way to flash a heart in a photo ― and simpler than cupping two hands together.

It’s like a snap, but not quite. Team USA sort of got it at Friday’s Olympic opening ceremony:

Korean rapper G-Dragon, whom Vogue has christened the “undisputed king of K-Pop,” claims he started the finger heart as a child. The rapper offered up a grainy, old photograph as proof in 2016, when the signal was becoming a full-fledged trend in South Korea as a way to show love, thanks or appreciation.

A post shared by 권지용 (@xxxibgdrgn) on Oct 5, 2016 at 1:27am PDT

According to one source, however, Korean actress Kim Hye-soo was making finger heart signs back in 2010, possibly helping to popularize it. Other estimates date the sign to the early 2000s.

Wherever it came from, loads of Korean celebrities and public figures have been spotted flashing finger hearts in photos ― including former South Korean President Park Geun-hye ― and it’s cropped up across social media.

In recent years, Hollywood stars visiting South Korea to promote movies have tried their hands at it, too.

The cast of “Black Panther” more or less had it down at the Seoul premiere of their movie earlier this month.

From left, "Black Panther" director Ryan Coogler flashes a finger heart alongside actors Chadwick Boseman, Lupita Nyong'o and Michael B. Jordan at the Seoul premiere of their movie earlier this month. Han Myung-Gu/Getty Images

And Ansel Elgort seemed pretty stoked to nail a finger heart at the Seoul premiere of “Baby Driver” in 2017.

Ansel Elgort at a "Baby Driver" press conference in Seoul in August 2017. Han Myung-Gu/Getty Images

The sign appears to have required significant focus on the part of Jack Black, though.

"Kung Fu Panda 3" director Jennifer Yuh shows actor Jack Black how to form a proper finger heart at a 2016 press event. Han Myung-Gu/Getty ImagesNewsweek has made the decision to bring back an accused sexual harasser following an investigation into his past behavior. John Gress/Getty Images

Newsweek Media Group capped off one of the most tumultuous weeks in its already dramatic history by announcing Friday that it was bringing back accused sexual harasser Dayan Candappa following an investigation into his past behavior.

The company said in an email sent to staffers ― and obtained by HuffPost ― that “an independent external law firm ... did not find evidence to substantiate the reported allegations of sexual harassment during his tenure with his previous employer [Reuters].”

“Additionally,” the company added, “the investigation found that Mr. Candappa has conducted himself in a professional manner at Newsweek Media Group.”

Candappa’s first day back at the company will be this coming Monday, according to the email. He will return to his former role as chief content officer.

Dayan Candappa is one of seven employees listed as part of Newsweek Media Group's "executive team" on the company's website. NewsweekGroup.com

Newsweek Media Group placed Candappa on leave less than two weeks ago, just hours after BuzzFeed reported that Reuters fired Candappa in 2016 after one of his subordinates filed a complaint detailing months of sexual harassment. According to the complaint, BuzzFeed said, Candappa pressured the woman to enter into a romantic relationship with him and became agitated when she did not reciprocate, once texting, “I may quit and come after you. Be warned.”

Only months after Reuters fired him, Candappa landed a job at Newsweek Media Group, where he was named global editor-in-chief of the International Business Times and chief content officer of Newsweek Media Group.

Staffers, both present and former, expressed shock on Friday that Candappa will be returning. Upon hearing of Newsweek’s decision, staff writer Marie Solis tweeted that she felt “sick to my stomach.”

“I’ve been told by editors to continue doing the best work I can do during whatever remaining time I have at Newsweek, advice I’ve tried to heed. This decision makes that all the more difficult,” she added.

It’s been a long week for Newsweek staffers. On Monday, the company fired Newsweek Editor-in-Chief Bob Roe, executive editor Ken Li and reporter Celeste Katz ― a move many people believed was inspired by their decision to investigate the company’s own legal troubles. (Manhattan district attorney investigators raided Newsweek’s offices in January as part of an ongoing investigation into the company’s finances.)

Since then, a seemingly ever-growing list of employees have quit in protest, including Rachel Brody and Kurt Eichenwald, who on Friday lambasted Newsweek Media Group’s decision to bring back Candappa over Twitter.

Dayan Candappa has just put another nail in @Newsweek’s coffin by accepting the offer to return as CCO. If he cared at all about the journalists in that newsroom, or the shit they’ve been through, he would have said no. — Rachel Brody (@rachelcbrody) February 9, 2018

After 3 day “investigation” done so quickly that some witnesses didn’t have time to schedule interviews with the “independent” law firm, accused sexual harasser Danyan Cadappais back at Newsweek. Was told 2 days ago firm was given fast deadline so he could be brought back quickly — Kurt Eichenwald (@kurteichenwald) February 9, 2018

To make matters worse, Ed Hannigan, the company’s head of sales, quit as well this week ― right as the company is reportedly losing “hundreds of thousands of dollars in ad commitments” as a result of BuzzFeed publishing a story last week titled “The Publisher of Newsweek and The International Business Times Has Been Buying Traffic and Engaging in Ad Fraud.”

The news that the company has been allegedly engaging in advertising fraud led Brandzooka, which bills itself as “a self-service programmatic video platform,” to release a blistering letter on Thursday in which it announced it was blocking the company from its platform.

You lied, you cheated, and you destroyed the trust that your organization held in all of our eyes. Worse yet, your actions dragged everyone else into the mud with you. Shame on you. That’s why as of this morning, we have blocked Newsweek from our platform, and will no longer serve any of our 22,000 users’ ads on your site. Deceit, lying, and cheating have no place in our industry or in the modern ad world. We only serve our customers’ video ads to REAL people, and will not accept traffic generated by paid-for bots. We hope that during your “restructuring,” you will stamp out this dishonesty, and return to the reputable news outlet that you once were.The U.S. figure skater and his partner, Jenna Johnson, appeared as two birds released from a cage in Monday’s routine, set to Coldplay’s “O.” It’s a tune that Rippon was quite familiar with, having skated to it at the 2018 Winter Olympics in February.

Rippon and Johnson’s efforts paid off, with a score of 39 out of 40 for the performance, which can be viewed above.

“You’re like the same instrument playing simultaneously,” judge Bruno Tonioli gushed to the pair. “It’s impossible to tell who is the professional.”

The performance held special resonance for Rippon, who said it was inspired by his relationship with his mother, Kelly.

“I came out in my early 20s, and my mom was always there for me. It didn’t matter to her,” he explained. “At the end of every day, she was always there to tell me that she loved me.”

Rippon’s performance has already generated early buzz that he’ll emerge victorious in next week’s series finale, when he’ll face the cornerback of Washington’s NFL team Josh Norman and fellow skater Tonya Harding.WASHINGTON, Feb 9 (Reuters) - U.S. President Donald Trump intends to nominate White House aide Jim Carroll to serve as director of the Office of National Drug Control Policy, a post popularly known as the drug czar, the White House said in a statement on Friday.

Carroll, who currently serves as White House deputy chief of staff, must be confirmed by the Senate. “We have full confidence in Jim to lead ONDCP to make significant strides in combatting the opioids crisis, reducing drug use, and coordinating U.S. drug policy,” the statement said. (Reporting by Eric Beech; Editing by Eric Walsh)A renewed onslaught of bombing in Syria’s besieged Eastern Ghouta enclave has wreaked havoc in the region, killing nearly 200 people in a matter of days and shattering cease-fire negotiations.

Forces loyal to Syrian President Bashar Assad have pummeled rebel-held Eastern Ghouta with relentless shelling and airstrikes this week, in defiance of international human rights laws. Assad’s Russian-backed regime has repeatedly been accused of committing war crimes and crimes against humanity, including the use of chemical weapons against civilians, throughout the country’s nearly seven-year war.

“The situation in East Ghouta is worse than it has ever been,” the Syrian American Medical Society said in a news release. “The humanitarian situation is appalling, and [it] is worsening every day.”

At least 75 people were killed on Thursday alone, including 15 children, SAMS reported. The United Nations has been unable to deliver aid to the dilapidated Damascus suburb since November, and many of its 400,000 residents have taken desperate measures to survive as food and medical supplies rapidly dwindle.

Urgent medical evacuations began to trickle out of the area in December, and Russia agreed to a cease-fire in late January ― but regime airstrikes quickly doused fragile hopes of a lasting end to the violence.

After devastating shelling in #Ghouta the #CivilDefense responds to a collapsed home. This #WhiteHelmet discovers it is his mother who is the victim in the rubble. With tears of anguish and disbelief he takes her body away. pic.twitter.com/bAWENOUvEm — The White Helmets (@SyriaCivilDef) February 8, 2018

Youth in Eastern Ghouta “are being starved, bombed and trapped,” said Sonia Khush, Save the Children’s Syria response director. “Children and teachers are terrified that at any moment they could be hit. The siege means there is nowhere for them to escape.”

Hundreds of children are in urgent need of medical evacuation, according to UNICEF Executive Director Henrietta Fore.

“Four years of siege have crumbled health and other basic services critical to children’s survival and growth,” she said Thursday. “For children who remain trapped under siege and under wanton, heavy violence across Syria, life is a living nightmare. They are struggling just to stay alive.”

Schools and hospitals have been targeted in the attacks, demolishing much of the region’s remaining infrastructure and discouraging people from seeking desperately needed medical care. There is currently less than one doctor per thousand people in Eastern Ghouta, which now has the war-torn nation’s highest rate of malnutrition.

“I would like to confirm that all the fatalities and the injured are civilians. The reason is that the air raids target only the markets and the residential neighborhoods,” said a SAMS medical worker.

AdvertisementA group of Australian artists is calling attention to a trove of leaked reports detailing child abuse at the nation’s offshore detention center on Nauru, a remote island that is part of Australia’s controversial offshore detention scheme for people seeking asylum.

The Sydney-based exhibition “All We Can’t See” is a collection of works by 33 Australian artists. Each is a direct response to the “Nauru files,” a collection of 2,000 leaked documents The Guardian reported on in 2016. The reports detail cases of assault, sexual abuse and self-harm that asylum-seekers and refugees endured under the care of the Australian government.

Abbas Alaboudi's work, "What Would You Do, Peter Dutton?" Alaboudi is an Iraqi asylum-seeker, visual artist and plasterer by trade who has been detained on Nauru for over four years. Dutton is Australia's immigration minister. Abbas Alabdoudi/"All We Can't See"

Australian artists including Ben Quilty, Abdul Abdullah, Josh Yeldham and Janet Laurence were quick to sign on to the project, which asked the artists to respond to individual case files.

The Australian Senate convened an inquiry shortly after the Nauru files became public, exposing damning findings about how offshore detention camps were run. However, senators from the governing party called the inquiry a PR stunt in a dissenting report.

Arielle Gamble, co-curator of “All We Can’t See,” said the exhibition was motivated by Australian author Richard Flanagan’s description of the files as “anonymous short stories” that might be “called in another context flash fiction. Except they are true stories.”

Penny Byrne's work is based on the following incident report, which redacts the child's name: "[REDACTED] disclosed the following: she had cut her wrist because she 'was sad,' she explained that she was sad because all her friends had received positive RSDs and was worried she would be left in the RPC3 all alone. She expressed she had no friends at school and didn’t enjoy attending. CW observed the cut on [REDACTED] wrist. It was approximately 1cm long and had some dried blood on the cut." Penny Byrne/"All We Cant See"

Gamble said she fears the Nauru files did not get enough public attention at the time.

“There were all these stories that people needed to read but weren’t engaging with,” Gamble told HuffPost Australia.

She wanted to find a new way to help Australians to connect with the people behind the files.

“I think each artist believed so much in getting this information out there and doing whatever they could to help share these stories,” Gamble added. “That’s why they came on.”

The incident report attached to this work reads, in part: "REDACTED saw them crying and told REDACTED he was worried about them. He then said, Do I have to kill myself to go to Australia? What place makes a REDACTED yr old try to kill themselves?" Angela Brennan/"All We Can't See"

The file accompanying Alex Seton's "Oilstone 01_Transluscent" reads: "They do not feel safe in the community, [REDACTED 3] is very unwell and receives daily medical treatment now and she will not receive adequate medical treatment in the community. CW’s discussed the possible repercussions of them not attending this appointment, [REDACTED 4] and [REDACTED 3] advised the following: they have suffered for 1 year and 10 months here already, they can’t make it any worse." Alex Seton/All We Cant See

Gamble said she found photographer Pia Johnson’s untitled work to be the most moving.

It consists of three panels of photographs of the artist obscured behind a shower curtain and is based on a young detainee’s report about asking to be allowed to shower for four minutes instead of the usual two.

“Her request has been accepted on condition of sexual favors,” the report read.

“The guard asked if they could watch a child shower,” Gamble said.

Pia Johnson's work responds to an incident report that reads in part: "She reported that she has been asking for a 4-minute shower as opposed to 2 minutes. Her request has been accepted on condition of sexual favors. It is a male security person. She did not state if this has or hasn't occurred. The security officer wants to view a boy or girl having a shower." Pia Johnson/"All We Can't See"

Oh his work "Flesh & Blood," artist Abdullah M. I. Syed writes: "which the artist transformed the rose—a desirable cultural and spiritual material symbolizing love, purity, soul, and melancholia in South Asia and the Middle East—into a bloody pulp." Abdullah M. I. Syed/"All We Cant See"

With the weeklong exhibition wrapping up in Sydney, Gamble is hoping to promote the works regionally.Matthieu Reeb, the Secretary General of the Court of Arbitration for Sport (CAS) holds a press conference on Feb. 9 to announce that CAS had dismissed an appeal by 47 Russian athletes and coaches against a ban on their participation in the upcoming Pyeongchang 2018 Winter Olympics. Ker Robertson via Getty Images

PYEONGCHANG, South Korea (Reuters) - The Court of Arbitration for Sport (CAS) said on Friday it has dismissed 47 appeals from Russian athletes and coaches to participate in the Pyeongchang Winter Olympics, which open later in the day.

The Russians had appealed their exclusion from the games by the International Olympic Committee (IOC) over the doping scandal from the 2014 Sochi Games but the decision now puts an end to any hopes of a quick Olympic return.

“In its decisions, the CAS arbitrators have considered that the process created by the IOC to establish an invitation list of Russian athletes to compete as Olympic athletes from Russia (OAR) could not be described as a sanction but rather as an eligibility decision,” it said in a statement.

The IOC in December banned Russia from the games over doping in the country that included massive manipulation of doping samples at the Sochi Olympics and more than 1,000 athletes across several sports.

It also banned dozens of athletes from the games for life and stripped their Sochi Games medals following several investigations into the doping affair.

“We welcome this decision which supports the fight against doping and brings clarity for all athletes,” an IOC spokesperson said on Friday.

Days earlier CAS had upheld the appeal of 28 athletes due to insufficient evidence but the IOC still refused to invite them saying the evidence was there.

Instead it invited 169 carefully screened Russian athletes to compete as neutrals under the Olympic flag. It has also suspended the Russian Olympic Committee (ROC).

“Although the ROC was suspended, the IOC nevertheless chose to offer individual athletes the opportunity to participate in the Winter Games under prescribed conditions - a process that was designed to balance the IOC’s interest in the global fight against doping and the interests of individual athletes from Russia.”

Among those appealing on Friday were athletes who were not sanctioned for doping in their careers and were not named specifically in the investigations but were still excluded from the games, with the IOC saying the evidence was there as was suspicion of wrong-doing.

Konstantin Vybornov, spokesman for the Olympic athletes from Russia in Pyeongchang, told Reuters he could not immediately comment on the CAS ruling.

The games begin later on Friday and run to Feb. 25.THE GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWN IS OVER BEFORE IT REALLY BEGAN “Hours past a government funding deadline, Congress sped a massive bipartisan spending deal through both chambers early Friday morning, averting the furlough of hundreds of thousands of government workers. After Sen. Rand Paul (R-Ky.) held up the bill until after 1 a.m. ― setting off a technical lapse in government appropriations ― the Senate approved the six-week funding extension and spending limit deal 71-28. A few hours later, racing the bill through procedures that normally take hours, the House passed the bill 240-186.” [HuffPost] [Tweet | Share on Facebook]

THE WINTER OLYMPICS HAVE OFFICIALLY BEGUN Read live updates from the opening ceremony and the games. Here’s the 2018 Pyeongchang Olympics, by the numbers. The Court of Arbitration for Sport has officially denied the final attempts by some Russian athletes to be allowed to compete in this year’s Olympics. And while Leslie Jones’ figure skating commentary is gold, Johnny Weir and Tara Lipinski’s is ice. [HuffPost]

THESE VETERANS SAY A TRUMP MILITARY PARADE WOULD BE A ‘WASTE OF TIME’ And that there would need to be a lot more practicing of marching formation. The Navy SEAL who killed Osama Bin Laden called the idea “third world bull****.” [HuffPost]

WHITE HOUSE AIDE WHO RESIGNED AMID ACCUSATIONS OF ABUSE COULDN’T GET A SECURITY CLEARANCE HuffPost’s S.V. Date argues the domestic violence accusations against the former staff secretary “highlight again the Trump White House’s difficulty in finding top talent.” Dozens of White House employees are still waiting for permanent security clearances. Here’s what the White House won’t say about Porter’s exit and who knew what, when. His ex-wife Jeannie Willoughby said Porter asked her to “downplay” the abuse in a statement. [HuffPost]

AN EPISODE OF ‘CELEBRITY BIG BROTHER’ BECAME POLITICAL NEWS YESTERDAY Because it’s 2018. Former White House aide and star of Trump’s “Apprentice” Omarosa said in an episode of the show that she was “haunted by tweets” in the Trump White House, and wouldn’t vote for him again “in a million years.” A White House spokesman said in response that Omarosa was forced out of her role. [HuffPost]

‘THE ONES THEY LEFT BEHIND’ This Puerto Rican family is still torn apart by Hurricane Maria ― all these months later. [HuffPost]

SO ABOUT THAT $84,000 ACCUSED SEXUAL HARASSER BLAKE FARENTHOLD PROMISED TO PAY BACK IMMEDIATELY The Texas GOP congressman has yet to cut a check. [HuffPost]UPDATE: The Senate voted 71-28 to reopen the government by passing its budget deal early Friday morning. The House is expected to take up the bill sometime in the next few hours.

WASHINGTON ― The federal government ran out of money for the second time in a month early Friday morning, as lawmakers were unable to come to an agreement to prevent another lapse in funding.

The White House began advising parts of the government to prepare for another shutdown late Thursday night, but there were still questions on whether the government would technically close, as Congress still had the ability to prevent the furlough of government workers if the House and Senate could pass a bipartisan bill overnight.

That prospect seemed to be thinning, however.

Sen. Rand Paul (R-Ky.) continued his objection over the Senate moving up a vote on spending caps Friday, until lawmakers voted to end debate on the agreement.

After senators close debate, Paul could take an additional hour to speak against the agreement — as could other senators — before the Senate votes on final passage, meaning a final vote in that chamber could take place closer to 3 a.m.

Update: At 1:45 a.m., the Senate voted, 71-28, to pass a bipartisan bill to fund the government. The bill now must go through the House, where its chance of passage is much less certain.

Once the bill passes the Senate, a House clerk would have to prepare the bill ― which could also take hours ― and then lawmakers would have to move the legislation out of the Rules Committee, have House lawmakers adopt a rule governing debate for the bill and then get that last passage vote.

The whole process could take several hours, potentially pushing a vote to midmorning.

The Trump administration could offer guidance suggesting that agencies not furlough workers because a bill is expected shortly, but any hiccup in the timing could send the government into a hard shutdown.

There’s also the matter of the House actually passing the bill.

The vote is currently less than certain, with Democrats signaling limited support and several dozen more conservative Republicans saying they’ll vote against the bill.

GOP leaders note this is a bipartisan deal and therefore argue that Democrats should put up their fair share of votes. But Democratic leaders note the House is under Republican control. They say any failure to pass the bill is on Republicans and House Speaker Paul Ryan’s unwillingness to offer Democrats the same procedural assurances that Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.) gave Senate Democrats weeks ago ― that he would bring a bill addressing the Deferred Action on Childhood Arrivals (DACA) immigration program to the floor with an amendment process that would allow Democrats to have an imprint on the legislation.

Even if the votes fall in line, the timing issues associated with preparing the bill and getting it to President Donald Trump’s desk could still cause a shutdown, and there’s good reason to believe the votes in the House are assured.

Democratic House members have voiced opposition to the deal’s lack of protections for young undocumented immigrants, known as Dreamers. And Democrats leaving a caucus meeting Thursday night generally seemed opposed to passing the bipartisan deal on spending caps until Ryan gave Democrats those assurances on DACA.

Meanwhile, Trump spent Thursday night tweeting about Sen. Mark Warner (D-Va.).Unified Korea's flag bearers lead the delegation parade during the opening ceremony of the 2018 Winter Olympic Games on February 9, 2018. KIRILL KUDRYAVTSEV via Getty Images

North Korean and South Korean athletes participating in the 2018 Winter Olympics marched as one during Friday’s opening ceremony, gleefully entering the ring as a unified team sharing a flag.

Spectators were visibly moved, HuffPost Korea reported, with some in the audience tearing up at the sight. The unified flag shows the Korean peninsula in blue, set against a white backdrop.

The only people in the VIP box who didn’t stand during the Korean team’s entrance were Mike Pence, the U.S. vice president, and Fred Warmbier, father of Otto Warmbier, the American student who died shortly after being released from North Korean custody, The Washington Post’s Anna Fifield reported.

The games already have became a diplomatic feat as much as an athletic one. The two Koreas have used the occasion to re-establish dialogue with one another, spearheaded by South Korean President Moon Jae-in’s desire to deflate tensions in light of the North’s growing nuclear prowess. Pence reportedly seeks to damp the spirit of reconciliation, recommending that South Korea cut ties with its neighbor after the games end.Google is getting into the Winter Olympics spirit with its homepage doodles.

The internet giant unveiled the first animation from its new “Snow Games” series on Friday, hours before the Pyeongchang 2018 opening ceremony.

It will release a different Winter Olympic-themed doodle each day, until the games end on Feb. 25.

Friday’s debut doodle begins with a magpie, which is a good luck symbol in Korea, landing on Google’s logo. A penguin later zooms down a snowy mountain, dogs ski-jump, and a snake indulges in some figure skating.

Google

It ends with other animals applauding from the sidelines.

“It looks like the whole animal kingdom has turned out to watch the excitement unfold over the next two weeks!” Google wrote in a blog post explaining the series.

AdvertisementKim Kyung Hoon / Reuters

PYEONGCHANG, South Korea, Feb 9 (Reuters) - The Winter Olympics sparked to life in a vivid, colorful ceremony of fire and ice in South Korea on Friday, and the diplomacy was just as choreographed in the stadium where leaders from nations that are sworn enemies sat close together.

South Korea, which is using the Pyeongchang Games to break the ice with North Korea, seated its president alongside U.S. Vice President Mike Pence, with two of the North’s most senior officials sitting in the row behind.

President Moon Jae-in, who wants to harness the Olympic spirit to pave the way for talks over the North’s nuclear and missile program, shook hands with North Korean leader Kim Jong Un’s sister as well as the North’s nominal head of state.

The South is still technically at war with the North after the 1950-53 Korean War ended in a truce, and the United States and the North have recently swapped nuclear threats.

Underlining Moon’s efforts to re-engage with the North, the opening ceremony followed the story line of children wandering through a mythical, snowy landscape and discovering a world where people live in peace and harmony.

The Olympics have provided some respite from years of tense relations between Seoul and Pyongyang, though just hours before the ceremony hundreds of anti-North Korean protesters scuffled with riot police outside the stadium, burning North Korean flags and pictures of its leader, Kim Jong Un.

South Korea’s frigid February, where temperatures have plummeted to minus 20 degrees Celsius (-4 Fahrenheit) at night, has come as a shock to the system for athletes and visitors alike in the leadup to these Games, prompting concerns about hypothermia at the opening ceremony.

The weather was a little milder than forecast on Friday, but spectators still huddled near heaters, holding hot packs and slurping down steaming fishcake soup to ward off the chills.

Bundled up in a scarf, mask and knitted hat, with hot packs tucked into her knee blanket, office worker Shin Hye-sook said she and her three colleagues were coping with the cold.The ceremony began at 8 p.m. local time, which is 6 a.m. ET and 3 a.m. PT. The event is being streamed live on NBC’s website and apps, and will air on television at 8 p.m. ET Friday on NBC.NicolasMcComber via Getty Images

Protests prompted supermarket chain Publix to suspend all political contributions after it was revealed to have given more than half a million dollars to a Florida Republican who called himself a “proud NRA sellout.”

Publix was found to have given $670,000 in donations over the past three years to Adam Putnam, Florida’s current agriculture commissioner, who is now running for governor. But in Florida, where a school shooter in Parkland killed 17 people earlier this year, many locals aren’t about to let a National Rifle Association “sellout” run their state.

On Wednesday, Parkland shooting survivor and gun-control activist David Hogg issued a call on Twitter for people to stage a “die in” at the grocery store, which has locations throughout the Southeast.

.@Publix is a #NRASellOut

In Parkland we will have a die in the Friday (the 25th) before memorial day weekend. Starting at 4pm for 12 min inside our 2 Publix stores. Just go an lie down starting at 4. Feel free to die in with us at as many other @Publix as possible. — David Hogg (@davidhogg111) May 23, 2018

Prior to the demonstration, Publix issued a statement expressing “regret” that its political contributions had led to an “unintentional customer divide.” On Friday, it released a new statement saying it would be suspending political contributions.

“We would never knowingly disappoint our customers or the communities we serve,” the company said in a statement provided to HuffPost. “As a result, we decided earlier this week to suspend corporate-funded political contributions as we reevaluate our giving processes.”

The same day, Hogg attended a protest at a Coral Springs Publix, where he and supporters lay on the floor for 12 minutes.

“USA over NRA!” the activists chanted at one point.

'Where shooting is a pleasure:' Parkland school shooting survivor and activist David Hogg organized a 'die-in' protest at a Publix supermarket in Coral Springs today. Inside, they were met with shouts from National Rifle Association supporters >> https://t.co/nhFfywze9i pic.twitter.com/IoDM4BwjyG — WTXL ABC 27 (@abc27) May 25, 2018“But what she was hoping to do was try to call me a hypocrite for believing in merit-based immigration. Again, she failed miserably,” she added.

Mendelsohn specifically tweeted that her findings were “not about playing gotcha,” adding that “as long as people like Lahren continue to push a specious agenda that suggests today’s immigrants are somehow wholly different from previous ones, I’ll keep showing just how alike they really are.”

But Lahren’s rant continued.

“This really isn’t what she calls ‘resistance genealogy.’ It’s just another symptom of Trump derangement syndrome,” the 25-year-old said.

Mendelsohn also tweeted that her intention was to show that “people are people, and always have been.”

“What I’m trying to show here is that these nativists can’t keep trying to back up their argument by saying ‘the country doesn’t work this way’ when clearly it does, and has: for their families. So why do they *really* not want these people here? That’s what we need to dig out.”

Despite those clear explanations for why Mendelsohn shared what her post, Lahren said she was very happy that someone had such a fascination with her family history.

“I’m hoping that she will take on Elizabeth Warren’s next,” Lahren said.

“Tomi Lahren’s rich, dynamic and complex family history is a quintessentially American story,” Mendelsohn told HuffPost by email on Tuesday. “And a perfect reminder that this country has always afforded those who arrive with so little the opportunity to make a better life here. I believe it should remain that way.”Perhaps you pride yourself on your Winter Olympics knowledge, and you’re eager to show it off to friends and family now that the games have started.

Just make sure you’re also pronouncing the name of host city Pyeongchang correctly.

It’s “Pee-yung-chong” (saying it quickly), linguist James Harbeck says in the video below. For those who find the clip full of TMI, you can fast-forward to the 2:55 mark. You’ll learn how to pronounce some of the other Olympics venues as well.

In the video below, a Korean woman (at the 1:40 mark) says Pyeongchang in a way that seems to somewhat support Harbeck’s version, but with a “t” sound to start the last syllable.

Same here:

Let the games begin!

AdvertisementWASHINGTON ― Sen. Patty Murray (D-Wash.) wants industries to be more transparent about workplace sexual harassment and assault, particularly businesses like hotels, restaurants and retail, where workers face steeper challenges in reporting incidents, seeking recourse and being heard, due to their economic inequality and relative anonymity.

Murray, the top Democrat on the Senate’s committee on health, education, labor and pensions (HELP), and one of several congressional lawmakers who has led legislative efforts to combat sexual misconduct, on Friday mailed letters to major industry organizations requesting information about their policies for addressing such incidents.

“Although we are seeing headlines about powerful and famous people being called to account for their actions, we are seeing far less action in industries outside of the spotlight,” she wrote. “Therefore, I hope and expect that you are taking steps to address concerns about misconduct in your industry and to ensure your members’ workplaces are free from harassment.”

Sen. Patty Murray (D-Wash.) is asking industry organizations for information on their policies for dealing with reports of sexual harassment and assault. Bloomberg via Getty Images

Questions that Murray is posing to these organizations include noting whether they have “ongoing discussions, plans, and actions ... aimed at protecting employees and establishing an equal and harassment-free workplace,” whether industry leaders have conducted research or surveys to understand the problem’s magnitude and if there are factors specific to their industries that may contribute to workplace sexual abuses.

The #MeToo movement has exposed sexual misconduct across a wide range of industries and institutions, from Hollywood to Congress itself.

It has also demonstrated that women in lower-wage jobs and less-prominent industries, such as hotel housekeepers to flight attendants, face particular challenges and vulnerabilities because the economic disparity between them and their harassers is much greater. They also work in relative anonymity, compared with more high-profile survivors of sexual misconduct in industries like entertainment and media, whose name recognition and star power generate more headlines about the issue.

Murray said last month that she hopes to work with Republican HELP committee chair Lamar Alexander (R-Tenn.) to hold hearings on the issue of workplace sexual harassment.

Capitol Hill lawmakers have also introduced legislation to combat the legal mechanisms that can prevent accusers from speaking out and allow companies to conceal harassment and assault, such as secretive settlements and non-disclosure agreements.

The full list of industry organizations from which Murray is seeking information:

1. American Farm Bureau Federation 2. American Hotel and Lodging Association 3. Associated Builders and Contractors Inc. 4. The Association of Chief Human Resource Officers 5. Associated General Contractors of America 6. ISSA – The Worldwide Cleaning Industry Association 7. National Association for Home Care and Hospice 8. National Association of Manufacturers 9. National Restaurant Association 10. National Retail Federation Inc. 11. Society for Human Resource Management 12. U.S. Chamber of CommerceSenate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.) walks to the Senate floor before a vote to end a government shutdown early Friday. Joshua Roberts / Reuters

WASHINGTON ― Hours past a government funding deadline, Congress sped a massive bipartisan spending deal through both chambers early Friday, averting the furlough of hundreds of thousands of government workers.

After Sen. Rand Paul (R-Ky.) held up the bill until after 1 a.m. ― setting off a technical lapse in government appropriations ― the Senate approved the six-week funding extension and spending limit deal 71-28. A few hours later, racing the bill through procedures that normally take hours, the House passed the bill 240-186, with 67 Republicans and 119 Democrats opposed, and 167 Republicans and 73 Democrats in favor. (The Republican vote totals flipped almost completely from the previous two-year budget deal, when it passed with 79 Republicans voting yes and 167 voting no.)

Friday’s vote in the House culminated in a bizarre standoff, with Democrats holding back the vast majority of their votes to show just how many Democratic votes Republicans needed to pass the bill. About 40 Republicans, for their part, also held off voting on the bill, waiting for Democrats to put up more votes before they themselves voted no.

In the end, under the threat of the presiding officer closing the vote at the expiration of the 15 minutes allotted for the roll call, Democrats began changing their votes in favor of the bill. At about 5:30 a.m., the bill passed. President Donald Trump signed the bill Friday morning.

House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi (D-Calif.) continued her opposition to the legislation Friday morning, insisting once again that Speaker Paul Ryan (R-Wis.) give Democrats the same assurances that Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.) gave Senate Democrats ― that Democrats would have a level playing field for offering amendments to a bill to help undocumented young people losing Deferred Action on Childhood Arrivals program protections.

In the end, neither Pelosi’s demands nor the voting games mattered, as a critical number of Democrats supported the bill.

The legislation is a massive spending deal. In addition to the six-week extension of government funding, it would raise spending by roughly $320 billion, providing $80 billion above the spending caps for defense and $63 billion for non-defense for this year, and another $85 billion more for defense and $68 billion more for non-defense for the next fiscal year. The agreement also sets up $140 billion in war funding and $20 billion more for other emergency spending over two years, and throws in $89 billion for disaster relief.

In spending, it’s a huge win for Democrats, but they did not get the assurances they wanted on DACA, meaning House Republicans are free to bring up an immigration bill that they want rather than one that hews closer to Democratic priorities.

Democrats still hope that, because McConnell has made those open amendment concessions, and because the Senate is expected to go first on a DACA bill, there will be pressure on Ryan to put the Senate immigration measure up for a vote in the House.

If Ryan doesn’t, Democrats still have the remaining omnibus bill as leverage ― Friday’s deal was simply to allow lawmakers time to write an actual measure spending the money they approved. But their opportunities to extract concessions are waning, and unless the bill that comes out of the Senate is assured a vote, Democrats may have just let go of a key piece of influence they had over the eventual immigration product.

Immigrant rights advocates have argued since September, when Trump rescinded DACA, that the best chance for helping its recipients would be getting protections attached to a must-pass bill, like government spending. Their fear is that as a stand-alone bill could be riddled with poison pills — or not brought for a vote at all. Trump is demanding significant border security investments, including his wall, massive legal immigration cuts, and changes to asylum law in order to approve protections for undocumented young people who came to the U.S. as kids, which could sink a deal.

Thousands of DACA recipients have already lost their status, but the number will jump by an estimated 1,000 people losing protections each day starting March 6, due to the way Trump phased out the program. That’s why some lawmakers say the deadline for action is March 5, even though DACA recipients can currently apply to renew their protections under a court order that the Trump administration is fighting.

Ahead of the vote, Ryan told lawmakers that he was committed to working toward a bipartisan immigration deal that Trump would support. That’s still not the commitment Democrats wanted in exchange for their votes on the funding bill, but Ryan has suggested he wants a solution on DACA that can pass Congress, which suggests the need for Democratic votes anyway.

“My commitment to working together on an immigration measure that we can make law is a sincere commitment,” Ryan said just before the vote. “We will solve this DACA problem.”

Igor Bobic and Alana Horowitz Satlin contributed reporting.Seth Meyers examined the Trump administration’s attitude towards women on Thursday’s broadcast of “Late Night.”

“(President Donald) Trump attacks a lot of people but there’s something in particular that really seems to anger him,” Meyers said as images of the many women who Trump has verbally abused flashed on the screen.

“I can’t put my finger on it, it’s really a mystery,” Meyers added.

Meyers then noted how “the Trump White House’s misogyny and hostility towards women were once again on display this week” when administration officials initially defended former staff secretary Rob Porter from allegations of domestic abuse.

“This is a White House that has repeatedly chosen the denials of men over the many corroborated stories of women, whether it’s in the case of Roy Moore, Corey Lewandowski or Trump himself,” said Meyers.Vice President Mike Pence’s anti-LGBTQ track record continues to haunt him halfway around the world.

That’s thanks to figure skater Adam Rippon and freestyle skier Gus Kenworthy, Team USA’s first two openly gay athletes competing in the Winter Olympics.

The two have made it clear they aren’t backing down from their criticism of Pence’s selection to lead the U.S. delegation to Friday’s opening ceremony.

Rippon and Kenworthy both published photos on social media Friday from the opening ceremony, with captions that subtly ― and not so subtly ― called out the vice president’s history of undermining LGBTQ rights.

“The 2018 Winter Olympic Gaymes are officially under way!” read the caption on one of Kenworthy’s Instagram posts Friday. “I’m so proud to be representing the LGBTQ community alongside this amazing guy! Eat your heart out, Pence.”

A post shared by gus kenworthy (@guskenworthy) on Feb 9, 2018 at 7:29am PST

Over on Twitter, Rippon added, “Representing the USA is one of the greatest honors of my life and being able to do it as my authentic self makes it all so much sweeter .”

Tonight I walked in the #OpeningCeremony and got to watch my old friend @Yunaaaa light the Olympic flame. Representing the USA is one of the greatest honors of my life and being able to do it as my authentic self makes it all so much sweeter 🇺🇸🏳️‍🌈🏆🌎❤️🔥 pic.twitter.com/ZypvWkUBjD — Adam Rippon (@Adaripp) February 9, 2018

“We’re here. We’re queer. Get used to it,” read another tweet from Kenworthy.

As a reminder: In 2006, Pence predicted marriage equality would result in “societal collapse.” While running for Congress in 2000, he promoted reallocating funds from HIV/AIDS research to “institutions which provide assistance to those seeking to change their sexual behavior” instead. Pence press secretary Alyssa Farah told HuffPost last month that Pence denies supporting gay conversion therapy, calling the claims against him “totally false with no basis in fact.” The statement seemingly contradicts statements he made on his own campaign website.

Pence’s record as vice president continues to be staunchly anti-LGBTQ.

Rippon first called out Pence in an interview with USA Today last month, focusing on the hypocrisy of Pence’s defense of President Trump while also claiming to be a man of faith.

“I don’t think he has a real concept of reality,” Rippon said. “To stand by some of the things that [President] Donald Trump has said and for Mike Pence to say he’s a devout Christian man is completely contradictory.”

“To stand by some of the things that [President] Donald Trump has said and for Mike Pence to say he’s a devout Christian man is completely contradictory.” - Olympian Adam Rippon

“If he’s OK with what’s being said about people and Americans and foreigners and about different countries that are being called ‘shitholes,’ I think he should really go to church,” Rippon added.

Pence reportedly asked to meet with Rippon last month to smooth things over before the games, but was rebuffed. The skater’s mother, Kelly, clarified the Olympian didn’t refuse ― he just didn’t want to meet until after the competition was over.

Kenworthy echoed Rippon’s criticism earlier this week during an appearance on “The Ellen DeGeneres Show,” explaining why he thought Pence was a “bad fit” for the Olympics.A Montana man became a social media sensation this week after quitting his job in the state’s labor department rather than handle paperwork that he said could lead to the arrest of undocumented immigrants.

“There were going to be subpoenas for information that would end up being used to hunt down & deport undocumented workers,” Jordon Dyrdahl-Roberts wrote on Twitter Wednesday, adding:

It would have been my responsibility to prepare the information and hand them off to ICE.



I refuse to aid in the breaking up of families. I refuse to just “follow orders.”



This isn’t an easy decision as it puts me in a delicate financial position. — Jordon Dyrdahl-Roberts (@dyrbert) February 8, 2018

Dyrdahl-Roberts, a legal secretary with the department since 2011, was told on Tuesday that he should help process subpoena requests from Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE), the Independent Record reported.

“I immediately said, ‘I don’t think I can help with that,’” he told the newspaper. “I began talking with management about what the deal was, but I pretty much understood at that point.”

The agency reportedly offered to relocate Dyrdahl-Roberts to another position in the department, but it appears he declined.

“The department is in communication with Jordon and it’s our understanding his decision to resign is purely based on his personal opposition to the federal administration’s rhetoric on immigration,” spokesman Jake Troyer told NBC station KULR. “Jordon’s involvement in the process of responding to subpoenas was limited to assisting attorneys with processing requests.”

Carl Rusnok, regional director of communications for ICE, told the Great Falls Tribune that the agency “routinely subpoenas other local, state and federal agencies and private companies for information in furtherance of ongoing investigations.”

He declined to comment on the specifics.

“I’m drawing my line in the sand here,” Dyrdahl-Roberts wrote on Twitter. “Cooperation with this regime is not acceptable.”

Dyrdahl-Roberts was initially accepting donations to help him support his family as he looked for a new job, but later said he had received enough. Instead, he encouraged supporters to consider donating to the people of Puerto Rico or Flint, Michigan.

He added:Last month, Facebook admitted that its platform is bad for democracy.

Now comes word of a project that may push people into more of an information cocoon.

Facebook is testing a button with selected users that allows them to “downvote” posts they consider inappropriate, uncivil or misleading, the company said.

Facebook insisted in a statement to HuffPost that it is not “testing a dislike button.”

“We are exploring a feature for people to give us feedback about comments on public page posts. This is running for a small set of people in the U.S. only.”

Sources familiar with the program said the “downvote” button is only a short-term test and will not affect how a comment, post or page is ranked.

The info gleaned is not about giving a commenter feedback but giving feedback to Facebook.

Tech reporter Taylor Lorenz said the “downvote” option first appeared Thursday in the comments sections of certain Facebook groups as well as on old Facebook memories content.

She shared screenshots on Twitter ― but not on Facebook, for some reason.

Facebook is testing downvoting comments pic.twitter.com/SBOSQITotO — Taylor Lorenz (@TaylorLorenz) February 8, 2018

Lorenz said this newer button might allow content that’s offensive or inflammatory to be pushed to the bottom of a comment feed.

Facebook appears to be trying to invent Reddit, Alexis Ohanian, that website’s founder and CEO, noted on Twitter:

Sincerest form of flattery! Wish I'd trademarked it and “upvote” when came up with it. 😂😂 https://t.co/wJMxILChCV — Alexis Ohanian Sr. (@alexisohanian) February 8, 2018

So far, only 5 percent of Android users in the U.S. are getting the downvote option, Facebook said.Jennie Willoughby said that her ex-husband, former White House staff secretary Rob Porter, recently asked her to release a statement “downplaying” a blog post she wrote about abuse she said she endured during their marriage.

Speaking to CNN’s Anderson Cooper on Thursday, Willoughby said that Porter asked her two weeks ago to walk back a blog post she wrote for the Daily Mail in April 2017, in which she describes their marriage ― and the emotional and physical abuse that came with it.

“We were in contact, even a couple days ago, as he was asking me to release a statement about my blog post,” Willoughby told Cooper. “I went back and forth with him for an hour or so about what language I would be comfortable with, and ultimately, the language he asked I wasn’t comfortable with.”

When Cooper pressed Willoughby on the request, she said that Porter was “asking me to downplay it.”

“He was asking me to emphasize more the relationship that he and I have now as opposed to what I experienced in our marriage,” she explained.

Porter, in a statement on Wednesday, announced his resignation as White House staff secretary while denying the allegations of abuse made by his two ex-wives.

Ex-wife says Porter asked her to "downplay" blog post describing abuse https://t.co/ttochQpgjN — Anderson Cooper 360° (@AC360) February 9, 2018

Both Willoughby and Porter’s first wife, Colbie Holderness, have publicly accused the former senior White House staffer of abusing them emotionally and physically during their marriages.

While Willoughby did not name Porter in her 2017 blog post, she confirmed to the Daily Mail this week that it was about him. Porter often lost his temper during their marriage, she said, acted violently and once dragged her out of a shower to yell at her.

In 2010, Willoughby was granted a protective order against him after he violated their separation agreement and punched through a glass window in her front door. That protective order prevented Porter from receiving full security clearance for his post in the White House, Politico reported.

Holderness, who revealed Porter’s abuse to The Intercept, said that Porter had punched her in the face in 2005, and she shared photos showing her with a black eye.

Both women told the FBI of Porter’s behavior when the bureau reached out to them last year for a background check on the incoming White House official, The Intercept reported.

Senior White House aide Rob Porter physically assaulted two ex-wives, they tell @theintercept. Full story to come in the morning.



His first wife, Colbie Holderness, provided these photos from a vacation they took together in Florence, Italy: pic.twitter.com/tl3TbyGA8Y — Ryan Grim (@ryangrim) February 7, 2018

Willoughby told Cooper on Thursday that Porter was intelligent, kind and professional, but added that he was also “deeply troubled and angry and violent.”

Willoughby said she felt during her marriage “a low-grade constant terror of not knowing what I might do to set something off.”

She also said she doesn’t think Porter has changed his ways and warned that he would likely abuse his current romantic partner ― believed to be White House communications director Hope Hicks ― if he hasn’t already.

“If I’m being frank with you, if he hasn’t already been abusive with Hope, he will,” Willoughby told Cooper. “And particularly now that he’s under a lot of stress and scrutiny. That’s when the behaviors come out. If he hasn’t already, he will.”

Willoughby said that she was concerned about the praise Porter has been receiving from White House officials, in spite of the allegations of abuse.

In a statement on Wednesday, White House chief of staff John Kelly called Porter “a man of true integrity and honor, and I can’t say enough good things about him. He is a friend, a confidante, and a trusted professional,” adding, “I am proud to serve alongside him.”

Later Wednesday, Kelly said in a second statement that he was “shocked” by the accusations of domestic abuse against Porter but stood by his praise of him.

“There’s somebody who was able to rise professionally and have the accolades from so many, and even in the face of what’s currently unfolding, to still have the support of so many people in the White House and former colleagues,” Willoughby said of the people who praise Porter despite the news.Dear Grandpa, I still can’t believe you’re gone. No words can describe how much you mean to me and how much i love you. I wish i had more time with you but i will cherish the memories we had. You taught me to be tough, to be kind, and above all, to ski fast. Now, every time i ski down the mountain I know you’ll be there with me. I’m proud to be your granddaughter and I will think of you always. I will race for you in Korea and I will try as hard as I can to win for you. Please look out for me. I love you Grandpa. Lindsey

A post shared by L I N D S E Y • V O N N (@lindseyvonn) on Nov 10, 2017 at 6:11pm PSTA walkie-talkie tumbling down a ski slope provided plenty of comic relief at the Winter Olympics in Pyeongchang, South Korea.

In a clip posted by NBC on Friday, a crew member hilariously failed to snare the gadget with a diving stop, and then came up empty again farther down the hill.A Republican Georgia state senator running for governor announced the start of his “Deportation Bus Tour” on Tuesday, which he said will consist of rounding up illegal immigrants in a school bus labeled “Murderers, rapists, kidnappers, child molestors, and other criminals on board.” It misspells molesters.

Michael Williams, who was his state’s co-chair for President Donald Trump’s presidential campaign, said the tour aims to “shine a light on the dangers of sanctuary cities and the overwhelming problem of illegal immigration.” The bus will make stops in Clarkston, Decatur and Athens, which Republican state officials have accused of violating federal immigration laws and being “sanctuary cities.” (Decatur denies this, saying it has a longstanding policy against detaining or arresting people solely based on requests of Immigration and Customs Enforcement.)

“We’re not just going to track them and watch them roam around our state, we’re going to put them on this bus and send them home,” Williams said in a video promoting the bus trip.

It’s unclear how the politician plans to lawfully apprehend immigrants, let alone deport them. Williams did not respond to a request for comment.

Williams touted his role in some of the country’s toughest immigration laws, including one that requires local law enforcement to notify ICE if they have an undocumented immigrant in custody. Cities like Decatur with policies against this often adopt them based on legal concerns, because of court rulings that found holding people without a warrant violates their constitutional rights.

Williams’ attack on sanctuary cities echoes the Trump administration’s shots at them as part of its immigration crackdown. The Department of Justice sued the state of California in March for policies meant to help local law enforcement work with immigrant communities.

Watch the full ad below: