Jill Messick, a former Miramax executive producer who once managed actress Rose McGowan, died by suicide Wednesday at age 50, her family confirmed to The Hollywood Reporter.

A scathing statement provided by her family’s attorney criticized disgraced Hollywood mogul Harvey Weinstein, his vocal accuser McGowan and members of the media for their coverage of the #MeToo movement. Messick represented McGowan in 1997, at the time she says she was raped by Weinstein, and she later took an executive position at Miramax, then led by Weinstein.

“Jill was victimized by our new culture of unlimited information sharing and a willingness to accept statement as fact,” read the lengthy statement. (Read it in full at The Hollywood Reporter.) “She became collateral damage in an already horrific story.”

HuffPost reached out to McGowan and Weinstein for comment but did not immediately receive a response.

While Messick’s family confirmed that McGowan once told her about the encounter with Weinstein, as the actress told The New York Times, details on Messick’s response have differed. In their statement, Messick’s family said she was “the first person who stood up on Rose’s behalf” and “alerted her bosses to the horrific experience which Rose suffered.”

The family also noted that Messick had bipolar disorder.

“Seeing her name in headlines again and again, as part of one person’s attempt to gain more attention for her personal cause, along with Harvey’s desperate attempt to vindicate himself, was devastating for her,” the statement read.

Messick, born July 27, 1967, is survived by her two children, father, brother and partner, according to The Hollywood Reporter. Over a successful career, she produced hit films including “She’s All That,” “Mean Girls” and “Frida” and had worked on the upcoming video game adaption “Minecraft: The Movie.”

McGowan first accused Weinstein of rape in October and quickly became one of his most vocal critics. In January, Weinstein called McGowan’s accusation “a bold lie” through his lawyer, claiming that the actress described the incident as a consensual sexual encounter to Messick soon afterward.

To back up the claim, Weinstein’s lawyer produced an email Messick sent to Weinstein in the months before The New York Times and The New Yorker published their bombshell reports, detailing what she remembered of the conversation with McGowan.

Messick’s family criticized journalists for publishing Messick’s correspondence.

“We must take a moment to consider the ramifications and consequences of what we say and what we do,” the family’s statement said, concluding: “Words matter. Someone’s life may depend on it.”Comedian Rob Delaney announced on Friday the heartbreaking death of his 2-year-old son, Henry.

Henry died in January after being diagnosed with a brain tumor in 2016, Delaney wrote in a Facebook post. Doctors successfully performed surgery to remove the tumor in early 2017, but the cancer returned last autumn.

Delaney, who is based in the U.K., said he, his wife and their two older sons “are devastated.”

“Henry was a joy,” Delaney wrote. “He was smart, funny, and mischievous and we had so many wonderful adventures together, particularly after he’d moved home following fifteen months living in hospitals.”

The comedian, who stars in and co-writes the British series Catastrophe, said the strength of his wife and sons has prevented him from going “mad with grief” and that he doesn’t want to miss out on “their beautiful lives.”

Delaney has asked others to make donations to children’s charity Rainbow Trust and children’s hospice care Noah’s Ark in an effort to help other cancer patients.

AdvertisementMATTHEWS: Don’t say that. ’Cuz we are worried, but I need you to say, “No, it’s going to be OK.”

NEWMAN: No it’s gonna not be OK. It’s not. So bad.

MATHEWS: Would you vote for him again?

NEWMAN: God, no. Never. In a million years, never.The Pyeongchang Olympic Stadium, seen at dawn on Jan. 25, 2018, is the epitome of planned obsolescence. SeongJoon Cho/Bloomberg via Getty Images

Pyeongchang, South Korea, built itself a brand-new $109 million stadium to host the 2018 Winter Olympic and Paralympic Games. And after just four ceremonial events ― including Friday’s opening festivities ― Pyeongchang is planning to tear the place down.

Ironically, the idea behind tearing down the stadium is to keep it from becoming an immediate white elephant and ever-present reminder of Olympic excess.

The Pyeongchang Games were supposed to be an example of modesty, a reminder that the Olympics didn’t have to burden its host with the record-breaking $50 billion price tag that accompanied the 2014 Winter Games in Sochi, Russia ― and that helped turn much of the world against the idea of hosting the games.

But building a stadium solely to host four ceremonies ― none of which involve actual sports ― feels more like an example of how Pyeongchang fell right into the Olympic trap.

This year’s Winter Olympics will cost an estimated $13 billion ― far short of Sochi’s cost, but still roughly twice what Olympic organizers originally estimated. That maintains an ugly streak for the games: Between 1960 and 2012, every Olympics, winter and summer, has exceeded its initial budget projections, according to researchers at the University of Oxford. The median overrun for the Winter Games, the researchers found, was 109 percent, which means Pyeongchang’s doubling of costs is right in line with budget reality.

Pyeongchang has already warned the South Korean government that the final cost of the games will be too high. Last year, it threatened to slash its own contribution to the Olympic budget.

Those costs rose, as they always do, thanks to largely unnecessary construction projects with little promise of future viability. Organizers built a brand-new ski resort for the Pyeongchang Games, for instance, even though its construction required the partial demolition of a sacred indigenous forest, even though the games have required shuttering other ski resorts, even though there’s little evidence the new site will be used once the Olympics end.

Other Pyeongchang venues share similar legacy concerns. Five months ahead of the games, organizers had no plans at all for post-Olympic use of at least three other newly constructed facilities. On the eve of the games, they still don’t have concrete proposals for the future.

The public justification for hosting these games, in Pyeongchang and across South Korea, is that the first Winter Olympics to grace the Korean Peninsula won’t just improve relations between the North and South but will also boost interest in winter sports and help transform the area “into an Asian winter sports hub.” But who can really predict the first, and the latter seems unlikely.

South Koreans don’t much care for winter sports. In one survey last year, just 35 percent of them reported having any interest in the Olympics, and domestic ticket sales, even for the most popular events, have lagged well behind the normal Olympic pace.

Previous Olympics suggest that the games’ ability to boost participation in sports is nearly as big a myth as their supposed economic and tourism benefits. Organizers of the 2012 London Games really pushed the “sparking public enthusiasm for athletics” goal. Surveys in the six years since have shown that participation in various sports has remained at best steady across the city, while a Parliamentary report last year found that rates of physical activity and sporting participation among children have actually declined since the end of the games.

Concerns about cost and legacy have largely taken a backseat ahead of the Pyeongchang Games for a variety of reasons. The focus on Russia’s doping scandal has sucked up most of the pre-Olympic oxygen. A norovirus outbreak on the eve of the games and the unavoidable security concerns caused by Pyeongchang’s proximity to the North Korean border have absorbed much of the rest. What diplomatic role the 2018 Winter Olympics will play, now and in the future, on the peninsula and in the world seems to be the biggest potential story of the games.

All the normal Olympic features are still present in Pyeongchang: the bloated budget, the environmental degradation, the empty infrastructure legacy. A costly new stadium that will open only four times before it’s ultimately destroyed.A motorcyclist splits a lane on Highway 99 in Sacramento, California. Other states could follow California in legalizing lane-splitting. Randall Benton/Sacramento Bee/MCT via Getty Images

By Jenni Bergal

Every morning, commuter Surj Gish hit a major traffic jam as he crossed the Bay Bridge from his Oakland home to his San Francisco job.

Sedans and SUVs clogged five lanes of traffic and idled for miles on a trip that could take them an hour or longer. But for Gish it was no problem: He just zipped his motorcycle between lanes, moving past slow-moving vehicles stuck on the bridge.

“My trip usually would only take 30 minutes,” said Gish, a digital marketing consultant who now commutes to other parts of the Bay Area. “It radically changed my daily commute.”

That maneuver is called lane-splitting, and only California allows it. But a move is afoot to expand lane-splitting to other states, pitting motorcyclists against some law enforcement agencies and safety advocates. Both sides say their approach is safest — for drivers and motorcyclists alike.

Supporters of lane-splitting say letting motorcyclists legally share or split lanes with cars and trucks reduces congestion and is safer for bikers, who can avoid being rear-ended by distracted drivers in stop-and-go traffic. Opponents say it’s dangerous for bikers who might be struck by cars that suddenly change lanes, and unnerving for drivers who might be startled by a motorcycle whizzing past them.

Over the past five years, legislators have unsuccessfully pushed bills to legalize lane-splitting in at least 15 states, according to AAA. California made it legal in 2016, though it had been common practice there for many years as there was no law prohibiting it.

Some measures were pushed by a legislator on behalf of a constituent or motorcyclist groups and didn’t get any traction. Some died because of opposition from AAA clubs or law enforcement agencies or concerns about safety.

Motorcycle riders arrive in Olympia, Washington, last month for a rally sponsored by ABATE, one of the motorcycle groups that support legalizing lane-splitting, which would allow motorcyclists to share or split the lane with other motorists. Ted S. Warren, The Associated Press

Many of the measures would have required that lane-splitters travel below a certain speed and not go much faster than the cars around them.

Arizona legislators in 2010 passed a bill that would have allowed a one-year lane-splitting pilot program, but it was vetoed by then-Gov. Jan Brewer, a Republican. She cited concerns about its impact on safety and whether motorists would have enough time to be educated properly about the changes.

This year at least seven states, from Arizona to Massachusetts, are considering lane-splitting bills.

In Washington state, the Senate last year passed a bill to legalize lane-splitting at low speeds, but it stalled in the House after the Washington State Patrol and the state Traffic Safety Commission argued the practice is unsafe and would not help reduce motorcycle fatalities or serious injuries.

The bill’s sponsor, Democratic state Sen. Tim Sheldon, a tree farmer who is not a motorcyclist, dismissed those fears as overblown and said some of the opposition comes from motorists annoyed that bikers would be getting special treatment.

“There is a little bit of envy,” he said. In traffic, “drivers think, ‘Why should someone be moving when I’m not?’ ”

Sheldon said he’s not going to push the bill this session, which ends next month, but he plans to reintroduce it next year.

“We have such a congestion problem in the Puget Sound,” Sheldon said. “It’s a way to help us with that.”

While there isn’t a lot of data on the safety of lane-splitting, the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration said the practice is common in many other countries and worthy of further study “because it offers a means of reducing congestion in addition to possible safety benefits.”

The agency calls lane-splitting an option that “can provide an escape route for motorcyclists who would otherwise be trapped or struck from behind.” A 2015 study by the University of California Berkeley found lane-splitting appeared to be a “relatively safe” strategy if it’s done in traffic moving at 50 mph or less and motorcyclists don’t exceed other vehicles’ speed by more than 15 mph.

The Berkeley study also concluded that lane-splitting motorcyclists were less likely to suffer head or torso injuries or die in a crash than those who didn’t split.

The American Motorcyclist Association, an advocacy group that represents more than 200,000 motorcyclists nationwide, supports lane-splitting and is working to make it legal in other states.

“It is very safe as long as you are keeping your speed reasonable compared to the surrounding traffic,” said Nick Haris, a lobbyist for the group. “And it reduces traffic commute times for the rider and other drivers.”

Haris said he understands that drivers might be startled if a motorcycle suddenly appears beside them, which is why it’s important for any state that legalizes the practice to issue guidelines for motorcyclists and offer public awareness campaigns for motorists.

Motorcyclists split a lane in France in 2016. In the United States, only California allows lane-splitting. Geyres/Sipa USA (Sipa via AP Images)

Gish, the Oakland motorcyclist, agrees with Haris about public education, but he doesn’t buy the argument about drivers being rattled.

“If the rider comes up really fast, then it’s the fault of the rider. But if they’re only going 10 miles an hour faster than traffic, then it’s the driver’s fault for not turning their head and looking,” said Gish, who runs a regional magazine for motorcyclists and a lane-splitting advocacy website. “Lack of awareness of the surrounding environment is just bad driving.”

AAA opposes lane-splitting, and its clubs have helped defeat proposals in Georgia, Hawaii and Texas, said Richard Romer, the group’s state relations manager. “Motorists who don’t expect to be passed by a vehicle traveling between lanes can side-swipe a motorcycle or turn into its path.”

The Governors Highway Safety Association, which represents state highway offices, doesn’t take a position on lane-splitting. But Richard Retting, a traffic safety consultant to the group, called it “a very risky activity.”

Retting said he was shocked to learn of the Berkeley study’s finding that, between June 2012 and August 2013, of the motorcyclists involved in nearly 6,000 collisions in California, 17 percent had been lane-splitting.By Kathy Roberts Forde and Bryan Bowman, University of Massachusetts Amherst, for The Conversation

The U.S. criminal justice system is riven by racial disparity.

The Obama administration pursued a plan to reform it. An entire news organization, The Marshall Project, was launched in late 2014 to cover it. Organizations like Black Lives Matter and The Sentencing Project are dedicated to unmaking a system that unjustly targets people of color.

But how did we get this system in the first place? Our ongoing historical research project investigates the relationship between the press and convict labor. While that story is still unfolding, we have learned what few Americans, especially white Americans, know: the dark history that produced our current criminal justice system.

If anything is to change – if we are ever to “end this racial nightmare, and achieve our country,” as James Baldwin put it – we must confront this system and the blighted history that created it.

During Reconstruction, the 12 years following the end of the Civil War and the abolition of slavery, former slaves made meaningful political, social and economic gains. Black men voted and even held public office across the South. Biracial experiments in governance flowered. Black literacy surged, surpassing those of whites in some cities. Black schools, churches and social institutions thrived.

As the prominent historian Eric Foner writes in his masterwork on Reconstruction, “Black participation in Southern public life after 1867 was the most radical development of the Reconstruction years, a massive experiment in interracial democracy without precedent in the history of this or any other country that abolished slavery in the nineteenth century.”

But this moment was short-lived.

As W.E.B. Du Bois wrote, the “slave went free; stood a brief moment in the sun; then moved back again toward slavery.”

History is made by human actors and the choices they make.

According to Douglas Blackmon, author of “Slavery by Another Name,”the choices made by Southern white supremacists after abolition, and the rest of the country’s accommodation, “explain more about the current state of American life, black and white, than the antebellum slavery that preceded.”

Designed to reverse black advances, Redemption was an organized effort by white merchants, planters, businessmen and politicians that followed Reconstruction. “Redeemers” employed vicious racial violence and state legislation as tools to prevent black citizenship and equality promised under the 14th and 15th amendments.

Juvenile convicts at work in the fields, 1903. Library of Congress/John L. Spivak

By the early 1900s, nearly every southern state had barred black citizens not only from voting but also from serving in public office, on juries and in the administration of the justice system.

The South’s new racial caste system was not merely political and social. It was thoroughly economic. Slavery had made the South’s agriculture-based economy the most powerful force in the global cotton market, but the Civil War devastated this economy.

How to build a new one?

Ironically, white leaders found a solution in the 13th Amendment, which ended slavery in the United States in 1865. By exploiting the provision allowing “slavery” and “involuntary servitude” to continue as “a punishment for crime,” they took advantage of a penal system predating the Civil War and used even during Reconstruction.

A new form of control

Convicts leased to harvest timber in Florida around 1915 (via WDL).

With the help of profiteering industrialists they found yet a new way to build wealth on the bound labor of black Americans: the convict lease system.

Here’s how it worked. Black men – and sometimes women and children – were arrested and convicted for crimes enumerated in the Black Codes, state laws criminalizing petty offenses and aimed at keeping freed people tied to their former owners’ plantations and farms. The most sinister crime was vagrancy – the “crime” of being unemployed – which brought a large fine that few blacks could afford to pay.

Black convicts were leased to private companies, typically industries profiteering from the region’s untapped natural resources. As many as 200,000 black Americans were forced into back-breaking labor in coal mines, turpentine factories and lumber camps. They lived in squalid conditions, chained, starved, beaten, flogged and sexually violated. They died by the thousands from injury, disease and torture.

For both the state and private corporations, the opportunities for profit were enormous. For the state, convict lease generated revenue and provided a powerful tool to subjugate African-Americans and intimidate them into behaving in accordance with the new social order. It also greatly reduced state expenses in housing and caring for convicts. For the corporations, convict lease provided droves of cheap, disposable laborers who could be worked to the extremes of human cruelty.

Every southern state leased convicts, and at least nine-tenths of all leased convicts were black. In reports of the period, the terms “convicts” and “negroes” are used interchangeably.

Of those black Americans caught in the convict lease system, a few were men like Henry Nisbet, who murdered nine other black men in Georgia. But the vast majority were like Green Cottenham, the central figure in Blackmon’s book, who was snatched into the system after being charged with vagrancy.

A principal difference between antebellum slavery and convict leasing was that, in the latter, the laborers were only the temporary property of their “masters.” On one hand, this meant that after their fines had been paid off, they would potentially be let free. On the other, it meant the companies leasing convicts often absolved themselves of concerns about workers’ longevity. Such convicts were viewed as disposable and frequently worked beyond human endurance.

The living conditions of leased convicts are documented in dozens of detailed, firsthand reports spanning decades and covering many states. In 1883, Blackmon writes, Alabama prison inspector Reginald Dawson described leased convicts in one mine being held on trivial charges, in “desperate,” “miserable” conditions, poorly fed, clothed, and “unnecessarily chained and shackled.” He described the “appalling number of deaths” and “appalling numbers of maimed and disabled men” held by various forced-labor entrepreneurs spanning the entire state.

Dawson’s reports had no perceptible impact on Alabama’s convict leasing system.

The exploitation of black convict labor by the penal system and industrialists was central to southern politics and economics of the era. It was a carefully crafted answer to black progress during Reconstruction – highly visible and widely known. The system benefited the national economy, too. The federal government passed up one opportunity after another to intervene.

Convict lease ended at different times across the early 20th century, only to be replaced in many states by another racialized and brutal method of convict labor: the chain gang.

Convict labor, debt peonage, lynching – and the white supremacist ideologies of Jim Crow that supported them all – produced a bleak social landscape across the South for African-Americans.

Black Americans developed multiple resistance strategies and gained major victories through the civil rights movement, including Brown v. Board of Education, the Civil Rights Act and the Voting Rights Act. Jim Crow fell, and America moved closer than ever to fulfilling its democratic promise of equality and opportunity for all.

But in the decades that followed, a “tough on crime” politics with racist undertones produced, among other things, harsh drug and mandatory minimum sentencing laws that were applied in racially disparate ways. The mass incarceration system exploded, with the rate of imprisonment quadrupling between the 1970s and today.

Michelle Alexander famously calls it “The New Jim Crow” in her book of the same name.

Today, the U.S. has the highest incarceration rate of any country in the world, with 2.2 million behind bars, even though crime has decreased significantly since the early 1990s. And while black Americans make up only 13 percent of the U.S. population, they make up 37 percent of the incarcerated population. Forty percent of police killings of unarmed people are black men, who make up merely 6 percent of the population, according to a 2015 Washington Post report.

It doesn’t have to be this way. We can choose otherwise.Come for the Olympic figure skating. Stay for Johnny Weir and Tara Lipinski’s icy takedowns of the athletes competing at the Winter Games in Pyeongchang.

Even before the Opening Ceremony, the Olympians-turned-analysts gave a chilly reception to many of the skaters performing in the early events.

Weir called one routine “the worst short program I’ve ever seen from Nathan Chen.”

Lipinsky was just as unfiltered, deeming the performance “disastrous.”

And they were just getting warmed up.

Some viewers were thrilled by their comments:

NBC should send Tara Lipinski and Johnny Weir to cover White House press briefings. #Olympics — Ted Atkinson (@atkinson_ted) February 9, 2018

one way to fix the nfl next year would be to have @johnnygweir and @taralipinski call all games! — daniel tosh (@danieltosh) February 9, 2018

"There's no one more judgmental than an ice skater" —Johnny Weir, effortlessly explaining why I love this sport — Hillary Busis (@hillibusterr) February 9, 2018

If Tara Lipinski and Johnny Weir are this brutally honest and catty on television, can you imagine what they are like when they think no one is listening? Yikes. ⛸#olympics — Erin O’Neill (@IrishBelle_1) February 9, 2018

These #Olympics figure skating commentators are BRUTAL. They called one skater’s the “weak link” and his performance “technically a disaster” and another’s “abysmal,” “the worst I’ve ever seen from him.” I’m over here like pic.twitter.com/lqYQW0XwvL — Katy Doom (@katydoom) February 9, 2018

How do we get Johnny Weir calling more sports? I need him on everything. — Judy Battista (@judybattista) February 9, 2018

Trying to think of the funniest sporting event for Johnny Weir and Tara Lipinski to announce and the correct answer is The Masters — super bowl champion ben (@VT_Ben) February 9, 2018

This Tara Lipinski/ Johnny Weir commentary is savage. — meg (@meghanfeggan) February 9, 2018

I support Mean Johnny Weir. He's an announcer, not the skaters' damn publicist. — James Poniewozik (@poniewozik) February 9, 2018

Take a drink every time Johnny Weir makes a mean comment about a skater #Olympics — Meghan (@meghankocur) February 9, 2018

However, not everyone loved it. Some wanted more analysis and less snark:

Am I the only one that finds Tara Lipinsky and Johnny Weir a touch harsh? "abysmal" "outrageous" "disaster" The slightest amount of empathy would be nice. #olympics #mensskating — Abbey (@abbeyinvermont) February 9, 2018

#Olympics So annoyed with these team ice skating commentators Tara Lipinski and Johnny Weir. A moment ago they were praising Nathan Chen as if he were a God and he makes a mistake (he is human) and now they are crucifying him. Opening ceremonies haven't even happened yet. — Dawn (@DawnGrpntblank) February 9, 2018

STOP BEING MEAN @JohnnyGWeir — Claire Polites (@claire_polites) February 9, 2018I studied international relations and political science, and so never really thought I’d be in tech. I didn’t think that someone with my background or people that looked like me were in tech. My brother actually interned at Google and encouraged me to apply.

When I dug a bit deeper, I realized that there were a lot of different roles at Google, not just super technical ones. I also realized that I deeply identified with Google’s mission ― to organize the world’s information and make it universally accessible and useful. For everyone. And that’s where I believed I could add value ― working to make our products inclusive and accessible for people like me.

What challenges do you face today as a black woman in the tech world?

Many times, I’m the only black woman or woman of color in the room. The past few years have been hard for our community, and to have to come into work, dealing with the trauma of brutality, inequality and injustice in the world and then having to do your job and do it well ― it can be exhausting and alienating. Working in the diversity and inclusion space, my core values and my work are so linked that sometimes it’s hard to take time to recharge.

What’s been rewarding about being in your position?

I’m passionate about Google products and I’m passionate about the black community and other underrepresented communities and making sure we are celebrated for our accomplishments, our innovation our ingenuity and our contributions. Being able to fuse these two passions and ensure our products and services are built for communities of color and other diverse communities is a job that excites me every day. We don’t have it all figured out yet, so I love being able to get perspectives from people from all backgrounds and walks of life to improve our products.The ladies of Twitter never fail to brighten our days with their brilliant ― but succinct ― wisdom. Each week, HuffPost Women rounds up hilarious 280-character musings. For this week’s great tweets from women, scroll through the list below. Then visit our Funniest Tweets From Women page for our past collections.WASHINGTON ― Every day since Jan. 11, Republicans have reminded us that House Democratic leader Nancy Pelosi (D-Calif.) said that day that workers have gotten nothing but “crumbs” from the GOP tax bill.

President Donald Trump this week likened the supposed gaffe to Hillary Clinton’s infamous “deplorables” comment from the 2016 campaign.

“She’s a rich woman who lives in a big, beautiful house in California who wants to give all of your money away,” Trump said of Pelosi during a speech in Ohio. “And she talked about crumbs.”

The tax bill slashed the corporate tax rate from 35 to 21 percent, a windfall Democrats said companies would waste on share buybacks instead of more productive investment. After Trump signed the bill into law, Republicans seized on news that dozens of companies announced they would give their workers bonuses specifically because of the law.

Pelosi was not impressed. “In terms of the bonus that corporate america received versus the crumbs that they are giving to workers to kind of put the schmooze on is so pathetic,” she said last month.

Fox News reprised the crumbs comment no fewer than 43 times this week alone, according to a search using the media monitoring service TVEyes. And in press releases, floor speeches and interviews, Capitol Hill Republicans have been working to make “crumbs” as famous as Pelosi’s “we have to pass the bill so that you can find out what’s in it” comment from the Obamacare debate in 2010.

The thing is, Pelosi’s crumbs comment is fair and accurate. By Republicans’ tally, more than 250 businesses have doled out some $3 billion worth of bonuses so far. The Joint Committee on Taxation expects the corporate tax cut by itself to lose $101 billion worth of revenue this year alone.

“Crumb (n) -- a very small amount of something.” - Google dictionary

The bonuses are also a small amount of money compared to what firms are throwing at their shareholders. Since Trump signed the tax bill into law on Dec. 22, companies have announced $88 billion worth of stock buybacks, according to an analysis by the stock market research firm Birinyi Associates. That’s more than twice the amount of share repurchases firms announced during the same period last year.

An analysis by Americans for Tax Fairness, a group that opposed the tax bill, put the stock buyback total at $100 billion since the Senate passed the bill in early December. Senate Democrats arrived at a similar tally for just this year.

“Even as corporations plough tens of billions of dollars into share buybacks and stock repurchasing programs instead of raising wages or hiring more workers, President Trump and Congressional Republicans are doing their best to portray their $1.5 trillion corporate giveaway as a boost to working Americans,” Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer (D-N.Y.) said on the Senate floor this week.

Stock buybacks inflate the value of a company’s shares by reducing the amount of stock available to the public. Cash devoted to repurchasing shares isn’t invested in research or development, and goosing share values lines executives’ pockets, since they are often paid with stock and receive bonuses according to its value.

Before the tax bill became law, the official Republican argument was that workers would benefit from corporate tax cuts in the long run. Companies would use their newfound extra cash for capital investments that would enhance worker productivity and make employees more valuable. That might still happen someday, though Republicans have apparently set the argument aside.

Separate from the issue of bonuses, the tax law will result in slightly larger paychecks for most workers, since firms are withholding less income tax due to the new law’s lower rates.

The Tax Policy Center estimated that American households, on average, would have 2.2 percent more after-tax income this year, though the richest 5 percent would see the biggest benefit.

Congressional Democrats have stopped short of saying the law should be repealed, probably since doing so would mean slightly less take-home pay for most workers.

“If Democrats agree with Leader Pelosi that these benefits to working families are ‘crumbs’ and would like to repeal the tax cuts, we encourage them to say so loudly and clearly so Americans know exactly where they stand,” Chris Bond, a spokesman for House Majority Whip Steve Scalise (R-La.), said in an email. Scalise’s office has been keeping track of corporate bonus announcements.

But Pelosi didn’t say the $1,000 bonuses are crumbs to workers. Republicans are shifting the context of her statement from the grand scheme of a trillion dollar tax cut to the more modest setting of individual workers’ paychecks.

“For the families who are living paycheck-to-paycheck, an increase in take-home-pay and a $1,000 bonus to start out the new year ― these are not crumbs,” House Speaker Paul Ryan said in an emailed statement last month.

And some Republicans are providing an additional fake context, noting that in 2011 Pelosi said people would benefit greatly from an extra $40 per paycheck because of a payroll tax cut that passed Congress on a bipartisan basis. The payroll tax cut was not part of a trillion dollar corporate tax cut.

Republicans are eager for ways to use Pelosi in political campaigns regardless of what she says, since people generally view her unfavorably.

AdvertisementRep. Blake Farenthold allegedly told one aide that he has "wet dreams" and "sexual fantasies" about another female aide. Bill Clark via Getty Images

WASHINGTON ― House lawmakers celebrated themselves this week for passing a bill that cracks down on sexual harassers in Congress. But they have an alleged harasser in their midst who is trying to quietly slip by: Rep. Blake Farenthold (R-Texas).

Farenthold spent $84,000 in taxpayer money to settle a sexual harassment lawsuit by a former female aide three years ago. Details of this settlement weren’t public until early December 2017, at which point the congressman said he would retire at the end of 2018 and would immediately repay the money to the Treasury Department. He never sent the check.

By late January, his office said he was “waiting to see what changes the House makes to the Congressional Accountability Act before repaying the funds.” On Tuesday, the House passed a bill to strengthen that law, which provides workplace protections in Capitol Hill offices. But now his office says he’s waiting to see if the Senate passes the bill, if the president signs it, and if this theoretical new law will inspire him to pay up.

“He is waiting on the advice of counsel to see what final bill is enacted,” Bob Haueter, Farenthold’s chief of staff, told HuffPost on Wednesday. “Once the final bill is done and the law is changed and is complete and he can see that, he will make a determination of how he proceeds.”

By all appearances, this is a case of a GOP congressman ridiculously moving the goalposts to avoid paying back tens of thousands of dollars before he leaves at the end of the year. The House bill has no bearing on Farenthold’s situation ― it is not retroactive ― and there is nothing to prevent him from cutting a check today.

He’s not hard up for money, either. The guy is worth millions of dollars.

HuffPost asked if Farenthold would repay the $84,000 after he leaves office, in the event the president does not sign a law this year relating to Congress’ sexual harassment policies.

“I guess we’ll have to look at that, how it occurs,” said Haueter. “At this point in time, right now, he’s expecting Congress to act.”

It’s a wonder that Farenthold is still in Congress at all. Several of his colleagues have recently resigned in disgrace amid allegations of sexual misconduct. At a time when the #MeToo movement is driving powerful, high-profile sexual harassers out of their jobs, it’s hard to imagine someone in the private sector not being punished for the kind of behavior Farenthold has been accused of.

His former spokeswoman Lauren Greene said in legal documents that Farenthold told another aide that Greene could “show her nipples whenever she wanted to” and that he had “sexual fantasies” and “wet dreams” about her. She describes the congressman as often being drunk and flirtatious at work, complaining of a sexless marriage and telling her a story about a female lobbyist propositioning him for “a threesome.”

Two other Farenthold aides complained in 2016 of a toxic work environment. One described staffers talking about male lobbyists sending them pictures of their genitals and other staffers making lewd comments “about female reporters’ breast size.”

The Texas congressman said he's "done nothing wrong." He's just not running for re-election. Tom Williams via Getty Images

“I’ve done nothing wrong,” Farenthold has said. He points to a 2015 finding by the independent Office of Congressional Ethics that there was “not substantial reason” to believe he had violated House rules. But the House Ethics Committee disagreed and began its own investigation in September 2015. The committee has been looking into his behavior ever since, beset by delays because key witnesses wouldn’t come forward.

That changed in December 2017, when Greene agreed to cooperate. The ethics committee announced a new investigative subcommittee to look into whether Farenthold sexually harassed other members of his staff, used official money for campaign purposes, and lied or omitted details in previous testimony to the committee. It’s not clear how long this investigation will take or whether it will be done before Farenthold retires.

In the meantime, Republican leaders appear fine with Farenthold keeping his job ― and his taxpayer-funded salary ― for the rest of the year. That leaves GOP lawmakers in the awkward position of having to defend Farenthold through the midterm elections. It’s already creating problems for his colleagues trying to tout their newfound zero-tolerance policy for sexual harassment on Capitol Hill.

“Today is a great day for America,” Rep. Gregg Harper (R-Miss.) beamed at a Tuesday press event after the House passed his bill to require lawmakers to personally pay for any sexual harassment settlements. “This is the greatest place I believe that anybody could ever work, whether you’re a member or a staffer. ... We want to ensure that that protection is here for everybody.”

Nearly all of the reporters’ questions were about Farenthold.

“The legislation that we passed, unfortunately, is not retroactive,” Harper said. “It’s up to each individual member that might have been in that situation to determine whether they will or won’t [repay the government].”

Asked if it sat right with him that a Republican colleague hadn’t paid back sexual harassment settlement money, Harper said only, “He said he was going to pay it back. When will he do that? I don’t know.”

“Blake Farenthold has to be, I think, cajoled, embarrassed, pressured by all of us to pay the money back.” - Rep. Jackie Speier (D-Calif.)

Rep. Jackie Speier (D-Calif.), a leading voice in the push to crack down on sexual harassment on Capitol Hill, said part of the reason that Farenthold is seemingly getting away with bad behavior is that the House Ethics Committee needs to be reformed, too.

“It’s not a place where you send difficult, thorny member issues,” she said.

But another problem is that House Speaker Paul Ryan (R-Wis.) hasn’t demanded that Farenthold repay the $84,000 immediately or compelled him to resign.

“They have the ability to force it,” Speier said of GOP leadership. “Blake Farenthold has to be, I think, cajoled, embarrassed, pressured by all of us to pay the money back. We had a situation on the Democratic side, we pressured members to resign, and they did.”

Ryan spokeswoman AshLee Strong said the speaker has pressed Farenthold to repay the money.

“Rep. Farenthold told the speaker he would be paying the settlement back, and we have since repeatedly stated he should pay it back,” Strong said.

Chalk it up to Ryan not being firm enough with a member of his caucus or to Farenthold simply not caring. Whatever the reason for the inaction, some lawmakers say Farenthold’s behavior is eroding the dignity of the House itself.Reddit has an entire “Shower Thoughts” subreddit dedicated to “the miniature epiphanies you have that highlight the oddities within the familiar.” In honor of those weird, wonderful and sometimes profound musings, here are 25 of the best posts from the last week:A legal battle is brewing between Starbucks and a California family claiming they were served bloody cups of Frappuccino.

Amanda Vice says in a lawsuit against the coffee chain that Frappuccinos she ordered for herself and her toddler daughter from a San Bernardino Starbucks in February 2016 came with a ghastly ingredient not typically found on the menu.

She said first noticed the red stains on a drink she purchased for her daughter Payton, who was 2 at the time.

“She was licking the whipped cream where it had been sitting on top,” Vice told CBS Los Angeles, describing the moment she noticed the drink was corpuscle-enhanced. She said the Frappuccino also had a strange metallic smell.

Then she noticed something else.

“It was on the inside of the rim of my Frappuccino,” she said.

Vice said her first instinct was to see if she or her daughter were bleeding. They weren’t.

Next, she reported the incident to the Starbucks, and said she discovered that an employee had been bleeding before being removed from a work station, her attorneys, the Frish Law Group, said in a statement.

The experience still leaves a bad taste in the mouth of Vice’s husband.

“My wife and my baby just drank someone’s blood,” Louis Vice told KTLA. “It was bad.”

The Starbucks manager tried to settle things by offering free drinks for a week, according to the Vices’ law firm. Starbucks later offered $1,000 to each family member as compensation, according to the statement.

But the family’s attorney, Stan Pekler, told KTLA the sum “does not begin to compensate the family for suffered injuries and damages for which Starbucks is liable.”

“They endured additional distress because Starbucks seemed to not care about their well being and refused to direct the employee to undergo a blood test to ensure the family’s safety,” Pekler said.

The lawyers’ statement says the Starbucks manager agreed to ask the bleeding employee get tested for communicable disease, but didn’t force the employee to get evaluated.

The Vices had themselves tested then and six months later, with negative results.

Starbucks responded to the lawsuit with this statement to reporters:

“We are aware of this claim that allegedly took place in 2016, and are prepared to present our case in court.”

Meanwhile, Amanda Vice said the experience has affected how she approaches life.Stefan Wermuth / Reuters Eurostar trains stand at St Pancras International Station in London on Jan. 17, 2015.

Eurostar is opening a direct high-speed train route between London and Amsterdam this spring, the rail company announced Friday.

Starting April 4, passengers will be able to hop on board a train at London’s St. Pancras International and reach Amsterdam’s Centraal station in just three hours and 41 minutes, while traveling at a speed of about 186 mph.

The trains between the United Kingdom and the Netherlands will depart London twice a day, at 8:31 a.m. and 5:31 p.m. They will run nonstop to Brussels, Belgium, in one hour and 48 minutes, shaving 17 minutes off the Eurostar’s current travel time between these two cities. The route will also include a stop in the Dutch city of Rotterdam.

One-way fares between the U.K. and the Netherlands along this route will start at about £35 ($48). Tickets will go on sale Feb. 20.

Francois Lenoir / Reuters Passengers are checked at the border control prior to boarding a Eurostar train at Midi/Zuid railway station in Brussels, Belgium, on March 15, 2016.

Eurostar expects the train route to spark competition with airlines like easyJet and Ryanair, which offer cheap flights between London and Amsterdam.

The company said over 4 million passengers use airlines to travel between London and Amsterdam every year. The market was reportedly about the same size when Eurostar launched its route between London and Paris in 1994.

“Over the last twenty-three years, the market for travel between London and Paris has more than doubled as customers increasingly choose high speed rail over plane,” the company said in a statement. “As the Netherlands grows in popularity as a key business and tourism hub, the potential for the new service and the overall market is significant.”

But there’s one hitch in the company’s current plans: The trip from London to Amsterdam will be direct, but passengers traveling in the opposite direction will have to change trains in Brussels to go through passport and security screening. This is due to continuing negotiations between the U.K. and the Netherlands on enabling passport checks to be conducted in the Netherlands before departure.Ryan McKenna, aka Selfie Kid, was on Ellen DeGeneres' show. The Ellen DeGeneres Show

It’s safe to say no one is having a better month than Selfie Kid, the teenager who snapped a selfie with halftime performer Justin Timberlake at the Super Bowl last weekend.

Well, he has a name, Ryan McKenna, and apparently his press tour isn’t over yet, because the 13-year-old New England Patriots fan stopped by Friday’s “The Ellen DeGeneres Show” for one more victory lap.

“Boy, your life has changed, hasn’t it?” DeGeneres asked.

“Yeah,” McKenna said. “This is so amazing.”

The teen said he had no idea he was seated in the section where Timberlake would perform and was just as surprised as anybody when the “Can’t Stop The Feeling!” singer came into the crowd to close the show.

“My dad told me two weeks before and I just started crying. I couldn’t believe it. Just to go to the Super Bowl is a dream come true,” he explained. “The lady told us we were in a good section, but we had no idea Justin was going to be there.”

McKenna also had no idea Timberlake was calling into the show, so that the singer could meet him officially. Cue the waterworks.

McKenna got another surprise from Justin Timberlake. The Ellen DeGeneres Show

“It’s nice to meet you, finally,” Timberlake said.

“Oh, my God!” McKenna said, as his eyes began to water. “I can’t believe this!”

“Basically, I knew that I wanted to end the performance with ‘Can’t Stop the Feeling!’ because I knew how people respond to that song,” the performer explained. “And then cut to Ryan!”

“I’ll tell you what I want to do: Because it was so unexpected that you came down, and because all of this has happened, I thought to myself, ‘I really want to meet you properly,’” Timberlake said. “I’m going to be coming to TD Garden on tour to play in Boston. I’d like to invite you and your family to come.”

“Thank you so much!” said McKenna, now full-on crying. “Oh my gosh!”

“Ryan, I look forward to meeting you,” Timberlake added, “and our second selfie together.”George Clooney is about to get your heart all aflutter right before Valentine’s Day.

In a new clip for the actor’s upcoming appearance on Netflix’s “My Next Guest Needs No Introduction with David Letterman,” Clooney describes how important his wife, Amal, is to him.

In the clip, David Letterman shares with Clooney how becoming a father made him shift his focus from himself to his child.

Clooney responded by saying:

“Before I had the twins, I felt that about [Amal].”

He continued:

“I met someone who I would absolutely trade my life for. I met someone that her life meant more to me than my life. I’ve never had that experience before.”

Clooney met the international human rights lawyer when a mutual friend brought her over to the Oscar winner’s Lake Como home in 2013.

“I thought she was beautiful, and I thought she was funny and obviously smart,” Clooney, 56, told The Hollywood Reporter, joking that Amal, 40, “probably thought I was old.”

They married the next year. In June, the couple welcomed twins, Ella and Alexander.

George and Amal Clooney walk the red carpet ahead of the "Suburbicon" screening during the 74th Venice Film Festival in 2017. Vittorio Zunino Celotto via Getty Images

Clooney told The Hollywood Reporter that having kids had “never been part of my DNA.” In fact, he said they never discussed having children while dating.A photo of "KKK origami" allegedly given to a black student at a Texas school. Photo courtesy of Sounia Senemar

A teenage student and his family have sued a religious private school in Texas after the teen allegedly experienced bullying of a racist nature. The student claims the school did next to nothing to stop the bullying. But the school says its religious doctrine makes it immune from legal repercussions.

Legal experts told HuffPost the school’s argument is highly unusual in this context.

The school’s counsel filed a motion to dismiss the lawsuit on these grounds in August. A judge is expected to decide whether to move forward with the lawsuit later this month, per public documents obtained by HuffPost.

Maureen Beans and her son, C.R., had a horrible experience at Trinity Episcopal School in Galveston, Texas, according to the lawsuit filed in May.

C.R., who attended Trinity for sixth and seventh grade, starting in 2014, was a black student at the overwhelmingly white private school. He claims he was relentlessly bullied, sometimes in ways that appeared racially motivated.

In one incident, his three tormentors allegedly gave him pieces of origami designed to resemble hoods worn by Ku Klux Klan members.

Throughout this time, school administrators ignored the problem, even after C.R.’s family brought it to their attention, the lawsuit says. Even though the students admitted to the bullying, according to the lawsuit, they were only given one-day suspensions and required to apologize ― consequences the plaintiff deems sorely lacking.

Days after the school doled out the punishment, Beans decided to pull her son from Trinity and enroll him elsewhere.

Now, in a move that’s raised eyebrows among lawyers and legal experts, the school is trying to get the lawsuit dismissed by invoking the ecclesiastical abstention doctrine.

This legal principle, also called the church autonomy doctrine, holds that religious institutions do not need to follow the same laws as non-religious entities, like public schools, if it conflicts with their religious doctrine.

It applies in cases where a decision from a civil judge would infringe on the internal religious organization of a group, like how a religious organization can choose to have only male or female clergy members perform specific tasks.

Trinity says it disputes the assertions made in the Beans’ lawsuit. But it is also essentially arguing that because it is a religious organization, it is allowed to maintain its own discipline system, which may or may not involve consequences for racist bullying.

Experts told HuffPost they are surprised a religious institution would make this argument with regard to racist bullying. Some say this is a step too far.

Robert Tuttle, professor of law and religion at George Washington University, said if the law were applied this way, courts would not have been able to intervene, for example, in cases where sexual abuse was reported at Catholic churches.

“There is very little reason to think that religious institutions should be immune from the state to the degree that they claim,” Tuttle said.

But Trinity Episcopal School is attempting to claim that immunity.

“As a religious institution, Trinity has a constitutionally-protected freedom to make decisions regarding the discipline of its students without judicial interference,” the court document states in the school’s motion to dismiss. “The courts cannot second guess those decisions, even in the guise of purportedly ‘secular’ causes of action.”

Lawyers for C.R. and his family reject the school’s argument.

The family is suing the school and its former head for negligence and intentional infliction of emotional distress, saying the school failed to protect C.R. The parents of the three alleged bullies are also defendants in the suit.

The bullying had a deep, scarring effect on the teen, the lawsuit says. C.R. was so traumatized by the alleged bullying that at one point he spray-painted the word “hate” on the walls of his home.

C.R.’s grades dropped precipitously. He experienced depression and anxiety, and was unable to attend the four subsequent educational institutions in which he has been enrolled.

“This is a simple negligence case ― whenever you send your kid to a school you expect a certain standard of care,” Sounia Senemar, the family’s lawyer, told HuffPost. “They allowed this kid to be bullied, and they are trying to use religion as a shield.”

When asked to comment for this story, lawyers for Trinity said in a statement that the school is “committed to upholding standards that reflect our mission in Christ.”

“The school has a policy that prohibits any form of bullying or discrimination,” the statement read. “As soon as the school was informed of an issue over a year ago, it addressed it immediately, consistent with its policy.”

Multiple experts told HuffPost that Trinity’s tactic will almost certainly not succeed.

“The defendant here certainly qualifies as a religious school,” said University of Missouri School of Law Professor Carl Esbeck. “That’s not the problem.”

School bullying, however, is “not a matter of internal ecclesiastical governance,” he added. “They argue that it is, but it’s not. And it’s not even close.”

Attorneys say they will be closely watching the outcome of this case.If this bear was real, you would shoot it and give it as a trophy to your wife for Valentine’s Day. But, since he is stuffed, you just want the profit for your defense fund.Guitarist Keith Richards was once so angry at Donald Trump that he pulled out a knife ― when the future president wasn’t in the room ― and stabbed a table.

The rock icon told the BBC that back in 1989, Trump was the promoter of the Rolling Stones’ “Steel Wheels” tour dates in Atlantic City. When the band arrived, however, they found Trump’s name in huge letters and the band’s name in much smaller type.

“I got out my trusty blade, stuck it in the table and said: ‘You have to get rid of this man!’” Richards told the BBC. “Now America has to get rid of him. Don’t say I didn’t warn you!”

Concert promoter Michael Cohl told a version of Richards’ story in 2015, saying Trump had agreed to host a pay-per-view event featuring the Stones in Atlantic City. But the band wanted nothing to do with him ― and when Trump turned up, Richards ordered Cohl to get rid of him.

“Keith pulls out his knife and slams it on the table and says, ‘What the hell do I have you for? Do I have to go over there and fire him myself?” Cohl recalled, per the Los Angeles Times. “One of us is leaving the building – either him or us.’”

In 2015, Richards told Billboard that Trump was “refreshing” and “cut through a lot of crap.” Yet that wasn’t exactly an endorsement.

“Can you imagine President Trump? The worst nightmare,” Richards said. “But we can’t say that. Because it could happen. This is one of the wonders of this country. Who would’ve thought Ronald Reagan could be president?”

Mick Jagger also commented on Trump in the new BBC interview, saying he’s puzzled by the president’s use of the band’s song “You Can’t Always Get What You Want” at his events.

“It’s a funny song for a play-out song ― a drowsy ballad about drugs in Chelsea!” Jagger told the BBC. “It’s kind of weird. He couldn’t be persuaded to use something else.”“It is no exaggeration to say that major parts of the Internet we all know and love today exist and thrive because of Barlow’s vision and leadership. He always saw the Internet as a fundamental place of freedom, where voices long silenced can find an audience and people can connect with others regardless of physical distance.”We're not going to say Isaiah Thomas and LeBron James hate each other, but we're not going to not say that, if you know what we mean. Jason Miller via Getty Images

Just before 2 a.m. on Thursday morning, or about 13 hours before the NBA trade deadline, the human scoop otherwise known as Adrian Wojnarowski faked the basketball world out of its collective pair of shoes, telling his 2 million-plus followers that the fast-approaching deadline was looking like it would be something of a dud.

As NBA GM’s prepared for the final hours to the trade deadline, there was little enthusiasm for an impactful final day of player movement. Deals, yes. Difference-makers? Not so much. — Adrian Wojnarowski (@wojespn) February 8, 2018

He was wrong. Around noon on Thursday, the trade deadline quickly ramped up into hyper-speed, when Woj himself sent out another bomb stating that the Cleveland Cavaliers were trading away Isaiah Thomas, Channing Frye and a protected 2018 first-round pick to the Los Angeles Lakers in exchange for Jordan Clarkson and Larry Nance Jr. From there, it only got more obscene.

To try and process the head-spinning ridiculousness of it all, we decided to just open a group chat and process everything together. For transparency’s sake, Travis is a Washington Wizards fan, Ja’han is a Phoenix Suns fan and Maxwell is a Lakers fan.

[1:30 PM]

Maxwell Strachan: OK, it’s 1:30 p.m. and the Cleveland Cavaliers have just blown up the NBA.

Travis Waldron: I still don’t know what to make of it, other than the NBA is magic. This was supposed to be a slow day!

Maxwell Strachan: The memes have begun.

Travis Waldron: Only in the NBA ― and only in LeBron World, really ― could we get a game as a dramatic as that Cavs-TimberPups thriller last night ... only to see an entire new Cavs roster tomorrow night.

Maxwell Strachan:

LOL



OUT

-Isaiah Thomas

-Dwyane Wade

-Derrick Rose

-Jae Crowder

-Iman Shumpert

-Channing Frye

-2018 own 1st



IN

-Jordan Clarkson

-Larry Nance Jr

-George Hill

-Rodney Hood

-Heavily-protected future 2nd — Tom Haberstroh (@tomhaberstroh) February 8, 2018

Travis Waldron: I think the Cavs are better now.

Ja’han Jones: I’ve always loved how, despite the animus folks feel toward ‘Bron, none of us can deny the league revolves around him. He’s literally changing folks’ career trajectory with subtweets and dirty looks.

Maxwell Strachan: Is it selfish that I want the Cavs to trade everyone else too?

Trade the Nets pick for DeAndre and Love for Kemba, just do it.

Travis Waldron: Tristan and the Brooklyn pic for DeAndre. Love for ... someone with two hands. Keep J.R., because J.R.

Maxwell Strachan: Exactly. I’m loving this Woj tweet from 11 hours ago:

As NBA GM’s prepared for the final hours to the trade deadline, there was little enthusiasm for an impactful final day of player movement. Deals, yes. Difference-makers? Not so much. — Adrian Wojnarowski (@wojespn) February 8, 2018

Travis Waldron: Tristan and the Brooklyn pick is too much to give for DeAndre, but you get the point.

Maxwell Strachan: Doesn’t matter. Lean in to the insanity ― this is the NBA.

Travis Waldron: I think Maxwell and I are in agreement that, entertainment value aside, the Cavs are better positioned for the playoffs now. Ja’han?

Ja’han Jones: I agree with that. Their previous roster was full of guys we knew but guys who were never *great* fits with their previous organizations.

Maxwell Strachan: And they all hated each other!!! Thomas’ final moment with the Cavs was getting totally ignored by LeBron after a game-winner. It’s almost poetic.

IT: "I want to stay in Cleveland"

LeBron: "Y'all like Brazilian music?"pic.twitter.com/xzQAX41Kbz — LizzLocker (@Lizzs_Lockeroom) February 8, 2018

[1:35 PM]

Ja’han Jones: I genuinely aspire toward Isaiah’s self-confidence and self-assuredness.

Travis Waldron: They flipped a bunch of parts that weren’t working/didn’t get along/couldn’t trust Kevin Love for three dudes under 25 ... and they kept the Brooklyn pick (so far)! They still royally screwed up the Kyrie trade this summer, but this was about as good as you could do to get out of it.

I think this roster is spicy:

Cavs are making moves🔥🔥🔥



PG: Jordan Clarkson, George Hill

SG: Rodney Hood, J.R. Smith, Korver

SF: LeBron James, Jeff Green, Osman

PF: Kevin Love, Larry Nance Jr.

C: Tristan Thompson — Hoop Central (@TheHoopCentral) February 8, 2018

I’d start Hill > Clarkson, though.

Maxwell Strachan: I love it for the Cavs. If LeBron leaves, they aren’t making the finals for another decade anyway, might as well go out in firing. Again, I’d throw out the Brooklyn pick and just give it one more go. They are going to have a decade’s worth of top-10 picks post-LeBron anyway.

Travis Waldron: Hold on I have to check Twitter in case Woj is still bombing us.

Maxwell Strachan: In 16 tweets, Woj broke the internet.

Twitter

Twitter

Ja’han Jones: That man’s end-of-the-day unwinding routine has to be CRAZY.

Maxwell Strachan: I would be scared to have that power.

Travis Waldron: I’m going to regret saying this but my favorite part of this deadline is still that Ernie Grunfeld hasn’t traded a first-round pick for an aging role player who won’t still be in Washington this summer. Day is young, though.

Maxwell Strachan: Just want to make sure this makes it into the post.

Lebron handing over IT to Magic pic.twitter.com/dKA30A7GYF — Large Ballplayer (@MikeOxafloppin2) February 8, 2018

And Travis, no one cares about the Wizards.

Ja’han Jones: How do we think Isaiah fits in LA?

Travis Waldron: That’s a good question.

Maxwell Strachan: He’ll be fun! And if he sucks, LA will move on.

[1:40 PM]

Travis Waldron: It doesn’t matter this year. The question for me is where he ends up this summer. And I’m sorry but lots of people care about the Wizards. Me, John Wall, maybe Bradley Beal. That’s 2.5.

Maxwell Strachan: The most likely scenario is he sucks less than he did in Cleveland, then the Lakers move on in order to sign ... LEBRON JAMES.

Maxwell Strachan: By the way, the Cavs just cleared the way for the Lakers to sign LeBron.

Ja’han Jones: LeBron going to the Lakers is both a nightmare and a dream for me.

Travis Waldron: This is all a ploy to keep LeBron from signing in LA. “Oh, you want to go to the Lakers. We’ll just give the Lakers the guy you hate the most.”

Maxwell Strachan: Strong disagree! Lakers are playing chess. What would LeBron love more than to sign with the Lakers and screw up Thomas’ life once again?

Travis Waldron: I like this move for the Lakers. Even LeBron potential aside.

Ja’han Jones: I DESPISE the Lakers and wish them nothing but ill, non-injurious will. But the idea of that franchise hanging on the every word of a man they’ve spent a decade loathing brings me some happiness.

Travis Waldron: But we have to get back to the central point, which is that LeBron James is quite possibly the most powerful man in the history of pro basketball. The Cavs just flipped their entire roster *with no guarantee that LeBron is going to stay.*

Ja’han Jones: For real! Like, after Big O, I think ’Bron is the most influential player in league history when it comes to the business of the league and how players determine their own future.

[1:45 PM]

Travis Waldron: Right, Big O is up there. But LeBron has now engineered, what, three of the biggest off-the-court, landscape-shifting days in recent NBA history.

Maxwell Strachan: It’s fine. They gotta go for it.

Travis Waldron: The Decision, I’m Coming Home, and now this?

Maxwell Strachan: And the Lakers now are set up to get Paul George and be able to keep Lonzo, Kuzma, Ingram and Randle

Travis Waldron: Stop talking about the Lakers.

Maxwell Strachan: Everyone will understand if he leaves. The Lakers are the NBA’s team! People hate [Cavaliers owners Dan] Gilbert enough that I think people won’t be mad if LeBron leaves. Or am I wrong?

Travis Waldron: We’ve got LeBron James blowing up the entire league and you want to talk about Julius Randle. I went to Kentucky and I don’t even care that much about Julius Randle.

Maxwell Strachan: A critical piece of the NBA puzzle! As an aside, Woj mini-alert ...

Utah will likely release former NBA MVP Derrick Rose, league sources tell Yahoo. — Shams Charania (@ShamsCharania) February 8, 2018

Sorry, I meant Shams.

Travis Waldron: Man.

Maxwell Strachan: This is the darkest timeline.

Ja’han Jones: Damn. What a fall from grace.

Travis Waldron: You just disrespected Shams more than Derrick Rose has disrespected his career.

Maxwell Strachan: Fun fact: Derrick Rose is the oldest 29-year-old in the world.

Travis Waldron: Other than you.

Ja’han Jones: That brother has lived three lifetimes, I swear.

Maxwell Strachan: I am convinced Shams and Woj were born in the same petri dish.

Travis Waldron: Are the Cavs the best team in the East now? I need a live feed on Kyrie.

Maxwell Strachan: Let me look at that lineup again

Cavs are making moves🔥🔥🔥



PG: Jordan Clarkson, George Hill

SG: Rodney Hood, J.R. Smith, Korver

SF: LeBron James, Jeff Green, Osman

PF: Kevin Love, Larry Nance Jr.

C: Tristan Thompson — Hoop Central (@TheHoopCentral) February 8, 2018

It’s ... not bad?

Travis Waldron: Again: I’d start Hill over Clarkson, but Clarkson gives you some late-game flexibility.

Maxwell Strachan: You definitely start Hill.

Travis Waldron: Nance actually wins the day here.

Maxwell Strachan: Him and Jordan Clarkson are about to become famous.

Ja’han Jones: I’ve never wavered in my belief that the Cavs are still better than Boston.

[1:50 PM]

Maxwell Strachan: They certainly will be better on defense with Nance in the mix. Oh my God. Alert.

The Timberwolves will try to sign Derrick Rose if he clears waivers after his looming release by Utah, according to league sources — Marc Stein (@TheSteinLine) February 8, 2018

Ja’han Jones: Minnesota is close to home. Might be ... good? Iunno.

Maxwell Strachan: Thibs-Rose reunion.

Travis Waldron: Just what a young team on the cusp of breaking through needs: Derrick Rose. What could go wrong?

Maxwell Strachan: Derrick Rose is about to play 40 minutes a game until he tears his ACL for the 14th time.

Travis Waldron: Anyway: The Cavs are going back to the Finals.

Maxwell Strachan: Now, yes, I see that. I just can’t believe in the Raptors. And the Celtics rookies are going to go weak in the playoffs.

Travis Waldron: But I still don’t think this team is built to challenge Golden State or Houston unless something goes drastically wrong for one of those two.

The Kings intend to release Bruno Caboclo, I'm told — Jason Jones (@mr_jasonjones) February 8, 2018

Maxwell Strachan: I love these little updates on deadline day.

Travis Waldron: Bruno!

Maxwell Strachan: No one is beating Golden State or Houston.

Ja’han Jones: After seeing that photo of Demar Derozan with Lil Romeo on their youth team, I just can’t believe in any team he’s on. It’s not fair to him, but that’s where I am.

Travis Waldron:

[Our curmudgeonly manager] Tommy Craggs [1:52 PM] Thibs wants to finish the job he started

Rose is gonna die at midcourt

That’s the only way for this NBA season to end

Maxwell Strachan: I can’t see it ending any other way.

Travis Waldron: I can’t wait to see the salt levels on Kyrie’s face if the Cavs knock Boston out of the playoffs.

Maxwell Strachan:

BREAKING: Cavs in negotiations to trade remainder of team for a year of Whataburger — Whataburger® (@Whataburger) February 8, 2018

Travis Waldron: That’s a bad tweet.

Maxwell Strachan: We’ve reached “corporate jokes” levels of trending.

Travis Waldron: I know you love the brands, Maxwell, but leave them out of this.

Maxwell Strachan: The Wolves should grab Deng and Noah too. By the way, there’s no way Thibs will not have run KAT and Wiggins into the ground by the time they are 27.

Travis Waldron: It’s going to be so sad when he ruins KAT.

Ja’han Jones: I still think Noah is serviceable.

Maxwell Strachan: Ja’han. Please take that back.

Travis Waldron: Serviceable at what?

Ja’han Jones: Lol, he’s a big man with good court vision. In a league where Zaza exists, there’s room for Joakim. Haha

Maxwell Strachan: I’m pretty sure Noah is just partying in New York.

Travis Waldron: Anyway, I have to make a phone call. Cavs in 7.

Maxwell Strachan: IN THE FINALS? Are you kidding me.

Travis Waldron: Necessarily ambiguous. Leave it up to the imagination.

Maxwell Strachan: Ridiculous, and I love it.

Ja’han Jones: There we go! Talk that talk, Travis! I’m still rolling with the Cavs!

Travis Waldron: Look, I’m just here for the NBA going fully insane. God bless LeBron.

Maxwell Strachan: Travis is trying to end this chat as if something insane isn’t going to happen in the next hour.

Travis Waldron: I’ll be back. The NBA is my drug.

[2:00 PM]

Strong expectation in Cleveland that one of the Cavaliers’ soon-to-open roster spots — barring any more trades — will be filled by Kendrick Perkins — Marc Stein (@TheSteinLine) February 8, 2018

Ja’han Jones: Dear God.

Travis Waldron: What, like, that Kendrick Perkins?

Ja’han Jones: The Enforcer.

Maxwell Strachan: Back from the dead.

Travis Waldron: I just learned that as of two days ago, the Canton Charge’s Kendrick Perkins was planning to retire from the G League. Now he’s going to sit on the plane* next to LeBron. What a world.

*Not ready to assume he gets to sit on the bench.

Maxwell Strachan: I love the NBA.

Ja’han Jones: If you get in good with ’Bron, you’re set for LIFE.

Travis Waldron: It’s the best thing we, as a country, have.

Maxwell Strachan: Knicks get in this!

Denver is trading Emmanuel Mudiay to New York, league sources tell ESPN. — Adrian Wojnarowski (@wojespn) February 8, 2018

Travis Waldron: Mudiay lives.

Maxwell Strachan: This is very Knicks, but I ... I kind of like it. Depending on what they trade him for. Since it’s the Knicks I’m going to assume it’s for Kristaps.

[2:05 PM]

Denver, New York and Dallas agreed on a three-way deal, league sources tell ESPN. Mudiay to Knicks; Devin Harris to Denver and Doug McDermott to Dallas. — Adrian Wojnarowski (@wojespn) February 8, 2018

Maxwell Strachan: Hm.

Travis Waldron: Every time I see Woj tweet I get excited and now he wants me to care about Devin Harris. ANNOUNCE DEANDRE.

Maxwell Strachan: Is this a good trade? I guess I dig this trade for the Knicks. Trade a serviceable role player for a reclamation project that was drafted near the top of the draft just a couple years ago.

(As an aside, from a friend: “i have 10 tabs open and 6 of them are woj tweets.”)

Travis Waldron: Who cares.

Maxwell Strachan: I’m going to go to my Knicks friends for reactions.

Travis Waldron: I don’t care about anything but Tristan for DeAndre.

Maxwell Strachan: It’s happening. I believe.

Ja’han Jones: I feel for Tristan. Dude never asked to play the five, yet we judge him on his inability to do so. Lol

Maxwell Strachan: Me: “Knicks just traded McDermott for Emanuel mudiay. Immediate reaction?“ Knicks fan friend: “Why?” I guess that says it all.

[2:10 PM]

Travis Waldron: “Who are the Knicks.”

Maxwell Strachan: To be fair, he’s been rather despondent since Kristaps tore his ACL.

New York will send Denver a future second-round pick in the trade, league sources tell ESPN. https://t.co/b13B7AHI4T — Adrian Wojnarowski (@wojespn) February 8, 2018

Maxwell Strachan: Oh, wait, I like it less now lol.

Travis Waldron: You keep telling me about this trade and I forgot that New York or Dallas had NBA teams. @wojespn, announce DeAndre.

Maxwell Strachan: Missed this, but good.

Wow this is crazy lol.... The NBA is amazing — Joel Embiid (@JoelEmbiid) February 8, 2018

Ja’han Jones: Astute observation, Joel.

Maxwell Strachan: I feel like DeAndre has been on the trading block since the first years of the Obama administration.

Ja’han Jones: Literally.

Maxwell Strachan: Posted at 10:03 a.m.:

Isaiah Thomas says he's happy with the Cavs. pic.twitter.com/1LCeDtEiEf — SportsCenter (@SportsCenter) February 8, 2018

Travis Waldron: Damn. We should have known Isaiah was gone last night when he was waving his arms at the top of the key in OT and LeBron just ducked his head and went to the rack. 1 on 3.

[2:15 PM]

Ja’han Jones: Lol, “I got this one, lil fella.”

Maxwell Strachan: I’m so old I remember when LeBron was considered the greatest teammate in the league two years ago.

Travis Waldron: When your guy decides to go at Andrew Wiggins and Karl Towns by himself without even looking at you, you gotta see the writing on the wall.

Maxwell Strachan:

Wow Rachel said that IT3’s agent just texted her and said, “He’s not coming off the bench.”



Ramona stood by her stance. Insists he likely will not start.



Rachel said they’d rather have a buyout if he’s not starting. — Ry (@JustRyCole) February 8, 2018

Travis Waldron: My god.

Maxwell Strachan: Has anyone ever killed more of the goodwill surrounding them than I.T. in the last, oh, 10 months?

Travis Waldron: Isaiah has had a worse past 365 days than the United States.

Maxwell Strachan: I.T. has been on the Lakers for like 5 minutes and he’s already ruining everything.

Ja’han Jones: My man just won’t let ANYONE tell him he’s better as a bench guy. He needs to take the Lou Williams route. I’m waiting for the Big Baller Brand-Isaiah chat.

Travis Waldron: I need a LaVar-Isaiah Facebook show ASAP.

[2:20 PM]

Maxwell Strachan: Kill me.

Travis Waldron: Isaiah is gonna end up in Lithuania with LeMelo and LiAngelo before Easter.

Maxwell Strachan: And that would be an optimistic outcome. Is Isaiah Thomas going to be happy backing up 20-year-old rookie Lonzo Ball? (That was a joke.)

Travis Waldron: Was it?

Maxwell Strachan: I love when Woj sprinkles in a silly little trade like this. Lightens the mood.

Portland has traded Noah Vonleh and cash to Chicago for the rights to Milocan Rakovic, league sources tell ESPN. — Adrian Wojnarowski (@wojespn) February 8, 2018

[2:25 PM]

Maxwell Strachan: NOOOOOO.

The Cavs had conversations with the Clippers regarding DeAndre Jordan Thursday morning but by the time things got more serious, the Cavs already had more momentum on several other deals and liked the idea of adding more athleticism, youth and depth better. — Ramona Shelburne (@ramonashelburne) February 8, 2018

Travis Waldron: Oh, come on.

Ja’han Jones: Drat.

Maxwell Strachan: Thirty more minutes. I think Woj has one more bomb in him.

Travis Waldron: That means ... Oubre for DAJ is happening. I’m going to hate the NBA by the end of this.

Ja’han Jones: Where is Kyle Singler going to end up? That’s the real question.

Maxwell Strachan: I feel like there will be some automated high-frequency trades in the final 60 seconds. Ja’han always asks the right questions.

Ja’han Jones: I know everyone is wondering.

[2:30 PM]

Maxwell Strachan: Here’s another guy who has had one foot out the door for a half-decade.

Sources: There's still hope within Kenneth Faried's camp that Denver will find a trade for Kenneth Faried and allow him a fresh start elsewhere. Denver has been talking to teams -- including Indiana -- but those haven't resulted in a deal. — Adrian Wojnarowski (@wojespn) February 8, 2018

[2:35 PM]

Maxwell Strachan: My friend who doesn’t spend all day on the internet just texted: “Isaiah a laker?” What a tranquil life he leads.

Ja’han Jones: Wow, what a blessing.

[2:40 PM]

Ja’han Jones: I’ve missed a bunch of Cavs games lately. Do either of you brothers know whether Cedi Osman is developing well?

A Cavs source tells ESPN that Cleveland wanted to "do right" by Dwyane Wade once the acquisition of Jordan Clarkson, combined with the youth movement of Cedi Osman, made it clear Wade's role would be reduced. Wade, his representative Leon Rose and LeBron James were all consulted — Dave McMenamin (@mcten) February 8, 2018

Maxwell Strachan: I literally have no idea. I just know LeBron jumped into his embrace last night.

Ja’han Jones: This is true. He’s earned the King’s blessing. He’s set.

[2:45 PM]

Maxwell Strachan: Fifteen minutes left, and it’s quiet. Too quiet.

Travis Waldron: Still time for Ernie to ruin everything.

Maxwell Strachan: Assuming nothing else happens, who is the biggest winner here? You can say it, it’s fine.

Ja’han Jones: Suns. Kept Jared Dudley happy by literally doing nothing.

Maxwell Strachan: Wrong. I believe the Lakers won. Going to just step outside my box and say that. Today, we not only obtained a first-round pick, but essentially signed Paul George and LeBron James.

Travis Waldron: Short-term, over the next few months, I think Cleveland did a thing that counts as a win, but that’s largely because they did an offseason that was a loss. But I think they’re better positioned to win the East today than they were yesterday. Long-term, the Lakers had a good day.

Maxwell Strachan: Thank you Travis. Thank you for speaking truth to power.

[2:50 PM]

Travis Waldron: I’m ... let’s call it curious ... about what Utah’s process was here.

Ja’han Jones: I was going to say Lakers, but I hesitated because I don’t know what ultimately happens with that space they’ve made. Cavs today, potentially Lakers down the road assuming they don’t make all-time bad mistakes in the offseason.

Maxwell Strachan: Sheldon Mac is not the last-minute explosion I was hoping for.

Washington is trading guard Sheldon Mac to Atlanta, league sources tell Yahoo. — Shams Charania (@ShamsCharania) February 8, 2018

Travis Waldron: Also, Joe Johnson is a winner for getting people to keep paying him to play basketball. God bless Joseph Johnson.

Ja’han Jones: As Bomani Jones says, Joe is a legend at the bank. For real.

Maxwell Strachan: It’s official, and it’s weird.

Travis Waldron: Joe Johnson is the eighth-highest paid NBA player of all time.

Joe Johnson has made $214 million.

Maxwell Strachan: Travis shut up for a second and let Ja’han digest this:

Orlando has traded Elfrid Payton to Phoenix for a second-round pick, league source tells ESPN. — Adrian Wojnarowski (@wojespn) February 8, 2018

Ja’han Jones: LORD.

Travis Waldron: Joe Johnson has made more money than Chris Bosh or Dwyane Wade. Joe Johnson is not just a legend at the bank, he is a first-ballot Hall of Famer at the bank.

Maxwell Strachan: Travis, literally no one cares about Joe Johnson.

Travis Waldron: That’s their fault.

Maxwell Strachan: Not even Joe Johnson cares about Joe Johnson.

Travis Waldron: Joe Johnson is the American Dream.

[2:55 PM]

Maxwell Strachan:

Jordan Clarkson and Isaiah Thomas passing by each other at LAX. pic.twitter.com/EaVsc0mAtt — Anthony F. Irwin (@AnthonyIrwinLA) February 8, 2018

Travis Waldron: That’s so disrespectful.

Maxwell Strachan: I like the move for the Suns by the way.

Ja’han Jones: I mean, we were playing Isaiah Canaan at point, Mike James before we let him go (Lol), Tyler Ulis, Devin Booker (against his wishes). We literally just need someone who can get the ball across half-court and pass it to Devin.

Travis Waldron: Ah yes, Elfrid Payton, the difference between 24 wins and 26.

Maxwell Strachan: He’s good!

Travis Waldron: Yes, but see, the Suns are not. The Suns are a top-8 League Pass Alert squad, though.

Ja’han Jones: We’re in the Bagley/Bamba/Young sweepstakes. If we didn’t win a single game all season except those against the Lakers and Spurs, I’d be elated.

Maxwell Strachan: I feel like the NBA has one more trade in it. Three minutes.

Travis Waldron: Nah, Woj is already outside smoking.

Maxwell Strachan:

**Woj closes phone**

**throws it into a trashcan**

**lights trashcan on fire**

“Game, baby”

Travis Waldron: **Shams breaks DeAndre for Tristan**

Maxwell Strachan: The greatest rivalry in sports.

[3:00 PM]

Maxwell Strachan: It’s 3 p.m. Is that it? I think that’s it.

Travis Waldron: Verdicts? I still can’t believe the Cavs managed to flip their entire roster in a half-hour.

Maxwell Strachan: That was perhaps the greatest hour in NBA Twitter history.

We were the real winners today.

Travis Waldron: We were. I’m taking the rest of the day off to celebrate.

Ja’han Jones: Haha, this has been better than Emojigate.

Travis Waldron: That seems like a good place to end it.

Maxwell Strachan: Oh wait.

Clippers have no trade for DeAndre Jordan, league source tells ESPN. — Adrian Wojnarowski (@wojespn) February 8, 2018