More than a month after a four-year public inquiry found rampant sexual abuse of children in Australia’s institutional care, Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull said Thursday that he will deliver a national apology by the end of the year.

“As a nation, we must mark this occasion in a form that reflects the wishes of survivors and affords them the dignity to which they were entitled as children but which was denied to them by the very people tasked with their care,” Turnbull said.

The Australian royal commission released its final report, along with 409 recommendations, in December after determining that tens of thousands of children had been sexually abused in institutional care settings over decades.

#BREAKING: @TurnbullMalcolm says he will deliver a national apology to victims of child sexual abuse in Parliament before the end of 2018. #SkyLiveNow pic.twitter.com/VFlpXXZCX1 — Sky News Australia (@SkyNewsAust) February 7, 2018

Turnbull told Parliament his government will appoint a “survivor-focused” group to help craft the apology and updated Parliament on a national redress plan for survivors, a key recommendation of the royal commission.

The redress plan, expected to be announced July 1, will offer up to $150,000 to some of the survivors of institutional child sex abuse

Paul Levely, a child sex abuse victim, wears a T-shirt that says "No more silence" and shows a tattoo in Rome in 2016 as Australian Cardinal George Pell answered questions via video from Australia's Royal Commission into Institutional Response to Child Sexual Abuse. Alessandro Bianchi / Reuters

Turnbull said that from reading the witness statements in the commission report, it was clear that being heard and being believed meant more to survivors than many could imagine.

“Three words: I believe you. Coming after years, after decades of authorities’ denial of responsibility,” he said.

Turnbull urged Australia’s states and non-government institutions to sign up to contribute funds and other resources to the redress program. “We owe it to the survivors not to waste this moment.”

There was, perhaps unintentional, symbolism in Turnbull’s announcement, too. On Thursday, the New South Wales Supreme Court honored the retirement of Justice Peter McClellen, who led the commission’s investigations into the darkest depths of some of Australia’s largest institutions, including the Roman Catholic Church, prominent charities and the military, as well as orphanages and schools.

McClellan earned the respect of survivors throughout the inquiry for his tough interrogation of CEOs, religious leaders and government as well as non-government officials. He was also praised for his compassion toward survivors.

Opposition Leader Bill Shorten reportedly suggested the government host an event at Parliament House to recognize survivors and thank them for speaking out.

Leonie Sheedy, of the survivor group Care Leavers Australasia Network (CLAN), gave her cautious support to Turnbull’s initiative. (Turnbull is a patron of the network.)

Rhonda and Valda are outside the NSW Supreme Court to thank Justice Peter McClellan for his role in the #RoyalCommission. They said 34 care leavers have died since the RC started, without seeing justice. #CARoyalCommission pic.twitter.com/72jUZ6pXhq — Sam Buckingham-Jones (@SamEBJones) February 8, 2018Seth Meyers took White House Chief of Staff John Kelly to task for suggesting that some undocumented immigrants who hadn’t signed up for the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program were “too lazy.”

“Many of them might not have signed up because of fear, cost or because they weren’t sure if they were eligible,” Meyers countered on Wednesday’s broadcast of “Late Night.”

The comedian then called out the hypocritical nature of Kelly’s claim, with a lengthy takedown of President Donald Trump.

“They were too lazy?” asked Meyers. “You work for a guy who watches eight hours of TV a day, tweets until noon, eats cheeseburgers in bed, can’t read a piece of paper unless it has pictures and his name on it, won’t walk down a flight of stairs and his preferred mode of transportation is a golf cart.”

“Trump is so lazy, I wouldn’t be surprised if he had one of those grabbers so he can reach his Diet Coke without getting off the couch,” Meyers added.WASHINGTON/BEIRUT (Reuters) - More than 100 fighters aligned with Syrian President Bashar al-Assad were killed overnight when U.S. coalition and coalition-backed local forces repelled their attack in eastern Syria, a U.S. official said on Thursday.

The heavy death toll underscored the large size of the attack, which the U.S. official said included about 500 opposing forces, backed by artillery, tanks, multiple-launch rocket systems and mortars. The official spoke to Reuters on condition of anonymity.

In reports that appeared to confirm the official’s comments, Syrian state media said the U.S.-led coalition against Islamic State had bombed pro-government forces east of the Euphrates river in Deir al-Zor province. One of the state TV outlets reported “dozens of dead and wounded.”

No American troops were killed or wounded in the incident, officials said.

Some U.S. troops had been embedded at the time with Syrian Democratic Forces (SDF), whose headquarters in Syria’s Deir al-Zor province had been a target of the attack.

One SDF fighter was wounded, the official said.

Civil defense members extinguish a fire that broke out after Russian airstrikes hit Idlib's Maarrat al-Numan district in Syria on Feb. 7. Anadolu Agency via Getty Images

“We suspect Syrian pro-regime forces were attempting to seize terrain SDF had liberated from Daesh in September 2017,” the official said.

The forces were “likely seeking to seize oilfields in Khusham that had been a major source of revenue for Daesh from 2014 to 2017.”

Neither U.S. officials nor the U.S.-backed coalition have offered details on the identity of attacking forces. The Syrian army is supported by Iranian-backed militias and Russian forces.

Syrian state media said on Thursday the U.S.-led coalition had bombed “popular forces fighting (Islamic State) and the (Syrian Democratic Forces) east of the Euphrates river” in Deir al-Zor, causing casualties.

Statements carried by Syrian television stations called it a “new aggression” and “an attempt to support terrorism.”

A reporter for the state TV station Ikhbariya said there were “dozens of dead and wounded” as a result of the attacks and described the groups it said had been bombed by the U.S.-led coalition as “local people fighting (Islamic State) and the SDF.”

The U.S.-led coalition had alerted Russian officials about the presence of SDF forces in the area far in advance of the thwarted attack, the U.S. official said.

“Coalition officials were in regular communication with Russian counterparts before, during and after the thwarted (enemy) attack,” the official said.Congressional leaders have agreed on a spending bill to keep the government open, and deep inside that agreement is a provision that helps explain why American health care is so expensive.

The spending agreement, which Congress must still approve and President Donald Trump must still sign, actually affects health care in several ways. It would put new money into opioid treatment, renew funding for community clinics that serve the poor and extend funding for the Children’s Health Insurance Program, which Congress reauthorized last month, by another four years.

But the bill would also repeal the Independent Payment Advisory Board, or IPAB, which is a commission of experts that the Affordable Care Act created back in 2010.

The Affordable Care Act sets a spending target for Medicare, as part of a broader effort by the law’s architects to reduce the cost of medical care. IPAB’s job is to make those targets stick, by recommending cuts if Medicare costs exceed the threshold.

Washington is full of advisory boards that make recommendations Congress largely ignores. But IPAB has special authority. Its proposals take effect automatically unless Congress passes alternative cuts that yield similar savings ― or unless a supermajority in the Senate votes to let Medicare spending rise faster than the targets.

Among the IPAB’s most vocal champions were President Barack Obama and his economic advisers, who, contrary to popular opinion, were serious about crafting health care legislation that would offset new spending with cuts. They also hoped that controlling costs in Medicare would encourage the entire health care system to become more efficient in ways that would ultimately save everybody money.

Like everything else in Obamacare, IPAB has become politically toxic among conservatives ― even though, conceptually, it is similar to ideas that many of them, including now-House Speaker Paul Ryan (R-Wis.), once endorsed. The hostility traces at least as far back as 2010, shortly after the Affordable Care Act became law, when former GOP vice presidential nominee Sarah Palin likened IPAB to a “death panel” that would ration care to the poor and sick. (She’d originally used the label to describe a different provision of the law only to decide later it actually applied to both.)

The charge was absurd. The statutory language creating IPAB explicitly forbids it from imposing changes that would amount to rationing of care. It also forbids IPAB from reducing Medicare benefits. In other words, IPAB can’t reduce Medicare spending by requiring seniors to pay higher copays or scaling back the services that the program covers. Instead, IPAB must focus on cuts that affect the providers and suppliers of medical care ― like having Medicare pay less for cataract surgery, CT scans or outpatient cancer drugs.

Of course, cutting those reimbursements would mean taking money out of the pockets of doctors and hospitals, drug and device makers, and the rest of the health care industry. These groups were not happy about this prospect and fought hard to repeal IPAB, forming and funding advocacy groups with titles like the Coalition to Protect People’s Rights and then deploying lobbyists to make the case against IPAB in person.

Obama administration officials and a handful of allies in Congress tried to protect IPAB but eventually relented in the face of pressure, in some cases from Democrats as well as Republicans in Congress.

The final 2014 government spending agreement (known as the “cromnibus”) slashed the IPAB’s minuscule administrative funding. Neither the White House, House or Senate ever appointed the board’s members, as they were supposed to do.

As it happens, Medicare has grown particularly slowly in the last few years, below the targets that would have triggered IPAB action. But Medicare costs could grow more quickly in the future. Assuming the spending agreement congressional leaders announced Wednesday becomes law, IPAB won’t be around to do anything about it.

Other cost-cutting efforts in the Affordable Care Act remain in effect or have already extracted their savings. That includes another board with some of the same powers that IPAB has ― and lower payments to private insurance companies that provide alternative coverage to Medicare beneficiaries.

But fate has been less kind to the so-called Cadillac tax, which is designed to make more expensive insurance plans less financially attractive. A 2015 spending agreement postponed introduction of the tax by two years, to 2020. The spending agreement Congress passed and Trump signed last month pushes it back two more and, at this point, it’s unlikely to take effect ever. As with IPAB, it counts among its enemies members of both political parties.

IPAB, the Cadillac tax and provisions like them by no means represent the only ways to reduce medical spending. They also raise serious questions, like whether IPAB violates the Constitution ― or, at least, the spirit of the Constitution ― by having its cuts take effect automatically unless Congress objects.

But at the end of the day, holding the line on medical spending almost inevitably means taking money away from the health care industry. And that’s never easy to do. As Larry Levitt, senior vice president of the Henry J. Kaiser Family Foundation put it, there is “a bipartisan consensus that health care cost containment generally seems better in theory than in practice.”The Russian government successfully obtained access to U.S. voter registration databases in multiple states prior to the 2016 election, the federal official responsible for monitoring hacking said.

Jeannette Manfra, the head of cybersecurity at the Department of Homeland Security, told NBC News Thursday that Russia targeted 21 states and managed to actually penetrate “an exceptionally small number of them” in an interview published Thursday.

“We were able to determine that the scanning and probing of voter registration databases was coming from the Russian government,” Manfra added.

Five states, including Texas and California, denied that they ever suffered attacks.

Jeh Johnson, who was DHS secretary at the time, told NBC that states and the federal government should “do something about it,” though he lamented many of the targeted states haven’t taken action since the election.

Manfra disagreed, claiming that “they have all taken it seriously.”

Several of these states, meanwhile, told NBC that the help they sought from the federal government didn’t come soon enough. Some state officials said they didn’t possess the right clearance level to properly communicate the details of the threats they faced ― an issue Manfra said is now being handled. Other states said they hadn’t received any assistance from DHS.

Russian targeting of voter registration databases became known in the months leading up to the election, when the FBI warned state governments that hackers had infiltrated the Illinois State Board of Elections and attempted to do the same in Arizona.Despite his aversion to books, President Trump is taking a page out of Kim Jong-un’s with a proposed large-scale military parade. pic.twitter.com/IWvJxy2HKV — The Late Show (@colbertlateshow) February 7, 2018

President Donald Trump’s reported plan for a big military parade isn’t going over very well with both the public and with lawmakers.

But Stephen Colbert’s “Late Show” team sure is having fun envisioning what it might look like.THE SENATE HAS A POTENTIAL SPENDING DEAL Here’s what the bipartisan deal to raise spending caps and avoid a government shutdown tonight includes. But it’s unclear how much bipartisan support it’ll draw. All the while, House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi set the record for the longest continuous speech in House history after speaking for over eight hours demanding a House chamber vote on protecting young undocumented immigrants as part of the budget deal. [HuffPost] [Tweet | Share on Facebook]

WHITE HOUSE STAFF SECRETARY ROB PORTER HAS RESIGNED AFTER PHYSICAL ABUSE ALLEGATIONS BY TWO EX-WIVES He has denied the allegations. White House Chief of Staff John Kelly called Porter “a man of true integrity.” [HuffPost]

AS A FRIENDLY REFRESHER Here’s everything you need to know about the stock market. [HuffPost]

VIDEO SHOWS TENNESSEE SHERIFF SAYING ‘I LOVE THIS S***’ AFTER ORDERING DEPUTIES TO SHOOT SUSPECT “The wife of a deceased motorist is suing a Tennessee sheriff for excessive force after newly surfaced body camera footage caught him telling officers that he would rather they shoot a suspect than risk damage to patrol cars.” [HuffPost]

U.S.-LED AIRSTRIKES KILL OVER 100 PRO-SYRIAN FORCES “The heavy death toll underscored the large size of the attack, which the U.S. official said included about 500 opposing forces, backed by artillery, tanks, multiple-launch rocket systems and mortars.” [Reuters]

THE LATEST RIGHT-WING CONSPIRACY THEORY Involves Anthony Weiner’s “leaked contacts” and the FBI. [HuffPost]

SPEAKING OF MILITARY PARADES North Korea just held a massive one in preparation for the Olympics. [HuffPost]North Korea’s all-female cheer squad performed one day before the kickoff to the 2018 Winter Olympics in Pyeongchang, playing popular Korean tunes to the delight of the country’s 22 participating athletes.

In exclusive HuffPost Korea video, the the 229-person ensemble, donning red and yellow uniforms, can be seen marching in formation and playing peppy music. The official mascot for the games, Soohorang, led some of the athletes in a dance.

HuffPost Korea caught some of the cheerleaders on camera in a rare unscripted moment, fretting over a missing drum.

The North Korean Olympic delegation consists of musicians, journalists, singers, dancers and a taekwondo team.Damon Wayans went on the offensive against his fired “Lethal Weapon” co-star Clayne Crawford on Twitter Monday.

In a series of now-deleted videos and photos, Wayans, 57, blamed his former castmate for a head cut he suffered during an action scene that he said Crawford directed.

“How does the shrapnel from this hit me on the opposite side of the head? #directedby@claynecrawford,” he tweeted referring to a small explosion on set, per multiple outlets.

Wayans’ vent came shortly after Fox announced the show’s renewal without Crawford. He wrote that he wanted “to address the Twitter outrage.”

Wayans added that the actor’s toxicity affected others. He alleged Crawford “hit another actor in the mouth with a bottle of green tea and busted his mouth open.”

He also posted a tweet with a photo of a flyer that said: “Clayne Crawford is an emotional terrorist.” Wayans wrote that “He became UNINSURABLE! Relished in making female cry. And stuck (sic) fear in cast and crew.”

Damon Wayans and Clayne Crawford were not off-screen buddies in their buddy-cop series. FOX via Getty Images

Wayans accused the show’s producers at Warner Bros. Television of not defending him and also lashed out at social media users and fans for griping about Crawford’s dismissal and apparently blaming him.

“Put up with this two seasons,” he wrote in a post. “Kiss the dark side of my ass if you don’t understand it wasn’t just me.”

Crawford will be replaced with Seann William Scott, who will play a new lead character for the third season renewal.

Previous reports had documented Crawford’s explosive behavior on the set. The actor publicly apologized for making people uncomfortable and agreed to attend studio-appointed therapy.

AdvertisementFormer President George W. Bush defied his party’s dismissal of Russian involvement in the 2016 U.S. election Thursday, saying “there’s pretty clear evidence that the Russians meddled.”

Speaking in Abu Dhabi at a forum organized by the Milken Institute, a California-based think tank, Bush didn’t say whether he thought the meddling affected election results, according to The Associated Press. But the intent was undeniable, he said.

“It’s problematic that a foreign nation is involved in our election,” Bush said.

President Donald Trump has repeatedly dismissed intelligence reports of Russian meddling in the election as fake news, a hoax and made-up. Republicans in Congress have been trying to undermine investigations, and last week released a secret GOP memo aimed at discrediting the FBI.

Bush characterized Russian President Vladimir Putin as “zero-sum” with a “chip on his shoulder” about the demise of the Soviet Union.

“He can’t think, ‘How can we both win?’ He only thinks, ‘How do I win, you lose?’” Bush said.

Pivoting to the topic of immigration, Bush called for reform ― another possible critique of Trump. The president revoked protections for hundreds of thousands of recipients of the Deferred Action Childhood Arrivals program, only to use the program as bait in trying to gain funding for a border wall as part of a broader immigration deal.Arizona state Rep. Don Shooter, a Republican, drops his mic after voting no on a resolution that expelled him from the Legislature after he was accused of sexual harassment. Some states are considering proposals that would bar the use of taxpayer money to pay for sexual harassment settlements involving lawmakers. Bob Christie, The Associated Press

By Jen Fifield

When Pennsylvania state Rep. Thomas Caltagirone was accused of harassing a staff member, the Legislature settled the matter outside of court. The state’s insurance paid out $250,000 in 2015, and no one said a word — even during the next year’s elections, when Caltagirone retained his seat.

This secret settlement is one of many involving state lawmakers or legislative aides that have been exposed in the last few months, as a wave of sexual misconduct allegations has flooded the country. And in state after state, the allegations of wrongdoing quietly went away after victims received payouts from public funds.

The revelation that legislatures frequently use taxpayer money to protect lawmakers and staff accused of harassment or assault has sparked outrage and prompted reporters to try to tally up the bill.

The Pittsburgh Post-Gazette exposed Caltagirone’s settlement in December. California newspapers this month revealed that the state Legislature has spent $290,000 on settling harassment-related claims since 2006. The Detroit News last month revealed that the Michigan Senate spent $269,000 to investigate and settle sexual harassment claims from 2000 to 2007.

And the Wisconsin State Journal in December revealed that the state Legislature in 2015 spent $75,000 to settle a claim against a state senator who was accused by a former aide of talking about her breasts and making other sexual comments. The accused — Democrat Spencer Coggs — is now treasurer for the city of Milwaukee.

Lawmakers in at least five states — California, Illinois, Iowa, New York and Pennsylvania — have proposed banning the use of public dollars for settlements or payouts related to sexual harassment allegations against state lawmakers.

Advocates for taxpayers, such as Pete Sepp, president of the nonprofit National Taxpayers Union, say lawmakers need to be held responsible for their actions.

“They are supposed to be answerable to the people who pay the bills,” Sepp said, “and those people are saying right now that this situation is untenable.”

But some employment lawyers, such as David Yamada, a law professor and director of the New Workplace Institute at Suffolk University in Boston, say the issue is more complicated than it seems.

Holding individual lawmakers, and not the government, responsible for sexual harassment may lessen the incentive for legislatures to offer sexual harassment training and to police their own, Yamada said. And, because some lawmakers may not be able to come up with the money for a settlement, it also may make it less likely that the victim will receive compensation for her claim.

“There are better ways to spend public money than to have to spend it to atone for the misdeeds of public servants,” Yamada said. But, he said, “We have to hold public employers liable.”

Employer Liability

Legislatures are often on the hook for the bad behavior of lawmakers because, like other employers, they are responsible under the Civil Rights Act for creating a workplace that is free from harassment and discrimination. Employers that don’t attempt to prevent harassment — and report and investigate claims when they arise — can be held liable.

It’s part of an employer’s job to prevent a toxic culture, said Emily Martin, general counsel at the National Women’s Law Center, a nonprofit that provides legal defense for victims of harassment. But Martin said the bills raise an important question about why the state is paying for the transgressions of lawmakers, who do not have a traditional employer-employee relationship.

Lawmakers don’t really have managers, other than the public, she said. “In order to really hold that legislator accountable, maybe it makes sense to have them pay for it.”

The effort to hunt down secret settlements involving state lawmakers began in November after reporters revealed recent cases in which taxpayer money was used to settle sexual harassment claims against members of Congress, including payouts related to accusations against Democratic Reps. Alcee Hastings of Florida ($220,000) and John Conyers of Michigan ($27,000), and against Republican Rep. Blake Farenthold of Texas ($84,000). Congress is considering a bipartisan bill, like the state bills, that would bar the use of taxpayer money to settle harassment claims.

It’s hard for the public to find out about settlements agreed to by state legislatures, and even when the payments are made public, the details of the allegations usually are not. In some states, legislatures aren’t subject to public records laws, and in other states, officials say the law doesn’t apply to these records. It’s also hard to know what records to ask for — sometimes the settlements are paid by state insurance, sometimes by the legislatures’ administrative offices, and sometimes by individual party caucuses.

In Pennsylvania, the payout for the claim against Caltagirone, a Democrat, came from a state insurance fund. Caltagirone has consistently denied any allegations against him. He said he is prohibited from talking about the settlement, but that it did not result in any cost to taxpayers that he was aware of. Bill Patton, a spokesman for the Pennsylvania House Democrats, could not confirm that assertion.

The Slow Reveal

In recent years, settlements agreed to by state legislatures have been revealed as court cases occurred or victims spoke out. They include a $1.75 million settlement in Iowa involving Republican senators; a $400,000 settlement in Kentucky involving a Democratic state representative; and $620,000 for two settlements in New York, one involving a Democratic state assemblyman, and another involving a Senate employee.

Illinois state Rep. David McSweeney, a Republican, proposed a ban on the use of public dollars for settlements after revelations of settlements involving members of Congress. McSweeney said he doesn’t know of any Illinois state lawmakers who used taxpayer dollars to settle harassment claims. But more than 200 men and women recently signed a letter saying that harassment in the state Capitol was rampant.

Allowing public money to cover lawmakers’ sexual harassment claims encourages bad behavior, McSweeney said, adding that his proposal would help prevent it.

“God forbid, if someone does this behavior,” he said, “you are going to be exposed, and you are to be punished.”

Most of the proposals would cover state lawmakers but not all state employees, even though plenty of settlements have involved the latter.

The amount spent on harassment and discrimination settlements, including sexual harassment and many other forms of discrimination, for all state employees in California was $25 million in the last three years; in Florida, $11 million since 1992; in New York, $10 million in the last nine years.

And in Pennsylvania, the state spent $900,000 on a single payout in 2016, after a longtime employee accused a midlevel manager in the Revenue Department of harassing her, sexually assaulting her, and making racial slurs, including references to slavery, according to the Pittsburgh Post-Gazette.

Minna Kotkin, a law professor and director of the Employment Law Clinic at Brooklyn Law School in New York, questions why there isn’t also a movement to ban the use of public money to settle claims involving employees who aren’t elected officials.

She pointed out that police brutality cases often raise the same questions about employee and employer responsibility, and there aren’t proposals to make individual officers pay in those cases, either.

The proposal in Iowa, unlike in other states, would require all state employees to pay to settle claims against them. All 20 Senate Democrats and an independent senator introduced the bill.

“Most of the proposals would cover state lawmakers but not all state employees, even though plenty of settlements have involved the latter.”

Some victims file claims against employers, not individuals, because it helps ensure that they will be compensated for any damages. The government can easily cut a check to compensate the victim for a lawmaker’s actions, Yamada said, while the individual lawmaker may not have the financial resources to do so.

In Pennsylvania, state Rep. Leanne Krueger-Braneky, a Democrat, said her proposal would ensure the victim is made whole by requiring the state to pay the settlement amount, and then requiring the lawmaker to reimburse the state.

The bill also would allow the state to tap into lawmakers’ pensions to settle claims, Krueger-Braneky said.The global market for HIV drugs could reach as high as $40 billion a year by 2021. Jason Reed / Reuters

(Reuters) - The U.S. Food and Drug Administration on Wednesday approved Biktarvy, Gilead Sciences Inc’s once-daily, triple-combination tablet for treatment of HIV infection, paving the way for the biotech company to capture more of the multibillion-dollar HIV drug market.

Biktarvy combines new integrase inhibitor bictegravir with Descovy, an older medication that combines nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors emtricitabine and tenofovir alafenamide.

Rival ViiV Healthcare, a joint venture majority-owned by GlaxoSmithKline Plc with Pfizer Inc and Shionogi Ltd, quickly filed a lawsuit alleging that Gilead was infringing patents on ViiV’s dolutegravir, a component of the venture’s triple-drug HIV treatment Triumeq.

Viiv is seeking “financial redress,” but is not asking for an injunction against sales of Biktarvy, according to Glaxo spokeswoman Sarah Spencer.

Gilead, in an emailed statement, said it remained “steadfast in our opinion” that Biktarvy does not infringe ViiV’s U.S. patent, and that the court challenge did not affect the U.S. availability of the drug.

“We believe that a modest royalty could be possible far down the road if Gilead were to lose” the patent case, Jefferies analyst Michael Yee said in a research note.

Wall Street analysts, on average, forecast Biktarvy sales of around $1 billion this year, rising to a peak of nearly $5 billion annually by 2024, according to Thomson Reuters I/B/E/S.

Dolutegravir, sold under the brand name Tivicay and as a component of Triumeq, is a key growth driver for Glaxo, posting fiscal 2017 sales of nearly 4 billion pounds ($5.6 billion).

The Gilead drug’s wholesale price, about $36,000 a year, is in line with current therapies, according to Guggenheim Securities.

The global market for HIV drugs could reach as high as $40 billion a year by 2021, according to pharmaceutical data company Quintiles IMS Institute, now known as IQVIA.

The new Gilead drug’s label includes a boxed warning that use could worsen hepatitis B infection in certain patients.

ViiV said it would seek to prove that Biktarvy infringed ViiV’s U.S. and Canadian patents covering dolutegravir and many other compounds that include dolutegravir’s unique chemical scaffold. The U.S. case was filed in the U.S. District Court for the District of Delaware and the Canadian case in the Canadian Federal Court in Toronto.

Shares of Gilead, which rose 3 percent to close at $82.76 in regular trading, were down 1 percent at $82.01 after hours.White House staff secretary Rob Porter announced his departure from his post this week amid reports that he allegedly abused his two ex-wives. But Fox News seems determined to avoid talking about the issue.

On Wednesday, the White House confirmed Porter’s resignation after two reports described his alleged physical, mental and emotional abuse of his two ex-wives. Colbie Holderness, Porter’s first wife, alleged that he punched her in 2005. She provided photos to The Intercept of bruises she said were caused by Porter’s physical abuse.

Senior White House aide Rob Porter physically assaulted two ex-wives, they tell @theintercept. Full story to come in the morning.



His first wife, Colbie Holderness, provided these photos from a vacation they took together in Florence, Italy: pic.twitter.com/tl3TbyGA8Y — Ryan Grim (@ryangrim) February 7, 2018

Porter’s resignation sent news networks scrambling Wednesday to cover the unfolding story. But what other networks saw as a national scandal, Fox News apparently didn’t consider worthy of attention.

Following a brief mention from host Bret Baier at 6 p.m. Wednesday, Fox went nearly 15 hours without mentioning Porter, according to CNN.

Thursday morning, during a segment on “Fox & Friends” ― possibly President Donald Trump’s favorite show ― top White House adviser Kellyanne Conway made an appearance to talk about budget caps and the Philadelphia Eagles’ Super Bowl win.

“All through the season, not a single Eagles fan took a knee during the national anthem, and it’s been a very prayerful team,” Conway said.

Conway then said there was a “busy news day here at the White House,” but went on to speak about funding the military. No “Fox & Friends” host brought up Porter with her.

Finally, shortly after 9 a.m. on Thursday ― at least an hour after Conway spoke to the station ― Fox’s John Roberts acknowledged the story again.Singer-songwriter Matt Palmer is back with his most ambitious project yet.

The pop and R&B artist traces the highs and lows of a romantic relationship on his new visual EP, “Get Lost.” HuffPost got a first look at the EP’s third video, “Inevitably,” which sees Palmer cozying up to YouTube personality and model Max Emerson on the streets of Los Angeles.

Palmer told HuffPost he and director Ryan Bartley wanted to “tell a story that was compelling and felt true, while still being a bit heightened” through the seven interconnected videos of “Get Lost,” which will be released in full next month. The new EP is the follow-up to Palmer’s 2014 EP, “Stranger Than Fiction,” and is considerably more danceable than its predecessor.

“I grew up loving Mariah Carey, Babyface, Michael and Janet Jackson, and I’m currently really inspired by Years & Years, MNEK and Disclosure,” said Palmer, who described his sound as “very melodic and vocal-driven pop, with an R&B influence.”

“I feel like genres are more melded together than ever, so it’s been fun to draw from so many different influences on this project,” he said.

As a gay black artist, Palmer said he’ll continue to incorporate queer themes into his work, but added, “I have learned that trying to represent an entire community of people is a losing game.”

“There will always be people that don’t enjoy my music or don’t relate to the story we’re trying to tell in the videos, and that’s OK,” he said.“While I hope lots of people connect to the songs and videos, my goal is always to make something that I’m proud of and can stand behind, and I certainly feel that with this project.”

“Get Lost” will be released in full March 9.Density is extreme in Bangladesh’s Rohingya refugee camps. The amount of livable space, less than 10 square metres per person in many cases, is far below even bare minimum international standards. Kaamil Ahmed/IRIN

By Irwin Loy

This article originally appeared on IRINnews.org, a news agency specialised in reporting humanitarian crises.

Tens of thousands of vulnerable people living in rickety homes in Bangladesh’s Rohingya refugee camps will be threatened by landslides and floods as the monsoon season nears, according to officials in the densely packed settlements.

Data released by aid groups shows that floods could submerge one third of the land in the cramped Kutupalong-Balukhali mega-camp, which is now home to more than half a million Rohingya refugees.

Using drone images, historical rainfall data and interviews with local residents, researchers have estimated the risks of floods and sudden “landslide failure” throughout the complex warren of interconnected streams and sloping hills. The risk analysis, released in late January, estimates that more than 86,000 people live in high-danger flood areas, while more than 23,000 live along steep, unstable hillsides that could crumble with continuous heavy rainfall.

Aid groups and Bangladeshi authorities say stabilising the most at-risk homes in the camps is a top priority ahead of the monsoon season, which typically begins in late May. The current dry season offers only a small window of opportunity before the rains set in – and some fear time is running out.

More than 688,000 Rohingya surged into Bangladesh after a military crackdown in Myanmar’s Rakhine State in August 2017. Overwhelmed by the influx, Bangladeshi authorities ushered most of the new arrivals to a giant mega-camp sprawled between existing refugee settlements, then home to roughly 100,000 people.

At the time, local NGOs and aid groups warned of the risks of amassing large numbers of people on unstable land. But, over the ensuing weeks, the camp exploded in size as Rohingya settled in, carving homes into the surrounding hillsides or digging in to low-lying land near rivers and streams.

Many Rohingya arriving in the camps pieced together their makeshift homes from tarpaulin sheets and scraps of bamboo.

In December, IRIN reported on early plans to prepare for the looming cyclone and rainy seasons. Aid workers warned that much of the infrastructure built over the past weeks could be swept away by a powerful storm or the monsoon rains.

”It’s going to be a disaster within a disaster; we’re going to have to restart,” said Graham Eastmond, who coordinates aid groups working on organising shelter in the camps. “The monsoons themselves are going to create a whole different landscape to what exists now.”

The new risk analysis estimates that floods and landslides could damage one quarter of washrooms and latrines in the main mega-camp and nearly half of the current sources of tube-well water. Other essential services hastily put in place during the influx are also at risk: makeshift classrooms for children, nutrition centres, and almost one third of health clinics – a particular concern given the already high risk of disease outbreaks in the cramped settlements.

Aid groups also warn that heavy floods and landslides could wash away roads and pathways, cutting off large parts of the camp not submerged by the rainfall.

The priority now, according to the UN’s refugee agency, UNHCR, is to upgrade as many of the Rohingya homes as possible with stronger bamboo and better building techniques. Authorities are also looking into the logistics of moving the most at-risk homes. But this involves major work to level off steep hillsides and find useable new land – extremely difficult when space is at such a high premium. Already, aid groups working in education say the threat of monsoon season could see the permanent closure of dozens of learning centres in flood-prone areas, shrinking classroom space for 10,000 children.

With the monsoon season fast approaching, aid officials are stepping up warnings that the window of opportunity to prepare is rapidly closing.

“We are running out of time,” said Zia Choudhury, Bangladesh country director for the NGO CARE.North Korea staged a large military parade on Thursday, just one day before the opening ceremony of the 2018 Winter Olympics in Pyeongchang, South Korea.

The parade was reportedly held to commemorate the 70th anniversary of founding of the country’s armed forces, according to South Korea’s Yonhap News, but it also marks a display of power mere hours before the North is expected to march under a unified flag with the delegation from South Korea.

The Associated Press reported that tens of thousands of people watched and participated in the parade, but Yonhap noted that the display was both smaller and shorter than past similar events. The parade was also not broadcast live, a decision that Yonhap described as “an attempt to keep it low-key.”

North Korean state television broadcast footage of the parade a few hours after it concluded. The footage appeared to have been edited, the AP noted.

Foreign media was largely absent at the event, but Michael Spavor, the head of a non-profit consulting firm that facilitates work in North Korea, tweeted several video and photos he said were taken from the sidelines of the parade:

Images taken at the parade showed a procession of trucks carrying soldiers and military personnel passing large crowds, followed by a contingent of tanks. Footage from the official broadcast also showed what looked like several intercontinental ballistic missiles, including the newly developed Hwasong-15s, which North Korea claims is capable of hitting the U.S.

North Korean leader Kim Jong Un also delivered a speech celebrating the country’s military prowess.

#NorthKorea's Army Day parade finale: ICBMs. A couple Hwasong-14s and four Hwasong-15s (the missile they test-fired in November. pic.twitter.com/Q999GNm3oD — Josh Berlinger (@j_berlingerCNN) February 8, 2018

Nearly 300 North Koreans crossed the Demilitarized Zone between the two countries on Wednesday to participate in the Olympics, including 229 women that were part of a large “cheering squad,” The Washington Post reported. They will soon be joined by a high-level delegation of senior officials, including North Korean leader Kim Jong Un’s sister, Kim Yo Jong. They are scheduled to meet with South Korean President Moon Jae-in on Saturday.

The Post notes that if the visit goes forward, she would be the first member of the Kim family to ever visit the South, a significant development in the fraught relationship between the two nations.WASHINGTON, Feb 8 (Reuters) - The U.S. Senate and House of Representatives were expected to vote on a proposed budget deal on Thursday that would avert another government shutdownbut that has angered fiscal conservatives who complain it would lead to a $1 trillion deficit.

The plan to keep the government operating and to increase spending over the next two years faced resistance from conservatives in the Republican Party, who favor less spending on domestic government programs. At the same time, many liberal Democrats wanted to withhold their support as leverage to win concessions on immigration policy.

That meant the bill’s passage was not assured in the House and would need some Democratic support. House Speaker Paul Ryan, a Republican who has backed the agreement, said on Thursday he believed the chamber will pass the budget deal.

“I think we will,” Ryan told radio host Hugh Hewitt. “This is a bipartisan bill. It’s going to need bipartisan support. We are going to deliver our share of support.”

Mark Meadows, chairman of the conservative House Freedom Caucus, called the deal “eye-popping and eyebrow-raising.”

“We took an official position last night to say we can’t support this,” he told CNN on Thursday.

Republicans control both chambers of Congress.

The rare bipartisan deal reached by Senate leaders on Wednesday raises spending on military and domestic programs by almost $300 billion over the next two years.

It would allow for $165 billion in extra defense spending and $131 billion more for non-military programs, including health, infrastructure, disaster relief and efforts to tackle an opioid crisis in the country.

It would stave off a government shutdown before a Thursday night deadline and extend the federal government’s debt ceiling until March 2019, putting off for more than a year the risk of a debt default by the United States.

CONSERVATIVE OPPOSITION

The agreement, backed by Republican President Donald Trump, disappointed conservative House Republicans and outside groups.

“It’s not like Republicans aren’t concerned about disaster relief, or Republicans aren’t concerned about funding community health centers or dealing with the opioid crisis,” U.S. Representative Warren Davidson, a Republican, said in an interview with National Public Radio.

“But when you add them all up, it adds to an awful lot of spending. ... It’s not compassionate to bankrupt America.”

Liberal Democrats meanwhile opposed the deal because it does not include an agreement to protect from deportation hundreds of thousands of “Dreamers,” young people brought illegally to the United States as children.

House Democratic leader Nancy Pelosi on Wednesday staged an eight-hour speech on the House floor in support of immigration legislation, including reading letters from Dreamers pleading to be allowed to stay in the United States.

A number of lawmakers who supported the bill acknowledged the deal was not perfect. “It’s not pretty,” Republican U.S. Representative Adam Kinzinger said on CNN.

Democratic Senator Jon Tester said he hoped House Democrats would back the measure. “We don’t want the perfect to get in the road of the good,” he told the cable network.

Republican Senator Lindsey Graham said many lawmakers believe the defense spending in the bill was essential. “We’re going to get it through because most people will support it,” he told Fox News.

Senate Republicans planned a procedural vote on a stand-alone bill to increase military funding for the rest of the year to demonstrate support for Trump’s promised defense build-up.

Democrats will not support it because it does not contain similar spending increases for non-military programs. But the Senate’s failure to advance the bill will not damage the budget legislation, which is due for a vote later in the day.

White House adviser Kellyanne Conway told Fox News the agreement provides long-term certainty in the budget and funding for Trump priorities including infrastructure and military funding.

Failure to agree on spending led to a partial three-day shutdown of government agencies last month.House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi has said that she personally opposes the spending bill. Joshua Roberts / Reuters

WASHINGTON ― With the Senate expected to easily pass a bipartisan spending deal, and House Republicans generally falling in line, the big question on Thursday ― just hours before a government shutdown ― has become House Democrats.

House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi (D-Calif.) was coy Thursday morning, telling reporters that she personally wouldn’t support the bill, but that she still felt it was a good deal for Democrats.

“I’m just telling people why I’m voting the way I’m voting,” Pelosi said at a press conference.

But a couple of hours later, after Speaker Paul Ryan (R-Wis.) once again refused to give Pelosi the assurances she’s demanded for an open process on an immigration bill, Democrats seemed to change their mind about not whipping against the spending deal.

“Unlike in the Senate, there is no agreement that the House will even consider legislation to protect DREAMers. By leaving this vital issue unresolved, this package leaves DREAMers isolated, without a path to resolution in the House,” a Democratic whip notice said.

Just because leaders are urging a no vote, however, doesn’t mean they’re truly pushing Democrats to vote down the spending bill. One senior Democratic aide said Pelosi’s tepid opposition has been signal enough for some Democrats that, even with that whip notice, there will be no repercussions for voting yes on the bill.

“We still know this is a good bill for Democrats,” the aide said.

At the moment, the Democratic whip operation seems to be less about pushing for a certain outcome and more about figuring out where their caucus stands.

In a letter to her Democratic colleagues Thursday afternoon, Pelosi laid out the reasons why she opposed the bill and added that Ryan’s refusal to move forward in a bipartisan way on immigration “demeans the dignity of the House of Representatives.”

However, she did not explicitly urge her caucus to vote against the budget legislation.

“The Republicans do not have the votes to pass this caps bill on their own,” Pelosi wrote. “House Democrats have a voice here and we must be heard.”

On their side, House Republicans still expect a healthy number of defections, possibly into the high double digits, but many Republicans appear to be falling in line. Even people whom you might expect to vote no ― for example, Freedom Caucus member Gary Palmer (R-Ala.) and former Freedom Caucus member Barry Loudermilk (R-Ga.) ― were sounding noncommittal either way on Thursday.

How much leverage Democrats have in this showdown will depend greatly on how many votes Republicans can put up. If there are 40 Democratic yes votes no matter what leadership says, and there are only around 60 Republican no votes, Democratic leadership will have a tough time in any effort to extract a firmer promise from Speaker Ryan on immigration. And if there are around 100 Democrats who want to vote yes, then leadership is just posturing to save face with progressives and the Congressional Hispanic Caucus, which still thinks Democrats should get a firm promise on the Deferred Action on Childhood Arrivals program before they give Republicans any votes.

In part to give a voice to that wing of her party, Pelosi launched a marathon speech Wednesday in support of Dreamers that set a record for the longest continuous remarks on the House floor. The California Democrat spoke for just over eight hours, urging Republicans to bring a bill to the floor that would address DACA.

But some Democrats were dismayed that Pelosi, who is known for maintaining unwavering control over her caucus, did not go far enough in opposing the spending legislation.

“I say to everybody: Don’t collude with this administration,” Rep. Luis Gutiérrez (D-Ill.), a leading voice on immigration among his Democratic colleagues, pleaded Thursday on the House floor. “Vote against the budget.”

It’s clear there will be a solid bloc of Democrats voting against the budget deal, which would provide $80 billion for defense and $63 billion for non-defense above the spending caps this year, and another $85 billion more for defense and $68 billion more for non-defense in the following year. In total, there would be about $300 billion more than allowed under the spending caps that Congress set for itself in 2011. The agreement would also provide $140 billion in war funding and $20 billion more for other emergency spending.

A vote is likely Thursday afternoon in the Senate, where the bill should pass handily. The House would then vote later Thursday evening or potentially in the early morning hours of Friday, depending on time agreements in the Senate and how long it takes to formally get the bill to the House. With government funding set to expire at midnight, any hiccup could cause a shutdown, but leaders still seemed confident earlier in the day.WASHINGTON, Feb 8 (Reuters) - The Trump administration is considering making it harder for foreigners living in the United States to get permanent residency if they have received certain public benefits such as food assistance, in a move that could sharply restrict legal immigration.

The Department of Homeland Security has drafted proposed new rules seen by Reuters that would allow immigration officers to scrutinize a potential immigrant’s use of certain taxpayer-funded public benefits to determine if they could become a public burden.

For example, U.S. officials could look at whether the applicant has enrolled a child in government pre-school programs or received subsidies for utility bills or health insurance premiums.

The draft rules are a sharp departure from current guidelines, which have been in place for nearly two decades and specifically bar authorities from considering such non-cash benefits in deciding a person’s eligibility to immigrate to the United States or stay in the country.

“Non-citizens who receive public benefits are not self-sufficient and are relying on the U.S. government and state and local entities for resources instead of their families, sponsors or private organizations,” the document states. “An alien’s receipt of public benefits comes at taxpayer expense and availability of public benefits may provide an incentive for aliens to immigrate to the United States.”

Receiving such benefits could weigh against an applicant, even if they were for an immigrant’s U.S. citizen children, according to the document. In 2016, nearly 383,000 people who would be subject to the new standards obtained permanent residence while already in the United States. The rules would not apply to permanent residents applying for citizenship, but would apply to a wide range of people living or working in the United States, including close family members of U.S. citizens and workers employed by U.S. companies.

A spokesman for U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services, the DHS agency responsible for implementing the regulations, declined to comment on a regulation still under consideration.

The draft rule has not yet been approved by top leadership.

Current guidance instructs immigration officers to look at a narrow range of public benefits in trying to determine whether someone is likely to become a burden, specifically directing officers not to consider most non-cash benefits, such as government food assistance programs or preschool programs.

The new rules, if adopted in their current form, would significantly change these guidelines. Under the draft rules, a person would be considered a “public charge” if they depend on “any government assistance in the form of cash, checks or other forms of money transfers, or instrument and non-cash government assistance in the form of aid, services, or other relief,” according to the document.

(Reporting by Yeganeh Torbati; Editing by Sue Horton and Ross Colvin)What’s in a name? For Han Solo, everything and nothing. The skilled pilot and notorious smuggler’s moniker was heretofore unexplained, which makes sense: First and last names rarely require complex exposition, at least not the kind that Han gets in “Solo: A Star Wars Story,” the second spinoff in this ever-inflating franchise (2016′s war-torn “Rogue One” was the first).

“Who are your people?” an Imperial guard asks at customs, surrounded by recruitment propaganda for the evil Empire. “I don’t have people; I’m alone,” Han responds, declining to provide a surname. Can you see where this is heading? The agent eyes Han’s swoopy brown hair and round cheeks, landing on the only logical conclusion: Solo. He’ll be known as Han Solo. Get it?

Disney executives have been touting this reveal since March of last year, back when “21 Jump Street” and “Lego Movie” maestros Phil Lord and Christopher Miller were directing “Solo.” A few months later, the studio replaced Lord and Miller with Ron Howard, citing “different creative visions,” standard PR-speak for “they’re not making the movie we want them to make.” The studio also hired a new editor, cast Paul Bettany as a key villain formerly played by Michael K. Williams (who wasn’t available for the necessary reshoots), and brought in an acting coach to help Alden Ehrenreich, the actor given the demanding task of living up to Harrison Ford’s unmatchable charisma. A lot changed, but one thing never wavered: Han Solo’s name would still receive an impossibly trite backstory. And now it’s canon.

Oh well. The “Star Wars” universe has seen worse ― and, with more standalone entries and new trilogies (plural!) on the horizon, it will probably see worse still. (Like Mr. Solo, Disney is no stranger to being “in it for the money.”) For a film riddled with backstage drama, “Solo” is a fluid, entertaining diversion in a series that has gotten so much right since being resurrected with 2015′s “The Force Awakens.” It’s the first “Star Wars” movie that is, at worst, a waste of time. Thankfully, it’s a harmless waste of time.

Donald Glover in "Solo: A Star Wars Story." Disney

Its dexterity should come as no surprise: Ron Howard is nothing if not competent. A journeyman with few stylistic idiosyncrasies, Howard can take us to locales as various and foreign as outer space (“Apollo 13”), the Louvre (“The Da Vinci Code”) and the American Midwest (“Parenthood”) without losing sight of the everyday ingenuity prevailing within his protagonists. (“I don’t have people” is Han’s version of ingenuity.) Working with Bradford Young, the wunderkind of a cinematographer who shot “Selma” and “Arrival,” Howard has crafted a zippy origin story that’s as superfluous to the broader “Star Wars” design as it is captivating to watch.

Setting out to fill a few gaps in the galaxy’s overarching big-screen mythology, this proto-Han saga doesn’t bring the titular nerf herder face-to-face with Luke Skywalker, Leia Organa, Darth Vader, C-3PO or Greedo. We’re still years away from those fateful meetings. No hokey religions or ancient weapons here. Instead, everything that happens in “Solo” hinges on the dude’s attachment to Qi’ra (Emilia Clarke), a childhood comrade who doesn’t make it past the gates of the aforementioned customs bureau, where Han tries to bargain using a tube of coveted hyper-speed fuel known as coaxium. Determined to rescue Qi’ra and escape the mounting Imperial takeover, Han endears himself to Tobias Beckett (Woody Harrelson), a crafty scoundrel claiming a mission to steal 100,000 grams of coaxium for silvery British villain Dryden Vos (Bettany).

Emilia Clarke in "Solo: A Star Wars Story." Disney

Each “Star Wars” movie is obliged to reboot the Mos Eisley cantina scene from “A New Hope,” and “Solo” places one of its renditions (yes, there is more than one) in the midst of Vos’ rowdy palace. It’s there that Han finds Qi’ra, who now calls herself Vos’ lieutenant but is better described as his cunning captive. Cue the schemes.

Still with me? Phew. Amid a heap of jargon that father-son screenwriters Lawrence Kasdan (“The Empire Strikes Back”) and Jonathan Kasdan (“In the Land of Women”) successfully mold into comprehensible anchor points, Han picks up a few recognizable faces on his path to secure Vos’ gleaming gasoline. He befriends a Wookiee named Chewbacca (Joonas Suotamo), acquires a piece of junk called the Millennium Falcon from a suave cardsharp swashbuckler named Lando Calrissian (Donald Glover, MVP) and pilots the perilous smuggling route referenced in “A New Hope” (called the Kessel Run and allegedly completed in less than 12 parsecs, if you’re keeping pace). That’s all good and well, if you ignore how many newcomers are sidelined so our old friends can fraternize a little longer. Don’t get me started on just how thankless Thandie Newton’s role is.

All together, this outline comprises enough of a plot to almost distract from the fact that “Solo: A Star Wars Story” is an affront to everything Harrison Ford brought to the original movies. Aside from a bomber jacket and the patch of chest hair poking out from his V-neck, Ehrenreich is nothing like Ford. And he’s not really given the chance to be. The script makes Han more of a smug gentleman than a cavalier tomcat. Much of the dry wit and cocky gaze brought to the screen by Ford, who famously hated the dialogue that George Lucas handed him, has been shaved down to asides so peripheral to the characterization that this might as well revolve around a brand-new protagonist. Ford gave the originals an ironic touch, winking at the kiddie-movie proceedings around him. But Ehrenreich is too amiable for that. By the time Han is positioned opposite Vos’ overlord, a known villain from “Star Wars” lore, both the timeline that governs these stories and the hallmarks that define their characters have more or less fallen to the wayside. Still, the events chug along; at least there’s comfort in Chewie’s howl.

Paul Bettany in "Solo: A Star Wars Story." Disney

What to do, then, with a movie that is so decidedly fine, in a franchise demarcated by the highest of highs and the lowest of lows? Do we celebrate because it’s not a disaster? Cry foul because it’s not über-faithful to one of the series’ greatest figures? Pop streamers because it’s more fun than the bleak, tactical “Rogue One” and more picturesque than the gaudy, bloated prequels? Do we decry the logic gaps and the cheap reveals? (At one point, a soldier removes her helmet with sweeping grandeur, as if the movie were re-introducing a familiar character — one of a few “huh?” moments where the style contradicts the story being told.)

What to do, then, is all of these things. We’re right to demand more originality in today’s blockbusters, but a standalone installment such as this is only capable of providing so much. With that in mind, you want to see the same Han Solo you’ve always known, the one whose gruff charm would soften only slightly after fathering Kylo Ren. You want a fresh story in a familiar world. “Solo,” unconcerned with deepening the good-versus-evil theology that suffuses the sequels, relies on pure momentum, rather than detailed world-building, to map its adventure. In Howard’s hands, that, too, is fine, if not especially inspired.

Such is the fate of a property that has ballooned beyond its foundation. Where last year’s “The Last Jedi,” in its poised and sophisticated way, created fresh ground for the saga by pulling up its Skywalker roots, “Solo” works diligently to plug longstanding narrative holes that were never that vital in the first place. As the central storyline soars ahead, the offshoots are predicated on tertiary details of yore ― Kessel Runs, Death Star blueprints and other one-off blips. Meh.

That “Solo: A Star Wars Story” manages to be entertaining ― the creatures! the capes! Phoebe Waller-Bridge voicing a sassy droid! ― in spite of its hurdles is a testament to Ron Howard’s scrappiness. We never needed to know how Han Solo got his name, but what’s the harm if we do?A masked, black-clad militant, identified as Mohammed Emwazi ("Jihadi John"), is pictured in 2014. Members of his terrorist cell, Alexanda Kotey and El Shafee Elsheikh, have reportedly been captured. Handout/Reuters

Syrian Kurdish fighters have captured the last two fugitives of the so-called Islamic State’s “Beatles” cell, which was notorious for beheading Western hostages on camera, The New York Times and BBC reported Thursday, citing anonymous American officials.

Alexanda Kotey, 24, and El Shafee Elsheikh, 29, belonged to an extremist gang of four men involved with ISIS atrocities, nicknamed after the Beatles rock band because of their English accents. The U.S. designated both men as foreign terrorists, and sanctioned Kotey in 2017.

American authorities were informed last month that the militia might have apprehended Kotey and Elsheikh, according to the Times. The men reportedly provided valuable information to military interrogators about ISIS leadership and structure. Counterterrorism officials believe ISIS leader Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi remains at large, despite rumors of his death.

The lead executioner in the “Beatles” cell, Mohammed Emwazi, known as “Jihadi John,” was killed by a U.S. drone strike in 2015. Aine Davis, the fourth member, was detained in Turkey in 2015 and convicted on terror charges last year. All four members of the group lived in West London before moving to Syria.

They are reported to have detained, tortured and killed dozens of hostages, including American journalists James Foley and Steven Sotloff, as well as British aid workers David Haines and Alan Henning, in 2014. Their gruesome propaganda videos of victims’ slayings have circulated around the world.