President Donald Trump likes to say that Obamacare is dead, and he’s done a lot to try to make that a reality. But the Affordable Care Act’s health insurance exchanges and their customers keep refusing to agree.

For the 2018 open enrollment period on the exchange marketplaces, which ended Dec. 15 in most states, 11.8 million people signed up for private health insurance plans, according to government data compiled by the National Academy for State Health Policy and released Wednesday.

That’s down 4 percent from the 12.2 million who chose policies during the sign-up campaign for 2017.

“It’s not collapse. It’s incredible stability,” Peter Lee, executive director of Covered California, the state’s health insurance exchange, said during a conference call organized by the health policy academy on Wednesday.

Fewer enrollees is hardly ideal, and 2018 marks the second consecutive year in which sign-ups declined, after growing from 2014 through 2016. The 2017 and 2018 open enrollment periods were the first ones under the Trump administration.

The results among some of the state-run exchanges, over which the federal government has less influence, suggest the health insurance exchanges work better for consumers when the people in charge aren’t actively trying to make them worse.

Eleven states and the District of Columbia manage their own health insurance exchanges, and five other states handle many of the exchange’s functions even though their residents use the federal HealthCare.gov system to enroll instead of a state-run website.

In those states, enrollment rose 2 percent ― a modest gain, except when compared with the 5.3 percent decline in the remaining 34 states, where the Trump administration had almost total control this year.

And over the past two open enrollment periods, sign-ups in state-run exchanges, including those that use HealthCare.gov, increased 1.5 percent, compared with a 10.5 percent decrease in states with federally run exchanges.

The Trump administration began undermining health insurance exchange enrollment almost immediately after the inauguration last year by canceling advertising that President Barack Obama’s administration had planned for the end of the 2017 sign-up campaign, which began under Obama and closed out shortly after Trump took office.

For the 2018 enrollment period, the Trump administration went much further. The advertising budget saw a 90 percent decrease, and programs that fund counselors who help consumers shop for insurance were cut by 40 percent.

Trump cut of billions of dollars in repayments owed to health insurers serving the poorest Obamacare enrollees. Under the Affordable Care Act, insurance companies must provide “cost-sharing reductions” that shrink out-of-pocket costs like deductibles and copayments to the lowest-income customers. The federal government is supposed to reimburse them, but Trump stopped doing so last fall.

That led to huge premium hikes that were even bigger than they otherwise would’ve been. In a twist, this move wound up making better insurance more affordable for a lot of subsidized consumers, even as it massively raised prices for middle-class consumers who earn too much to qualify for financial assistance.

Those subsidies proved key to keeping enrollment so close to the levels seen in previous years because they meant millions of consumers could still afford coverage despite the net increase in premiums.

Among the senior officials who badmouthed the program and touted reasons for not signing up were Seema Verma, administrator of the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services: the agency in charge of the exchanges.

The Department of Health and Human Services even tapped into its exchange outreach budget to produce videos and other materials portraying the Affordable Care Act in a negative light as part of the Republican Party’s attempts to repeal the law.

In spite of introducing these challenges, the administration went through with an Obama-era proposal to halve the duration of the open enrollment period to six weeks.

Most of the state-run exchanges opted for later deadlines, including all the way until Jan. 31 on Covered California and New York State of Health. And instead of scaling back their consumer assistance and public education, they ramped it up ― partly in response to the Trump administration’s efforts to weaken the exchanges and suppress enrollment.

“2019 looks very troubling.” - Peter Lee, executive director of Covered California

“Our ability to extend our open enrollment period, our ability to control our marketing and outreach budget, our ability and quickly and simply mitigate the impact of the defunding of CSRs ― cost-sharing reductions ― right before open enrollment started and our ability to serve our customers in their community led to a very successful open enrollment,” Zachary Sherman, the director of Rhode Island’s HealthSource RI, said during the conference call.

Trump and the GOP aren’t done changing the Affordable Care Act from the inside, though, and even states that operate their own health insurance exchanges may find it difficult to maintain stability next year.

“2019 looks very troubling,” Lee said.

Trump signed a tax bill in December that, starting next year, eliminates the fines people have to pay if they go without health coverage and don’t qualify for an exemption from the Affordable Care Act’s individual mandate.

This change in law is expected to result in fewer enrollees ― and particularly fewer healthy consumers who would be paying more in premiums they take out in medical expenses. This will raise rates and, though subsidized enrollees will be protected, those with higher incomes will have to pay full price or go without coverage.

The administration also published a regulation last month allowing more businesses to join together to form “association health plans.” This might save some small companies money, but it has the potential to draw even more healthy people from the exchanges, causing prices in those marketplaces to rise more.

And the administration is working on a separate initiative that would permit insurers to sell short-term insurance policies effective for up to a year, which would exclude those with preexisting conditions. This could further diminish the number of healthy customers in the exchange markets.

State officials have been pleading with Congress to take steps to shore up the health insurance exchanges, including creating a pool of “reinsurance” money to compensate insurers that wind up with higher-than-expected medical expenses. This would keep premiums down by shielding policyholders from the costs of their sickest and most expensive fellow customers.

Minnesota is one of a handful of states that received federal permission to create such a fund, although it’s for only two years, and saw positive results, as did Alaska.

“Our reinsurance program is just a Band-Aid,” Allison O’Toole, CEO of Minnesota’s MNSure exchange, said during the conference call. “We need and are advocating for a long-term reinsurance program that every state can participate in, and if Congress is serious about stabilizing markets across the country, they can look to Minnesota’s program as a proven solution.”Reality TV star Omarosa Manigault Newman, who made a fiery exit from her job as President Donald Trump’s White House aide in December, is spilling some political tea on CBS’ “Celebrity Big Brother,” telling a fellow cast member that she “was haunted by tweets every single day” and that the administration is “bad.”

In a preview for the episode airing Thursday night, Newman opened up to castmate Ross Mathews and told him she “felt like it was a call of duty” to work for Trump.

“I felt like I was serving my country, not serving him,” said Newman, who was one of Trump’s most prominent African-American supporters.

Newman appeared with Trump on the reality show “The Apprentice” in 2004, and joined his administration when he became president as communications director for the Office of Public Liaison. In December, some reports said she was fired and forcibly removed from the White House grounds. The White House said she “resigned” to “pursue other opportunities.”

.@Omarosa opens up to @helloross about her time in the White House on tonight's Celebrity Big Brother. In the meantime, don't miss a minute of the action on the #BBLF: https://t.co/H9nnS6VGdW pic.twitter.com/8x6dFBZxD2 — Big Brother (@CBSBigBrother) February 8, 2018

Newman, according to the “Celebrity Big Brother” preview, said she was rattled by Trump’s posts on Twitter.

“I was haunted by tweets every single day. Like, what is he going to tweet next?” she said.

Newman also told Matthews that she “tried to be that person” who would talk sense into Trump and try to steer him from bad decisions. “And then all of the people around him attacked me,” she said. “It was like, ‘Keep her away, don’t give her access, don’t let her talk to him.’ Ivanka’s there, Jared’s there ...”

Matthews asked Newman who in the White House has the power to stand up to Trump.

“I don’t know,” Newman said.

“I’m not there. It’s not my ― it’s not my circus, not my monkeys. I’d like to say it’s not my problem, but I can’t say that because, like, it’s bad.”

Later in the conversation, she said Americans have reason to be concerned.

“No, it’s gonna not be OK,” she said. “It’s not.”

Watch the full conversation between Matthews and Newman in the preview clip from “Celebrity Big Brother” below.Jonathan Ernst / Reuters

President Donald Trump is less unpopular than he’s been in a while, thanks in large part to a boost from his own party.

The president’s ratings stand at about 43 percent approval and 53 percent disapproval as of Thursday afternoon according to HuffPost’s aggregate of publicly available polling. That’s up from an average 38 percent approval rating at the start of December.

Trump’s ratings are still by no means good, and they continue to lag behind the numbers his recent predecessors saw at similar points in their terms. But the uptick suggests that the slow erosion in support Trump saw during his first year in office isn’t entirely inexorable.

The past year has spawned a genre of news stories endlessly reporting that Trump’s backers were still with him — a statement that, while both tautological and broadly true, obscures the fact that the president saw a small but significant weakening in his intra-party support. The latest uptick, according to several polling houses, is a sign that some of the Republicans who did abandon him over the course of 2017 have come back to him.

And Trump’s supporters are also more enthusiastic than they’ve been in some time. When Trump first took office, 66 percent of his own voters said they strongly approved of his job performance, according to the YouGov/Economist online tracking poll. By March 2017, that number had dropped under 60 percent, where it remained for most of the year, falling as low as 43 percent in the wake of the failed effort to repeal Obamacare. But since December, Trump’s numbers have been recovering on that metric. Now, at 67 percent, they’re as strong as they’ve ever been.

HuffPost

Gallup notes that Trump’s rise among Republicans was “coincident” with his State of the Union address touting the strength of the economy and the passage of a tax reform bill, although they stress it’s impossible to say that’s what caused the change.

State of the Union speeches tend to be well received, because they’re disproportionately watched by people already inclined to take a friendly view of the president ― and Trump’s was no exception. A HuffPost/YouGov poll following the address found that most Trump voters who tuned in say it improved their views of his actions. Some of that response could just be his already-staunch supporters reaching for a way to affirm that they like both Trump and what he had to say. But, by foregrounding the more restrained version of the president, it also may have helped him to hold onto the uptick in support he was already seeing among his own voters after a relatively quiet holiday season.

“If this pattern feels familiar — Republicans flee when Trump is under fire, but return to the fold when the news is about anything other than Trump – that’s because it is,” Amy Walter, of The Cook Political Report, wrote in late January. “We saw this pattern play out time and again in 2016. Trump would say/do/tweet something controversial. His numbers would drop. But, as soon as Hillary or emails got back into the news and/or Trump stayed disciplined, the race would tighten up as Republicans and Republican-leaning independents came back into the GOP fold.”

Any State of the Union bounce is likely to be fleeting, especially if — or, more realistically, when — another inflammatory statement from Trump again dominates the headlines. But several other political developments offer some positive news for the president. Opinions of the tax bill, which was historically unpopular at the time of its passage, have since modestly improved, rendering it, if not yet necessarily an asset, less of a glaring liability.

HuffPost

Views of the economy are the best they’ve been since at least 2001, according to Quinnipiac. And although Trump’s overall numbers continue to notably underperform economic sentiments, a majority of voters now approve of Trump’s handling of the topic. For the first time, according to the poll, he’s now seen as more responsible than former President Barack Obama for the state of the economy.

Although the Russia investigation probably isn’t what the White House would prefer to be dominating headlines, it’s also a topic on which opinion has, for the most part, stubbornly cleaved to partisan lines, suggesting it’s not immediately likely to cost the president much intra-party support.It’s Mario time for one American athlete competing at Pyeongchang 2018.

Twitter user @douglasturtle on Wednesday joked that Olympic curler Matt Hamilton bears a resemblance to Nintendo’s famed animated Italian plumber video game character, Mario:

Just watching the olympics during my night class and we have Mario on our curling team!!#USA #curling #Olympics2018 pic.twitter.com/xqFucdjQdQ — Jon (@douglasturtle) February 8, 2018

The U.S. Olympic Committee’s official @TeamUSA Twitter account joined in with the fun, lightheartedly asking its 1.9 million followers to “spot the difference” between these two pictures:

Which is exactly what some people did:

Mario isn't looking at the stone. — Ben Martin (@bendicoot) February 8, 2018

I see the difference...the one on the right is missing the back shoe. Or is it the difference in the size of the nose? Nah, it's the missing shoe. — R Seykora (@rjseykora) February 8, 2018

Pretty there's an extra light reflection in the stone on the right. — Joe Garrick (@JGarrick62) February 8, 2018

Hamilton also retweeted the committee’s post, which suggests he was down with the comparison.

The gentle ribbing doesn’t appear to have put Hamilton, 28, off his game. He’s representing America in the mixed doubles curling competition alongside his sister, Becca Hamilton, 27.

The siblings, from McFarland, Wisconsin, beat married Russian couple Anastasia Bryzgalova and Alexander Krushelnitskiy in their first preliminary match on Thursday.After days of excavation, Toronto police on Thursday said they have recovered the remains of at least six different people on property that was landscaped by suspected serial killer Bruce McArthur, who has been charged with the murder of five men connected to the city’s gay village.

Police said last week they had found dismembered remains of at least three people on the property, a number that has now doubled. A final count is not yet known.

Arrested in January, McArthur, 66, has been charged in the deaths of five men: Andrew Kinsman, Selim Esen, Majeed Kayhan, Soroush Mahmudi and Dean Lisowick.

Det.-Sgt. Hank Idsinga said at a press conference that Kinsman’s remains were among those found in planters at the suburban home where McArthur mowed the lawn in exchange for storage space in the garage.

The identities of the other five people found on the property are not yet known. Idsinga would not confirm whether those bodies belonged to any of the other four men McArthur is accused of killing.

“I do anticipate more charges being laid,” he said, later adding that Toronto police are also working with unnamed “agencies overseas.”

Due to the cold Canadian winter, police say they will require at least another week to dig into parts of the frozen ground identified with radar as areas of interest. Another site may be excavated afterward as authorities look into other homes where McArthur worked.

Rumors of an active serial killer persisted for years in Toronto’s gay community before McArthur was brought into custody. McArthur drew police attention after Kinsman, with whom McArthur had been in a sexual relationship at one point, went missing. One morning last month, officers surveilling McArthur saw a young man enter his apartment, and moved to arrest McArthur out of fear for the man’s safety. The man was found tied up but unhurt.

Following an assault conviction in 2001, McArthur was banned from an area of Toronto that includes the neighborhood known as the gay village. According to reports, he used social media and dating sites to attract the men he allegedly killed. Authorities are analyzing his digital footprint for clues.This version of Ariana Grande’s song “No Tears Left to Cry” sounds a bit cardboardy.

But that’s a good thing.

Because on Monday’s broadcast of “The Tonight Show,” Grande joined host Jimmy Fallon and house band The Roots to perform her latest single using new Nintendo Switch accessory Labo and instruments predominantly made from the paper product.

“It was totally bizarre and such a gamble,” Fallon told IGN. “I didn’t know if it was going to sound good, but Ariana is always down to try something fun and different.”Trevor Noah hosted a spoof awards ceremony to see how President Donald Trump measures up to authoritarian leaders around the world on Wednesday’s broadcast of “The Daily Show.”

“The Oppressys” celebrates “achievement in the autocratic arts,” and hosting was a gig that Noah joked he couldn’t turn down.

“You literally cannot turn it down, they kidnapped me and threw me in a trunk,” he quipped.Walgreens will follow Target’s lead in allowing employees and customers to use restrooms that best correspond with their gender identity.

The drugstore chain announced the new policy in a Nov. 21 directive to employees, which stated: “All individuals have a right to use restroom facilities that correspond to the individual’s gender identity, regardless of the individual’s sex assigned at birth.” (Read the full company directive here.)

However, the change is just now making headlines following a Los Angeles Times feature on Jessie Meehan, a cisgender woman who claims she was discriminated against at a Walgreens store in Hollywood, California, last year. Meehan said she was “very surprised and shocked” when she was asked to use the men’s restroom while visiting a Walgreens in June, during the city’s Pride celebrations.

“I’ve been discriminated against my whole life based on my appearance, based on looking too male,” Meehan, who does not identify as trans, said in a video released Monday by the American Civil Liberties Union of Southern California, which can be viewed above. ”[This is] the first time that I actually said something about it, did something about it. I can imagine thousands of people that don’t do anything about it when they feel bad about themselves.”

After arguing with a store manager, Meehan reached out to the ACLU. A staff attorney, Amanda Goad, followed up with a letter to Walgreens clarifying California law, which “protects every person’s right to access restrooms based on their gender identity in workplaces, schools and business establishments,” according to the Los Angeles Times.

Goad said her discussions with Walgreens prompted the company to change its policy at all 8,100 stores nationwide.

“Everyone needs safe restroom access, and California law protects every person’s right to access restrooms based on their gender identity in workplaces, schools, and business establishments,” Goad said in a statement on the ACLU website. “It’s important for businesses to make sure their employees understand that requirement, just like Walgreens is now doing, because Jessie Meehan had the courage to stand up for her rights.”

Walgreens has had a reputation as an LGBTQ-friendly company for some time. The Deerfield, Illinois-based retail chain has a 100-percent rating on the Human Rights Campaign’s 2018 Corporate Equality Index, a benchmarking tool for LGBTQ workplace equality.Students from Elder High School in Ohio targeted basketball players of color from a rival team during a game last Friday.

Asian and black players from St. Xavier High School were subjected to racist chants and comments throughout the game.

At one point, students even told Nate Stockman, a multiracial Asian-American player, to “Go back to China” and “Open your eyes,” his mother, Susan Stockman, told local CBS affiliate WKRC.

And while at the free throw line, Bobby Jefferson, a black player, heard Elder students say he “smokes crack” and claim that he’s “on welfare,” among other offensive statements, the Cincinnati Enquirer reported.

What’s more, Mina Jefferson, Bobby’s mother, said the inappropriate jeering went on for more than half the game and didn’t stop until the St. Xavier coach instructed the referees to act.

“Why isn’t someone taking control? We were baffled,” she told the Enquirer. “It was so clear. It persisted and no one did anything. This was a culture where this clearly seems to be OK.’’

In a short clip of the game, the teens in Elder’s student section can also be heard chanting “P.F. Chang’s” at Nate. When he shot his free throws, the students reportedly yelled “USA, USA.” The students also said Bobby, who’s headed to Dartmouth in the fall, “can’t read,” according to the Enquirer.

In a press release, Elder High School Principal Kurt Ruffing apologized for the incident days after parents had written to him about the racist comments. However, Ruffing claimed that the chants occurred in the third quarter and teachers and staff quickly put a stop to the behavior, interrupting the game to do so. He also said that school held an assembly to address the matter.

“In addition to imposing internal disciplinary action for what transpired, Elder’s administration will take this opportunity to educate its students on the importance of accepting responsibility for one’s actions,” the statement read.

“Most importantly, Elder High School sincerely apologizes for the remarks made by its student section and for the severe lack of respect displayed by its students toward the St. Xavier basketball team, its coaching staff, the opposing student section, and all the fans, family members, and alumni of both schools,” Ruffing wrote. “This type of behavior is not condoned at Elder, nor is it indicative of the lessons taught and learned in our classrooms, hallways, and on our fields of play, and it will not be tolerated.”

Ruffing also sent apologies to both mothers over the incident.

The parents told WKRC that they hope that going forward, the students will no longer engage in such offensive behavior.Denmark's minister of justice, Søren Pape Poulsen, said that it's "disrespectful" for people to wear full-face veils in public. Ole Jensen - Corbis via Getty Images

The Danish government has formally proposed banning full-face veils in public spaces, saying that such clothing is “incompatible” with the country’s values.

Denmark’s justice minister, Søren Pape Poulsen, defended the proposed ban on garments like the Islamic niqab or burqa in a statement on Tuesday, arguing that it was “disrespectful to the community” to keep one’s face hidden when meeting others in public spaces.

“With a ban on covering the face, we are drawing a line in the sand and underlining that in Denmark we show each other trust and respect by meeting face to face,” Poulsen said, according to a translation provided by Agence France Presse.

Those who violate the ban could be fined up to 1,000 kroner ($164). Repeat offenders could be fined up to 10,000 kroner ($1,644).

The proposal specifically mentions burqas, niqabs and balaclavas as examples of potential violations. The niqab and burqa are just two of the many styles of covering that Muslim women may wear as part of their spiritual practice. The niqab is a face veil that leaves the area around the eyes clear. The burqa covers the face completely, leaving a mesh or net screen for women to see through.

Hind Ahmas (right) stands with Kenza Drider as she leaves a court in Meaux, France, after facing fines for wearing a face veil on Sept. 22, 2011. Franck Prevel via Getty Images

The Danish government’s proposal pointed out that face coverings that have a “recognizable” purpose, such as winter clothing, sports gear or masks for festivities, are excluded from the ban.

The new proposal will be assessed by nongovernmental human rights organizations, then presented to Parliament this spring. Since the ban has the support of the right-wing, nationalist Danish People’s Party, the country’s second-largest party, it is likely to pass, AFP reports.

Despite the precautions the government is trying to take against full-face veils, it’s unclear how many women actually wear these religious garments in Denmark today. A 2009 study from the University of Copenhagen found that between 100 and 200 women wear niqabs in Denmark.

“I don’t think there are many who wear the burqa here in Denmark. But if you do, you should be punished with a fine,” Poulsen told a local news agency, according to AFP.

Özlem Cekic, one of Denmark’s first female Muslim politicians, told HuffPost that she believes the majority of Muslims in Denmark don’t wear the niqab or burqa. She thinks the government’s proposal is more of a “symbolic stance.”

“I will never be able to understand why some women choose to wear a niqab or burqa, but I don’t believe in criminalizing opinions,” Cekic told HuffPost. “Women wearing a niqab or burqa will never decrease the freedom of Danes or be a threat to the national security.”

Lamia El Amri, chair of the international advocacy group European Forum of Muslim Women, told HuffPost that she’s noticed a “dangerous rise” in Islamophobic political rhetoric across Europe. Politicians and parties have been framing Muslim women and their religious beliefs as antagonistic to European societies, Amri said, which causes these women to be further marginalized.

Amri doesn’t think a generally applicable ban on full-face veils in public is needed to protect public safety or public order. In practice, she said these laws tend to lead to increased discrimination and physical violence against women wearing veils in public spaces.

“At the same time, we can see that nothing or very little has been done by these governments in ... protecting women against Islamophobic hate crimes,” Amri, a resident of Sweden, told HuffPost. “We would be happy to see governments addressing real problems and security issues that Muslim women face in their everyday life.”

Georgina Siklossy, a press officer for the European Network Against Racism who lives in Belgium, had a similar response to bans against full-face veils across Europe.

“It is counter-productive to add an obstacle to women who already suffer many inequalities because they are women, Muslim, from an ethnic minority background, and sometimes living in poor socio-economic conditions,” Siklossy told HuffPost.If you’re a fan of “ The Bachelor ,” you know Monday nights are reserved for embarrassing amounts of wine, frantically texting your friends about who’s getting the first rose, and catching up on all things Bachelor-drama.

Whether you’ve been a die-hard fan for years, or just got into it and are already addicted, show some love for your favorite reality show with these 15 gifts that will speak to any ‘final rose’ fan:Samantha Bee fears that House Intelligence Committee chairman Devin Nunes (R-Calif.) “isn’t done riling you up” yet.

On Wednesday’s broadcast of “Full Frontal,” Bee noted how Nunes’ anticlimactic memo alleging FBI and Justice Department bias against President Donald Trump could be the first of many dossiers to emerge from the congressman’s office.

“Yes, Nunes may release up to five more memos,” said Bee. She then imagined what each of the future documents may contain.The Pennsylvania Supreme Court offered a lengthy and long-awaited explanation on Wednesday of its decision to strike down the state’s congressional map, saying the districts violated a state constitutional guarantee of “free and equal” elections.

On Jan. 22, the state Supreme Court struck down the congressional map and instructed lawmakers and the governor to agree on new district lines by Feb. 15, saying its full opinion would follow. Justice Debra McCloskey Todd (D) offered that opinion in 139 pages on Wednesday and said the plan violated Article I, Section 5 of the state’s constitution, which says “elections shall be free and equal; and no power, civil or military, shall at any time interfere to prevent the free exercise of the right of suffrage.” Todd noted the protection, as well as the entire Pennsylvania Constitution, was older than the U.S. Constitution.

Todd wrote that the congressional map violated the provision because it diluted the votes of Democrats, thus making them unequal. Since redrawing the state’s congressional map in 2011, Republicans have consistently won 13 of the state’s 18 congressional seats, even though Democrats outpace Republicans statewide in party registrations.

“By placing voters preferring one party’s candidates in districts where their votes are wasted on candidates likely to lose (cracking), or by placing such voters in districts where their votes are cast for candidates destined to win (packing), the non-favored party’s votes are diluted. It is axiomatic that a diluted vote is not an equal vote, as all voters do not have an equal opportunity to translate their votes into representation,” she wrote.

“An election corrupted by extensive, sophisticated gerrymandering and partisan dilution of votes is not ‘free and equal.’ In such circumstances, a ‘power, civil or military,’ to wit, the General Assembly, has in fact “interfere[d] to prevent the free exercise of the right of suffrage,” she added.

Republicans charged with redrawing the districts have been complaining that the court offered them too short a time period with little guidance on how to judge if a new map was constitutional. The court offered its criteria on Wednesday, saying that districts should, at a minimum, be compact and contiguous, nearly equal in population and drawn so as to not unnecessarily divide counties, cities, towns and wards. The state constitution already says those criteria must be used when lawmakers draw state legislative districts. When lawmakers “subordinate” those criteria to partisan concerns, the redistricting is unconstitutional.

Todd did acknowledge, however, that it was possible for lawmakers to draw a map that complied with those minimum criteria but also gave one party a political advantage. She declined to say what the court should do in such a case.

In a dissenting opinion, Justice Sallie Updyke Mundy (R) took issue with the standard the majority offered, saying it added only more confusion on the eve of the state’s midterm elections.

“The Majority admits that it is possible for the General Assembly to draw a map that fully complies with the Majority’s ‘neutral criteria’ but still ‘operate[s] to unfairly dilute the power of a particular group’s vote for a congressional representative,’” Mundy wrote. “This undermines the conclusion that there is a clear, plain, and palpable constitutional violation in this case.”

Chief Justice Thomas Saylor (R) wrote another dissenting opinion in which he argued the Supreme Court should have waited for more guidance on acceptable limits on redistricting from the U.S. Supreme Court, which has never set limits on how far the practice can go but could do so for the first time this year. He accused the majority of creating a new standard to evaluate congressional maps that was not rooted in the state’s constitution.

In a separate opinion, Justice Max Baer (D) agreed that the congressional map violated the state’s constitution but joined his two Republican colleagues in expressing concern that the court was creating new redistricting standards and illegally imposing them onto the legislature.

“It is axiomatic that a diluted vote is not an equal vote, as all voters do not have an equal opportunity to translate their votes into representation.” - Justice Debra McCloskey Todd

Republican lawmakers have dragged their feet on working on a new map to meet the court-imposed deadline. They launched a long-shot appeal to the U.S. Supreme Court, which the federal court rejected. Senate President Joe Scarnati (R) refused to turn over political data the court requested to help it draw a new map. They have unsuccessfully tried to get a Democrat on the court disqualified from the case because he expressed anti-gerrymandering sentiments as a candidate. A Republican state representative is calling for the impeachment of the five Democrats on the court who voted to strike down the map.

If Republican lawmakers and Gov. Tom Wolf (D) can’t agree on a plan by Feb. 15, the court is going to draw its own congressional district map. Facing repeated defeats in courts, Republicans have started to come around to working on a new map, realizing that they may be able to get a more favorable one in place themselves than if they cede the task to the court.

The ruling in the case could send a signal to advocates in other states to bring similar suits in state courts. In a footnote, Todd pointed to several state constitutions that had election protections similar to the Pennsylvania one used as the basis for the state Supreme Court’s ruling.Thanks for all the love shown to this piece, it really means the world. I'm a bit overwhelmed so it may take me some time to respond to everyone! I'm considering selling prints/t-shirts - just trying to figure out the best way to do this. Once I do I will share the details here.Undocumented activists, including 19-year-old Arlin, call for legal protections on Capitol Hill. Courtesy of Arlin

WASHINGTON — Last September, Karla Aguirre left her family and her South Carolina hometown and boarded a flight to Washington, D.C., to fight for her right to remain in the United States. It was supposed to be a short trip — there was bipartisan support in Congress for measures to protect undocumented immigrants like her. But more than four months later, she’s still here.

“There’s no reason for me to go back home where things are going to be exactly the same,” Aguirre, 22, said. “The point of us being here is to make a change. ... This is my work, to make sure that my family is OK.”

Aguirre is one of hundreds of undocumented young people who have uprooted their lives to advocate for a bill that would grant them legal status and a path to citizenship. In the nation’s capital, they sleep in churches, houses and, less often, hotels. They spend their days preparing to go to the Capitol, visiting lawmakers’ offices and sharing their stories in hopes of rallying support. They spend their nights hanging out and talking, often too tired to do much else. Their form of fun is chanting, Aguirre said.

Many of these young activists hoped to be home by now. President Donald Trump declared an end to the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program, or DACA, in September, setting in motion a process that will eventually cause nearly 700,000 undocumented young people to lose two-year work permits and deportation protections unless Congress steps in. Trump set a “deadline” of March 5, at which time large numbers of DACA recipients will begin to lose their protections each day, although thousands already have. Because of a court ruling, DACA recipients can currently apply for an individual renewal, but the Trump administration is fighting to stop them.

Democrats promised to push for renewed protections by the end of December, and then again in January, and they’re still promising now, but there haven’t been votes on a DACA bill in either the House or the Senate, which are both controlled by Republicans. Trump offered a framework last month that the White House said would give a path to citizenship to 1.8 million young undocumented immigrants, but he also demanded expansive border security resources, a wall, more ease in deporting children and asylum-seekers, and unrelated cuts to legal immigration. Democrats and even some Republicans shot down the idea. Trump isn’t budging — he said on Tuesday that he would “love to see a shutdown” of the government over it.

That means activists like Aguirre can’t go home yet. She is now working for United We Dream, an advocacy group led by undocumented youth. The group has been holding training sessions for roughly 300 undocumented young people from around the country each week ― they come to Washington with their own funds or the help of donors ― to teach them how to share their stories and push for reform. They then go back home and encourage others to do the same. When undocumented immigrants make visits to lawmakers’ offices, Aguirre is often on the first floor of the building, ready to help if anything goes awry.

Immigration advocates strongly believe that personal stories are more effective than appeals to lawmakers’ political interests in pushing them to embrace reform. But personal stories can be difficult for undocumented immigrants to share, given the trauma that led many of them to the U.S. and the history of keeping quiet about their immigration status. Aguirre came to the U.S. with her family when she was 6 years old, trying to escape poverty and violence in Mexico. She first received DACA protections in 2013, and her current permit expires in 2019.

Aguirre attended a semester of college but wasn’t able to finish a degree because of the cost. Although some states offer lower in-state tuition at public universities to undocumented immigrants who grew up there, South Carolina does not. Initially, she didn’t see herself reflected in the Dreamer narrative, which in the past focused largely on young people in graduation caps and gowns or holding upscale jobs. She wants lawmakers to know that undocumented young people who came to the U.S. as children all deserve help ― as do their families.

Arlin, a 19-year-old DACA recipient who asked that her last name be withheld because of safety concerns, also feels the narrative about Dreamers needs to be more inclusive. She left Mexico at age 3 and grew up in a small town in North Carolina. Arlin graduated from high school last June but isn’t attending college because even with scholarships, it’s too expensive. (North Carolina also bars undocumented students from receiving in-state tuition.)

Arlin arrived in Washington in November for a United We Dream training and, like Aguirre, decided to devote herself to the cause full-time. She came back later in the month and has been here since, other than a few brief breaks for holidays and after the last shutdown. She is involved in many of the office visits, where undocumented young people try to talk to lawmakers in person. When they can’t, they sometimes refuse to leave until they’re kicked out.

Some people argue these office takeovers don’t work, Aguirre said, but she supports the tactic. They only do it, she said, if they can’t get politicians to talk to the people who have traveled far to be there.

The young activists have been helped through the ups and downs of the past months by the sense of community among those in D.C. People who were born all over the world and grew up all over the U.S. are here in Washington for the same goal. Arlin has been inspired by hearing from people who graduated from college or landed their dream jobs, and dismayed by the stories from people living near the border who are afraid to go to the hospital because it’s past a checkpoint. She has heard about friends’ families and then met them in person. Fellow undocumented advocates now feel like her family, too.

When Senate Democrats voted last month to reopen the government without renewing DACA protections, many undocumented young people watched from the gallery in tears. But Arlin said she reminded them that they are powerful.There are still a lot of unanswered questions about Rob Porter’s departure from the White House amid allegations of abuse made by his two ex-wives.

White House principal deputy press secretary Raj Shah failed to offer much clarity during a press briefing Thursday. Here are some questions still worth asking about President Donald Trump’s former staff secretary.

How much did White House chief of staff John Kelly know? When did he know it?

Shah didn’t offer many details when asked if Kelly knew about the allegations of abuse made by Porter’s ex-wives.

“This is part of an ongoing investigation,” Shah said. “We trust the background check process, and the chief of staff does not get detailed updates about what may or may not have been alleged.”

Politico reported Wednesday that Kelly did know about the allegations, saying he was aware of a protective order against Porter that prevented him from getting full security clearance. CNN also reported that Kelly ― who on Wednesday praised Porter as “a man of true integrity” ― and other White House officials knew about the allegations months before Porter resigned.

Shah would not “get into specifics” of who knew what and when, but said Kelly “had not seen images” released by Colbie Holderness, Porter’s first wife, until they were published Wednesday. The images show Holderness with a black eye, which she said was a result of Porter punching her in the face during a vacation in Florence, Italy, in 2005.

Did Porter resign or was he terminated?

Shah said Porter “offered his resignation,” signaling he voluntarily left the White House, but also that he “was terminated,” signaling he was fired. White House press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders said Wednesday that Porter resigned, but Shah indicated Porter may have been asked to leave.

This kind of confusion has surrounded other departures from Trump’s White House, including that of former aide Omarosa Manigault Newman.

How close was Porter’s background check to being completed?

Shah repeatedly said allegations against Porter were part of an “ongoing investigation.” But he didn’t offer much clarity about the status of the background check clearance process that was still taking place more than a year into Porter’s White House tenure. He did confirm that Porter was operating on an interim security clearance before he resigned.

How much has Hope Hicks been involved?

Shah said Hicks, the White House communications director who has been romantically linked with Porter, “did recuse herself from some matters” concerning the White House’s response to Porter’s exit. He did not deny that Hicks was involved in drafting the White House’s initial statement on Porter, which CNN reported Wednesday.

Hicks did not get Trump’s approval on the White House’s initial statement, in which Kelly called him “a friend, a confidante and a trusted professional,” Vanity Fair reported Thursday.Trevor Noah says his fans should not watch Fox News.

“We seldom engage with Fox News. And, that’s been because, as Trevor, I don’t watch Fox News,” “The Daily Show” host said in an interview with The Hollywood Reporter that was published on Monday.

“I encourage my audience to not watch Fox News,” Noah added. “I don’t think you should put yourself through that.”

Noah also said he wasn’t sure if he’d want to host the White House Correspondents’ Association dinner, given the backlash that fellow comedian and “Daily Show” alum Michelle Wolf endured following her performance at this year’s event.

“I honestly don’t know. I don’t know. Because I think of what the intention is. What am I trying to do? What is the dinner trying to do? What is it for? And, after this dinner, I ask that question even more now,” he said.

Read Noah’s full interview with The Hollywood Reporter here, and check out his latest segment on “The Daily Show” below:Schneider was recognized by the Washington Optimist Club in 2015 with a Friend of the Youth Award, and was cited for his work with the swim team and as a gymnastics coach at Kids in Motion during the award presentation, according to The Washington Missourian.

He was jailed on a $100,000 cash-only bond.Jennifer Garner attends the Baby2Baby Gala in 2017. Axelle/Bauer-Griffin via Getty Images

The Jennifer Garner renaissance is upon us.

With her high-octane action film “Peppermint” in the pipeline, as well as the coming of age film “Love Simon” out next month, the actress is slowly, yet surely returning to the spotlight after years of only sporadically appearing in projects.

Garner is now set to star in a new eight-episode half-hour comedy series for HBO titled “Camping,” which comes from the minds of “Girls” creators Lena Dunham and Jenni Konner, the network announced Thursday.

The series description reads:

Walt’s 45th birthday was supposed to be a delightful weekend back to nature, at least according to his obsessively organized and aggressively controlling wife Kathryn (Garner). But when the camping trip gathers Kathryn’s meek sister, holier than thou ex-best friend and a free-spirited Tagalong in one place, it becomes a weekend of tested marriages and woman on woman crime that won’t soon be forgotten. Plus, bears.

This will be Garner’s first leading live-action role on TV since starring for five seasons in ABC’s “Alias,” for which she won a Golden Globe. She recently lent her voice to Netflix’s animated children’s series, “Llama, Llama.”

Based on the British series of the same name created by Julia Davis, “Camping” will see Garner play Kathryn, which Konner and Dunham describe as a “messy, tough and provocative, and really, really fun” role.

Her character is “a controlling LA mom who is far less cheerful than her Lululemons imply. Kathryn controls the proceedings with an iron grip until she’s faced with a woman who undoes all her best-laid plans.”

Production reportedly is intended to kick off in Los Angeles this spring, while no other casting has been announced yet.

“We love Jennifer’s restraint and comedic timing, and we can’t wait for the warmth and intelligence she’ll bring to our central character, Kathryn. It’s truly a dream to have her first on our call sheet,” Konner and Dunham said in a statement. “Now we just have to write her some stunts.”

AdvertisementA second cast member of the 1980s sitcom “Charles in Charge” has accused actor Scott Baio of abusive behavior.

“I received regular verbal attacks, mental abuse and I also suffered a physical assault at the hands of Scott Baio,” actor Alexander Polinsky, who played Adam Powell on the sitcom, said in a statement to “The Talk.”

Polinsky also said he witnessed Baio “acting inappropriately” toward Nicole Eggert, who has accused the actor of sexually abusing her when she was a minor.

Baio denied Eggert’s allegations, described the set as a “picnic” and said he was never alone with her at work.

However, in his statement, Polinsky said:

“Working on the set of ‘Charles in Charge’ from age 11 to 15 was no picnic. It was a toxic environment. I witnessed Scott Baio acting inappropriately towards Nicole Eggert during my first year of working on the show. I walked in on them together behind the set. Nicole was on Scott’s lap and he did not appreciate my intrusion. He yelled at me and called me various homophobic slurs.”

Baio, who admitted to having sex with Eggert when she was past the age of 18, has not yet responded to the new allegations.

Eggert said on “The Talk” that Polinsky joined her when she filed a police report against Baio on Tuesday and filed a report of his own. She said that she would have been 14 during Polinsky’s first year on the show when he walked in on her with Baio.

Eggert also claimed 10 witnesses have made statements in support.

“I want him to admit it,” she said. “The sooner you come clean, the sooner it goes away and you can move on with your life.”.@jaketapper: I just wanted to once again note a further erosion of standards for what I thought we had agreed was not okay, not acceptable, and not moral.



Another moment where the White House is not considered a place of the highest standards. https://t.co/yCg4imMsHZ pic.twitter.com/GzQ97KMuwN — The Lead CNN (@TheLeadCNN) February 7, 2018

CNN’s Jake Tapper took a moment during his Wednesday show to remind audiences that President Donald Trump was once again further eroding “basic lines of human decency.”

Tapper was responding to news that White House staff secretary Rob Porter had resigned after reports surfaced that he allegedly physically abused his two ex-wives.

Porter has denied the allegations, and the Trump White House has continued to issue its support for the former staffer and praise his character. CNN also reported that the White House was aware of the accusations and still, chief of staff John Kelly begged Porter not to resign.

“There are basic lines of human decency, norms to which society generally agrees and to which we adhere, and we continue to see the Trump presidency eroding these lines,” Tapper said. “I just wanted to once again note a further erosion of standards for what I thought we had agreed was not OK, not acceptable, and not moral.”

Tapper recalled how Trump had equated the neo-Nazis and white supremacists who rallied in Charlottesville, Virginia, last summer with the demonstrators who showed up to protest their racism and anti-Semitism. He also mentioned Trump’s continued support for Alabama’s former Senate candidate, Roy Moore, whom multiple women accused of pursuing and, in some cases, assaulting them when they were teenagers and he was in his 30s.

“White supremacist rallies, child molesters, domestic abusers ― another moment where the White House is sadly no longer considered a place of the highest standards in the land but rather a place where our national standards are being degraded,” Tapper said.Comedy show hosts Stephen Colbert and John Oliver have a message for President Donald Trump.

At least some of Trump’s attorneys are reportedly urging him not to speak with special counsel Robert Mueller, lest he get caught up in a lie.

But the two are urging the president to take a different approach.The Kansas Senate passed a resolution this week declaring pornography a public health crisis that promotes violence against women and sexually deviant children, among other societal harms.

But Senate Resolution 1762, sponsored in part by Republican Sen. Mary Pilcher-Cook, uses fake science to draw misleading and false conclusions about porn. Much of the language is ripped right out of a similar resolution passed by Utah last year ― one that was debunked by the very scientists it references.

Resolutions are little more than declarations and have no immediate bearing on the law, but they aim to guide state spending. Given that Kansas’ House and Senate now blame pornography for some of the state’s worst societal problems, Democrats are worried that the legislature is fighting the wrong enemy and turning its back on real health issues.

“The creation of a hazard where one does not exist could funnel precious funding toward what is indeed not a health crisis, when we really need those dollars for true health crises,” said Sen. David Haley (D), one of four who voted against the measure.

Indeed, both states have real public crises to focus on. Utah ranks among the worst states in child sex abuse, per-student education spending, and clean air. Kansas, meanwhile, is the nation’s top hotbed for the flu, and separately, hasn’t exactly shown itself to be a champion of its children.

A Kansas City Star investigation last year revealed that the state Department of Children and Families has been hiding cases of child abuse from public review and telling its workers to “shred notes taken in meetings where a child death or injury was discussed.” While the state hasn’t proven that pornography is hurting its children, secrecy at the state level is literally “killing” them, the DCF’s former deputy director told the Star.

The recently passed resolution makes some bold claims:

WHEREAS, Pornography is creating a public health crisis and perpetuates a sexually toxic environment

WHEREAS, Pornography use is linked to lessened desire in young men and women to marry, dissatisfaction in marriage and infidelity, which has a detrimental effect on the family unit

WHEREAS, Exposure to pornography often serves as a child’s and a teen’s sex education and shapes their sexual understanding, because pornography treats women and children as objects and commodities for the viewer’s use

Moreover, pornography equates violence towards women and children with sex, and equates pain with pleasure, which increases child sexual abuse and child pornography and the demand for sex trafficking and prostitution

It’s easy to make claims like these when the scientific studies you lean on aren’t studies at all.

For example, a “2016 Barna Group study” referenced in the measure as evidence of childhood pornography consumption is actually a series of online surveys funded by the evangelical Christian church. It is objectively “not science,” said Dr. Nicole Prause, a sexual psychophysiologist who has more than a decade of research in addiction, sexual desire, erectile dysfunction and sexual problems.

The Utah Senate attributed its measure to a report by the National Center on Sexual Exploitation (NCSE), a known anti-porn group, claiming that pornography leads to adolescents viewing women as sex objects, supports violence against women and promotes unprotected, dangerous sex. But the NCSE got its own damning evidence from a review of literature ― not a peer-reviewed study ― that clearly states it “failed to indicate conclusive results” and found no causal relationship between porn and problems like those mentioned.

The resolution also draws heavily ― sometimes word-for-word ― from a similar Utah resolution that a HuffPost investigation revealed to be misleading, and in some cases, downright false.

It’s easy for lawmakers to fall for misleading information about pornography because there is some truth therein. Utah’s resolution, for instance, argues that porn is dangerously addictive because it triggers reward centers in the brain.

“It’s true — pornography does that,” Dr. Prause said previously. “It’s also true with images of chocolate and images of puppies. You don’t see puppies being declared a public health hazard. These sex addiction studies are relying on ignorance, claiming that pornography is the same thing as cocaine and hoping you don’t know any different.”

What’s troubling is that bad science has now led two states to turn their gaze ― and their states’ wallets ― toward a nonissue.

“Many of us recognize pornography leaves tragedy in its wake,” Sen. Pilcher-Cook told the Topeka Capital-Journal. “There is no political ideology here regarding this subject. Pornography exploits and humiliates those being used and it dehumanizes the user at the same time.” She didn’t return calls for comment from HuffPost.

Sen. Haley figures that pornography was an easy scapegoat ― even if voting to make it a top-tier issue has dangerous implications.Is the new “Spider-Man” franchise just a little too cutesy for you? Do you like your heroes (or anti-heroes, for that matter) on the dark side? Are we as a culture ready to forgive Topher Grace?

Well, then behold the first look at Sony’s upcoming “Venom” film starring Tom Hardy, which dropped its first teaser trailer on Thursday. Helmed by “Zombieland” director Ruben Fleischer, the comic book adaptation will bring Eddie Brock to the big screen once again.

Sony

The first entry in Sony’s planned spinoff Spider-villains universe, “Venom,” exists as a stand-alone film from the recent “Spider-Man: Homecoming,” but fans are still hoping that the two worlds will one day collide.

While the nearly two-minute clip doesn’t give a look at Hardy as the deadly alien symbiote, it’s clear that Brock is at least battling some demons. He spends most of the trailer inside of an MRI machine until, of course, he freaks out as what looks like black goo runs through his veins.

“You used to be one thing, now you’re something else,” he says in the trailer.

The film reportedly is inspired from the “Venom: Lethal Protector” and “Planet of the Symbiotes” comic arcs, and picks up with Brock as a reporter in San Francisco investigating the mysterious The Life Foundation.

“I give you my word of honor that I’m going to do everything that I can to deliver the best Venom that I possibly can muster,” Hardy promised fans at a Comic Con event earlier this year.

The film also stars Riz Ahmed, Michelle Williams, Jenny Slate, Scott Haze, and Reid Scott.Comedian Patton Oswalt and actress Meredith Salenger wed in November last year, and Oswalt is sharing some heartwarming details from the big day.

In an interview with Us Weekly, Oswalt described his favorite moment during the wedding, which involved his daughter, Alice.

“My favorite moment was when I was standing up at the altar and my daughter came down the aisle — she was a flower girl. And she just spontaneously gave me this huge hug,” Oswalt told the magazine. “It was like, we’re safe now. Things are OK. I almost started crying. I was so happy the way that she held me. Like, things are OK now. It felt amazing. That moment.”

Oswalt and Salenger went public with their relationship in June, about one year after the comedian’s wife Michelle McNamara, Alice’s mother, died suddenly in her sleep. Oswalt later revealed McNamara had died from a combination of prescription medications and an undiagnosed heart condition.

A post shared by Patton Oswalt (@balvenieboy) on Nov 5, 2017 at 8:19am PST

Oswalt has spoken with gut-wrenching candor about losing his wife, who was a true crime author. He also shared how Salenger has taken on the role of being Alice’s “amazing” stepmom.

“She’s just an example of the kind of woman I want Alice to grow up to be,” Oswalt told Us Weekly. “You can be a good mom but not be [the] kind of thing that you want a kid to emulate. And Meredith is both.”

AdvertisementBOGOTA, Feb 8 (Thomson Reuters Foundation) - Gay people in Ecuador are forced to undergo “conversion therapy” in secret clinics where they are raped and beaten, even though homosexuality is legal, said campaigners calling for courts to deliver justice to end more than a decade of abuse.

Scores of unlicensed rehabilitation clinics in the Andean nation offer illegal “treatments” for gay people based on the idea that homosexuality is a mental illness that needs to be “cured,” local rights groups said.

“Corrective therapy, in mostly private and clandestine alcohol and drug addiction clinics, continues in Ecuador,” said Cayetana Salao, of Taller de Comunicacion Mujer, a lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender (LGBT) rights group.

“It’s a reality.”

Ecuador’s health ministry said no “conversion therapy” was found in the more than 60 clinics it has shut since mid-2016 for insanitary conditions or operating without a licence.

None of the closures were due to human rights violations, said Maria Jose Espin, head of technical management at the health ministry’s regulatory agency, ACESS.

“We frequently verify with our teams that these types of establishments do not exist, where rights violations can take place,” Espin told the Thomson Reuters Foundation.

“There are no de-homosexualization clinics. They shouldn’t exist,” she said, adding that homosexuality was not a disease.

The World Health Organization (WHO) removed homosexuality from its list of mental illnesses in 1990 but conversion therapy still takes place across the world, from China to South Africa and the United States.

Ecuador, Brazil and Malta are the only countries that have banned the controversial treatment, according to the International Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Trans and Intersex Association (ILGA).

But hate crimes and human rights violations against LGBT people have taken place in more than 100 clinics across Ecuador since 2012, said Salao, a project coordinator, as evangelical groups gain influence in the Catholic-majority nation.

Ecuador legalized homosexuality in 1997 and allowed same-sex civil unions a decade ago.

“TORTURE”

Gay people, mostly lesbians, are typically admitted to clinics by their parents or other relatives and held against their will for at least three months, with therapy costing up to $1,500 a month, campaigners say.

Taller de Comunicacion Mujer documented testimonies of four victims who said they were locked up against their will and underwent conversion therapy from 2014 to 2016.

This included psychological and physical abuse - beatings, solitary confinement, being chained to a bed for days, force-feeding of medicine and being made to wear makeup and high heels.

Victims also reported “corrective rape” by fellow patients and staff with the aim of changing their sexual orientation.

“A morbid creativity for torture exists,” said Ane Barragan, coordinator at Causana Foundation, which has been campaigning to stop conversion therapy for more than a decade.

About 200 unlicensed clinics are operating across Ecuador, rights groups estimate.

“No one regulates or monitors them,” said Barragan.

The Pan American Health Organization, the WHO’s regional office, said in 2011 that conversion therapy was “a serious threat to the health and well-being of affected people.”

But the Catholic Church and most Christian evangelicals view homosexuality as a sin and say sex should only take place in marriage between a man and a woman.

ECONOMIC INTERESTS

State prosecutors have investigated six cases involving alleged human rights violations against LGBT people in rehabilitation clinics since 2012, Salao said.

“No one has been found guilty or punished,” she said.

“We call on the judiciary to move these cases forward and hold those people responsible to account.”

Carina Vance, Ecuador’s former health minister who is openly gay and spearheaded a crackdown on the clinics, said she has no doubt that conversion therapy continues in the country.

Vance said police and prosecutors carried out 116 raids during her tenure as health minister from 2012 to 2015, resulting in the closure of more than 100 clinics.

But some received tip-offs and many re-opened under different names within months of being closed, Vance said.

“This business is very lucrative,” said Vance, who now heads the South American Institute of Government in Health (ISAGS), a regional health think tank.

“These clinics have a lot of power, there are a lot of economic interests behind this.”

Although Ecuador passed a law in 2016 allowing people to choose their preferred gender on their identity cards and its first transgender lawmaker took office last year, socially conservative attitudes are entrenched, she said.

“There are families using these so-called services and this has to do with a prevalent, a very homophobic ... a sexist society,” Vance said.

“Cultural change is very difficult to produce.” (Reporting by Anastasia Moloney @anastasiabogota, Editing by Katy Migiro. Please credit the Thomson Reuters Foundation, the charitable arm of Thomson Reuters, that covers humanitarian news, women’s rights, trafficking, property rights, climate change and resilience. Visit news.trust.org)