SEOUL/TOKYO (Reuters) - U.S. Vice President Mike Pence vowed tough new sanctions against North Korea and called it the world’s most tyrannical regime on Wednesday, two days before he is due to attend the winter Olympics, along with two of the North’s most senior officials.

Speaking in Tokyo on his way to South Korea, which is hosting the Games over the next three weeks, Pence said he would soon announce the stepped-up sanctions in an effort to pressure the North to abandon its nuclear and missile programs.

The Games, being staged 80 km (50 miles) from the heavily militarized border between the two Koreas, is set for an awkward political encounter, with Pence as well as the North Korean leader’s younger sister attending Friday’s opening ceremony.

South Korea wants to use the event to re-engage with the North and pave the way for talks to resolve a political crisis widely regarded as one of the world’s most dangerous, with U.S. President Donald Trump and Pyongyang swapping nuclear threats.

“I’m announcing today the United States of America will soon unveil the toughest and most aggressive round of economic sanctions on North Korea ever,” Pence said after meeting Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe.

“We will continue to isolate North Korea until it abandons its nuclear and ballistic missile program once and for all.”

Washington is taking a much tougher line on the North than its allies in Seoul, exposing tensions that South Korean President Moon Jae-in could struggle to conceal at the Olympics.

Pence has voiced scepticism that the North, which is participating in the Games, will use the event for crude propaganda. As his guest at the opening ceremony, he is taking the father of Otto Warmbier, an American student who died last year after being imprisoned in North Korea for 17 months.

Sitting in the same stadium as VIP guests will be Kim Yo Jong, 28-year-old sister of North Korean leader Kim Jong Un, and Kim Yong Nam, the North’s nominal head of state.

Japan’s Abe, whose nation has been within range of North Korean missiles for decades, will also attend the ceremony.

Kim Yo Jong would be the first member of the Kim family to cross the border to the South. She is a propaganda official and was blacklisted last year by the U.S. Treasury Department over alleged human rights abuses and censorship.

“It shows the North’s resolve to defuse tension on the Korean peninsula,” Blue House spokesman Kim Eui-kyeom told a news briefing.

Pence has not ruled out the prospect of meeting North Korean officials during the Olympics but President Trump has cast doubt on U.S. negotiations with Pyongyang any time soon.

“We will not allow North Korea to hide behind the Olympic banner the reality that they enslave their people and threaten the wider region,” Pence said.

The White House has also cautioned against reading too much into remarks Pence made en route to Japan.

During his visit to Japan, Pence visited a Patriot PAC-3 missile battery, Japan’s last line of defense against any possible North Korean missile strike.

North Korea test-fired ballistic missiles over Japan last year, as well as a new type of intercontinental ballistic missile that climbed to an altitude of more than 4,000 km (2,485 miles) before splashing into Japanese waters.

Abe said he and Pence had agreed in talks that they could “never accept a nuclear-armed North Korea”.

Also on Wednesday, a group of 280 North Koreans arrived in South Korea, one of the largest peacetime crossings of the inter-Korean border, to spur on athletes from the two sides at the Winter Olympics.

The group included a 229-member cheer squad as well as taekwondo performers, journalists and four North Korean Olympics committee members, including the sports minister.

On Tuesday, a ferry carrying a North Korean orchestra arrived for the Games. Since it docked, North Korea has asked the South to provide oil for refueling.Days after Sen. Kirsten Gillibrand (D-N.Y.) called for the Justice Department to investigate the U.S. Olympic Committee over disgraced former USA Gymnastics team doctor Larry Nassar, two more senators moved to establish a special committee to determine whether officials could have done more to stop years of sexual abuse.

Sen. Jeanne Shaheen (D-N.H.) and Sen. Joni Ernst (R-Iowa) announced their plan to introduce a resolution on Wednesday to establish a special committee with the sole purpose of investigating USOC and USA Gymnastics to learn if officials could have done more to stop Nassar. CNN was first to report the news of the resolution on Tuesday evening.

Last week, Shaheen and Ernst called for USOC CEO Scott Blackmun to resign over reports that the organization was notified in September 2015 that Nassar was abusing patients, but did not take steps to stop it.

More than 260 young women and girls have accused Nassar of sexually abusing them, including Olympic medalists Aly Raisman, Simone Biles, Gabby Douglas and McKayla Maroney. Survivors, including Raisman, have said USA Gymnastics did not take action when they came forward with accusations of abuse.

“Neither USA Gymnastics nor the USOC have reached out to express sympathy or even offer support,” Raisman said during her testimony at Nassar’s sentencing last month. “Not even to ask, how did this happen? What do you think we can do to help? Why have I and others here probably not heard anything from the leadership from the USOC? Why has the United States Olympic Committee been silent? Why isn’t the USOC here right now?”

In a statement obtained by CNN, Shaheen said, “There are many disturbing questions that remain unanswered as to how Larry Nassar was able to freely abuse young girls for decades. Because the U.S. Olympic Committee operates under a federal charter and its athletes compete under the American flag, the Senate has a responsibility to deliver answers and accountability.”

Shaheen requested that the Senate form a select committee last month to investigate USOC before the Winter Olympics begin in Pyeongchang, South Korea, later this week.White House press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders insists that President Donald Trump’s calling of certain Democrats “ treasonous ” during a speech on Monday was just “a joke.”

So on Tuesday, “The Daily Show with Trevor Noah” used Twitter to suggest other “jokes” that Trump may decide to deliver — and how the media may subsequently cover his remarks.Milo Ventimiglia, “This Is Us” star and possibly the best TV dad ever, visited “The Ellen DeGeneres Show” and talked about viewers’ reactions to finally seeing how his character, Jack, died. The episode of This Is Us implied that a slow cooker sparked the fire that killed Jack. So fans turned their ire toward Crock-Pot.

When Ellen asked if the device that killed Jack was a Crock-Pot, Ventimiglia corrected her by saying, “Slow cooker … I own a Crock-Pot; I love Crock-Pot.”

He added, “I think there was a lot of misdirected hate at Crock-Pot as opposed to a faulty slow-cooker.”

To help quell the backlash, Ventimiglia and “This Is Us” created a short ad that showed Ventimiglia awkwardly ladling chili from a Crock-Pot into a paper bowl and featured the hashtag #CrockPotIsInnocent.

Watch the full clip here.

Read more from Yahoo Entertainment:State funds were used to keep parks such as Bryce Canyon National Park, Utah, open during the 2013 shutdown. States spent tens of thousands to keep parks open but never got all their money back. Alex Menendez via AP

By Rebecca Beitsch

When Utah shelled out nearly $2 million to keep its national parks open during the federal government’s two-week shutdown in 2013, state leaders thought the federal government would pay them back all the money once it reopened. It didn’t.

The states of Arizona, Colorado, New York, South Dakota and Tennessee also got stiffed — despite efforts by their congressional delegations to get all the money returned.

“We still haven’t been paid back,” said Utah state Rep. Ken Ivory, a Republican who years later sponsored a measure to encourage the federal government to pay back the state after the 2013 shutdown. “It was about $2 million, and they paid us about $1 million and then forgot about us.”

In January, Congress’ inaction on a spending bill forced another brief shutdown. Arizona wired nearly $188,000 to the Department of the Interior to keep the Grand Canyon open for a week, though ultimately just one day’s worth of the money was needed. Similarly New York agreed to spend about $65,000 a day to keep the Statue of Liberty alight.

As Congress stares down yet another deadline Thursday, state leaders once again may have to decide whether to open their own wallets to protect their local tourism industries.

Despite the uncertainty of being reimbursed, some of them undoubtedly will grit their teeth and pay up.

“It has a tremendous economic impact in terms of tourism and revenue, and we are willing to do what it takes to keep the gates open,” said Patrick Ptak, a spokesman for Arizona Gov. Doug Ducey, a Republican.

The federal government reimburses states for money they spend during shutdowns on state-administered federal programs, such as Medicaid.

But in 2013, states signed special donation agreements with the National Park Service. Under the deals, any unused money would be returned to the states. To get all of their money back, however, states would have to rely on Congress to authorize repayment.

Nevertheless, in 2013 when Utah tapped into state park money and wired it to the federal government, it was “with the understanding, we thought, that that money would be refunded once the federal government came back into operation,” said Fred Hayes, director of Utah’s Division of Parks and Recreation.

Utah paid nearly $1.7 million in 2013 to keep open its five national parks in the state’s tourism-reliant southern region. The federal government paid back the state about $666,000.

When the balance hadn’t been reimbursed two years later, the states’ congressional delegations sponsored legislation that would have returned a total of $2 million to the six states that made payments to keep parks open.

“It’s only fair and right for the state to be reimbursed for picking up the federal government’s slack,” Republican U.S. Sen. Orrin Hatch of Utah said at the time.

Neither bill got out of committee.

But Ptak, the Arizona governor’s spokesman, said recently that the state didn’t hesitate to send money during last month’s brief shutdown and has been coordinating with the park service regarding the possibility of another one. Arizona wired $651,000 to keep the Grand Canyon open in 2013; just $186,000 in unused money was returned.

The sentiment is similar in Utah, which didn’t send anything for the January shutdown. State leaders say they don’t regret spending state dollars in 2013, though, and would do so again.

“You can worry yourself to death, but that’s not going to make the money come back,” Hayes said. “Small businesses in these gateway communities are all mom and pop operations, not franchises that can just move money around.”

“Pop is making the coffee, and mom is serving it. So to tell those folks ‘Sorry, we can’t help you’ is not an option.”

Bryce Canyon City, Utah, located just outside Bryce Canyon National Park, was one of the communities helped by the state’s spending. The economy of the town of 200 full-time residents is centered on Ruby’s Inn, established in 1916, and descendants of the founding hotelier essentially run the town.

The mayor, Shiloh Syrett, is Ruby’s great-grandson and is also related to each of the five members of the City Council. He’s also an accountant at the hotel, which employs 300 to 400 workers during the tourist season. A big dip in visitors could mean layoffs.

“Most of our tourism is foreign-based, so people pay a lot of money to get over here and go to Bryce Canyon National Park, so that can be devastating for them,” Syrett said. “I definitely feel like the state’s looking out for their best interests because tourism is a big part of state revenue. I’m sure they’d do it again if they had to.”

Ivory, the Utah state representative, said states have little choice.A West Virginia legislative committee has advanced a resolution that would amend the state’s constitution to restrict abortion rights.

The measure, which requires two-thirds approval by both the state Senate and House, as well as a voter referendum, moved forward on Monday after the state Senate Judiciary Committee approved it, West Virginia’s Metro News reported.

The proposed amendment, introduced on Thursday, would assert that “Nothing in this constitution secures or protects a right to abortion or requires the funding of an abortion.

“The people retain the right through their elected state representatives and State Senators to enact, amend, or repeal statutes regarding abortion, including, but not limited to, circumstances of pregnancy resulting from rape or incest or when necessary to save the life of the mother.”

The state Capitol building in Charleston, West Virginia. Lawmakers are reviewing a bill that would amend the constitution to remove the right to abortions. The Washington Post via Getty Images

The U.S. Supreme Court ruled in the landmark Roe v. Wade decision of 1973 that the 14th Amendment gave women a constitutional right to an abortion.

The language in West Virginia’s bill is the same as Tennessee used in a 2014 amendment removing the right to abortion from its constitution. Opponents of that measure challenged the state’s method of vote counting, but an appeals court last month upheld its passage, the Tennesseean reported.

This isn’t the only legislative act under review that could change abortion laws in West Virginia, which currently has only one abortion clinic. A bill that the state’s House of Delegates is reviewing would eliminate Medicaid funding for abortions except for cases where the pregnancy jeopardizes the life of the mother.

That bill, which was introduced last month, follows months of scrutiny by conservative lawmakers over Medicaid funding of abortions in the state. The state’s number of Medicaid-funded abortions more than tripled over the last five years, West Virginia Metro News reported, while abortions nationwide are otherwise at their lowest rate since Roe v. Wade.

“Help the young who don’t want and can’t care for a child that is thrown into their lives."”

Critics of the bill have stressed that those who are too poor to afford an abortion without state help are also too poor to raise a child.

Marquita L. Hutchens, rector of St. John’s Episcopal Church in Charleston, West Virginia, urged lawmakers to turn their attention toward fighting unemployment, low education and drug addition instead.

“Help the young who don’t want and can’t care for a child that is thrown into their lives,” Hutchens told lawmakers, according to The Associated Press. “Help them get the time to become educated, to become good citizens of West Virginia, to stay in West Virginia so that they can find good jobs and be productive in their states. Do not beat the poor into the ground, but build them up.”Several women have accused Oregon state Sen. Jeff Kruse (R) of groping them. Oregon State Legislature/Facebook

Oregon State Sen. Jeff Kruse (R) repeatedly groped women ― sometimes while on the Senate floor or in the governor’s office ― despite repeated warnings, according to an independent investigation.

The 51-page report, compiled by employment law attorney Dian Rubanoff and released Tuesday, found Kruse subjected two female lawmakers and many other women to unwanted touching and “lingering” hugs.

The 66-year-old Republican legislator engaged in a “longstanding pattern ... of unwelcome physical contact” toward women in the workplace, including State Sens. Sara Gelser (D) and Elizabeth Steiner Hayward (D).

“The evidence ... shows that he has engaged in a pattern of placing his hands on women in the workplace below their waists, or touching his head to their heads, whereas the evidence indicates that he does not do this with males in the workplace,” according to the report.

Gelser accused Kruse of once placing “both his hands on the front of her shoulders with the palm of each hand resting on or near her breasts” while on the Senate floor in 2016, according to the report. On another occasion, Gelser told Rubanoff that Kruse “wrapped his left arm around her shoulder with his fingers extending down toward her breast, and placed his right hand on her thigh with his fingers under the hem of her skirt.”

Members of the state legislature’s counsel and human resources department advised Kruse in 2016 to stop hugging his female colleagues and “keep an an arms’ length distance from them,” according the report. But Kruse’s inappropriate behavior only escalated.

“It was not lack of respect for her – just falling back into old patterns. When you have been doing something for 67 years it’s not easy to change.” - Oregon State Sen. Jeff Kruse (R) to employment law attorney Dian Rubanoff

Steiner Hayward repeatedly told Kruse in 2016 and 2017 that his physical contact with her was unwelcome, according to the report. After Steiner Hayward rejected Kruse’s attempt to kiss her hand during an October 2017 meeting in her office, Kruse defended his behavior.

“I’m just a hugger,” Kruse allegedly told Steiner Hayward. “It’s not as if I want to have sex with you. ... I don’t see why this is such a big deal.”

Kruse also engaged in “offensive behavior” toward two law students who were assigned to his office in 2017, and “cupped” the buttocks of a young female lobbyist at an event at the governor’s office, according to the report.

One law student told Rubanoff that Kruse often called her “little girl” and “sexy.” When another staff member flirted with her, Kruse said, “You are pretty, so that can happen,” according to the report.

“My behavior has not changed as fast as it should have,” Kruse told Rubanoff when asked about his interactions with Steiner Hayward. “It was not lack of respect for her ― just falling back into old patterns. When you have been doing something for 67 years it’s not easy to change.”

A representative for Kruse did not immediately respond to HuffPost’s request for comment.

Gov. Kate Brown (D), state House Speaker Tina Kotek (D) and several Republican state legislators have called on Kruse to resign in light of the allegations.

“Senator Kruse’s behavior is not acceptable in the Capitol or any workplace, and he should step down,” Brown said Wednesday in a statement to HuffPost. “The legislature must immediately take steps to ensure that every person who walks into Oregon’s Capitol is safe and respected.”

The people of Oregon and the women who work in the Capitol deserve better. Senator Jeff Kruse should resign. #orpol #orleg — Tina Kotek (@TinaKotek) February 7, 2018

The first public accusations of sexual harassment against Kruse were reported in October, as the #MeToo movement gained momentum. Gelser told The Oregonian that Kruse had sexually harassed her for years, and accused him of touching her breast and thigh at the State Capitol.

Kruse acknowledged that he gave Gelser side hugs but said he didn’t find his actions to be inappropriate, according to The News-Review, a publication covering Oregon’s Douglas County.

“I have never done anything that I believe anybody could portray as being sexual,” Kruse told The Oregonian in October.

Rubanoff wrote in her report that she was “concerned” that Kruse could “fall back into old patterns” if he were permitted to continue his work as a state legislator.

“I am also concerned about the message that will be sent to women in the workplace regarding the futility of coming forward if there are not meaningful consequences for [Kruse],” she wrote.

The report is set to be considered by the Senate Conduct Committee during a public hearing on the investigation on Feb. 22.An attorney for a same-sex couple who were denied a wedding cake by a California bakery says they’ll continue to fight after a judge issued a preliminary injunction ruling in the baker’s favor Monday.

Mireya and Eileen Rodriguez-Del Rio first spoke out against Bakersfield’s Tastries Bakery in August, claiming the company’s owner, Cathy Miller, turned them away when they told her they were seeking a wedding cake. At the time, Miller didn’t deny the couple’s claims, stating that her Christian faith “will not allow me to participate in things that I feel are wrong.”

In an eight-page ruling on Monday, Kern County Superior Court Judge David Lampe said Miller could continue to refuse to make wedding cakes for same-sex couples, as such confections were a form of “artistic expression” and “expressive conduct” and therefore protected by the First Amendment.

California’s Department of Fair Housing had been seeking an injunction that would either force Miller to prepare wedding cakes for same-sex couples, or force her to stop selling them entirely.

Lampe denied this request, and said his decision hinged on the fact that Miller had not yet prepared the wedding cake, The Bakersfield Californian reports. It would have been a discriminatory act, however, if the cake had been on display in the shop and Miller had refused to sell it to the Rodriguez-Del Rios.

“The difference here is that the cake in question is not yet baked,” the judge wrote. “The state asks this court to compel Miller to use her talents to design and create a cake she has not yet conceived with the knowledge that her work will be displayed in celebration of a marital union her religion forbids.”

Miller, he added, “provided for an alternative means for potential customers to receive the product they desire through the services of another talent” when she recommended the Rodriguez-Del Rios visit a different bakery.

The next hearing in the case is set for June.

Miller praised Lampe’s ruling, telling The Bakersfield Californian, “I am very happy to serve everything from my cases to anybody. But I cannot be a part of a celebration that goes against my lord and savior.”

Patricia Ziegler-Lopez, who is representing the Rodriguez-Del Rios, told 23 ABC News in a statement that her clients were “disappointed, but not surprised” by the ruling against the preliminary injunction, and stressed, “There is no lawsuit filed yet.”

“Our fight against bigotry and discrimination is only beginning,” she added.

The news comes as the Supreme Court prepares to grapple with a similar, albeit more high-profile, case. This spring, justices are set to rule on the case of Masterpiece Cakeshop v. Colorado Civil Rights Commission, and will decide whether Colorado baker Jack Phillips was illegally discriminating against a same-sex couple when he refused to create a cake for their wedding ceremony.“If a Dream Act were brought to the floor, it would pass immediately, with strong bipartisan support,” Pelosi said. “The Republican moral cowardice must end.”

In September, President Donald Trump rescinded the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program, which allows Dreamers to obtain renewable two-year work permits. He set a six-month deadline for lawmakers to work out a legislative solution, meaning that after March 5, most DACA recipients would start to lose their status and be at risk of deportation.The evangelical Christian organization World Relief held a press conference Wednesday on Capitol Hill. World Relief/Facebook

One hundred evangelical leaders have signed a letter urging President Donald Trump and members of Congress to protect Dreamers, immigrants and refugees.

An online version of the letter had received more than 1,400 signatures by Wednesday afternoon.

In today’s @washingtonpost, top evangelical leaders & local pastors from throughout the US respectfully, prayerfully urge Congress & @POTUS to protect Dreamers, refugees, persecuted Christians & immigrant families seeking reunification



Add your name at https://t.co/NYmfySh70W pic.twitter.com/zZNv8TpYnh — Matthew Soerens (@MatthewSoerens) February 7, 2018

World Relief president Scott Arbeiter reflected on the “Christian calling” to care for the vulnerable and welcome the stranger during a press conference Wednesday on Capitol Hill.

“We believe that our national well-being and compassion for the immigrant and refugee are not mutually exclusive,” Arbeiter said. “We’re... dedicated to prayers for our leaders that they would find wisdom and compassion tethered together. And in that they would lead us into a just and compassionate and a wise legislative answer. The time is now.”

“As Christians, as evangelicals, we stand ready to continue and even increase our commitment to serving the vulnerable as these laws mature,” he added.

“As Christians, as evangelicals, we stand ready to continue and even increase our commitment to serving the vulnerable as these laws mature.” - Scott Arbeiter, World Relief president

The letter avoided expressing support for specific proposals or legislation. Instead, it lists four groups that are of particular concern to these evangelicals: recipients of the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program (also known as Dreamers), refugees, persecuted Christians, and Americans who are waiting to be reunified with close family members living overseas.

Many of the religious leaders at the conference spoke in particular about the plight of DACA recipients, sharing stories about Dreamers who are part of their congregations or church networks. Dr. Eric Costanzo, senior pastor of Oklahoma’s South Tulsa Baptist Church, said during the conference that his church has for years been very “homogenized in our whiteness.” But it has recently diversified and become a spiritual home for many immigrants, refugees and Dreamers.

“We’re at a time right now where it probably seems like many evangelicals and evangelical churches are trying to keep immigrants and refugees at an arm’s length,” Costanzo said during the conference. “And I’m here to say that that’s not true for all evangelicals. And it’s certainly not true for all evangelical churches.”

Costanzo then spoke about the important roles that Dreamers play in American evangelical congregations.

“The Dreamers are being used as leverage and the clock is ticking,” he said. “I believe history will judge us on this. If we fail to do right by these young people, our children and grandchildren will ask us why.”

For the Dreamers, the refugees, immigrants, and for the preservation of families. For decency, for goodness, and for the love of Jesus who compels us. https://t.co/CKoiexgFXm — JenHatmaker (@JenHatmaker) February 7, 2018

In January, the White House proposed a pathway to citizenship for 1.8 million undocumented immigrants who came to the U.S. as children, in exchange for $25 billion for border security, including funding for Trump’s border wall.

Trump also wants to phase out the diversity visa lottery and policies that allow Americans to sponsor certain family members for green cards.

Democrats and even some Republicans in Congress have expressed opposition to the measures Trump has proposed, particularly those that would drastically reduce options for legal immigration.

If a solution isn’t found, DACA recipients could start losing their protection against deportation in large numbers as early as March.

It is a sense of compassion that ought to inform our immigration discussion and immigration policies. — @ThabitiAnyabwil pic.twitter.com/FOxXvIuKGg — World Relief (@WorldRelief) February 7, 2018

The organization reports that fewer than 30,000 refugees were admitted into the U.S. in 2017, compared to more than 99,000 in 2016.

In October, Trump dropped the refugee admission quota to 45,000 for the 2018 fiscal year, an all-time low for the United States’ refugee resettlement program. These cuts come at a time when an unprecedented 65 million people are displaced worldwide, according to the United Nations’ refugee agency.

Trump initially indicated that he would prioritize Christian refugees. In January, World Relief estimated that the number of Christian refugees admitted into the U.S. in 2017 was about 63 percent lower than the number admitted in 2016. In addition, about 80 percent fewer Muslim refugees were admitted during that time.

Jenny Yang, vice president of advocacy and policy for World Relief, pointed out that the Trump administration’s stated desire to help persecuted Christians around the world is “not bearing out in our current refugee resettlement policies.”

“We’re grateful that President Trump recognizes the importance of providing a path to citizenship for Dreamers, but also believe our country can be stronger if we enshrine our values of freedom and democracy in how we welcome the world’s persecuted, as well as treat vulnerable immigrants already here,” she said.

Rami Al-Qassab, at right, hugs his brother after being reunited with his Iraqi refugee mother Amira, left, and siblings after they arrived at Detroit Metro Airport in Romulus, Michigan, Feb. 10, 2017. Rebecca Cook / Reuters

Evangelical leaders and institutions have expressed support for immigrants and refugees in the past, but national surveys indicate that rank-and-file white evangelical Protestants are split about these issues. A Pew Research Center survey found that about 76 percent of white evangelicals were in favor of the travel ban in February 2017. They were also the religious group most likely to oppose granting legal status to Dreamers (34 percent) and favor substantially expanding a wall along the U.S.-Mexico border (65 percent).

Yang suggested that part of the problem may be in the polling, since Pew does not separate out the views of evangelicals of color. She believes this group’s views on immigration differ starkly from those of their white peers.

“I think the church is growing more diverse, but evangelicals of color are not getting attention in terms of their views on immigrants, because they’re perceived to not have political influence,” she said. “I think what the letter today represents is a convergence of opinion, from evangelical leaders across the spectrum, that care for refugees and immigrants is a core part of our Christian faith.”

DACA recipients and supporters watch President Donald Trump during a State of the Union party at the Coalition for Humane Immigrant Rights and the California Dream Network offices in Los Angeles, Jan. 30, 2018. MARK RALSTON via Getty Images

Ruth Velasquez is the co-founder of Voices of Christian Dreamers, an informal network of Christian DACA recipients. Since Trump’s September announcement about the impending end of DACA, Velasquez said, she’s lived in constant fear about losing her job and access to health care and being separated from her family.

My prayer is that the church will welcome the stranger, just as Jesus did. — Ruth Velasquez, Co-founder, Voices of Christian Dreamers, Wheaton, IL pic.twitter.com/7fapJN6bLf — World Relief (@WorldRelief) February 7, 2018

Velasquez co-created Voices of Christian Dreamers to help fellow evangelicals understand the effect that immigration laws have on evangelical church communities.

“Immigration deals with human dignity and family unity. Therefore it’s a Biblical matter and should be of concern to the church,” she said during Wednesday’s press conference. “Jesus calls us to love our neighbor. He didn’t say to love our neighbor because they can contribute to the economy or because they have a college degree or because it was not their fault. He simply said to love your neighbor.”Jada Pinkett Smith and her kin are confronting real issues on the web series “Red Table Talk” and this week, an admission from her daughter, Willow Smith, left her shocked.

On the latest episode about surviving loss, the now-17-year-old revealed that after the release of her hit single “Whip My Hair” in 2010, she “plunged into this black hole” and started to self-harm.

“I feel like I lost my sanity at one point,” she told the “Girls Trip” star and her grandmother Adrienne Banfield-Jones. “It was after that whole ‘Whip My Hair’ thing and I had just stopped doing singing lessons and I kind was in this gray area of: Who am I? Do I have a purpose? Is there anything I can do besides this?”

“I was cutting myself and doing crazy things,” she added.

Smith went on tour after the single dropped, but refused to finish an entire album despite interest from the record label. “Whip My Hair,” in case you forgot, went platinum and dominated the charts for weeks, but Smith, who was around 10 years old at the time, chose to back away from the spotlight.

During that period is when Smith says she “totally lost my sanity for a moment” and retreated into herself, never sharing her struggle with her family.

“I had no idea,” a stunned Pinkett Smith told her daughter as she teared up. “I never saw any signs of that.”

Willow has been open about the toll child stardom had on her mental health in a candid interview with Girlgaze last year, describing fame as an “absolutely, excruciatingly terrible” ordeal. Her parents’ careers didn’t help matters.

Jada Pinkett Smith, Will Smith and Willow Smith pictured together in 2012. Robin Marchant via Getty Images

“The only way to get over it, is to go into it. You can’t change your face. You can’t change your parents,” she told the outlet. “When you’re born into it, there are two choices that you have; I’m either going to try to go into it completely and help from the inside, or ... no one is going to know where I am ... and I’m really going to take myself completely out of the eye of society. There’s really no in-between.”

Smith would later return to music, having since released two albums, “Ardipithecus” and “The 1st,” and has even performed a revamped version of her debut single.

“I never talk about it because it was such a short, weird point in my life,” Willow said on the web series, reflecting on her tumultuous preteen years. “But you have to pull yourself out of it.”Debra Tate, the sister of the late Sharon Tate, is not a fan of an upcoming film about the actress’ murder, calling the movie “classless” and “exploitative.”

Debra Tate, sister of actress Sharon Tate, reacts after convicted mass murderer Charles Manson was denied parole at his 12th parole hearing in 2012. GUS RUELAS / Reuters

Hilary Duff is playing the title character in “The Haunting of Sharon Tate,” she announced on Instagram Tuesday.

A post shared by Hilary Duff (@hilaryduff) on Feb 6, 2018 at 10:22am PST

“Had the incredible opportunity of playing Sharon Tate the past two weeks in an independent movie. She was an amazing woman and it was a true honor,” Duff, 30, wrote on Instagram. The caption accompanied a photo of Duff made up to look like the actress who was hideously murdered by members of the Manson Family cult in 1969.

Sharon Tate. Herbert Dorfman via Getty Images

“It doesn’t matter who it is acting in it – it’s just tasteless,” Debra Tate told People Wednesday. “It’s classless how everyone is rushing to release something for the 50th anniversary of this horrific event.”

Sharon Tate, who was the wife of director Roman Polanski, was stabbed to death in her home by members of the cult when she was 26 years old. She was pregnant at the time of her gruesome death and was due to give birth in two weeks.

According to Deadline, the plot of the psychological horror film stems from a quote attributed to Tate from a year before her death. She reportedly told an interviewer that she had a premonition in a dream that she and her boyfriend at the time, Jay Sebring, were going to have their throats slit.

Debra Tate, who was 16 at the time of her sister’s death, told People that this quote is a fabrication.Democrats on Capitol Hill are urging the Labor Department to ditch a contentious proposal that would make it easier for restaurant owners to redistribute or keep their employees’ tips.

In a letter Tuesday to Labor Secretary Alex Acosta, 24 Senate Democrats said the agency needed to bail on the measure because officials “concealed evidence from the public” projecting a significant loss in money for millions of tipped employees across the country.

The Labor Department “is forcing through a regulation that would take money out of the pockets of low-wage workers and, even worse, it covered up the potentially catastrophic impacts from workers and advocates,” the senators wrote.

They called it “a stark example of how far the Trump Administration is willing to go to appease business interests at the expense of working families.”

Last week, Bloomberg BNA’s Ben Penn reported that Labor Department leaders had suppressed an internal analysis showing workers could lose billions of dollars in tips if the agency enacted the rule as proposed. The officials directed staffers to tweak their methodology so that the projections wouldn’t be so alarming, according to Penn.

The revelations have whipped up Democratic opposition to a proposal that was already controversial and appears to have little support outside of the restaurant industry.

In 2011, the Labor Department under then-President Barack Obama instituted a regulation limiting the scenarios in which restaurants can force employees to share their tips with colleagues. The proposal from Trump’s Labor Department would do away with that rule so that management could do as it pleases with servers’ and bartenders’ tips so long as they are paid a full minimum wage before gratuities.

The restaurant lobby says it wants the Trump administration to change the law so that restaurants can run “tip pools,” having servers and bartenders share their gratuities with back-of-the-house workers like cooks and dishwashers, who normally don’t get tips. But the way officials crafted the new proposal, there’s nothing to stop a restaurant owner from keeping a portion or all of a worker’s tips without distributing them to the other workers.

When federal agencies release a major rule like this one, they typically put out a study showing what its economic effects would be. The Labor Department did not do that in this case. Sen. Patty Murray (Wash.), the ranking Democrat on the Senate labor committee who spearheaded Tuesday’s letter, said she requested an analysis when the Labor Department released the proposal late last year but still hasn’t heard anything back.

The Labor Department has already carried out a 60-day comment period on the proposal, allowing stakeholders and members of the public to weigh in on the policy. The comments posted on the regulations.gov website ― many of them clearly copy-and-pasted form letters ― appear to overwhelmingly oppose the measure. Under the normal protocol, officials would now consider those comments as they tweaked the proposal before finalizing it.

In their letter Tuesday, the Democrats said the proposal runs counter to the Labor Department’s very own mission statement: “To foster, promote and develop the welfare of wage earners.”Seth Meyers is getting the (spoof) scoop on what’s really going on inside President Donald Trump’s administration.

On Tuesday’s broadcast of “Late Night,” the host pretended to lob questions at White House press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders during a briefing — and then edited in her somewhat candid responses.

Sanders dished on Trump’s thoughts about marriage, what first lady Melania Trump really wants for her birthday, and Special Counsel Robert Mueller’s investigation into possible ties between Trump’s campaign and Russia’s election meddling.

There was also a guest appearance from the White House doctor, Ronny Jackson.White House press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders also offered praise.

“Rob Porter has been effective in his role as Staff Secretary,” Sanders said in her statement. “The President and Chief of Staff have full confidence in his abilities and his performance.”

In a second statement released later on Wednesday, Kelly said that he was “shocked” by the domestic abuse reports but that he would “stand by” his praise of Porter.

“I was shocked by the new allegations released today against Rob Porter,” Kelly said. “There is no place for domestic violence in our society. I stand by my previous comments of the Rob Porter that I have come to know since becoming Chief of Staff, and believe every individual deserves the right to defend their reputation.”

Last October, Kelly suggested it was a problem that women were no longer being treated as “sacred” beings.Reimar Gaertner/UIG via Getty Images

Teachers in West Virginia are facing a battle over their paychecks as insurance hikes threaten to outpace raises ― leading to a virtual pay cut.

As a measure to provide raises for teachers lingers in the state’s House of Delegates, one lawmaker admonished his colleagues for spending more time this week discussing issues relating to “turkey breasts, opossums, crows, trout and deer” in West Virginia than cries for help from its educators.

“Ladies and gentlemen, we’re about one-third of the way through this legislative session,” Del. Mike Caputo (D) said. “We’ve got galleries full of people who are worried about their livelihood, and we spent 20 minutes talking about opossums.”

On Monday, the West Virginia House passed a bill making it a crime for hunters to waste game by leaving carcasses behind or only taking trophies, such as antlers. Over in the Senate, lawmakers talked about legalizing an unusual method of catfishing called “noodling,” which involves plunging one’s arms into a stream and hauling a fish to shore after it latches on.

“We’re talking about 9 million issues that don’t protect the livelihood of the people we should be protecting,” Caputo said.

Hundreds of teachers from a handful of the state’s southernmost counties skipped work Friday ― closing schools in their districts ― to appear at the state capital in Charleston. They hoped to send a message to lawmakers in the Senate who were voting that day on a bill to provide 1 percent raises for teachers over five years. (Individual districts are free to increase pay further if they so choose.) That comes out to around $400 per year, but critics say it’s not enough to match changes in insurance premiums, slated to go into effect July 1.

The outcry led Gov. Jim Justice (R) on Tuesday to ask the Public Employees Insurance Agency, which provides insurance to public school districts, to freeze premiums for the upcoming fiscal year. The move would allow for more input from enrollees and lawmakers on the changes that were originally approved in December.

Asked whether this decision changes anything for the state’s teachers, Kym Randolph, a spokeswoman for the West Virginia Education Association, had a simple answer: “No.”

“They want to kick the can down the road so they don’t have to make a tough decision in an election year,” Randolph said.

Lawmakers aren’t going far enough to provide teachers the pay raises they need to stay competitive, she added, especially considering how many teachers can simply drive across state lines to find better paying jobs. West Virginia has been ranked 48th in average teacher pay, according to the National Education Association. (The national average teacher salary was $58,353 in 2016; West Virginia’s average stood at $45,622.)

“Their priorities are all over the place. If this were really a priority, they’d find money for it,” Randolph said. “They can find money for other things,” she said, like “giving taxes back to businesses.”

“You still have to prioritize schools and state employees,” she said.

Despite teachers’ efforts, the Senate passed the measure 33-0, sending it on to the state’s House of Delegates.

“The benefit increases and coverage reductions are way more expensive than the amount of the raise,” sixth grade math teacher Violet Cohenour told WOWK. “So it’s kind of a slap in the face to say that they’re giving us a raise, because that’s not the case.”

The 1 percent proposal would also mean West Virginia would miss a goal it set back in 2014: to pay new teachers with bachelor’s degrees at least $43,000 annually by 2019. The state’s current starting salary for new teachers with degrees is $33,000, according to local news outlets.

Advocates for the 1 percent raises say the bill is fiscally responsible.Steve Mack via Getty Images

The special guest on this week’s episode of “Fresh Off the Boat” ought to make headlines.

The television series’ Lunar New Year-themed episode, which aired on Tuesday, featured media trailblazer Connie Chung. Chung was the first Asian-American to anchor an American major network newscast.

On the show, Chung calls out local newscasters Gus and Mey-Mey ― played by Ken Marino and Kathleen Perkins ― for failing to cover the Lunar New Year. The holiday is celebrated across several Asian cultures and falls on Feb. 16 in 2018.

Calling out the lack of representation in the media — badass, right?

Chung joins the many decade-appropriate icons who’ve made appearances on the series, which is set in the ’90s, including Pat Sajak, Vanna White, Michael Bolton and Nancy Kerrigan.

The former newscaster’s appearance isn’t the only reason why the episode, entitled “Ride the Tiger,” is significant.

About half the dialogue is in Mandarin, something rarely seen in U.S. media.

Episode writer Jeff Chiang penned a piece in The Hollywood Reporter about the decision to feature the language so prominently.

He explained that growing up he rarely saw Asian-Americans like himself on TV— but the honest, specific life experiences portrayed on sitcoms made the shows relatable and personal for him.

With the “Fresh Off the Boat” episode, Chiang wanted to infuse his own experiences into the show.

“Working as a TV writer, I never thought there would be a primetime network sitcom centered on an Asian family. The fact that I get to work on it and pull so directly from my childhood, being a half-Chinese kid raised in a Mandarin-speaking household, is still hard to wrap my head around,” he wrote. “Our brilliant showrunner, Nahnatchka Khan, always encourages the staff to bring in those personal experiences, and it’s amazing that the specificity of those stories can be found entertaining by a network TV-sized audience, many of whom didn’t grow up in a Chinese household.”

“So, to answer the original question, why did we do an episode that features an entire storyline spoken in Mandarin? Because on a TV show about a Chinese family, we can,” he concluded. “And hopefully people will enjoy it.”

Well, people did enjoy it as fans across social media lauded the show for the use of Mandarin in the storyline. And for some viewers, the detail really struck a chord.

Fresh Off the Boat is doing an episode where they speak Mandarin Chinese through 50% of the time. The only Chinese I ever heard on an American tv show was when the writers mocked Chinese people: the accent, the stereotypes, and the lack of ability to speak English - — Helena (@NotAlwaysRong) February 7, 2018

- You all don't know how much it means to me to finally see a show get it right. https://t.co/MlC5deC8HZ — Helena (@NotAlwaysRong) February 7, 2018Arie Luyendyk Jr. and Jacqueline Trumbull share a stroll through Paris on "The Bachelor." ABC

On the battlefield of love, ambition is an obstacle ― not a hindrance, an obstacle. At least that’s how Arie Luyendyk Jr., the current star of “The Bachelor,” seems to feel.

Not that Arie doesn’t believe in ambition at all, at least for himself. Even the casual “Bachelor” fan knows all about the years the race car driver spent traveling the world to pursue his dream of one day winning a competition.

And if women have ambition, that’s actually a plus in the abstract sense, as he explained to 26-year-old “Bachelor” contestant Jacqueline Trumbull, who plans to pursue a Ph.D. in clinical psychology, when the latest episode aired on Monday night.

Throughout their one-on-one date, he seemed awestruck by her intellect. “I think at the beginning, I was like, ‘she’s far too intelligent for me,’” Arie told Jacqueline over dinner. “I was intimidated by you… I just hope I would know how to interest you.”

And when she expressed that she plans to spend the next six years in school to complete her Ph.D., he also professed not to want to derail her plans. But instead of offering the possibility that maybe ― horror of horrors! ― he would consider making changes in his own life in order to support her dreams, Arie implied repeatedly that their relationship probably wasn’t going to work out. (Jacqueline got the rose this week, but as discerning viewers, we can only assume she won’t last much longer.)

“I would never want you to give up your dreams to pursue a relationship with me,” he said, dangling the rose in front of her. “But I know that I feel really deeply for you and I wanna see where this goes.”

“Do our lives fit right now? Maybe not,” he then told the camera. “I feel like there’s more to find out about her. And so for me, I don’t really see her ambitions and dreams as a hindrance; it would just be another obstacle that we have to get through together.”

Of course, Arie can want whatever he wants out of a relationship ― and, as “Bachelor” viewers have repeatedly heard, he wants a woman with a flexible schedule, not six years of higher education ahead of her.

He even offered a woeful tale of a past dating tragedy, about a previous partner who sidelined her own aspirations to support his racing career. His tone is regretful ― “It wasn’t only a burden for her, but it was a burden for me because I felt like I wasn’t doing her justice,” he told Jacqueline ― but he doesn’t suggest that he should have tried to compromise or support his ex more. (Instead, apparently, he set her free.) Now, as the show lead, he is particularly empowered to choose a woman who is more amenable to bending to his lifestyle. If that’s what he really wants, he has every right to go for it.

And yet. Despite the fact that women now outnumber men on college campuses, make up nearly 47 percent of the U.S. workforce, and are waiting longer than ever to get married, a gendered double standard remains when it comes to the way ambition plays into romantic love. Arie comes off as magnanimous in this episode for not openly recoiling at Jacqueline’s plans, and for denying that her ambitions are “a hindrance” to their relationship.

But he can’t deny that he still sees them as “an obstacle,” rather than a desirable quality in a partner. And as Jacqueline’s weepy relief at not being booted off the show on her first one-on-one date indicates, straight women are still conditioned to see this lack of open scoffing at their ambition as a gift.

On HuffPost’s “Here To Make Friends” podcast, we discussed this dynamic with “Mouthing Off” host and “Bachelor” alum Olivia Caridi, and DJ and “Your Favorite Thing Podcast with Wells & Brandi” co-host Brandi Cyrus:

Claire Fallon: There’s a stereotype that smart men are fine dating less intelligent women, but smart women want a guy who’s even smarter than them. Some women want to be the alpha in their relationship.

Emma Gray: Yeah, that is true.

Brandi Cyrus: Me!

Claire: Some women want a guy that is just gonna be chill and goofy and relaxed.

Brandi: I don’t understand that either. And this whole time, they’re sitting here at dinner I was just like, “I can’t even believe this is being talked about right now.” And she’s so upset and emotional about it! How can he sit there and say, “Yeah, I gotta send you home because you’re too smart and you’re gonna give up your career for me”?

The whole conversation to me was so crazy, and I couldn’t believe that he would assume that she would even be thinking about, “Oh yeah, if I win, I’m gonna turn down my six-year education that I’ve worked so hard for my whole life.”

Claire: Well, obviously, that’s what would have to happen, because he needs a wife. And he needs his wife to live in Scottsdale, which is a lot to ask of anyone.

Emma: The bounds of this conversation were just so crazy. And then it left her in the position of almost apologizing for the fact that she has ambition and intelligence.

Brandi: And if I were her, I would have been upset that he’s known this the whole time ― he’s known since the beginning; clearly, they’ve already talked about her education and how much longer she has. You’ve kept me around this long to go on this date and tell me, “Oh, I don’t know if I can be with somebody with that kind of ambition.”

Claire: Right, so basically she has six years of a Ph.D. program left.

Emma: She works at Mt. Sinai in New York City! That is one of the best hospitals in the country. This is a fuckin’ smart woman.

Olivia Caridi: [Arie] should be saying, “Please adopt me. Let me marry you.”

Brandi: She’s too good for the show. No offense, Olivia. [Laughs]

Claire: But this is also when we learn that he’s been in a relationship. Arie’s like, “Look, I’ve been in a relationship where I held someone back because she had dreams, but she felt like she needed to be by my side and supporting me.”

Emma: It was such a burden for him.

Brandi: Clearly. Barf.

Claire: But at no point does it come up or seem to enter his mind that he could have at any point supported her dreams or even made compromises in the relationship. He’s just kind of annoyed that she had dreams that burdened him with guilt. So the options are: Date someone who has no needs outside of Arie, or date someone who has other dreams, force her to put them on the back burner and then set her free to pursue them.

Brandi: Or date someone young enough to not have dreams yet and be willing to just be with him.

Olivia: This weed farm [that contestant Bekah Martinez went to work on] is sounding better and better.

Emma: Arie’s a real estate agent ― he could sell real estate in New York City!

Olivia: He’d probably be more successful here!

Claire: But how is he gonna see his parents literally every day?

Brandi: Let’s talk about this, though. I feel like ― at least in the seasons I’ve seen ― everyone that goes on as the bachelor or the bachelorette, whoever they end up with moves. I feel like when you go on and you’re the one, it is expected.

Emma: Especially if you’re a man.

Brandi: But Bryan moved for Rachel, Jordan moved for Jojo.

Claire: A lot of bachelorettes have moved in the past. But they’ve been a little more insistent in recent years. But I mean, come on, [Arie’s] life is so pathetic. It’s like, you really need someone to fit into your life selling real estate in Scottsdale, eating dinner with your parents every day? Wouldn’t you clutch at the opportunity to move to New York and try something new and support a smart woman? No, obviously not. But don’t worry, he doesn’t see her ambitions as a hindrance.

Emma: Just an obstacle.

Claire: Just an obstacle they’d have to get through.

Emma: I was like, “Do you know what the meaning of the term obstacle is?”

Olivia: Nope. He’s a joke.

Claire: He’s just like, “I don’t want to say that they’d be an obstacle, but they would be an obstacle.” Just cuz you said it in two different words doesn’t mean you get credit. He wants to be so feminist, but his desires are so retrogressive.

Subscribe to “Here To Make Friends”: Apple Podcasts / Acast / RadioPublic / Google Play / Stitcher / RSS Do people love “The Bachelor,” “The Bachelorette” and “Bachelor in Paradise,” or do they love to hate these shows? It’s unclear. But at “Here to Make Friends,” we both love and love to hate them — and we love to snarkily dissect each episode in vivid detail. Podcast edited by Nick Offenberg.JAKARTA (Reuters) - The United Nations human rights chief on Wednesday criticized proposals in Indonesia’s parliament to criminalize gay sex and extramarital sex, saying such laws could hurt the country’s beleaguered LGBT community and other minorities.

Zeid Ra‘ad Al Hussein said he had raised the issue with President Joko Widodo during a three-day visit to the world’s largest Muslim-majority country, where hostility toward the lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender (LGBT) community has risen sharply in recent years.

“Discussions of (revisions to the criminal code) betray strains of intolerance seemingly alien to Indonesian culture that have made inroads here,” Zeid told a news briefing, adding that he believed the proposed rules were “discriminatory.”

“The hateful rhetoric against the LGBT community that is being cultivated seemingly for cynical political purposes will only deepen their suffering and create unnecessary divisions,” he said.

Indonesia’s parliament is currently deliberating revisions to a Dutch colonial-era criminal code, including proposals to outlaw sex outside marriage, same-sex relations, and co-habitation, all of which were previously unregulated by law.

The revisions have broad support in parliament, where few politicians have stood up for LGBT rights for fear of alienating a largely conservative voter base ahead of legislative and presidential elections next year.

Many officials in President Widodo’s government have said LGBT people, like other citizens, should be free from discrimination and violence. But top officials, including the president, have said that Indonesia’s cultural and religious norms do not accept the LGBT movement.

Activists have raised concerns that, if approved, the new rules could violate basic rights and be misused to target minorities.

Currently, Indonesian law does not regulate homosexuality, except in the ultra-conservative Islamic province of Aceh.

Zeid, a member of the Jordanian royal family who has been in the U.N. post since 2014, said Indonesia was among the most progressive states in Southeast Asia on human rights.

But he also urged Jakarta to address past atrocities - like the 1965 massacre of nearly half a million suspected communists - and human rights abuses in the easternmost province of Papua, and the use of the death penalty.

“There are some dark clouds on the horizon but ... I hope the common sense and strong tradition of tolerance of the Indonesian people will prevail over populism and political opportunism,” he said.Lindsey Voon took no garbage from a Twitter troll this week. Millo Moravski/Agence Zoom via Getty Images

American Olympic ski champion Lindsey Vonn takes no prisoners on the slopes ― or on Twitter.

On Tuesday, a troll attempted to rile the athlete as she prepares to compete at the 2018 Pyeongchang Winter Olympics, posting this tweet:

@lindseyvonn Loved the way you were unable to take criticism on Dancing With The Stars! I know it must have been a real learning experience. — St (@sm00_smith) February 6, 2018

There was one big problem with user @sm00_smith’s post.

Vonn has never actually competed on ABC’s “Dancing With The Stars.” She responded in glorious style:

🤣🤣🤣🤣im sorry this made me laugh. I was never on Dancing with the Stars, but thanks for the criticism none the less🤚🏻 high fives buddy https://t.co/b8lsMuTwuZ — lindsey vonn (@lindseyvonn) February 6, 2018

Vonn’s reply went down well with her fans, who used the #ThingsLindseyDidntDo hashtag to lightheartedly suggest other things the skier should be falsely criticized for:

Loved the way you were unable to score in the last second against the Eagles! I know it must have been a real learning experience. #thingslindseydidntdo — David Townsend (@davetownsendesq) February 6, 2018

Your driving was amazing when you were The Stig on Top Gear! #thingslindseydidntdo — Val (@BulletToothVal) February 6, 2018

Remember that time we caught Lindsey taking her army and dragons across the narrow sea to claim her rightful seat upon the iron throne as the ruler of all Westeros! #thingslindseydidntdo — Diengerzone (@diengerzone) February 7, 2018

I don't think Fleetwood Mac has been as good since you left for your solo career. #thingslindseydidntdo — DodgerNala (@DodgerNala) February 6, 2018

You've grown a little since your Lisel performance in the Sound of Music #thingslindseydidntdo — Ralph Smith #FBPB (@Muckingfoggy) February 6, 2018Trump supporters and extreme conservatives consume and share more “junk news” on social media than every other political group combined, a University of Oxford study has found.

The three-month study, published Tuesday as part of the school’s Computational Propaganda Research Project, scrutinized the habits of 13,477 politically active U.S. Twitter users and 47,719 public Facebook pages in the months leading up to the State of the Union address late last month.

The authors then mapped how links to junk news sources flowed through the social media networks. Based on the links users shared and other factors, researchers separated them into distinct (yet often overlapping) cohorts, which they labeled “Hard Conservative,” “Women’s Rights,” “Conspiracy,” “Libertarian,” “Trump Support,” “Democratic Party,” etc.

The study linked a full 55 percent of all junk news traffic on Twitter to the “Trump Support” group. “On Twitter, a network of Trump supporters shares the widest range of known junk news sources and circulates more junk news than all the other groups put together,” the authors noted.

For comparison, the “Democratic Party” and “Progressive Movement” groups together accounted for 1 percent of junk news traffic on Twitter, according to the study.

And on Facebook, the study found that “extreme hard right pages—distinct from Republican pages—share the widest range of known junk news sources and circulate more junk news than all the other audiences put together.” The “Hard Conservative” group accounted for 58 percent of junk news traffic on Facebook. (The “Democratic Party” group accounted for 12 percent.)

As one would suspect, given our increasingly polarized political environment, the researchers found that Democrats and Republicans have “limited overlap” in their preferred outlets for political news.

For the purposes of the study, researchers defined “junk news sources” as those that didn’t abide by basic journalistic practices and that “deliberately publish misleading, deceptive or incorrect information purporting to be real news.”