Andrew Wheeler, nominated to be EPA deputy administrator, appeared before the Senate Environment and Public Works Committee on Nov. 8. Senate EPW

Andrew Wheeler, President Donald Trump’s nominee to be Environmental Protection Agency deputy administrator, appeared poised and polished at his Senate confirmation hearing in November. He couched his objections to widely accepted climate science in ambiguous legalese, and kept his cool when, at the same hearing, Kathleen Hartnett-White, the president’s pick for the Council on Environmental Quality, flamed out, stammering over questions of basic science.

On Saturday, the White House announced plans to pull Hartnett-White’s nomination amid waning Republican support. But on Wednesday, the Senate Environment and Public Works Committee voted 11 to 10 along party lines to advance Wheeler’s nomination, putting him one step from the EPA’s No. 2 job.

The restraint that steeled Wheeler’s nomination seems likely to clear the way for his confirmation. Unlike other Trump nominees whose outrageous opinions or lack of qualifications put them on the political fringe, Wheeler boasts both the Beltway aesthetic and the experience needed to become a powerful EPA operator. His confirmation, critics fear, will speed the Trump administration’s rollback of environmental and public health protections, and make a lasting, if quieter, impact.

“It’s very alarming and distressing,” Mary Anne Hitt, a campaign director at the Sierra Club, told HuffPost. “He is right up there with the list of the most extreme people that Trump has nominated for any agency.”

Wheeler, a coal lobbyist and former legislative aide to Sen. Jim Inhofe (R-Okla.), is widely seen as having the relationships and finesse needed to avoid legal potholes while driving the EPA’s deregulatory agenda. He knows how to work the system from within, having spent four years working at the EPA’s Office of Pollution Prevention and Toxics under Presidents George H.W. Bush and Bill Clinton. He said the right things to woo critics at his confirmation hearing, calling EPA staffers “the most dedicated and hard-working employees in the federal government.”

“The mission of the EPA to protect human health and the environment is critical to our country and its citizens and something that I take very seriously and I know you do, too,” Wheeler said.

EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt testified before the House Energy and Commerce Committee on Dec. 7. Pete Marovich via Getty Images

The EPA did not respond to HuffPost’s request to interview Wheeler, and directed questions about his nomination to the Senate committee. Faegre Baker Daniels, the law firm where Wheeler currently works, directed HuffPost to the EPA.

“Andrew will bring extraordinary credentials to EPA that will greatly assist the Agency as we work to implement our agenda,” EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt said when Wheeler was nominated in October. “He has spent his entire career working to improve environmental outcomes for Americans across the country and understands the importance of providing regularity certainty for our country.”

Wheeler won approval from the Senate panel last year, but his nomination never came to the full chamber for a final confirmation vote. His nomination was returned to the committee as a matter of procedure when the new legislative session began last month.

If Wheeler has anything stacked against him, it could be a 2016 Facebook post he wrote calling Trump a “bully” who “hasn’t been that successful” in business and who “has more baggage then all the other Republican candidates combined.” The remarks, surfaced in October by The Washington Post, gained new relevance this month after reporters unearthed two 2016 radio interviews in which Pruitt called Trump a “bully” and an “empty vessel” on “the Constitution and rule of law.”

On Wednesday morning, The Intercept published a report detailing fundraisers Wheeler held for Sen. John Barrasso (R-Wyo.) and Inhofe in May. The Sierra Club called on the Senate panel to delay the vote and open an investigation.

But that didn’t deter Republicans, who held the vote on schedule, even as many federal employees delayed morning activities by two hours because of snow.

“He’ll do a good job and I’m glad he’s going to be confirmed,” Inhofe said after Wednesday’s vote.

Wheeler is likely to be confirmed in the full Senate, where the GOP holds a narrow majority. No Republicans publicly oppose him, and Sens. Joe Manchin (D-W.Va.) and Heidi Heitkamp (D-N.D.) ― who generally vote with the GOP on fossil fuel issues ― are likely to vote for Wheeler. Neither senator responded to requests for comment on Monday.

To boot, Democrats have already spent political capital to upend more egregious environmental nominations. Those include Hartnett-White ― who credited coal with abolishing slavery and suggested increased carbon dioxide emissions were good for the planet ― and Michael Dourson, whose consultancy was described in 2014 by InsideClimate News as the “one-stop science shop” favored by the chemical and tobacco industries seeking affirmative research. Pruitt picked Dourson to lead the EPA’s chemical safety division, but withdraw the nomination in December after two Republican senators said they would not vote for him.

Democrats seem more at ease with Wheeler’s nomination. No Democrat raised concerns about Wheeler last week during Pruitt’s first Senate hearing since taking office, though no Democrat voted for Wheeler on Wednesday.

The choice of Wheeler is itself a naked gift to the coal industry, which has yielded outsized influence over the Trump White House. Wheeler lobbied on behalf of coal mining giant Murray Energy as recently as last year, disclosure filings show.

“This is the swamp,” Sen. Jeff Merkley said at Wednesday’s hearing. “This does not serve the American people. And we should reject this nomination.”

The company’s bombastic chief executive, Bob Murray, already has played a major role in shaping Trump administration energy and environmental policies. Last month, Murray’s so-called “action plan,” became public. The proposals include a federal bailout of coal-fired plants, repeal of the Clean Power Plan and reopening of the 2009 EPA “endangerment finding” that determined carbon dioxide pollution poses a risk to public health.

The Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, in a break with the White House, rejected the bailout plan. Pruitt announced his repeal of the Clean Power Plan, a suite of rules to reduce emissions from power plants, in October. But the administration’s decision on the so-called endangerment finding is up in the air. Despite calls from ardent climate-change deniers to reopen the finding, overturning the conclusion would require disproving the science behind human-caused climate change in court ― an extremely unlikely prospect. Pruitt said last week that he had not yet decided whether to challenge the finding.

“Democrats seem more at ease with his nomination. No Democrat raised concerns about Wheeler last week during Pruitt’s first Senate hearing since taking office.”

Wheeler could be the man to lead that assault. In October, Pruitt railed against the endangerment finding for citing the United Nations’ Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change. In what appeared to be a dog whistle to nationalists, he claimed the endangerment finding “represents, and this is the first time in history this has ever occurred, this agency took work product of the U.N. Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change and adopted it, transferred it to this agency and used that as the basis, underpinnings, of the endangerment finding.”

In reality, the technical support document on the endangerment finding references more than 100 published scientific studies and cites peer-reviewed syntheses of climate research by the White House’s Global Change Research Program, the National Research Council of the U.S. National Academy of Sciences, and the U.N.’s IPCC.

But the criticism echoes Wheeler’s own suggestions. In March 2010, he accused the IPCC of blurring “the lines between science and advocacy” and functioning “more as a political body than a scientific body.” He suggested the EPA could “reconsider its endangerment finding without almost exclusively relying upon the IPCC,” according to remarks posted to his website.

“I believe that man has an impact on the climate, but what’s not completely understood is what the impact is,” Wheeler said at his confirmation hearing when aggressively questioned about the findings of the federal government’s latest climate report.

Wheeler’s Senate career gives pause to environmentalists, too. Inhofe, who serves on the Senate panel voting on his nomination, is one of the most ardent climate-change deniers in Congress. In 2015, the Oklahoma Republican brought a snowball to the Senate floor in a comically flamboyant attempt to prove climate change is a hoax. Inhofe is a close ally of Pruitt, who is said to be considering a bid for his seat when the 83-year-old senator retires. Pruitt’s ambitions raise the prospect that Wheeler could, as The New Republic pointed out, become the next EPA administrator.

“Andrew Wheeler’s nomination is very much in keeping with the Trump administration’s agenda of fossil fuel exploitation and climate inaction,” Michael Mann, a climatologist at Penn State University and co-author of a book on climate change denialism, told HuffPost. “The environmental community’s celebration of the failed nomination of climate-change denier Kathleen Hartnett-White to lead the White House Council on Environmental Quality may be short-lived.”A Pennsylvania Republican is calling for the impeachment of five Democrats on the state Supreme Court who ordered lawmakers to draw a new congressional map because the current one so severely benefits the GOP that it violates the Pennsylvania constitution.

The Supreme Court gave lawmakers and Gov. Tom Wolf (D) until Feb. 15 to agree on a map and has appointed a special master to draw one up if the two parties can’t reach an agreement. In a memo to all members of the Pennsylvania House, Rep. Cris Dush (R) accused the five Democrats on the court of engaging in misbehavior for ordering the new maps and subverting the process, outlined in the constitution, by which a bill can become a law. Dush asked his fellow lawmakers to sponsor legislation to impeach the five Democratic justices and bar them from holding any office in Pennsylvania.

“The five Justices who signed this order that blatantly and clearly contradicts the plain language of the Pennsylvania Constitution, engaged in misbehavior in office,” Dush said in the memo. “Wherefore, each is guilty of an impeachable offense warranting removal from office and disqualification to hold any office or trust or profit under this Commonwealth. I would ask you to please join me in co-sponsoring this legislation.”

Dush’s call for impeachment heightens a Republican attack on the state Supreme Court following its ruling in the nationally-watched redistricting case last week. House Speaker Michael Turzai (R) and Senate President Pro Tempore Joe Scarnati (R) last week filed a motion at the state Supreme Court to try and disqualify the vote of Justice David Wecht, a Democrat, for criticizing gerrymandering when he was running for the bench in 2015. Wecht denied the request on Monday. Scarnati has also said he won’t give the court political data to assist it in drawing a new map because he believes its order is unlawful.

Dush has been calling for the impeachment of the five Democrats since the court’s ruling on Jan. 22. In a video posted the next day, he based his call for impeachment on an inaccurate understanding of the process the Supreme Court ordered for a new map. Dush claimed that if the legislature was unable to propose an acceptable map, Wolf would have a chance to draw a new one on his own. That’s untrue. If the governor and lawmakers can’t agree on a new map by Feb. 15, the court will draw its own map. But both the lawmakers and governor can submit proposed plans to assist the court.

Activists on Tuesday confronted Dush in his office at the state capitol in Harrisburg over his call for impeachment. Dush defended his position, saying the state Supreme Court was unlawfully narrowing the window between when a bill passes the legislature and when the governor must approve it.

“They [the state Supreme Court] have absolutely no authority to say that if the governor vetoes that it does not go back to the legislature. That is specific under the constitution. I am protecting the rule of law. This is not about gerrymandering,” he said.

The activists shouted that it was about gerrymandering and Dush left his office.

“This call for impeachment appears to be a major reach on the part of supporters and an action that certainly does not reflect the underlying conditions under which impeachments should even be considered,” said

Christopher Borick, a professor at Muhlenberg College in Allentown, Pennsylvania. “It seems like a reflection of the broader undermining of judicial powers that are becoming part of the GOP playbook in the last year​.”

Republicans control both chambers of the Pennsylvania legislature. Impeachment must first be approved by the House and then two-thirds of the state Senate must vote to remove an official from office.

Neal Lasher, a Turzai spokesman, declined to weigh in on the call for impeachment.

“Rep. Dush’s resolution has not been introduced yet and we have not reviewed it. Our focus has been on the maps and the legal proceedings in this case,” he said in an email.

Representatives for Dush and Scarnati did not immediately return a request for comment.

The process is rarely used in the state. In 1994, the Pennsylvania House of Representatives voted to impeach Justice Rolf Larsen, a Democrat who was convicted by a state court of a felony for having his doctor write out prescriptions for tranquilizers and antidepressants to his law clerks. The Senate then voted to remove him from office. At the time, he was the first elected official to be removed from the bench in Pennsylvania in 183 years.

Douglas Keith, counsel at the Democracy Program at the Brennan Center for Justice, which filed a friend of the court brief supporting the voters challenging the maps, said Dush was calling for impeachment in an instance where it clearly wasn’t warranted.

“This is not what the impeachment power is for – the impeachment power exists to remove officials who have engaged in serious criminal or ethical wrongdoing,” Keith wrote in an email. “For more than two centuries it’s been understood in America that, for courts to have the independence necessary to play their proper role, judges shouldn’t be impeached for rulings we disagree with or for other political motivations.”Two Donald Trump backers who have a thing about bullying the media are joining forces at a GOP fundraiser in Montana.

The prospect of the two of them together has a Montana newspaper threatening that if they try anything funny, they could be looking down the barrel of a rifle.

The slogan for the big dinner is: “Let’s have a ball and build a wall!” Clarke is described in a promotion for the event as a “General” in President Trump’s “external army.”

Tech billionaire Gianforte is best known for grabbing a Guardian reporter by the neck and hurling him to the ground, then straddling him and punching him in the face after the journalist asked him about health care last year. The assault — for which Gianforte paid a fine and was sentenced to community service and anger management classes — occurred the day before a congressional special election. Gianforte still ended up winning the seat vacated by Ryan Zinke, who became Trump’s interior secretary. Gianforte, up for re-election this year, is one of four convicted Republicans currently running for office.

News about Clarke joining Gianforte for the dinner, first reported by the Billings Gazette, made the paper a bit ballistic. Those “of us who question a Milwaukee sheriff in a bedazzled cowboy hat [are] left wondering: Is this the message the county’s Republicans really want to send to the rest of the city and state?” the Gazette asked in an editorial.

The editorial mentioned Clarke’s threats to the media — and added a warning. “We don’t know how things go in America’s Dairyland, but here in Montana, if you punch anyone in the face — lying liberal media or otherwise — you could be looking back at the business end of a gun barrel.”

It concluded: “We don’t understand how any of the flag-pin wearing, Constitution-loving Republicans could seriously support someone who advocates thumping on reporters while simultaneously pretending to love the First Amendment which calls for freedom of the press, not the bleeding of it.”

Records released about Gianforte’s assault last year revealed that Gianforte had lied to police, claiming that the Guardian reporter initiated the attack, despite witness accounts. He told the police, according to transcripts released after the election: “The liberal media is trying to make me a story.”

Hey @RealDonaldTrump and all the Republicans still defending him, as Martin Luther King said: “Let us march on ballot boxes until race-baiters disappear from the political arena.” We’ll see you in November!#mtpol #mtal pic.twitter.com/QCkIgWyWOF — John Heenan (@Heenan4Montana) January 13, 2018Iraq War veteran and U.S. Sen. Tammy Duckworth (D-Ill.) criticized President Donald Trump for calling Democrats who did not clap during his State of the Union address “treasonous” on Monday.

“We don’t live in a dictatorship or a monarchy,” Duckworth tweeted soon after he made the comment. “I swore an oath ― in the military and in the Senate ― to preserve, protect and defend the Constitution of the United States, not to mindlessly cater to the whims of Cadet Bone Spurs and clap when he demands I clap.”

We don't live in a dictatorship or a monarchy. I swore an oath—in the military and in the Senate—to preserve, protect and defend the Constitution of the United States, not to mindlessly cater to the whims of Cadet Bone Spurs and clap when he demands I clap https://t.co/99gW1yalDl — Tammy Duckworth (@SenDuckworth) February 6, 2018

This is not the first time Duckworth, a Black Hawk helicopter pilot who received the Purple Heart after she lost both her legs in Iraq when her helicopter was struck by a rocket-propelled grenade, has referred to Trump as “Cadet Bone Spurs,” a reference to Trump’s stated reason for not being drafted during the Vietnam War.

During a floor speech last month, she also called Trump a “five-deferment draft dodger” as she slammed the president for criticizing Democrats’ support for the military.Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (D-Fla.) had stern words for the National Rifle Association on Tuesday, responding to the gun group’s new president attacking student survivors of the shooting in Parkland, Florida, for allegedly engaging in “civil terrorism.”

“The NRA is kind of just shy of a terrorist organization,” Schultz told HuffPost. “They have done everything they can to perpetuate the culture of violence that we have in our country with the spread of assault weapons across the nation.”

In an interview with The Washington Times last week, newly elected NRA president Oliver North accused students of Parkland’s Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School of using “intimidation and harassment and lawbreaking” in the anti-gun efforts they launched following the Valentine’s Day massacre that left 17 people dead at their campus.

“They call them activists. That’s what they’re calling themselves. They’re not activists — this is civil terrorism,” North said.

The retired Marine Corps lieutenant colonel previously served on the NRA’s board of directors. He is best known for his involvement in the Iran-Contra firearms scandal in the 1980s, in which he was found to have played a key role in the clandestine sale of weapons to Iran, which was under an arms embargo at the time. Funds from those transactions were then funneled to bolster terrorist efforts against Nicaragua’s socialist government.

North was convicted of three felonies related to the scheme, including charges of obstructing a congressional inquiry and destroying evidence. The convictions were later vacated amid concerns that tainted testimony had been used in the case.

Still, Wasserman Schultz said she considered it ironic for someone with North’s past legal troubles to accuse young people of criminal behavior simply for “standing up to make sure that we can keep people safe.”

Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (D-Fla.) attends the March for Our Lives rally earlier this year in Washington. In an interview on Tuesday, she characterized the NRA as "just shy of a terrorist organization." Shannon Finney via Getty Images

She also rebuffed North’s contention that the pressure the NRA now faces has “never been seen against a civil rights organization in America,” and is worse than “the terrible days of Jim Crow.”

“The Jim Crow laws actually resulted in the deaths of people standing up for their rights,” said Wasserman Schultz, who headed the Democratic National Committee from 2011-16. “People that are dying as a result of the infection that is the spread of assault weapons thanks to the NRA are being murdered in cold blood without any cessation or interest on the part of the NRA to do anything about it.”

Two others Florida Democrats, Reps. Alcee Hastings and Ted Deutch, also condemned North’s comments in separate statements on Tuesday, referring to the Parkland students as “heroes” who aren’t afraid of the NRA.

In the months since the mass shooting, several of the students have emerged as the most vocal and visible members of a nationwide gun violence prevention movement that has eagerly positioned itself as a foil to the nation’s largest gun group.

They’ve campaigned for a renewed ban on assault weapons and high-capacity ammunition magazines and the closing of a legal loophole to ensure that all firearms transactions are accompanied by a background check. But their enthusiasm has yet to translate into changes to federal gun laws

A number of states, including Wasserman Schultz’s home state of Florida, have pushed forward on their own. In March, Florida Gov. Rick Scott (R) signed a legislative package implementing a three-day waiting period for most gun purchases, raising the minimum age to 21 to purchase any firearm and enacting a so-called red flag law giving police more authority to confiscate weapons from dangerous individuals. The NRA opposed the measures.

Despite some signs that the NRA’s stranglehold on gun policy may be loosening, North rejected the idea that the group is “on its heels,” or that the Parkland shooting changed the contours of the national conversation around firearms and gun violence.

Wasserman Schultz said North was “deluding himself and his members” with that claim.On Jan. 3, 2011, a 19-year-old University of Iowa engineering student named Zach Wahls stood up and delivered a speech about his life and experiences growing up with two lesbian mothers that resonated with LGBTQ people around the world.

The speech, delivered in front of the Iowa House of Representatives, was a response to proposed legislative efforts to end civil unions in the state. At the time, marriage equality in America was still four years away, and moments like this felt precious to many same-sex couples who often felt as though they would never win the right to wed.

Today, Wahls is 26 and running for Iowa state Senate. In the years since his speech, he has engaged in a number of battles for the rights of LGBTQ Americans, including co-founding Scouts for Equality, a national campaign to end discrimination in the Boy Scouts of America.

Seven years after delivering his speech, Wahls sees the viral video as a key moment in his life, one that played a major part in his decision to pursue a career in public service rather than his earlier interest in renewable energy. Last week, he described the experiences of that day in a powerful Twitter thread.

5/ I will never, *ever* forget how it felt to hear politicians talk about the dangers of terrorism in one breath and families like mine in the next. I knew what it felt like to be afraid of our government. — Zach Wahls (@ZachWahls) February 1, 2018

20/ When I think about community, I think about family. And as I said that night at the Capitol, what makes a family is our commitment to each other — to work through the hard times so we can enjoy the good ones — Zach Wahls (@ZachWahls) February 1, 2018

Wahls told HuffPost he still get messages from people around the world who tell him how the video affected them on a personal level.

“I hope [the video] can continue to do two things,” Wahls told HuffPost. “One: to help kids of queer parents know that they are OK, their families are OK, and that things may be hard right now, but they will get better. And two: I hope LGBTQ people who want to be parents someday will watch that video and know they are not going to mess up their kids just because of their sexual orientation or gender identity.”

Wahls went on to say that his birth mother had her own moment of realization about the value of queer parenthood in the late 1980s while talking to her cousins over pizza. Today, he says, LGBTQ prospective parents can reach similar conclusions thanks to YouTube videos and other platforms.

“Without a moment like that my mother had [in the ’80s], I literally would not exist,” he said. “So to be able to pay that forward ― whether here in the United States or internationally, whether it’s today or tomorrow or 10 years or 50 years from now, whatever the case may be ― that is its own reward.”A funny thing happened Sunday on the way to the fourth quarter: Netflix announced ― via a televised teaser, press release and social media campaign ― that the newest “Cloverfield” flick would premiere on the streaming platform immediately following the Super Bowl.

Call it the Beyoncé-ification of movies. Call it “This Is Us” counter-programming. Call it a thrilling chapter in the brave new world of streaming, where the Netflixes and Amazons acquire exclusives and exhibit them beyond the confines of theatrical distribution models.

But we also have to call it a turd, because that’s what “The Cloverfield Paradox” is.

Netflix made the exciting decision to deposit this third installment of the “Cloverfield” series with mere hours warning, a phenomenon that could only suit a reputable franchise or a project with massive star power. It was especially wise here. The aura of surprise has long followed these movies: Trailers for 2008′s “Cloverfield,” the found-footage sleeper hit, stoked intrigue by omitting the title; 2016′s “10 Cloverfield Lane” was disguised by another name until Paramount debuted its trailer a short two months before the release. Netflix’s sneak attack gave “The Cloverfield Paradox” the potential to rattle Hollywood, where studios devote millions to more methodical, elongated marketing campaigns.

But it would need to be good to rattle the system, or to at least provide much-needed evidence that Netflix is a reliable purveyor of quality cinema. Sadly, it’s not.

Chris O'Dowd in "The Cloverfield Paradox." Netflix

Despite a sterling cast that includes Gugu Mbatha-Raw, David Oyelowo, Daniel Brühl, Chris O’Dowd, Elizabeth Debicki and Ziyi Zhang, “Paradox” is a derivative brew of science-fiction tropes familiar to anyone who’s seen “Alien” or its many descendants, particularly last year’s underrated Jake Gyllenhaal thriller “Life.” That alone would be relatively innocuous if this movie ― directed by Julius Onah (“The Girl Is in Trouble”) and written by Oren Uziel (“22 Jump Street”) ― were more comprehensible, both as a stand-alone story and as a piece of the broader “Cloverfield” pie.

Instead, connecting “Paradox” to the franchise is tenuous at best. It’s a prequel to “Cloverfield” that sort of posits how that monster came to knock off Lady Liberty’s head a decade ago, except it does so with mumbo jumbo about particle accelerators, circuit systems, alternate dimensions and the Higgs boson. The aforementioned actors portray a crew aboard the Cloverfield Station, attempting a space mission that would restore power to the hellscape that has become Earth, where “oil wars” are spreading, rubble has flooded the darkened streets and one person declares that “normal life is hanging by a thread.”

Meanwhile, on cable news, an author warns that the mission could “unleash chaos, the likes of which we’ve never seen — monsters, demons, beasts from the sea,” oh my.

Two-thirds of “Paradox” is exposition, the troop half-explaining to one another the life-or-death science behind their reality while traversing the narrow hallways and blinking lights that every big-screen spaceship knows all too well. I don’t at all care whether sci-fi accurately portrays, well, anything. But a logical plot is essential, as is sustained tension. “The Cloverfield Paradox” has neither, coasting on its stacked cast and a couple of fun sight gags to fill in what’s missing from the under-sketched characters.

This makes Netflix’s launch all the more fascinating and all the more frustrating. Like “Cloverfield” and “10 Cloverfield Lane,” Paramount was behind this film ― originally titled “God Particle” and slated for an April 20 release following three postponements ― until just a couple of weeks ago, when The Hollywood Reporter revealed that Netflix was in talks to take over distribution. The previous two installments cost $25 million and $15 million, respectively, and apparently Paramount’s new chairman didn’t think the $40 million-plus “Paradox” budget was profitable. Furthermore, producer J.J. Abrams was too busy to step in to help improve the movie’s quality, which “needed some work,” according to The Hollywood Reporter’s sources.

Elizabeth Debicki in "The Cloverfield Paradox." Netflix

Fast-forward two weeks, and the thing is already on Netflix. As I argued in December, Netflix robustly marketed few of its 56 ― 56!!! ― original films in 2017. Despite prestigious directors and A-list talent, most of the platform’s exclusive titles got buried amid a glut of content ― which is what makes Sunday’s ambush thrilling: It drums up instant chatter and reignites the conversation behind one of our stealthiest franchises; little marketing required. It fosters a mini-monoculture around a movie while multiplexes further lose their luster in America.

But with “The Cloverfield Paradox,” it appears Netflix was merely annexing sloppy seconds. It’s another marker for a company that increasingly values quantity over quality. I wonder why we ever expected more from a subscription-based business that only cares whether you remain a paying customer. No one or two or three misfiles will devastate Netflix’s brand, so why should execs devote too much attention to the caliber of its output? But it’s one thing to provide a platform for so-so movies that traditional studios wouldn’t green-light; it’s something else entirely to pull a stunt release for a Paramount castoff that barely deserves to call itself a “Cloverfield” volume.

The precedent has been set. Netflix is showing us it will game the promotional system for any old thing that might attract eyeballs. I guess what I’m saying is: This is a disheartening victory. I’m sitting here writing about the damned thing, aren’t I? You’re reading it, aren’t you?

On Sunday, one of the trendiest entertainment corporations in the world made us think it was onto something vitalizing; instead, it was its own paradox, encapsulating both the brilliance and futility of Netflix.The Super Bowl gets more publicity, but competition at the 2018 Roller Derby World Cup was just as heated.

From Feb. 1-4, 38 teams from all over the world rolled into Manchester, England, to show they weren’t just spinning their wheels.

For those not in the know, here’s a quick primer on the rules of the roll, courtesy of the BBC:

Two teams of five ― four “blockers” and one “jammer” ― skate counter-clockwise around an oval-shaped track.

The blockers keep the other team’s jammer from completing laps around the track, while helping their own jammer get past the other team.

Blockers are allowed to use shoulder, hip and full body contact to prevent the jammer from passing.

The competition, heated as it was, came down to two teams: The U.S. and Australia, who competed on Sunday for the title.

Ultimately, the U.S. beat the Aussies handily by a score of 187-146. It marks the third straight World Cup victory for the American team since the competition started in 2011.

Some of the photographic highlights of the tournament appear below:

Shirlaine Forrest via Getty Images Mexico and Switzerland compete in the Roller Derby World Cup on Feb. 4 in Manchester, England. Shirlaine Forrest via Getty Images USA and Australian teams competed in the finals, which the U.S. won 187-146. Shirlaine Forrest via Getty Images Scotland and Germany compete in the Roller Derby World Cup. Shirlaine Forrest via Getty Images Roller derby fans enjoy the Roller Derby World Cup. Shirlaine Forrest via Getty Images A member of the Costa Rica team prepares to compete in the Roller Derby World Cup. Shirlaine Forrest via Getty Images Switzerland gets ready for a match. Shirlaine Forrest via Getty Images A skater for Costa Rica on the track. Shirlaine Forrest via Getty Images England's team goes up against Canada's. Shirlaine Forrest via Getty Images USA gets physical with Spain. Shirlaine Forrest via Getty Images Members of the Spanish team compete in the Roller Derby World Cup. Shirlaine Forrest via Getty Images The USA gets rolling against Spain. Shirlaine Forrest via Getty Images The USA team celebrates its victory in the Roller Derby World Cup. Shirlaine Forrest via Getty Images Members of the USA team hoist their trophy after winning the third tournament in a row.New England Patriots tight end Rob Gronkowski just suffered another loss.

Gronkowski returned Monday from his team’s Super Bowl defeat to the Philadelphia Eagles to find that his Foxborough, Massachusetts, home had been burglarized.

Foxborough Police Chef William D. Baker told the Boston Globe that the football star had been hit with a “double whammy.”

“I don’t know if you ever been the victim of a break-in, but when you are robbed and there is an intrusion into your personal space, it’s unpleasant whether you are Rob Gronkowski or Bill Baker,’’ Baker said. “For him, it’s a double whammy coming off the loss.”

Police wouldn’t reveal details of the crime.

“We are not releasing any information on the property stolen or possible suspects at this time to preserve the integrity of the criminal investigation,” Baker told HuffPost in an email Tuesday.

A recording of the police radio call at Broadcastify.com noted “multiple safes and possible guns taken,” The Associated Press reported.“I just saw my shadow, you know what that means?” the White House “spokespuppet” said during a spoof interview on Monday night’s broadcast of “Jimmy Kimmel Live!”

“Conway” then revealed how long she thinks Donald Trump’s presidency will last. Her claim raised Kimmel’s eyebrows, but not as much as her revelation about Punxsutawney Phil’s location.Now the presence of this instinct explains why we are so often taken by advertisers. You know, those gentlemen of massive verbal persuasion. And they have a way of saying things to you that kind of gets you into buying. In order to be a man of distinction, you must drink this whiskey. In order to make your neighbors envious, you must drive this type of car. In order to be lovely to love you must wear this kind of lipstick or this kind of perfume. And you know, before you know it, you’re just buying that stuff ...

And I got to drive this car because it’s something about this car that makes my car a little better than my neighbor’s car. ... I’m sad to say that the nation in which we live is the supreme culprit, and I’m going to continue to say it to America.Black boy joy is always a mood. And if you ever questioned that, the #BlackMenSmiling hashtag is here to show you the light.

The hashtag began to pop up on Friday and kept gaining momentum over the weekend. Twitter users celebrated carefree blackness as they shared pictures of themselves living their best and blackest lives.

In the process, black men and boys reclaimed their own narratives and challenged stereotypes. This hashtag underscores the humanity in black boys, who are often seen as aggressors or threats.

The trend spilled into Monday ― Trayvon Martin’s birthday ― and offered some relief as the black community recalled the teen’s senseless death in 2012, which helped spark the Black Lives Matter movement.

Amid Black History Month celebrations and the continuous fight to dismantle black hypermasculinity, this hashtag continues to focus on the glory of blackness.

Here are just a few tweets and smiles.

AdvertisementNew Zealand’s prime minister is considering an offer to bury her child’s placenta as part of an ancient indigenous naming ceremony.

Jacinda Ardern, who last month became the first elected leader since the 1990s to announce she was expecting, made history again in New Zealand by becoming the first woman prime minister to speak at the pōwhiri, or welcoming ceremony, in Waitangi on the country’s North Island.

One of Ardern’s closest advisers, Peeni Henare, minister for whānau ora (family health), reportedly suggested she bury her baby’s placenta at Waitangi as part of a Maori custom.

“The fact that the suggestion was made and that there were elders alongside me who really acknowledged that ― it felt like a significant gesture, a really symbolic one, and it meant a lot to me,” said Ardern, who is expecting in June.

“That is something, of course, I would like to talk to my partner, Clarke, about. We haven’t had that opportunity yet.”

In Maori custom, when a baby is born, the whenua, the word for both “land” and “placenta,” is often buried in a place of family significance.

Waitangi is where the treaty of Waitangi was signed between the British Crown and Maori chiefs in 1840. The treaty is of central importance to the history and political constitution of modern New Zealand.

Ardern was speaking at the site as part of a public holiday marking the anniversary of the signing of the treaty.

"I have not been on my own. We did not come simply for the beauty & the hospitality of the North. We came because there is work to do. Much mahi to do." https://t.co/J1XRYe9mVL — Newsroom (@NewsroomNZ) February 5, 2018Over 100 pages of emails written by FBI agents last year, shortly after President Donald Trump fired FBI director James Comey, reveal a stunned and saddened bureau, sharply contrasting with the president’s statements that Comey was unpopular with most FBI employees.

Security analyst Benjamin Wittes, editor of the legal affairs blog Lawfare and a friend of Comey’s, obtained the documents through a Freedom of Information Act request. The request sought FBI managers’ messages about the firing, and the agency turned over 103 pages of emails out of 116 it identified.

“We are not going to let this defeat us ... it will only make us stronger,” the head of the Knoxville field office told her team in one email Lawfare obtained. “I know you all know our director stood for what is right and what is true. He truly made us better when we needed it the most.”

“Many of you have inquired about how to get a message to director Comey,” a Los Angeles field office leader wrote after the May 9 firing. “I have spoken to his staff that assured me any emails and letters sent to the director’s office will be collected and delivered to him.”

The special agent in charge of the FBI’s Detroit office emailed: “I hope this is an instance of fake news.”

“Our hearts may be heavy but we must continue to do what we do best, which is to protect and serve the American people,” wrote the assistant director of the FBI’s Office of Victim Assistance.

Despite the sentiments in the emails, Sarah Huckabee Sanders, who was deputy White House press secretary at the time of Comey’s firing, insisted he was ousted because the president and the bureau had lost faith in him. Trump claimed at a press conference that Comey was “very unpopular with most people.”

But Andrew McCabe, who served as acting FBI director before returning to his role as deputy director and recently resigning, testified otherwise before the Senate Intelligence Committee just days after Comey’s firing, saying Comey “enjoyed broad support within the FBI and still does.”

Former FBI Director James Comey. Reuters/Jonathan Ernst

Many observers believe Trump’s decision to fire Comey could become a centerpiece of an obstruction of justice case against the president by special counsel Robert Mueller in his investigation of Russian interference in the 2016 U.S. presidential election. Comey testified before the Senate Intelligence Committee last June that before Trump fired him, the president had pressed him for a declaration of loyalty. He also disputed Trump’s statements that the FBI was struggling and had lost faith in him, calling the remarks “lies, plain and simple.”

In an NBC interview aired after Comey’s firing, Trump called the former director a “show boat” and said the bureau was “in turmoil.” But in the same interview, Trump implied that he’d fired Comey because of “this Russian thing.”

“When I decided to just do it [fire Comey], I said to myself, I said, ‘You know, this Russia thing with Trump and Russia is a made-up story, it’s an excuse by the Democrats for having lost an election,’” the president said.Several of President Donald Trump’s lawyers have advised him to refuse an interview request with special counsel Robert Mueller as part of the ongoing inquiry into Russian meddling in the 2016 presidential election, The New York Times reported on Monday.

At least two members of Trump’s legal team, John Dowd and Jay Sekulow, have reportedly expressed concerns over an investigators’ interview of the president. The lawyers, as well as several White House aides, fear that the president might contradict himself or make a false statement to investigators, which is a federal crime, the Times writes, citing four people familiar with the White House’s thinking.

HuffPost has reached out to the White House for comment.

Earlier this year, several news outlets reported that Mueller had told Trump’s lawyers he would move to interview the president, although no formal request had been submitted. His legal team was considering how such an encounter would take place, according to NBC News, including the format, the topics of the interview and who would conduct it.

Were Trump to refuse the request, Mueller has the power to issue a subpoena to compel him to testify before a grand jury, although such a move would likely set off an intense legal battle.

John Dowd, Trump's top personal attorney, has reportedly warned the president against agreeing to an interview with special counsel Robert Mueller. Lucas Jackson / Reuters

The special counsel’s office has conducted a series of interviews with high-profile members of Trump’s inner circle in recent weeks, including several former campaign officials. Mueller’s team spoke to Attorney General Jeff Sessions in January, and the president’s former national security adviser, Michael Flynn, has been cooperating with investigators for months.

Trump’s many lawyers have frequently butted heads about the approach to the Mueller investigation, as they represent a slew of different interests when it comes to Trump the president and Trump the individual. Dowd and Sekulow are paid directly by Trump to defend his interests, while White House special counsel Ty Cobb and White House counsel Don McGahn are tasked with defending the executive branch itself.

The reports about the lawyers’ thinking comes just weeks after the president said he was “looking forward” to speaking with Mueller under oath and that he would like to do so “as soon as possible.” Trump made the comments to a pool of reporters at the White House as he was preparing to leave for the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland, on Jan. 24.

Cobb immediately moved to downplay the comments in a statement at the time, saying they were made off-the-cuff.

“He’s ready to meet with them, but he’ll be guided by the advice of his personal counsel,” Cobb said.

The Times reported Monday that Cobb was one of the few aides in the West Wing who thought the president should cooperate with Mueller.Cardi B has chimed in to address the drama surrounding her recent collaboration with Rita Ora on the song “Girls.”

“We never try to cause harm or had bad intentions with the song,” said the “Bodak Yellow” rapper in a tweet. Bebe Rexha and Charli XCX are also featured on the track.

“I personally myself had experiences with other woman, shiieeett with a lot of woman !” she wrote on Twitter, adding that she thought “the song was a good song and i remember my experience.”

In another tweet, Cardi B apologized to the LGBTQ community for using words that she “wasn’t aware” were offensive.

I know i have use words before that i wasn’t aware that they are offensive to the LGBT community .I apologize for that .Not everybody knows the correct “terms “to use.I learned and i stopped using it. — iamcardib (@iamcardib) May 15, 2018

Cardi B has been in hot water with the LGBTQ community before. In January, she defended fiancé Offset’s offensive “I cannot vibe with queers” lyric, which prompted the 25-year-old to ask that the community “educate people.”

“A lot of people are not aware about what’s wrong or right in the LGBTQ community,” she said at the time.

“Girls,” released May 11, has lyrics like, “Sometimes I just wanna kiss girls, girls, girls / Red wine, I just wanna kiss girls, girls, girls.”

Ora has called the song a “real gender-fluid freedom record,” but it’s received a fair amount of pushback from many queer pop artists. Many have remarked that the song preys on bisexual stereotypes, with singer Hayley Kiyoko calling the song’s message “tone-deaf.”

Of this backlash, Ora has responded with a statement on Twitter.

“Girls,” she wrote, is “an accurate account of a very real and honest experience.”

“I have had romantic relationships with women and men throughout my life and this is my personal journey,” she added.President Donald Trump’s ill-timed boasts about the U.S. economy provided comic fodder for Stephen Colbert on Monday’s “Late Show.”

The comedian noted how Trump had bragged during an earlier speech in Cincinnati about the booming state of the economy. But on the same day, the stock market (which Trump repeatedly takes credit for when it surges) was taking a huge tumble.

“Remember when Donald Trump told us we’d be tired of winning?” asked Colbert. “Well, evidently the stock market is exhausted.”

“The stock market is just like the rest of us,” he added. “It spent January working on improving itself, then in February said f**k it.”TOP STORIES

(And want to get The Morning Email each weekday? Sign up here.)

INSIDE THE STOCK MARKET PLUNGE The Dow dropped nearly 1,600 points in the “biggest intraday decline in history.” Asian markets are dropping again today, signaling the rout over fears of inflation will continue. But according to Sean Hannity, it’s all Obama’s fault. Twitter had some other ideas. [Reuters] [Tweet | Share on Facebook]

THE WHITE HOUSE LEGAL TEAM HAS ADVISED TRUMP NOT TO AGREE TO AN INTERVIEW WITH MUELLER “The lawyers, as well as several White House aides, fear that the president might contradict himself or make a false statement to investigators, which is a federal crime.” [HuffPost]

THE HOUSE INTELLIGENCE COMMITTEE VOTED TO RELEASE THE DEMOCRATS’ REBUTTAL TO THE NUNES MEMO Trump has until Friday to decide whether it can be made public. [Reuters]

TRUMP CALLED IT ‘TREASONOUS’ THAT DEMOCRATS DIDN’T APPLAUD HIM DURING THE STATE OF THE UNION Typically, the opposing party does not have much enthusiasm for the president’s remarks. Sen. Tammy Duckworth (D-Ill.) fired back, saying she didn’t need to listen to “Cadet Bone Spurs” telling her when to clap. [HuffPost]

NEWSWEEK’S TOP EDITOR AND STAFFERS WERE SUDDENLY FIRED And some who work for the magazine believe it’s due to their investigations into their parent company. [HuffPost]

EMAILS AFTER COMEY’S FIRING SHOW A DEVASTATED FBI ”Over 100 pages of emails written by FBI agents last year, shortly after President Donald Trump fired FBI Director James Comey, reveal a stunned and saddened bureau, sharply contrasting with the president’s statements that Comey was unpopular with most FBI employees.” [HuffPost]The Winter Olympics in Pyeonchang, South Korea, are already stomach-churning ― and the competition hasn’t even started yet. The host country has called in the troops after pulling 1,200 civilian security guards from duty amid a norovirus outbreak, according to outlets.

Lee Hee-beom, chairman of the Pyeongchang Olympics organizing committee, said Tuesday that the civilian guards will be sequestered until it is determined that they are “well,” CBS News reported.

Dozens of guards were already hospitalized Sunday for sudden vomiting and diarrhea.

“The military personnel ... will be responsible for security checks of the 20 venues as they take up jobs such as security searches, previously done by civilian safety personnel, until the patients’ condition is normalized,” a statement Monday from the Olympics committee said, per CNN.

The infected guards were in stable condition, the statement said, and all Olympic living quarters and buses were being sterilized.“You know, it’s amazing. All the rappers, all the this, all his African-American friends from Jesse Jackson to Al Sharpton ― you know, I have pictures with them their whole life, we say hi, always been friends. It was only till he got into politics that all of a sudden, ‘Oh he’s the most terrible human being in the world.’”

I don’t know, he wasn’t so terrible a couple of years ago, when you were at his events ... when you were hitting him up for charity dollars and he’s sponsoring things and sponsoring scholarships and doing XYZ for you guys.”While still a presidential hopeful in 2016, Donald Trump attacked U.S. District Judge Gonzalo Curiel on national television, saying the “Mexican” justice couldn’t impartially rule on lawsuits against Trump University because of Trump’s promise to build “a wall between here and Mexico.”′

“Look, he’s proud of his heritage, OK? I’m building a wall,” Trump told CNN anchor Jake Tapper in June 2016, referring to Curiel, an American who was born in Indiana.

In a twist of irony, the fate of that border wall may now be in the hands of the judge derided by Trump. As first reported by McClatchy, Curiel will preside over a case on Friday that may determine whether the federal government has the power to bypass environmental laws to build Trump’s wall.

Andrew Gordon, a former Department of Homeland Security attorney, called the case “very significant,” telling McClatchy that if Curiel rules against the administration, it could hamper Trump’s immediate border wall ambitions — even if a higher court chooses to rule differently at a later stage.

Should Curiel rule in favor of the administration, Trump could issue waivers to build barriers on unfenced parts of border, noted The Hill.

Trump's campaign attacks against Judge Curiel could come back to haunt him. Curiel hears case Friday on Trump's #BorderWall. https://t.co/oyU72tTXP8 — Stuart Leavenworth (@sleavenworth) February 5, 2018

The case consolidates three lawsuits filed last year by the state of California, environmental groups and Rep. Raúl Grijalva (D-Ariz.). The suits challenge the waivers granted by Congress in 1996 and 2005 allowing the federal government to bypass certain federal and state laws, including environmental regulations, for border security reasons.

The suits claim the waivers are outdated and should not apply to Trump’s border wall plan. California said the construction of the wall could do “irreparable harm” to the state’s wildlife. Legal experts say the groups that have brought the lawsuits will bear a significant legal burden to prove their case.

Curiel made headlines in 2016, when Trump disparaged him as a “hater” and “Mexican” while the judge presided over fraud lawsuits against Trump University.

“I think the judge has been extremely hostile to me. I think it has to do with perhaps the fact that I’m very, very strong on the border,” Trump told Fox News in February 2016. “Now, he is Hispanic, I believe. He is a very hostile judge to me. I said it loud and clear.”

Curiel, whose parents are naturalized citizens from Mexico, did not respond to Trump’s comments, which were widely lambasted as racist. Trump University eventually agreed to pay $25 million to settle the fraud lawsuits. Curiel approved the settlement.

At least one former colleague of the judge said Curiel will not allow Trump’s earlier attacks on him to cloud his judgment on the upcoming case.WARSAW, Feb 6 (Reuters) - Polish President Andrzej Duda said on Tuesday that he will sign a contested Holocaust bill into law, despite protests from Israel and the United States.

The measure imposes prison sentences of up to three years for mentioning the term “Polish death camps” and for suggesting “publicly and against the facts” that the Polish nation or state was complicit in Nazi Germany’s crimes.

Poland’s right-wing government says the law is necessary to protect the reputation of Poles as victims of Nazi aggression. Israel says the law would ban true statements about the role that some Poles played in Nazi crimes.A victim’s graphic letter describing sexual abuse by a priest that was witnessed by a controversial Chilean bishop was hand-delivered to Pope Francis three years ago — contradicting the pontiff’s claims that he was unaware anyone had come forward about a coverup, The Associated Press reports.

The eight-page letter, a copy of which was obtained by the AP, was reportedly delivered to the pope by Boston Cardinal Sean O’Malley in 2015. The letter detailed sexual abuse that the victim said was witnessed by Bishop Juan Barros, according to AP.

The Vatican didn’t comment on the report. But last week, the Vatican suddenly announced that new details had emerged about Barros, and that it was sending its top sex-crimes investigator to “listen to those who want to submit information in their possession,” Reuters reported.

The letter and its history emerged after the pope’s contentious visit to Chile last month. He apologized and expressed compassion for victims of clergy sexual abuse. But he also staunchly defended Barros, whom many accuse of covering up abuse by notorious pedophile the Rev. Fernando Karadima.

Francis even accused critics of Barros of slander. He said that there was no evidence linking the bishop to abuse, and that no victims had come forward.

But four members of the pope’s Commission for the Protection of Minors told AP that they flew to Rome in 2015 and met with O’Malley to discuss their concerns about the pope’s appointment of Barros that year as a bishop of Osorno, Chile, over objections. O’Malley, who has had extensive experience dealing with sex abuse in Boston, is president the Commission for the Protection of Minors. The commission members gave O’Malley the letter from the victim, and asked him to deliver it to Francis.

“He assured us he would give it to the pope and speak of the concerns,’’ then-commission member Marie Collins told the AP. ‘‘At a later date, he assured us that that had been done.’’

The victim, Juan Cruz, who now lives in Philadelphia, told AP that O’Malley also told him the letter was delivered.

‘‘Cardinal O’Malley called me after the pope’s visit here in Philadelphia and he told me, among other things, that he had given the letter to the pope — in his hands,’’ Cruz said in an interview at his home Sunday.

Cruz came forward with the letter after reading news accounts about the pope denying knowing of any victims implicating Barros. The letter tells how Cruz wanted to kill himself after repeated abuse. He talked of a circle of boys and young men around Karadima who were repeatedly abused while Barros was often present.

Karadima was sentenced by the church in 2011 to a lifetime of ‘‘penance and prayer’’ for his crimes. He was not convicted in a court because too much time had elapsed since his crimes and he could not legally be prosecuted.A statement from the U.N. resident humanitarian coordinator and U.N. representatives in Syria described the situation in the country as “extreme”. “The United Nations humanitarian team in Syria warns of the dire consequences of the compounded humanitarian crisis in several parts of the country,” it said.Esmond Bradley Martin, a leading conservationist who documented the black market ivory and rhino trade, was mysteriously killed at his home in Nairobi.

Authorities said Martin’s wife found him on Sunday with a stab wound in his neck, multiple media outlets reported. Because his safe had also been raided, police said they believe his death may have been the result of a botched robbery. However, a motive has not been determined and no suspects have been identified.

Martin, who was in his 70s, moved to Kenya from New York several decades ago to dedicate his life to exposing the dark side of an industry that has soared in the last few decades due to growing demand in global markets, particularly in Asia. About 144,000 elephants were slaughtered for ivory poaching in less than a decade, the Great Elephant Census found in 2016. More than 1,000 rhinos were illegally killed last year.

His data-driven approach to documenting the black market routes and the prices that ivory and rhino horns fetched provided the concrete evidence that has helped spur a global crackdown on the practice, fellow conservationists said.

“Esmond was known for absolute rigour and painstaking precision in his methodology and reporting,” Lisa Rolls, who leads the United Nations Environment’s Wild For Life campaign, said in a statement. Martin had previously served as a U.N. Special Envoy on rhino conservation.

“He was always willing to lend his decades of expertise to explore approaches to tackling the illegal wildlife trade with complete objectivity,” she added.

We are deeply saddened by the death of wildlife-trade researcher Esmond Bradley Martin who died yesterday in Nairobi. A long term ally for STE, passionate champion of wildlife and meticulous researcher, his loss will be deeply felt by all who knew him. https://t.co/8WUaOpdqmw pic.twitter.com/xBCNNDjUWQ — Save the Elephants (@ste_kenya) February 5, 2018

“Esmond was a global authority on ivory and rhino horn trafficking,” added Paula Kahumbu, CEO of WildlifeDirect. He “was at the forefront of exposing the scale of ivory markets in USA, Congo, Nigeria, Angola, China, Hong Kong, Vietnam, Laos and recently Myanmar.”

Martin’s latest report, published by the nonprofit Save The Elephants in 2017, analyzed the reduction in legal ivory trading in China as a result of the country’s decision in 2015 to begin phasing out the illegal practice. It also found that Laos is the world’s fastest-growing market for ivory.

While it’s unclear if his work was related to his death, conservationists have long been targets for violence. Almost 200 environmentalists and eco-defenders were murdered last year, The Guardian reported, including wildlife conservationist Wayne Lotter. Lotter, who had received death threats throughout his career, was shot and killed while in a taxi in Tanzania.The New York Times has asked the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court to release warrant application documents on President Donald Trump’s former campaign aide Carter Page. The newspaper is arguing that the president himself has already “lowered the shield of secrecy” by approving release of the controversial Republican memo.

Because the president already agreed to declassify information in the memo concerning the FBI and Justice Department investigation of Page, there is “no longer any reason for the Page warrant orders and application materials to be withheld in their entirety,” states the newspaper’s request Monday for release of the wiretap records. “Continued classification of the entirety of this court’s orders and the warrant application materials is no longer proper in light of President Trump’s declassification of the Nunes memo.”

Rep. Devin Nunes (R-Calif.) last week released a four-page memo written by GOP staff claiming that the FBI used biased information, paid for by Democrats, in a warrant application for electronic surveillance of Page. The memo said the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act (FISA) court was unaware of the political motivation behind the research, which the Democrats have countered is inaccurate and misleading. (Nunes conceded in a Fox News interview that there was a “footnote” by the FBI in its surveillance application that referred to a political entity being behind research used in the FISA request.)

Disclosure beyond the selective information in the Nunes memo also “serves the public interest,” according to the Times. “Publication would contribute to an informed debate about the propriety of the government’s FISA application.”

The memo has “sparked an intense debate over the accuracy of its characterization of the Page warrant applications.” But none of the “accusations ... can be confirmed without access to the records of this court,” the Times noted in its application.

The House Intelligence Committee on Monday voted to release a 10-page memo written by Democrats in response to the Nunes memo. The Democrats’ document would also include some classified information. Trump has five days to decide whether he’ll approve public release of the Democrats’ rebuttal.