Kim Yong Nam, president of the Presidium of the Supreme People's Assembly of North Korea (left), pictured in 2016. Marco Bello / Reuters

North Korea’s ceremonial leader reportedly will attend the Winter Olympics’ opening ceremony in Pyeongchang, South Korea, on Friday — an appearance that’s been described as “unprecedented” and suggestive of possible high-level talks between the neighboring nations.

Kim Yong Nam, the 90-year-old head of the North’s parliament, will lead a 22-person delegation to South Korea for a three-day trip starting Friday, according to Reuters, citing North Korea’s official KCNA news agency and Seoul’s Unification Ministry.

Kim will be the highest level North Korean official to visit the South since 2014, when close aides to North Korean leader Kim Jong Un attended the Asian Games in Incheon.

#NorthKorea to send longtime ceremonial head of state, Kim Yong Nam, to #Pyeongchang2018 #Olympics. He'd be highest-ranking North Korean to visit South Korea. He's 90 today....rare to reach that age in DPRK. pic.twitter.com/WpRkgcp7cS — Jean H. Lee (@newsjean) February 5, 2018

Kim, whose official title is president of the presidium of the Supreme People’s Assembly, will be accompanied by several senior officials, The Guardian reported.

News of the visit has sparked speculation about possible talks between the two adversarial Koreas, and potentially even the United States, during the games.

Kim’s visit “shows North Korea’s resolve for improved inter-Korean relations and the success of the Olympics, as well as its sincere, earnest attitude,” Kim Eui-kyeom, spokesman for the South’s presidential Blue House, told reporters on Monday, per Reuters.

U.S. Vice President Mike Pence, who also plans to attend the opening ceremony in Pyeongchang, has reportedly expressed less optimism about North Korea’s appearance.

Quoting a Pence aide, Axios reported Sunday that the vice president “plans to try to disrupt any normalization of North Korea amid the feel-good setting of the games.”

“The vice president will remind the world that everything the North Koreans do at the Olympics is a charade to cover up the fact that they are the most tyrannical and oppressive regime on the planet,” the aide was quoted as saying. “At every opportunity, the VP will point out the reality of the oppression in North Korea by a regime that has enslaved its people. We will not allow North Korea’s propaganda to hijack the messaging of the Olympics.”Fred Warmbier, the father of an American who died after he was imprisoned in North Korea, will attend the opening ceremony of the 2018 Winter Olympics in Pyeongchang, South Korea, later this month, The Washington Post reported on Sunday. He will travel to the country as a guest of Vice President Mike Pence.

Warmbier’s son, Otto, died last June after suffering brain damage while in the custody of the North Korean government. The younger Warmbier was in a coma for around 15 months before he was returned to the United States, although it’s unclear how he sustained the injuries that brought on the condition. Officials in Pyongyang said the coma was brought on by a mix of botulism and sleeping pills, although an autopsy could not confirm the cause of the brain damage, which a coroner called extensive.

Pence is expected to speak about continued pressure by the U.S. against North Korea in an effort to curtail the regime’s ambitions of crafting an arsenal of nuclear weapons capable of reaching America, the Post reported. His presence ― at the end of a five-day trip to Asia ― comes as the North is expected to send athletes to compete in the Olympics for the first time in years, including a joint team with the South in women’s ice hockey.

The Warmbiers recently attended President Donald Trump’s State of the Union address as guests of the White House. In his speech, Trump spoke about Warmbier’s imprisonment and called North Korean leader Kim Jong Un “cruel” and “depraved.”

“You are powerful witnesses to a menace that threatens our world, and your strength inspires truly us all,” Trump said. “Tonight, we pledge to honor Otto’s memory with total American resolve.”

Warmbier’s parents have been harsh critics of the North Korean government since their son’s imprisonment, and accused the Obama administration of not doing enough to ensure his return. Warmbier, then 21, was sentenced to 15 years of hard labor after he was convicted of stealing a propaganda poster while on a group tour to the country in early 2016. His parents were unable to speak to him during his entire imprisonment, and were only told of his condition in the hours before he was returned to the U.S.

In an interview three months after his death, Warmbier’s father condemned the actions of the North and slammed the Kim regime as torturers.

“We’re here to tell you North Korea is not a victim,” Fred Warmbier said on Fox News. “They’re terrorists. They kidnapped Otto, tortured him, they intentionally injured him ... He was blind, he was deaf. As we looked at him and tried to comfort him, it looked as if somebody had taken a pair of pliers and rearranged his bottom teeth.Unexpected perk of being Jennifer Lawrence? License to commandeer a plane’s loudspeaker system to root for your favorite sports team.

That’s what happened on a Delta Air Lines flight traveling from New Orleans to Los Angeles Sunday when the “Red Sparrow” actress decided to muster up some cheer for her Philadelphia Eagles, who went on to best the New England Patriots at Super Bowl LII.

“Everybody, this is not the pilot speaking. This is Jennifer Lawrence,” she says over the loudspeaker on a video shared on social media. “It’s February 4, Super Bowl Sunday, and we all know what that means. Can I please get a ‘Fly, Eagles, Fly’? Fly, Eagles, fly! Fly, Eagles, fly!”

JENNIFER LAWRENCE SUPPORTS THE EAGLES MY SILVER LININGS HEART IS ON FIRE pic.twitter.com/E9pDk7fGIC — susan (@sassyjoshifer) February 4, 2018

Her enthusiasm is hardly matched by the passengers in the video, who largely remain silent except for some fans toward the back, although People reports everyone “loved” the impromptu cheer.

“It was just like a fun, spontaneous chant by Jennifer Lawrence that we definitely appreciated,” a passenger told the outlet. “I think everyone just went along with it, since flights are so boring.”

Lawrence’s 2012 film “The Silver Linings Playbook,” for which she won an Oscar, revolved around a family of die-hard Eagles fans.

Before returning to her seat and taking some selfies with fans, Lawrence ended her loudspeaker moment in the sun with an all too apt “Bridesmaids” joke, referencing Kristen Wiig’s character’s meltdown on the plane.

“There’s a colonial woman on the plane, she’s wearing traditional ... ” the actress said as a flight attendant attempts to interrupt her.

Lawrence was in New Orleans for the nonpartisan Unrig the System Summit, where she interviewed former U.S. Federal Election Commission chairman Trevor Potter about how to curb political corruption.With a musical career spanning more than 50 years, singer and songwriter Paul Simon has announced that his upcoming “Farewell Tour” will be his last.

The 16-time Grammy award winner made the announcement on Monday, with the 76-year-old citing the recent death of his lead guitarist and wanting to spend time with his family as reasons for his retirement from touring.

“Sadly, we lost our lead guitarist and my friend of 30 years, Vincent N’guini, who died last December. His loss is not the only reason I’ve decided to stop touring, but it is a contributing factor,” Simon said in a statement.

“Mostly, though, I feel the travel and time away from my wife and family takes a toll that detracts from the joy of playing. I’d like to leave with a big Thank You to the many folks around the world who’ve come out to watch me play over the last 50 years.”

His “Homeward Bound – The Farewell Tour,” which kicks off in Vancouver on May 16, will include shows in North America, Europe, and the U.K. Tickets will go on sale later this week.

“After this coming tour, I anticipate doing the occasional performance in a (hopefully) acoustically pristine hall, and to donate those earnings to various philanthropic organizations, particularly those whose objective is to save the planet, ecologically,” he added.

“Once again, I am very grateful for a fulfilling career and, of course, most of all to the audiences who heard something in my music that touched their hearts.”Nassar’s crimes also have forced resignations at USA Gymnastics and Michigan State. MSU President Lou Anna K. Simon stepped down in January. The entire USA Gymnastics board resigned, and former Olympic coach John Geddert retired. The NCAA also has begun an investigation into MSU’s handling of the Nassar case. Last week, Congress passed a bill that aims to protect young athletes from sexual abuse and regulate governing bodies of amateur sports.

“It is incumbent on the Department of Justice to investigate whether there was a legal duty as well,” Gillibrand concluded in her letter. “I request that the Department of Justice examine the extent to which other parties have failed in their duty and should be held responsible for their contribution to Dr. Nassar’s crimes.”

This article has been updated to include the Justice Department’s response.Philadelphia Eagles head coach Doug Pederson celebrates winning Super Bowl LII with the Vince Lombardi Trophy in Minneapolis, Minnesota on February 4, 2018. (REUTERS/Chris Wattie) Chris Wattie / Reuters

MINNEAPOLIS — Doug Pederson, who was coaching in high school less than a decade ago, out-coached New England Patriots legend Bill Belichick in a Super Bowl. With his backup quarterback. Let that sink in.

There will be many enduring moments from the Philadelphia Eagles’ 41-33 win in Super Bowl LII, but nothing will top Pederson going for it on fourth-and-goal at the 1-yard line and having the fortitude to call a trick play with a tight end passing to his quarterback.

“You really want to know what we call it?” Pederson said when asked about the trick play. “‘Philly Special.’”

“Philly Special” was actually borrowed from elsewhere. It seems to have its roots at Clemson, who ran it for a two-point conversion from DeAndre Hopkins to Tajh Boyd in 2012. Quarterback Nick Foles approached the line like he was going to call an audible. There was a direct snap to running back Corey Clement, who started right and pitched to tight end Trey Burton. Burton threw to Foles for a touchdown.

“We’re all sitting there on fourth down, wondering what’s going to come in, if we’re going to kick a field goal,” center Jason Kelce said. “Then we get the play in, and I can’t tell you how excited everybody in the huddle was to run that. We all felt like it was perfect.”

It’s one thing to run that on a random Saturday afternoon against Georgia Tech. It’s another thing to call it on fourth down with more than 100 million people watching.

“I’ll tell you what, for a coach to call that play in that situation — are you kidding me?” offensive coordinator Frank Reich said.

“That’s been Doug Pederson all year. He’s stayed confident in this group of guys,” Kelce said.

Pederson said he thought his team needed touchdowns, and not short field goals, to beat the Patriots. And that should be obvious to everyone. But you don’t see that line of thinking often in a league overrun by risk-averse coaches who would rather kick 19-yard field goals and avoid criticism if going for it doesn’t work out.

Pederson’s devil-may-care ways at the Super Bowl didn’t surprise any of the Eagles. Pederson put his foot on the gas when the season started and never let up. The Eagles led the NFL in fourth-down conversions. After Carson Wentz went down with an injury the Eagles didn’t go in a shell; they devised aggressive game plans specifically catered for Foles. When Pederson met with the team before the Super Bowl, he had a simple message: He wasn’t going to change anything about his approach just because of the magnitude of the game or who they were facing.

“He said he was going to be aggressive, that was his message pregame,” Ertz said. “He said if we were up, he was still going to be aggressive.”

Pederson stayed true to that. Some analysts figured there might be a run-heavy game plan to hide Foles. Foles threw 43 times for 373 yards, and consistently threw downfield. There are only a few coaches in the NFL bold enough to go for it on fourth-and-1 at their own 45 with less than six minutes left in a regular-season game, much less a Super Bowl. Pederson went for it, Zach Ertz caught a 2-yard pass. The Eagles scored the game-winning touchdown later in the drive.

Head coach Bill Belichick of the New England Patriots looks on against the Philadelphia Eagles during the first quarter in Super Bowl LII at U.S. Bank Stadium on February 4, 2018 in Minneapolis, Minnesota. (Photo by Patrick Smith/Getty Images) Patrick Smith via Getty Images

“We knew coach was going to go for it,” receiver Alshon Jeffery said. “That’s what he’s been doing all year.”

Pederson will get credit for going for it on the fourth downs, and coaching up Foles to throw for more than 700 yards in the NFC championship game and Super Bowl. His mastery Sunday was also in the little things that weren’t as obvious. As Ertz explained his game-winning touchdown, he said the Patriots double-teamed him on similar plays earlier in the game. This time, the Eagles sent the running back in motion away from Ertz. Once a Patriots defender went with the back in motion, Foles and Ertz knew it was man coverage and Ertz was one-on-one. Foles hit his tight end on a slant route for the score. That’s not as splashy as “Philly Special,” but it’s another example of how Pederson and his staff out-coached the Patriots.

“They kept us off balance,” Belichick said.

And on the other sideline, cornerback Malcolm Butler stayed on the bench for vague reasons while Butler’s backup Eric Rowe got picked on. It wasn’t Belichick’s best night, while Pederson pushed every correct button.

“Our coach, Doug Pederson, should have won coach of the year,” Ertz said to a question that had nothing to do with Pederson. “He’s the best play-caller I’ve ever played with, the best coach I’ve ever played for.”

After Sunday, Pederson will be mentioned alongside the NFL’s best coaches. The Super Bowl win was a long way from his four seasons at Calvary Baptist Academy from 2005-08, when he was figuring out if he really wanted to coach. It’s even a long way from the beginning of this season, when he was still a mystery and one well-known analyst opined that Pederson was “less qualified to coach a team than anyone I’ve ever seen.” On Sunday, at the end of just his second season as a head coach, his creative and aggressive game plan got the best of Belichick, who will probably go down as the greatest coach ever. Pederson brought a Super Bowl title to Philadelphia, and it seems like he’s just getting started.

“I just come to work, the same person, and I don’t want to change,” Pederson said. “Hopefully we can win a couple more of these.”

– – – – – – –

AdvertisementMINNEAPOLIS – Surrounded by cameras and a sudden bandwagon of well-wishers, Nick Foles tried to bulldoze his way up the U.S. Bank tunnel. He clutched the hand of his wife Tori, who herself held their daughter Lily. The world suddenly wanted a word with Nick Foles, the discarded, unheralded, former backup Eagles quarterback who had just outdueled Tom Brady to lead Philadelphia to a 41-33 Super Bowl win.

It was all coming fast now, after always coming slow for the Foles family. For so long, it was just them, scraping and questioning and, in the end, believing. Believing in Nick. Believing in themselves and in their faith and in the idea that, sure, this outlandish, outrageous night out of their wildest dreams was possible.

An NFL employee tried to help them through the throng by promising there’d be plenty of time to talk with the Philadelphia quarterback.

“Nick Foles,” it was shouted, “is going to the MVP room.”

Philadelphia Eagles quarterback Nick Foles celebrates after throwing a touchdown pass during the second quarter against the New England Patriots in Super Bowl LII at U.S. Bank Stadium in Minneapolis, Minnesota on February 4, 2018. (John David Mercer-USA TODAY Sports) USA Today Sports / Reuters

With that, Nick and Tori shot each other a look and a smile. It’s reasonable to assume Nick Foles didn’t know there was such a thing as a Super Bowl MVP interview room, let alone that such a sentence would ever be declared. Yet there were the Foles, Nick and Tori, a mostly anonymous couple out of the University of Arizona, marching right onto turf more familiar with Tom Brady and Gisele Bundchen.

Two years ago Foles was ready to retire from football at age 26, frustrated with his situation, lacking in his motivation, uncertain either would ever improve.

Sunday, he outdueled Brady in one of the wildest Super Bowls ever. He threw for 373 yards and three touchdowns. He added a 1-yard touchdown reception on an all-timer of a trick play. Mostly though, he played with the poise and focus that belied the fact that until franchise quarterback Carson Wentz was injured in December, Foles was nothing but a backup, a journeyman, another name in the NFL’s parade of mediocre QBs.

When Wentz got hurt though, in came Foles. When the Eagles got here and found themselves in a shootout with Brady, who would chuck it for a record 505 yards and three touchdowns of his own, Foles never blinked.

“The stage is never too big for him,” said tight end Zach Ertz, who caught the game-deciding touchdown pass.

“I didn’t have to be Superman,” Foles said. “I have amazing teammates.”

He was Superman though. And that was the thing. The Eagles didn’t win because of a superior defense and a mistake-free day by a game manager of a quarterback. Brady was slashing the defense apart. They needed someone to do the same. They needed someone to be better than Brady.

So there was Foles, moving the Eagles up and down the field to the tune of 538 total yards. There was Foles, throwing brilliant passes – a 34-yard touchdown to Alshon Jeffrey, a 22-yard bullet to Corey Clement.

There was Foles, leading an offense that went 10-of-16 on third down, and 2-of-2 on fourth, including a conversion on the game-winning drive. There was Foles, running a fake-audible-turned-Wildcat-reverse pass back to Foles for a touchdown.

There was Foles, providing the battered and gasping defense with enough hope to know it needed to make just one play, one stop and the Super Bowl could be Philly’s. It came with 2:16 remaining, a strip sack of Brady after the Patriots hadn’t punted or turned it over all night.

It wasn’t much. With Nick Foles at the helm, it was enough.

And so there was Nick Foles, in the “MVP room”, waiting for a chance to speak to the media.

First he took a seat next to Tori and held Lily on his lap. The baby wore a green Eagles scarf across her head and pink, noise-cancelling head phones over her ears. He pulled a silver chain out from underneath his jersey and she began played with the cross at the end of it.

He was still wearing his uniform and his baseball cap said the Eagles had won the Super Bowl. Other than that, he looked as calm as ever, just a dad and his family.

Which was, he said, how this all worked in the first place.

“That’s what life’s about right there,” Foles said. “We’re Super Bowl champs, but time does stop when you look in your daughter’s eyes and you get to celebrate this moment. I got to look in my wife’s eyes. I get to celebrate this with her. They’ve been there. My wife’s been there through everything. My family has been through everything.

“I’m just grateful.”

Foles grew up in Texas and originally attended Michigan State before transferring to Arizona, in part to find playing time. There he met Tori, a volleyball player for the Wildcats. He was a third-round pick, and despite a Pro Bowl season in 2013 in Philadelphia, he was never anyone’s idea of a sure-fire star. Injuries held him to just eight games in 2014. He wound up on a bad St. Louis Rams team in 2015.

That’s when he was ready to quit. Football had been fun. It was never going to be like he dreamt it though.

Instead he went fishing, prayed a lot and leaned on his family. He decided to give it another shot. A year in Kansas City restored his enthusiasm, but did little for his career. Returning to Philly this year, he was second-string, an insurance policy that few thought could cash in like this.

All along though, he continued to believe and make others around him believe.

“He’s just the real deal,” said Dan Moore, his father-in-law. “He’s just a great person and even when he was ready to retire, I always believed he had the talent to be a star in this league, physically and mentally.”

He just needed his chance. Foles credits his faith for offering calm and perspective. Maybe he wasn’t having a career like Brady. He was still in the NFL, still chasing something, still surrounded by that family of his.

This game was a microcosm of his career. Little expected, except by him. Overlooked when compared to the other guy. Nothing to lean on but himself, his faith and those around him.

When you’re blessed with that, Foles said, a fourth-quarter drive when trailing the vaunted Patriots is nothing.

“I was really staying in the moment,” Foles said. “Just staying in the moment.”

Off to the side Tori smiled and Lily sat quietly. It all seemed so normal, a pack of media asking about this pass or that play, about besting Tom Brady, about winning the Super Bowl. If the rest of the world was surprised, they didn’t appear to be.Donald Trump’s campaign aide Carter Page boasted he was a “Kremlin adviser” in 2013, years before a dossier about Trump’s Russian connections was prepared during the presidential campaign, Time magazine reported.

Page, a key figure in the Republican-authored memo released Friday that Trump allies claim shows FBI bias against the president, bragged about his Kremlin connections in an Aug. 13, 2013, letter to an academic publication about a manuscript he had submitted, according to Time.

“Over the past half year, I have had the privilege to serve as an informal advisor to the staff of the Kremlin in preparation for their presidency of the G-20 Summit next month,” Page wrote in the letter.

The letter appears to undercut the controversial GOP memo authored by Rep. Devin Nunes (R-Calif.) contending that Page was investigated by the FBI after the allegedly biased dossier was assembled in research paid for by Democrats. The information, collected by former British intelligence agent Christopher Steele, also was funded by Republicans opposed to Trump’s candidacy ― a fact not mentioned in the Nunes memo.

Page was on the FBI’s radar long before the 2016 Steele dossier, according to Time. The FBI was tracking Kremlin spies trying to recruit Page, then an energy investor traveling frequently to Russia for business.

In 2013, Page met with Russian diplomat Victor Podobny at an energy conference in New York, Time reported, citing court documents. The U.S. later charged Podobny with working as a Russian intelligence agent under diplomatic cover. Podobny, in a transcript of a phone conversation to another Russian agent filed in court in 2015, talks about using “empty promises” to recruit an “idiot.” The man Podobny is talking with is identified in the transcript as “Male 1,” which Page conceded to BuzzFeed was him:

[Male-1] wrote that he is sorry, he went to Moscow and forgot to check his inbox, but he wants to meet when he gets back. I think he is an idiot and forgot who I am. . . . He flies to Moscow more often than I do. He got hooked on Gazprom thinking that if they have a project, he could rise up. Maybe he can, I don’t know. But it’s obvious he wants to earn lots of money ... I also promised him a lot ... I will feed him empty promises. This is intelligence method to cheat, how else to work with foreigners? You promise a favor for a favor. You get the documents from him and tell him to go fuck himself.

Page ultimately met with, emailed, and provided “documents” to Podobny about the “energy business,” according to the case against Podobny. Page told BuzzFeed none of the information was sensitive.

Page later popped up in Trump’s presidential campaign. He said in a speech that Russian President Vladimir Putin was a better leader than then-President Barack Obama ― comments later parroted by Trump.

Podobny, protected from prosecution by diplomatic immunity, has returned to Russia.

AdvertisementWe asked Liana Finck, a cartoonist for The New Yorker, to live-draw the Super Bowl for us. Here’s how everything — the game, the commercials, the halftime show, the works of Marcel Proust — looked through her eyes, minute by minute.Rohit Chopra, a new Federal Trade Commission member, appeared to take aim at Facebook in a memo to FTC staff urging "aggressive and effective" enforcement of the agency's orders. Bloomberg via Getty Images

Newly sworn-in Federal Trade Commissioner Rohit Chopra called for his agency to be an “aggressive and effective enforcer” in a memo to staff Monday taking aim at “recidivist” corporations ― what appears to be a not-so-subtle nod to the commission’s ongoing investigation into Facebook.

“FTC orders are not suggestions,” Chopra wrote. “Scofflaws who flout our orders must face severe consequences ― irrespective of whether they are small-time scammers or sophisticated corporations.”

In 2011, Facebook settled FTC charges that it had deceived users by telling them they could keep their data private, only to repeatedly allow that data to be shared and made public. The tech giant agreed to new policies to prevent future deception and privacy violations, but in March, a whistleblower revealed that Facebook had allowed the international political operative firm Cambridge Analytica to access data from millions of users without their consent.

The FTC is now investigating whether that breach constitutes a violation of the 2011 settlement, which carries the force of law. If Facebook failed to comply with terms of the 2011 order, the potential financial liabilities are enormous ― up to $40,000 per user, per day of the violation ― which could add up to billions or even trillions of dollars in the case of the Cambridge Analytica debacle.

Chopra, who took office on May 2, is one of two Democratic commissioners on the five-member FTC. His memo, forwarded to HuffPost, did not mention Facebook by name, but the implications for the social media platform were obvious.

In his memo, Chopra said the FTC should be thinking about “remedies” above and beyond monetary penalties for “recidivist” companies.

“The FTC should hold individual executives accountable for order violations in which they participated, even if these individuals were not named in the original orders,” Chopra wrote, adding that when companies violate FTC orders, the commission should consider “outright bans on specific business practices,” “dismissal of senior executives and board members,” divestiture of rogue operating units and clawbacks of executive compensation.

Chopra can’t single-handedly impose penalties as a lone commissioner. But he can bring public pressure against reluctant commissioners ― who have thus far been quiet about the Facebook case ― and offer internal support to agency investigators seeking a tough line against repeat offenders.

His memo also criticized the approach federal agencies took to corporate crime at big banks during the Obama years, arguing that the Securities and Exchange Commission and the Federal Reserve let financial institutions off too easy.

“The Commission must not take a similar path,” Chopra warned. “When companies violate orders, this is usually the result of serious management dysfunction, a calculated risk that the payoff of skirting the law is worth the expected consequences, or both.”

On Monday morning, Facebook announced it had suspended 200 apps from its platform as part of a company-wide audit. In its press release, Facebook pointed to third-party responsibility for privacy debacles, saying that the company is “investing heavily” in going after “apps that may have misused people’s Facebook data.”Have we seen the last of Gronk?

Reporters peppered a subdued Rob Gronkowski with questions about retirement after his New England Patriots lost to the Philadelphia Eagles in the Super Bowl Sunday night. And he didn’t do much to shoot down the speculation.

The 28-year-old tight end had been under the NFL’s concussion protocol until Thursday. He caught nine Tom Brady passes for 116 yards and 2 touchdowns in Sunday’s 41-33 defeat.

Asked at a postgame press conference to confirm a report that he was “potentially retiring,” Gronkowski replied in the segment above: “I don’t know how you heard that but I mean I’m definitely going to look at my future, for sure. I’m going to sit down the next couple of weeks and see where I’m at.”

Pressed further about what would push him to retire, he said: “I’m not ready for these types of questions right now. I’m just going to sit down, reflect on the season, talk to my teammates.”

Icon Sportswire via Getty Images

In a brilliant but injury-riddled career, Gronkowski has broken his left forearm twice, fractured his vertebra and torn the ACL and MCL in his right knee. He has also suffered a host of less serious problems for which he missed games.

But if he indeed is going to hang it up, it sounds like he’s going to give it more thought.WASHINGTON ― President Donald Trump accused Democrats on Monday of being “un-American” and “treasonous” in a campaign-style speech in Cincinnati that was actually meant to tout the recent GOP tax bill and the economy.

“Can we call that treason?” Trump said, referring to Democrats who did not clap for him during his State of the Union address last week. “Why not? I mean, they certainly didn’t seem to love our country very much.”

At the State of the Union address, it is typical for politicians of the president’s party to enthusiastically applaud, while lawmakers in the opposite party usually have a muted response.

A handful of Democratic lawmakers did not attend last Tuesday’s address to protest Trump.

Trump suggested on Monday that Democrats were “very selfish” in not clapping for him. “They would rather see Trump do badly, OK, than our country do well,” he said.

Earlier in the speech, the president claimed that he was “non-braggadocious” after bragging about his first year in office.

Trump spoke at length about the midterm elections, even though White House spokesman Raj Shah told reporters before the speech, held at a factory, that “this isn’t a political event.”

Interspersed with remarks about jobs and the economy, Trump brought up popular issues for his base, including the “fake news media” in attendance and the lack of players kneeling during the national anthem at Sunday’s Super Bowl, which he appeared to take some credit for.

“We’re one team, one people and one family, and we’re saluting one great American flag. And everybody stood up yesterday,” he said. “There was nobody kneeling at the beginning of the Super Bowl. We’ve made a lot of improvement, haven’t we? That is a big improvement, and on top of that, it was a good game. So a lot of good things happened. There was no kneeling before that Super Bowl.”THE PHILADELPHIA EAGLES WON THEIR FIRST SUPER BOWL And we’re not sure if the city is still standing. Sorry New England Patriots fans, but for the rest of the country: Here are 10 photos of Tom Brady dropping that pass. But don’t worry ― the quarterback says he’ll be back. Watch the year’s best Super Bowl ads, which probably do not include the Dodge adthat used a MLK quote. People had some thoughts about that Prince tribute at Justin Timberlake’s halftime performance. And let’s be honest: Super Bowl 2018 was summed up by this kid looking at his phone as Justin Timberlake was right next to him. [HuffPost] [Tweet | Share on Facebook]

THIS IS YOUR FRIENDLY REMINDER A GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWN COULD BE BREWING THIS WEEK AT 12:01 FRIDAY But, you know, the Super Bowl was nice. Sens. John McCain (R-Ariz.) and Christopher A. Coons (D-Del.) are introducing a bipartisan immigration plan in the Senate. While it grants citizenship for dreamers and ups border security, it does not include provisions for Trump’s wall. [WaPo]

UMA THURMAN SPEAKS OUT ABOUT A HARVEY WEINSTEIN ASSAULT And alleged director Quentin Tarantino abused his power. [HuffPost]

MORE THAN HALF OF AMERICAN BABIES ARE AT RISK FOR MALNOURISHMENT Yours truly takes a look at how the first 1,000 days of nutrition can set a child’s course for life or perpetuate a cycle of poverty. [HuffPost]

‘THESE BLOODY DOLLHOUSE SCENES REVEAL A SECRET TRUTH ABOUT AMERICAN CRIME’ “Look closely. Can you see it?” [HuffPost]

THE STORIES FROM LAST WEEK THAT GOT LOST IN THE MEMO FRENZY From mass graves to North Korea. [HuffPost]

WHAT’S BREWINGThis article originally appeared at TomDispatch.com. To receive TomDispatch in your inbox three times a week, click here.

Whether the rationale is the need to wage a war on terror involving 76 countries or renewed preparations for a struggle against peer competitors Russia and China (as Defense Secretary James Mattis suggested recently while introducing America’s new National Defense Strategy), the U.S. military is engaged globally. A network of 800 military bases spread across 172 countries helps enable its wars and interventions. By the count of the Pentagon, at the end of the last fiscal year about 291,000 personnel (including reserves and Department of Defense civilians) were deployed in 183 countries worldwide, which is the functional definition of a military uncontained. Lady Liberty may temporarily close when the U.S. government grinds to a halt, but the country’s foreign military commitments, especially its wars, just keep humming along.

As a student of history, I was warned to avoid the notion of inevitability. Still, given such data points and others like them, is there anything more predictable in this country’s future than incessant warfare without a true victory in sight? Indeed, the last clear-cut American victory, the last true “mission accomplished” moment in a war of any significance, came in 1945 with the end of World War II.

Yet the lack of clear victories since then seems to faze no one in Washington. In this century, presidents have regularly boasted that the U.S. military is the finest fighting force in human history, while no less regularly demanding that the most powerful military in today’s world be “rebuilt” and funded at ever more staggering levels. Indeed, while on the campaign trail, Donald Trump promised he’d invest so much in the military that it would become “so big and so strong and so great, and it will be so powerful that I don’t think we’re ever going to have to use it.”

As soon as he took office, however, he promptly appointed a set of generals to key positions in his government, stored the mothballs, and went back to war. Here, then, is a brief rundown of the first year of his presidency in war terms.

In 2017, Afghanistan saw a mini-surge of roughly 4,000 additional U.S. troops (with more to come), a major spike in air strikes, and an onslaught of munitions of all sorts, including MOAB (the mother of all bombs), the never-before-used largest non-nuclear bomb in the U.S. arsenal, as well as precision weapons fired by B-52s against suspected Taliban drug laboratories. By the Air Force’s own count, 4,361 weapons were “released” in Afghanistan in 2017 compared to 1,337 in 2016. Despite this commitment of warriors and weapons, the Afghan war remains ― according to American commanders putting the best possible light on the situation ― “stalemated,” with that country’s capital Kabul currently under siege.

How about Operation Inherent Resolve against the Islamic State? U.S.-led coalition forces have launched more than 10,000 airstrikes in Iraq and Syria since Donald Trump became president, unleashing 39,577 weapons in 2017. (The figure for 2016 was 30,743.) The “caliphate” is now gone and ISIS deflated but not defeated, since you can’t extinguish an ideology solely with bombs. Meanwhile, along the Syrian-Turkish border a new conflict seems to be heating up between American-backed Kurdish forces and NATO ally Turkey.

Yet another strife-riven country, Yemen, witnessed a sixfold increase in U.S. airstrikes against al-Qaeda on the Arabian Peninsula (from 21 in 2016 to more than 131 in 2017). In Somalia, which has also seen a rise in such strikes against al-Shabaab militants, U.S. forces on the ground have reached numbers not seen since the Black Hawk Down incident of 1993. In each of these countries, there are yet more ruins, yet more civilian casualties, and yet more displaced people.

Finally, we come to North Korea. Though no real shots have yet been fired, rhetorical shots by two less-than-stable leaders, “Little Rocket Man” Kim Jong-un and “dotard” Donald Trump, raise the possibility of a regional bloodbath. Trump, seemingly favoring military solutions to North Korea’s nuclear program even as his administration touts a new generation of more usable nuclear warheads, has been remarkably successful in moving the world’s doomsday clock ever closer to midnight.

Clearly, his “great” and “powerful” military has hardly been standing idly on the sidelines looking “big” and “strong.” More than ever, in fact, it seems to be lashing out across the Greater Middle East and Africa. Seventeen years after the 9/11 attacks began the Global War on Terror, all of this represents an eerily familiar attempt by the U.S. military to kill its way to victory, whether against the Taliban, ISIS, or other terrorist organizations.

This kinetic reality should surprise no one. Once you invest so much in your military ― not just financially but also culturally (by continually celebrating it in a fashion which has come to seem like a quasi-faith) ― it’s natural to want to put it to use. This has been true of all recent administrations, Democratic and Republican alike, as reflected in the infamous question Madeleine Albright posed to Chairman of the Joint Chiefs Colin Powell in 1992: “What’s the point of having this superb military you’re always talking about if we can’t use it?”

With the very word “peace” rarely in Washington’s political vocabulary, America’s never-ending version of war seems as inevitable as anything is likely to be in history. Significant contingents of U.S. troops and contractors remain an enduring presence in Iraq and there are now 2,000 U.S. Special Operations forces and other personnel in Syria for the long haul. They are ostensibly engaged in training and stability operations. In Washington, however, the urge for regime change in both Syria and Iran remains strong ― in the case of Iran implacably so. If past is prologue, then considering previous regime-change operations in Afghanistan, Iraq, and Libya, the future looks grim indeed.

Despite the dismal record of the last decade and a half, our civilian leaders continue to insist that this country must have a military not only second to none but globally dominant. And few here wonder what such a quest for total dominance, the desire for absolute power, could do to this country. Two centuries ago, however, writing to Thomas Jefferson, John Adams couldn’t have been clearer on the subject. Power, he said, “must never be trusted without a check.”

The question today for the American people: How is the dominant military power of which U.S. leaders so casually boast to be checked? How is the country’s almost total reliance on the military in foreign affairs to be reined in? How can the plans of the profiteers and arms makers to keep the good times rolling be brought under control?

As a start, consider one of Donald Trump’s favorite generals, Douglas MacArthur, speaking to the Sperry Rand Corporation in 1957:

“Our swollen budgets constantly have been misrepresented to the public. Our government has kept us in a perpetual state of fear ― kept us in a continuous stampede of patriotic fervor ― with the cry of grave national emergency. Always there has been some terrible evil at home or some monstrous foreign power that was going to gobble us up if we did not blindly rally behind it by furnishing the exorbitant funds demanded. Yet, in retrospect, these disasters seem never to have happened, seem never to have been quite real.”

No peacenik MacArthur. Other famed generals like Smedley Butler and Dwight D. Eisenhower spoke out with far more vigor against the corruptions of war and the perils to a democracy of an ever more powerful military, though such sentiments are seldom heard in this country today. Instead, America’s leaders insist that other people judge us by our words, our stated good intentions, not our murderous deeds and their results.

Perpetual Warfare Whistles Through Washington

Whether in Iraq, Afghanistan, or elsewhere in the war on terror, the U.S. is now engaged in generational conflicts that are costing us trillions of dollars, driving up the national debt while weakening the underpinnings of our democracy. They have led to foreign casualties by the hundreds of thousands and created refugees in the millions, while turning cities like Iraq’s Mosul into wastelands.

In today’s climate of budget-busting “defense” appropriations, isn’t it finally time for Americans to apply a little commonsense to our disastrous pattern of war-making? To prime the pump for such a conversation, here are 10 suggestions for ways to focus on, limit, or possibly change Washington’s now eternal war-making and profligate war spending:

1. Abandon the notion of perfect security. You can’t have it. It doesn’t exist. And abandon as well the idea that a huge military establishment translates into national safety. James Madison didn’t think so and neither did Dwight D. Eisenhower.

2. Who could have anything against calling the Pentagon a “defense” department, if defense were truly its focus? But let’s face it: the Pentagon is actually a war department. So let’s label it what it really is. After all, how can you deal with a problem if you can’t even name it accurately?

3. Isn’t it about time to start following the Constitution when it comes to our “wars”? Isn’t it time for Congress to finally step up to its constitutional duties? Whatever the Pentagon is called, this country should no longer be able to pursue its many conflicts without a formal congressional declaration of war. If we had followed that rule, the U.S. wouldn’t have fought any of its wars since the end of World War II.

4. Generational wars ― ones, that is, that never end ― should not be considered a measure of American resolve, but of American stupidity. If you wage war long, you wage it wrong, especially if you want to protect democratic institutions in this country.

5. Generals generally like to wage war. Don’t blame them. It’s their profession. But for heaven’s sake, don’t put them in charge of the Department of “Defense” (James Mattis) or the National Security Council (H.R. McMaster) either ― and above all, don’t let one of them (John Kelly) become the gatekeeper for a volatile, vain president. In our country, civilians should be in charge of the war makers, end of story.

6. You can’t win wars you never should have begun in the first place. America’s leaders failed to learn that lesson from Vietnam. Since then they have continued to wage wars for less-than-vital interests with predictably dismal results. Following the Vietnam example, America will only truly win its Afghan War when it chooses to rein in its pride and vanity ― and leave.

7. The serious people in Washington snickered when, as a presidential candidate in 2004 and 2008, Congressman Dennis Kucinich called for a Department of Peace. Remind me, though, 17 years into our latest set of wars, what was so funny about that suggestion? Isn’t it better to wage peace than war? If you don’t believe me, ask a wounded veteran or a Gold Star family.

8. Want to invest in American jobs? Good idea! But stop making the military-industrial complex the preferred path to job creation. That’s a loser of a way to go. It’s proven that investments in “butter” create double or triple the number of jobs as those in “guns.” In other words, invest in education, health care, and civilian infrastructure, not more weaponry.

9. Get rid of the very idea behind the infamous Pottery Barn rule ― the warning Secretary of State Colin Powell offered George W. Bush before the invasion of Iraq that if the U.S. military “breaks” a country, somehow we’ve “bought” it and so have to take ownership of the resulting mess. Whether stated or not, it’s continued to be the basis for this century’s unending wars. Honestly, if somebody broke something valuable you owned, would you trust that person to put it back together? Folly doesn’t decrease by persisting in it.

10. I was an officer in the Air Force. When I entered that service, the ideal of the citizen-soldier still held sway. But during my career I witnessed a slow, insidious change. A citizen-soldier military morphed into a professional ethos of “warriors” and “warfighters,” a military that saw itself as better than the rest of us. It’s time to think about how to return to that citizen-soldier tradition, which made it harder to fight those generational wars.

Consider retired General John Kelly, who, while defending the president in a controversy over the president’s words to the mother of a dead Green Beret, refused to take questions from reporters unless they had a personal connection to fallen troops or to a Gold Star family. Consider as well the way that U.S. politicians like Vice President Mike Pence are always so keen to exalt those in uniform, to speak of them as above the citizenry. (“You are the best of us.”)

Isn’t it time to stop praising our troops to the rooftops and thanking them endlessly for what they’ve done for us ― for fighting those wars without end ― and to start listening to them instead? Isn’t it time to try to understand them not as “heroes” in another universe, but as people like us in all their frailty and complexity? We’re never encouraged to see them as our neighbors, or as teenagers who struggled through high school, or as harried moms and dads.

Our troops are, of course, human and vulnerable and imperfect. We don’t help them when we put them on pedestals, give them flags to hold in the breeze, and salute them as icons of a feel-good brand of patriotism. Talk of warrior-heroes is worse than cheap: it enables our state of permanent war, elevates the Pentagon, ennobles the national security state, and silences dissent. That’s why it’s both dangerous and universally supported in rare bipartisan fashion by politicians in Washington.

So here’s my final point. Think of it as a bonus 11th suggestion: don’t make our troops into heroes, even when they’re in harm’s way. It would be so much better to make ourselves into heroes by getting them out of harm’s way.

Be exceptional, America. Make peace, not war.

William Astore, a retired lieutenant colonel (USAF) and history professor, is a TomDispatch regular. He blogs at Bracing Views.

This article originally appeared at TomDispatch.com. To receive TomDispatch in your inbox three times a week, click here.When it comes to betting on a “Star Wars” trailer showing during the Super Bowl, never tell us the odds.

Sunday brought us an unexpected first peek at “Solo: A Star Wars Story” with a 45-second teaser, and the dark, gritty atmosphere seems to fit with what we saw in “Rogue One,” the other non-saga film set in the galaxy far, far away.

The teaser shows a star destroyer moving through what looks like a massive funnel cloud, tie fighters and blaster fights, and Donald Glover looking completely badass as a young Lando Calrissian.

“Which branch are you interested in joining?” an Imperial officer asks.

“I’m gonna be a pilot,” replies a young Han Solo.MALE/COLOMBO, Feb 6 (Reuters) - Maldives President Abdulla Yameen on Monday declared a state of emergency, ordered security forces into the supreme court and arrested a former president, in moves the opposition called a “purge” in the Indian Ocean island nation.

The president has defied a Supreme Court ruling handed down last week, which revoked terrorism charges against nine leading opposition figures including the country’s first democratically elected president, Mohamed Nasheed, who is now in exile.

The court ordered the opposition figures, six of whom are being held in the country’s main jail on a sparsely inhabited island, to be freed.

“The President has been compelled to declare a state of emergency due to the risk currently posed to national security,” said a statement from Yameen’s office on Monday. “Implementation of the Supreme Court ruling is – in its current form – incompatible with maintenance of public safety.”

Police arrested another former president, Maumoon Abdul Gayoom ― who is also Yameen’s half-brother ― at his residence along with his son-in-law. Gayoom ruled the country for 30 years until 2008, and is now in the opposition. Gayoom’s son Faris is one of the jailed opposition figures ordered freed by the court.

In a recorded video sent to social media, Gayoom said he was being taken to the prison island of Dhoonidhoo: “I have not committed any crime. This arrest is unlawful. I will remain strong, and I ask the beloved people to remain strong.”

Yameen, who has held his position since 2013, faces mounting pressure at home and from the United States and India to obey the court’s order.

The Maldives is made up of 26 coral atolls and 1,192 islands. Politics centers on the tiny but densely populated capital Male.

China, the United States and India issued travel advisories for the Maldives, a country of 400,000 people best known as a beach paradise for the tourists that provide most of its foreign currency revenue.

The tumult comes during the peak tourism season. Tourism brought in $2.7 billion of revenue for the Maldives in 2016.

As midnight approached, roads leading to the Supreme Court had been barricaded. At one spot, police with batons charged protesters to disperse them.

“I just spoke to the Chief Justice and he told me that the gates of the Supreme Court (are) being stormed by the military. He is inside and nobody can go out or come in,” Husnu Al Suood, the president of Maldives Bar Association and a former attorney general, told Reuters late on Monday.

“The emergency means the Supreme Court activities are suspended and nobody is in charge of the judiciary,” he said.

A court official later confirmed that state security forces had broken into the building and were not allowing its judges to leave.

“It is a purge of the political leadership, the parliament and the judiciary,” said opposition legislator Eva Abdulla.

“RESPECT RULE OF LAW” - U.S.

The U.S. National Security Council released a statement on Twitter saying, “The Maldivian government and military must respect the rule of law, freedom of expression, and democratic institutions. The world is watching.”

The U.S. State Department said it was “troubled and disappointed” by the state of emergency and the failure by the president, army and police to obey ‎a lawful Supreme Court ruling.

“President Yameen has systematically alienated his coalition, jailed or exiled every major opposition political figure, deprived elected members of parliament of their right to represent their voters in the legislature, revised laws to erode human rights ... and weakened the institutions of government,” it said in a statement.

Amnesty International said that the 15-day emergency declaration must not become a license for further repression.

“The Maldivian authorities have an appalling track-record of suppressing freedom of expression and any form of opposition, a pattern of behavior that has intensified over recent years,” said Dinushika Dissanayake, Amnesty’s Deputy South Asia Director.

The Maldives has experienced political unrest since Nasheed, the island’s first democratically elected leader, was forced to quit amid a mutiny by police in 2012.

The following year, Yameen defeated Nasheed in an election that Nasheed’s supporters say was rigged. Nasheed was jailed on terrorism charges but was allowed to go to Britain for medical treatment in January 2016.

He has lived in exile since and is currently in Sri Lanka.

“This deliberate refusal by the government to uphold the constitution further destabilizes the Maldives and wider Indian Ocean security,” Nasheed said in a statement on Monday.

Under the country’s constitution, the declaration of a state of emergency should be submitted to parliament. In the event of a dispute about the declaration, the Supreme Court is meant to rule on its validity. With the court effectively suspended, it was not immediately clear how that might happen.

ELECTIONS IN OCTOBER

In its ruling last Thursday, the Supreme Court said it found that prosecutors and judges had been influenced “to conduct politically motivated investigations” into the allegations leveled at Nasheed, former vice president Ahmed Adeeb and the other opposition leaders.

The court ordered fresh investigations and trials to be held.

The ruling has energized an opposition that hopes Nasheed will be allowed to return home to run against Yameen in a presidential election due in October.

On Monday, before the emergency was declared, a minister quit in protest at the government’s defiance of the Supreme Court.

“It is not possible for my conscience to accept the lack of answers to the way the government is dealing with the orders of the highest court on state institutions,” Hussain Rasheed, the state health minister, said in his resignation letter.Two major things happened in the Kardashian family on Sunday: Kylie Jenner revealed she gave birth to a baby girl and Kris Jenner injured herself at Chrissy Teigen’s Super Bowl party.

The Kardashian matriarch and momager took a spill at the supermodel’s house, crashing into ― and breaking ― Teigen’s table before face-planting on the couch.

Teigen documented the aftermath of the incident on Snapchat, while Jenner iced her hand next to the broken table.

“If anyone’s in the market for a slightly used table, the Kris Jenner actually just fell into it. Excuse me ― it’s customized,” the “Lip Sync Battle” host said, while giggling.

“It’s very, extremely valuable now,” Jenner added. “If anyone wants to make a bid on this, we’re willing to let it go.”

Snapchat

Teigen pointed out the sharp edges on the table before zooming in on a stain on her couch.

“Wait, Kris ― what happened here?” Teigen asked, while Jenner laughed.

“This is where I did a face plant,” Jenner said. “This is also very valuable.”

Though Teigen’s party looked like a lot of fun, the 32-year-old, who is expecting her second child, tweeted that she was less than impressed with the Super Bowl this year.

This could have everything to do with th fact I’m not drinking but this feels very...uneventful — christine teigen (@chrissyteigen) February 5, 2018

At least she doesn’t have to worry about keeping Kylie Jenner’s pregnancy a secret anymore. Teigen played it very cool last week when Andy Cohen asked her about the 20-year-old’s unconfirmed baby news on “Watch What Happens Live.”

AdvertisementMINNEAPOLIS – When it was over and Tom Brady had logged the greatest passing performance in Super Bowl history, his last emotional completion came on one knee. Moving through deafening silence just minutes after a 41-33 defeat to the Philadelphia Eagles, one of the toughest and most prolific losses of his career, the New England Patriots quarterback stepped behind a black curtain and dropped down as his wife and kids closed around him.

“Group hug,” Gisele Bundchen said.

Brady buried his face in Bundchen’s shoulder for a moment, then turned and whispered to one of his crying children.

“Hey buddy, it’s OK. We did our best and tried our hardest,” Brady said. “It will be OK. Now I get to pick you up and take you to school every day.”

For the GOAT, it was a rare and vulnerable moment in Super Bowl defeat, when there is hollow solace in having put on one of the greatest offensive shows in the history of the NFL’s biggest stage. But in the final equation, Sunday night meant little more than frustrating failure. After one of the more trying seasons of his career, the ultimate payoff had eluded him. And it did so in the cruelest fashion: beginning with the ball in his hands, in the waning moments that have come to define his career; but essentially ending with a sack and fumble that scuttled a potential game-winning drive.

“Losing sucks,” Brady said afterward. “That’s part of it.”

A post shared by Gisele Bündchen (@gisele) on Feb 5, 2018 at 5:15am PST

This is how Brady and the Patriots will be remembered after this one – with the Eagles hoisting the Lombardi Trophy; with Nick Foles at the MVP podium; and with significant change ahead for the franchise. Two coordinators will depart in the coming days. Roster changes appear inevitable, including the departure of once-beloved cornerback Malcolm Butler, who was benched by the coaching staff Sunday. And maybe even a little contemplation from Brady himself, who fought off questions Sunday night about another black curtain that is naturally and methodically drawing nearer.

“I expect to be back, so we’ll see,” Brady said. “I mean, it’s 15 minutes after the game ended, so I would like to process this a little bit. I wouldn’t see why I wouldn’t be back.”

From a performance standpoint, there’s little question of whether Brady can return and lead the Patriots after an offseason of retooling. He smashed his own Super Bowl record with 505 passing yards, meticulously dicing up an Eagles defense that repeatedly knocked him around. In arguably any other Patriots season, coming back from a 22-12 halftime deficit to a 33-32 lead deep into the fourth quarter would have resulted in a win. But this wasn’t like most other seasons. Instead, a Patriots defense that rebounded from a horrendous start in the regular season finished with a bookend of failure, allowing the Eagles to roll up 538 yards on offense.

If the punishment Brady took on offense doesn’t leave him with something to think about this offseason, parts of a mini rebuild should. Not only did tight end Rob Gronkowski say he’s going to contemplate his future in football this offseason, but the Patriots seem to have given up on Butler, who didn’t play a single defensive snap in a stunning coaching decision.

There’s also the overall performance of the defense, which was more overmatched against the Eagles than any other Patriots Super Bowl team. All of this has to be a bitter pill for Brady, who has consistently played with one of the most undervalued contracts in NFL history. In offseasons where football mortality is contemplated even more, it’s no small thing surrendering maximum earning capacity in a way that allows the Patriots to invest in the defense.Breitbart News deleted a racist tweet Monday that suggested the Super Bowl would become just a memory if Muslims took power.

Screenshots of the deleted tweet show it was posted at 7:25 p.m. and suggested an imaginary dialogue between a boy named “Muhammad” and his grandfather.

Took screen shot, just in case, but I fear #Breitbart is well beyond the point of decency and shame that they would delete this insane tweet. #INTL4335 #Islamophobia pic.twitter.com/ipo1MhDmNI — Cas Mudde ⚒️ (@CasMudde) February 5, 2018

The link also included a photo of members of the New England Patriots kneeling and a link to an article about how people were reportedly boycotting the Super Bowl because of players refusing to stand for the national anthem.

The tweet was deleted at 9:25 a.m. Monday, at which point whoever manages Breitbart social media posted this tweet explaining (sort of) its decision.

We have deleted a tweet that did not meet our editorial standards. — Breitbart News (@BreitbartNews) February 5, 2018

HuffPost reached out to Breitbart to find out if the tweet violated a particular editorial policy or was just offensive across the board. No one at the website immediately responded.

Ibrahim Hooper of the Council of American-Islamic Relations declined to comment on why the deleted tweet was offensive and incorrect.

“Doing that just gives them credence,” he told HuffPost. “There are very few ‘media outlets’ we ban ― and I use quotes when I refer to Breitbart as a media outlet, because we don’t consider them a media outlet, we consider them an anti-Muslim hate group.

Breitbart has faced criticism for previous anti-Muslim remarks.