Rep. Steve King (R-Iowa) tweeted that the memo was “worse than Watergate.” Tom Williams via Getty Images

The highly anticipated secret GOP memo released on Friday alleging wrongdoing at the highest levels of the FBI wasn’t quite the bombshell Republican lawmakers had hyped it to be.

President Donald Trump on Friday approved the declassification of the memo, a three-and-a-half-page document that Trump supporters claimed shows FBI bias against the president in the probe of Russian interference in the 2016 election.

The memo suggests law enforcers abused their surveillance authority to spy on Trump campaign official Carter Page based on intelligence funded by the Democratic National Committee and Hillary Clinton’s campaign. Much of memo’s contents were already public information.

But that didn’t stop Republicans from a fresh round of hyperbole before the memo’s release. They called it “explosive” and “alarming,” and said it could shake the government to its core.

“I think that this will not end just with firings. I believe there are people who will go to jail,” Rep. Matt Gaetz (R-Fla.) told Fox News host Sean Hannity.

In a tweet, Rep. Ron DeSantis (R-Fla.) called the memo “deeply troubling” and said it raised “serious questions” about the legitimacy of the Russia investigation led by special counsel Robert Mueller.

Rep. Mark Meadows (R-N.C.) called the memo “troubling and shocking” in an interview with Fox News. “Part of me wishes that I didn’t read it because I don’t want to believe that those kinds of things could be happening in this country that I call home and love so much,” he said.

“It is so alarming the American people have to see this,” Rep. Jim Jordan (R-Ohio) told Fox.

Rep. Scott Perry (R-Pa.) said the contents of the memo sounded like something out of the old Soviet Union. “You think about, ‘Is this happening in America or is this the KGB?’ That’s how alarming it is,” he said.

Rep. Sean Duffy (R-Wis.) called the disclosures “very concerning” in a tweet and said “every American has a right to see this memo immediately.”

In perhaps the most dramatic statement of all, Rep. Steve King (R-Iowa) tweeted that the memo was “worse than Watergate.”Grab a tissue, because YouTube personality Michael Korte has reimagined “Empire” star Jussie Smollett’s new song as a stirring plea for love and acceptance.

On Monday, Korte released a music video he created for the title track of Smollett’s debut album, “Freedom,” which is due out later this spring. Dancer Anthony Burrell, who has collaborated with the likes of Beyoncé and Mariah Carey, glides gracefully through an empty church as he appears to wrestle with his inner turmoil.

Korte, best known for his viral Beyoncé-“Hamilton” mashup, “#HAM4BEY,” told HuffPost he wanted to send “a message of equality and freedom to love whomever we so choose.” Ultimately, he’d like “Freedom” to “encourage community and promote conversation,” as well as “provide escape” in America’s divisive climate.

“Art awakens and art demands response,” he said. “It is through that awakening and through conversation that unity will become a reality.”

He called Smollett “an incredible inspiration.”President Donald Trump speaks at the Republican National Committee's winter meeting at his hotel on Feb. 1. MANDEL NGAN via Getty Images

WASHINGTON ― Once the party of morality and national security, Republican leaders this week found themselves defending a casino magnate accused of coercing sexual favors and a White House attacking the FBI.

Then they capped it off by putting more of their donors’ money into the president’s pocket when they held a dinner at his Washington hotel Thursday night.

Welcome to the Trump National Committee’s winter agenda, say the party’s estranged members.

“It’s not the Republican Party anymore. It’s the Trump Party,” said Colorado activist Kendal Unruh, who led an effort to dump then-nominee Donald Trump at the party convention in 2016. “It’s not the party that I knew, but it’s the party they have become.”

Because returning cash collected under their former finance chairman Steve Wynn, the casino magnate, would spur more questions about the sexual misconduct allegations against the president himself, the money’s not going back, some Republican National Committee members acknowledged privately. Because Trump is under investigation by special counsel Robert Mueller, they added, the party must support the president’s attacks on the FBI and the Department of Justice.

“I can’t be part of all this garbage,” said a former RNC member who spoke on condition of anonymity because he wants to remain involved in Republican politics at the state level. “The hardest thing to do in life is admit when you were wrong. That has sort of taken over. They don’t want to admit that they were totally hoodwinked by this guy.”

Wynn resigned his party position a week ago. In her public statement on the matter, RNC Chairwoman Ronna Romney McDaniel noted that she accepted his resignation, but made no mention of the Wall Street Journal report last week detailing accusations that he had coerced sexual favors from women in his employ.

The party and its candidates have not returned the $1.5 million Wynn himself donated to them in recent years, let alone the tens of millions he helped raise in his role as finance chairman. Just months earlier, however, Republicans aggressively demanded that Democrats return money donated by disgraced movie producer Harvey Weinstein, who was similarly accused of sexual misconduct.

Ron Kaufman, an RNC member from Massachusetts and a former top adviser to Mitt Romney’s 2012 presidential campaign, denied there was a double standard. “One person says I’m guilty. The other person says I’m not,” Kaufman said.

Unlike Weinstein, who has vaguely acknowledged that he “caused a lot of pain,” Wynn has said he never did anything wrong. That flat-out denial mirrors Trump’s own defense against the nearly two dozen women who have accused him of everything from walking into the dressing room of a teen beauty pageant to reaching under the skirt of a woman at a bar and touching her genitals. The denial strategy was also used by GOP Senate candidate Roy Moore in Alabama last year. It was cited by Trump as the reason for his continued support of Moore even after many other Republicans abandoned him following an accusation that Moore had initiated a sexual encounter with a 14-year-old girl when he was in his 30s.

None of that, though, has any bearing on the Wynn situation, said Vermont RNC member Deb Billado, who also chairs the state party.

“I don’t think we should be passing judgment until all the facts come out. Let the accusers present their case. Returning the money is an acknowledgement of guilt,” she said, denying that the issue reflects poorly on the RNC. “I don’t think that it puts us in an awkward position at all.”

“There’s a thing called due process,” added Kentucky RNC member Mike Duncan. “Steve resigning was the right thing to do. It cleared the decks for us.”

RNC members were less eager to defend Trump’s attacks on the FBI and the Justice Department, which he ramped up Friday morning in a pair of statements on Twitter. Many declined to comment at all, saying they were unfamiliar with the contents of a disputed memo, written by Trump ally Rep. Devin Nunes (R-Calif.) and his staff, that supporters contend discredits the criminal investigation into the Trump campaign over its contacts with Russian agents.

“Everybody is entitled to their point of view,” Kaufman said, declining to offer his thoughts about the FBI but arguing that Trump’s attacks do not diminish the party. “We’re still the party of national security, and the Democrats aren’t.”

California RNC member Shawn Steel was among those willing to defend Trump’s war against the FBI because he found it alarming that the nation’s intelligence community would start investigating a presidential candidate. “If that is true, it creates a constitutional crisis,” he said. “Trump is the great victim of all of this.”

Steel also defended the party’s decision to hold its Thursday night dinner, which the president attended, at the Trump International Hotel blocks from the White House ― the kind of business that Trump continues to profit from despite promises during the campaign that he would not.

“I happen to like going to the Trump hotel. It has beautiful furnishings. It has great big American flags,” Steel said.

“We have to go somewhere,” added Kaufman. “Besides, people wanted to go there.”

To Florida GOP consultant Rick Wilson, the party’s ongoing defense of Trump is proof that it cannot be salvaged.

“They are literally burning down the FBI to save this guy. They are literally burning down the Justice Department to save this guy. This is a remarkable moment,” said Wilson, an early and fierce critic of Trump. “If Barack Obama had done anything remotely like this, Republicans would be rioting in the street with pitchforks and torches.”

He added that if Obama or either Bill or Hillary Clinton had steered party money into their own pockets, the RNC would have been attacking that day in and day out for weeks, if not months.

“The double standard is ridiculous,” Wilson said. “If Bill Clinton had been using the DNC for funding his legal defense in the Monica Lewinsky scandal? The world would have exploded.”WASHINGTON ― For weeks, Republicans on the House Intelligence Committee and their allies have been promising that they have a memo with damning evidence undermining special counsel Robert Mueller’s investigation into Russian election meddling and Russian ties to President Donald Trump’s inner circle.

“This is far worse than Watergate. This is an abuse of surveillance and intelligence to win an election,” Fox News host and loyal Trump defender Sean Hannity said Monday, adding that Mueller’s “witch hunt” would be over.

I have read the memo. The sickening reality has set in. I no longer hold out hope there is an innocent explanation for the information the public has seen. I have long said it is worse than Watergate. It was #neverTrump & #alwaysHillary. #releasethememo — Steve King (@SteveKingIA) January 21, 2018

That memo, written by GOP committee staffers, was finally released on Friday. And it has no smoking gun to discredit Mueller or any other top Justice Department officials that Trump wants to get rid of.

Its purpose is to muddy the waters, raise questions in people’s minds and provide a distraction from the fact that at the end of the day, there is still zero evidence that there was a “deep state” plot to elect Hillary Clinton president.

The crux of the memo, pushed out by committee chair Rep. Devin Nunes (R-Calif.) is that law enforcement officials abused their surveillance authority by relying on a controversial “dossier” with unproven claims to spy on Trump campaign official Carter Page.

It says then-FBI Deputy Director Andrew McCabe testified they would not have “sought” a surveillance warrant for Page without that dossier.

But the memo never answers the question of whether the dossier was the basis of the FISA court’s decision to grant the warrant. It doesn’t reveal what else was included in the application for a warrant. And at the end of the day, there’s far more to the Russia investigation than the Page surveillance.

Rep Devin Nunes (R-Calif.) rushes away from the media on Capitol Hill on March 28, 2017. Melina Mara/The Washington Post via Getty Images

Russian operatives tried to recruit Page as a spy in 2013, even before he joined the Trump team. Former FBI Director James Comey has testified that officials began looking into Trump-Russia connections in July 2016, long before the Page warrant in October 2016.

The memo actually confirms a New York Times report that what started the investigation was a slip-up by Trump campaign adviser George Papadopoulos, who admitted to a diplomat that he knew Russia had dirt on Clinton.

In other words, the House GOP memo undercuts conspiracy theories that the probe started because of the dossier. The memo also does nothing to dispute any of the potential collusion between Trump and the Russian government:

It does not dispute the Papadopoulos contacts.

It does not dispute the infamous Trump Tower meeting between Trump’s son and Russian officials to gain opposition research on Clinton.

It does not dispute Trump’s own involvement in crafting an inaccurate statement about that meeting.

It does not dispute that Russians hacked into the emails of the Democratic National Committee and a top Clinton campaign official.

It does not dispute that Trump fired Comey because he was unhappy with his continued pursuit of the Russia investigation.

All of those omissions only serve to highlight the central fact that makes the Republicans’ attack on Mueller, and the law enforcement establishment more broadly, so absurd: The information leaked and released by the FBI and the rest of the so-called “deep state” during the election didn’t undermine Trump — it helped get him elected.

The FBI was investigating both the Trump and Clinton campaigns during the election. But it only revealed its investigation into Clinton. Just 11 days before the election, Comey revealed that he was reopening the investigation into Clinton’s emails, even though she had been already cleared. The announcement cast enough suspicion and changed the conversation in the final stretch that Clinton and the site FiveThirtyEight say it cost her the presidency.

If the “deep state” wanted to hurt Trump, someone could easily have leaked information about the FBI’s investigation into his campaign. No one did.

“The information leaked and released by the FBI and the rest of the so-called “deep state” during the election didn’t undermine Trump — it helped get him elected.”

Republicans tried to argue that they are releasing the memo because they believe in transparency. But it’s been clear all along that the document is a particularly effective bit of partisan gamesmanship. Republican staffers wrote the thing, after all. The GOP-controlled committee voted against allowing Democrats to release their response memo at the same time. And conveniently, the findings of the memo found their way into the hands of Byron York, a conservative columnist who published a piece about the document just minutes after Trump declassified it ― and before nearly everyone else had seen it.

Some Republicans were urging members of their party to slow down on the memo release, recognizing that it likely didn’t have the smoking gun some lawmakers claimed it did. They didn’t want to cross the FBI, and they worried that by overhyping something so insignificant, they’d look silly or worse.The situation is becoming more and more grim for the polar bear.

New research published in the journal Science on Thursday found that polar bears have metabolic rates 60 percent higher than scientists previously thought, meaning the animals require more food to survive their harsh Arctic environment than was previously known.

Polar bears already face challenges due to the effects of climate change on natural habitats, and the new information means it will become even more difficult for them to adapt to receding sea ice.

The polar bear’s diet is high in fat, supplied largely by hunting seals, but with less Arctic ice, scientists worry that the bears will have to walk or swim greater and greater distances for food with each passing year.

The researchers used radio collars to track nine female polar bears near the Beaufort Sea. Using collected blood samples, scientists found that five of the bears lost body mass due to malnutrition. Four of the bears lost 10 percent body weight in just a 10-day period.

Olaf Kruger

In 2017, the world’s oceans reached their hottest temperatures on record. And since 2010, the Earth has experienced the five warmest years ever recorded.

Over 77,000 square miles of winter sea ice have disappeared in the last 40 years, according to The Guardian.

“That process takes them [polar bears] further and further away from land ― and there is likely to be a limit about the distance they can tolerate,” Leeds University professor of Earth observation Andrew Shepherd told The Guardian last year.

Josef Friedhuber via Getty Images

Lead author of the new study, research wildlife biologist Anthony Pagano, said the new findings require further study. “The next step is to use this information to really start to quantify how changes in movement patterns might be affecting the energy demands of these bears.”WASHINGTON ― As news broke that President Donald Trump authorized the release of a GOP memo on Friday meant to undermine the ongoing investigation into his campaign’s links to Russian officials, several right-wing outlets appeared to have received excerpts in advance.

Before House Republicans published the document online, Fox News anchors began reading “exclusive first excerpts,” and the Washington Examiner and The Federalist teased that they had the memo’s contents.

Fox News got “exclusive first excerpts” of the Nunes memo to lead the top of noon hour, which will feed the narrative that this is a partisan exercise. — James Hohmann (@jameshohmann) February 2, 2018

House Intel memo key point: The FBI's Andrew McCabe confirmed to the committee that no FISA warrant would have been sought from the FISA Court without the Steele dossier information. Story posting soon. — Byron York (@ByronYork) February 2, 2018

The Federalist is the first to publish the Nunes Memo https://t.co/IK4BwcLG9L — Ben Jacobs (@Bencjacobs) February 2, 2018

Trump and congressional Republicans defended the release as a move toward “transparency” in the Russia investigation, which they have repeatedly alleged is a partisan “witch hunt.”

Yet the fact that media outlets friendly to Trump obtained portions of the memo before its actual release further underscores the political nature of the document, and suggests it’s meant solely to cast doubt on the Russia investigation and propel unprecedented partisan attacks on the FBI and the Department of Justice.

In the run-up to its release, right-wing media defenders of Trump feverishly and breathlessly claimed the memo was highly damaging and provided evidence of Department of Justice and FBI bias against Trump.

Fox News host Sean Hannity, one of Trump’s staunch allies, has regularly claimed that supposed wrongdoing in the investigation led by special counsel Robert Mueller is worse than Watergate.

“This makes Watergate look like stealing a Snickers bar,” he said earlier this week.

But in reality, the memo appears to mostly confirm already reported aspects of the investigation and omits facts that do not conform to Republicans’ narrative.

In authorizing the memo’s release, Trump went against the FBI’s “grave concerns” about the memo. Hours before the release on Friday morning, he continued his relentless attacks on the DOJ and FBI, claiming its top leaders were biased ― even though he appointed them, and many of the investigation’s key figures are Republicans themselves.

Later Friday, the White House suggested it would be open to releasing a counter memo from the Democratic members of the House Intelligence Committee, who opposed the GOP’s memo. Because they were outnumbered on the committee, Republicans blocked them from releasing their own document, which they said laid out the inaccuracies of the GOP memo.

AdvertisementTom Williams via Getty Images

White Sulphur Springs, W.Va. — Congressional Republicans came to The Greenbrier resort for their annual retreat to rally around an election-year agenda and convince themselves that their electoral problems aren’t really that daunting. But amid the happy talk of a long-term strategy, Republicans ignored the challenges right in front of their faces.

“Next week could be very problematic,” Freedom Caucus Chairman Mark Meadows (R-N.C.) told HuffPost Thursday night.

Government funding runs out at midnight on Feb. 8, and Republicans do not, at the moment, have the votes to muscle through yet another continuing resolution (CR) to keep the government open. While Republicans have convinced themselves that Senate Democrats took the brunt of the blame for a government shutdown two weeks ago, it’ll be hard to blame Democrats if Republicans can’t get a bill out of the House.

And even though members told HuffPost that GOP leaders had essentially shored up their support with defense hawks by coming to an agreement — “in principle but not on paper,” as one member put it — on overall spending caps numbers for the rest of the fiscal year, conservatives aren’t happy.

“I’m tired of a fifth time running a play that gets blocked at the line of scrimmage,” Meadows said.

That fifth play is really the fifth CR Congress will have to pass to avoid a shutdown. The fiscal year started in October, yet lawmakers are still running the government with stopgap after stopgap because they don’t have agreements on a deal for the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) immigration program, which in turn is holding up a spending agreement for defense and non-defense programs.

Without those agreements, lawmakers can’t write the bills they were supposed to have written a year ago. And because Republicans and Democrats are still haggling over last year’s appropriations bills, there’s little point in writing new measures for next year ― or in approving a new budget.

But instead of talking about those issues or trying to figure out the outstanding problems in order make Congress and the appropriations process actually work, Republicans spent the retreat applauding themselves for passing tax cuts.

As one GOP member put it: “To not address the must-do things at a retreat is a real tragedy.”

Retiring Rep. Charlie Dent (R-Pa.) told reporters here that the Republican refusal to address their actual issues is like a dysfunctional family. “Dad’s drunk again but we don’t talk about it,” Dent said.

“How much time and energy have we wasted on the Republican-only DACA-border security bill, which has a less than zero chance of passing the Senate, and a near-zero chance of passing the House?” Dent said Thursday. “And that whole exercise is simply designed to give members cover, who will vote against the inevitable compromise on DACA, so they can say they voted for it before they voted against it.”

Dent argued that by proceeding with that hardline immigration bill, Republicans were actually making a compromise measure more difficult. He said he would prefer a legislative rule where lawmakers put up all the legislative proposals for votes, and the one with the most support wins.

“A lot of people around here talk ad nauseam about an open process, and they want a pre-determined outcome on the bill. Well you can’t have it both ways,” Dent said.

The immigration issue is also complicated by President Donald Trump’s on-again, off-again relationship with negotiating. At one moment, he’s cutting deals with Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer (D-N.Y.), the next he’s telling lawmakers to work it out among themselves. Now, Trump is insisting that the Senate vote on a bill that Dent says has a “less than zero” chance of passing that chamber.

Trump doesn’t seem to have much of a sense for what an actual compromise would have to look like to win over Democrats and the requisite number of Republicans. He seems to think there’s a deal that wins over almost every Republican and a small number of Democrats, and the people around Trump ― in Congress and in the White House ― aren’t telling him that such a bill doesn’t exist.

In fact, immigration has become such a touchy subject that Trump is one of the few Republicans still talking about it. At the retreat, immigration wasn’t its own break-out session, even though solving DACA is the linchpin to solving an omnibus bill and getting Congress back toward some semblance of a normal appropriations process.

Instead of those discussions, Republicans spent time hearing from Trump, Vice President Mike Pence, Defense Secretary James Mattis, Secretary of State Rex Tillerson, White House senior adviser Kellyanne Conway ― and having discussions about how they can enact work requirements for welfare programs and how they can win in November.

National Republican Congressional Committee Chairman Steve Stivers (R-Ohio) told reporters here that Republicans planned to run by touting the strong economy and invoking House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi (D-Calif.), who remains a potent boogeyman for Republicans eight years since she’s held the speaker’s gavel.

But even as measurements like the generic ballot have improved for Republicans, and the once-unpopular tax bill has moved to an about equal approval rating, some members don’t buy that Republicans will effectively limit their losses.

“The reality is a midterm election ― when one party is in power ― the midterm will be a referendum on the party in power and specifically the president of the United States and his conduct in office,” Dent said.

Although Republicans were touting small upticks in Trump’s approval rating ― a rare thing in a president’s second year ― much of that movement is due to the historic lows of Trump’s approval rating in the first year.

The other issue that dominated the GOP retreat was the memo ― declassified by Trump and released by Republicans on Friday ― alleging FBI and Justice Department bias against the Trump administration in the early stages of the Russia investigation. Seven of the nine questions asked of Speaker Paul Ryan and Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.) were about the memo, leading to Ryan answering one question about calls for him to remove Intelligence Chairman Devin Nunes (R-Calif.) by quickly pivoting to tax reform.

“Look: the tax cuts are working,” Ryan said.

That was a point all Republicans seemed to agree on during the retreat, particularly Trump.

In an extended victory lap, the president hailed the latest economic numbers as his own victory, and he asserted that Republicans were more unified than ever, saying that Ryan had called him days earlier and said as much.

“He has never, ever seen the Republican Party so united, so much in like with each other, but literally ‘united’ was the word he used,” Trump said, recounting Ryan’s words.

While members may see that their unity is largely superficial, even the members most critical of Trump admit the Republican Party belongs to Trump now.

“It’s the president’s party now, more or less,” Dent said.Michele Bachmann, the former Republican congresswoman from Minnesota, indicated last year that she was looking for a sign from God about whether she should run for the U.S. Senate.

God ― or rather a prankster claiming to be the deity ― answered with an actual sign:

Bachmann, one of Trump’s evangelical advisors, told doomsday food salesman Jim Bakker in December that people have been urging her to run in November’s special election for the seat Sen. Al Franken (D-Minn.) vacated after a sexual harassment scandal. Bachmann said she trusts “in a big God” and that she was supposed to run for president, referring to her failed 2012 bid, which she called “wildly successful.”

“I fulfilled the calling God gave me,” Bachmann said. “So the question is: Am I being called to do this now? I don’t know.”

If she’s looking for a sign, she might want to check out the billboard in St. Paul, Minnesota, which appeared to be the result of a crowdfunding project from the satirical website thegoodlordabove.com.

Whoever wins the Republican nomination will likely face Sen. Tina Smith (D-Minn.). Smith was appointed to the seat after Franken’s resignation.A Florida federal judge ruled Thursday that the state’s system for restoring voting rights to former felons was unconstitutional because it provided a “gauntlet” of “hurdles” toward restoring the franchise.

Florida is one of four states that permanently strips voting rights of anyone with a felony conviction. To get their voting rights back, former felons who have completed their entire sentences must appear before a clemency board consisting of Gov. Rick Scott (R), the state attorney general, the chief financial officer and the agriculture commissioner. The board only meets once a quarter and after he took office, Scott made it so felons had to wait at least five years before completing their sentences to apply. More than 10,000 people are waiting to have their rights restored.

In his opinion, Judge Mark Walker of the United States District Court for the Northern District of Florida noted that in the four years before Scott took office, 154,000 people had their rights restored. But since Scott was sworn in, fewer than 3,000 people had their voting rights restored since 2011.

Walker, who was appointed to the bench by President Barack Obama in 2012, said that as it currently exists, the board has absolute discretion over whether to restore voting rights.

“Florida’s Executive Clemency Board has, by rule, unfettered discretion in restoring voting rights. ‘We can do whatever we want,’ the Governor said at one clemency hearing,” Walker wrote in his scathing opinion. “In Florida, elected, partisan officials have extraordinary authority to grant or withhold the right to vote from hundreds of thousands of people without any constraints, guidelines, or standards. The question now is whether such a system passes constitutional muster. It does not.”

Walker found that Florida’s system violated the First Amendment protections on freedom of expression and the equal protection clause of the 14th Amendment. He noted that the board restored voting rights to those who expressed conservative views, while those who expressed views disagreeing with the board members did not. Walker pointed to an example when the board asked a white man about an illegal vote he had cast, but restored his voting rights after he told Scott the vote had been for him. Walker noted the board denied restoring voting rights to five other former felons ― four of whom were black ― for casting illegal ballots.

“If a state cannot disenfranchise for arbitrary reasons, a state cannot disenfranchise convicted felons in a manner repugnant to the First Amendment,” he wrote. “A state cannot yank the right to vote from a Republican felon but retain voting rights for Democratic felons.”

“If any one of these citizens wishes to earn back their fundamental right to vote, they must plod through a gauntlet of constitutionally infirm hurdles. No more,” Walker wrote in the conclusion to his opinion.

Nationally, about 6.1 million people are disenfranchised because of a felony conviction, and more than a quarter of that population lives in Florida, according to The Sentencing Project. More than one in every five of African-Americans in the state cannot vote. The state’s disenfranchisement law goes back to the Jim Crow South, when lawmakers targeted African-Americans with laws stripping voting rights for certain crimes after Congress required that states adopt the 13th and 14th amendments and guarantee universal male suffrage in their state constitutions.

In his opinion, Walker said the state’s system for choosing whom to give voting rights back to was worse than choosing at random.

“The violation in this case — the substantial risk of arbitrary and discriminatory vote-restoration based on an applicant’s identity and perceived voting preferences from partisan government officials — is worse than a coin flip,” Walker wrote. While Walker struck down the state’s system for re-enfranchising voters, he asked the parties to provide further briefing on what a remedy might look like. He also said that the waiting periods before a former felon can apply to have their rights restored were constitutional.

The suit was filed in 2017 on behalf of nine former felons who lost their voting rights. Seven of them had their applications rejected, one was not yet eligible to apply for restoration and one had a pending request.

“Today a federal court said what so many Floridians have known for so long —that the state’s arbitrary restoration process, which forces former felons to beg for their right to vote, violates the oldest and most basic principles of our democracy,” Jon Sherman, senior counsel at the Fair Elections Legal Network, which filed the suit on behalf of the plaintiffs, said in a statement Thursday. “While the Court has yet to order a remedy in this case, it has held in no uncertain terms that a state cannot subject U.S. citizens’ voting rights to the limitless power of government officials.”

John Tupps, a Scott spokesman, said in a statement Thursday the governor believed the state’s process for restoring voting rights was legal.

“The discretion of the clemency board over the restoration of felons’ rights in Florida has been in place for decades and overseen by multiple governors. The process is outlined in Florida’s Constitution, and today’s ruling departs from precedent set by the United States Supreme Court,” he said. “The Governor believes that convicted felons should show that they can lead a life free of crime and be accountable to their victims and our communities. While we are reviewing today’s ruling, we will continue to defend this process in the court.”When Channing Tatum and Jenna Dewan announced they were splitting up after almost nine years of marriage, the internet predictably declared that love was dead ― yet the “Magic Mike” actor gave his ex a special shoutout on Mother’s Day.

“Happy Mother’s Day everybody,” Tatum said in a video. “Jenna, happy Mother’s Day, baby. Mama, happy Mother’s Day — I hope you’re enjoying this beautiful sunset. Love you guys.”

Tatum and Dewan co-parent their 4-year-old daughter, Everly.

They have remained on good terms since breaking our collective hearts last month, and are still “very amicable,” according to People. Everly reportedly spent the day with Dewan, as Tatum has been traveling.

Channing Tatum and Jenna Dewan Tatum attend the U.K. premiere of "Kingsman: The Golden Circle." Rune Hellestad - Corbis via Getty Images

The actors, who met in 2005 on the set of the now-classic dance film “Step Up,” broke the mold with a candid, loving statement about their split.

“Absolutely nothing has changed about how much we love one another, but love is a beautiful adventure that is taking us on different paths for now,” they wrote in social media posts. “There are no secrets nor salacious events at the root of our decision — just two best-friends realizing it’s time to take some space and help each other live the most joyous, fulfilled lives as possible.”

Dewan has been busy promoting the new season of “World of Dance” since the news broke, and had a potentially uncomfortable appearance on “The Ellen DeGeneres Show” earlier this month.

The talk show host used Dewan’s married name when referring to her. She later apologized on camera for the flub.

“I introduced you and it was just such a habit, and I have to say the way that you and Channing are handling everything is beautiful for your daughter and the statements have been great,” DeGeneres said. “And I apologize. I just have known both of you for so long.”

Dewan handled the moment with grace, reiterating that “it’s all love” between her and Tatum.

AdvertisementWhen Rose McGowan sat down with Ronan Farrow for an intimate discussion about her new book, Brave, onstage in New York Thursday night, she made two things very clear: She doesn’t care what people think, and she speaks when she wants to.

McGowan and Farrow teamed up to accuse former movie mogul Harvey Weinstein of rape and other sexual abuse through a series of bombshell New Yorker reports published in October. At 92Y, the “Charmed” actress said she’s ready to name another high-profile Hollywood abuser ― although there’s no telling when she’ll do so.

After touching on the actress’ earliest experiences with sexual assault, as detailed in her heavy memoir, Farrow asked McGowan about a “statutory rape by a prominent man in Hollywood” that she told him about previously.

“Yes, and I didn’t process that, actually, until ― I’ll get to him,” she began.

“Is that a story you’re ready to tell?” Farrow asked.

“Right now? Or in general? In general, sure. Right now at this moment? I’ve had a big day,” McGowan responded, revealing a few details.

92Y

“Let me tell you, he worked for my rapist and won Oscars. Let me tell you, this man picked me up when I was 15 years old,” she said. (McGowan seemed to pointedly avoid saying Weinstein’s name all evening.) She had landed a job at a talent agency by fudging her age, she added. When the man took her home, she said they watched “a soft porn movie he made for Showtime, under a different name, of course,” before having sex.

“And then he left me next to Cafe Tropical in Silver Lake standing on a street corner,” she said.

The actress didn’t identify the incident as statutory rape until two weeks after Farrow’s first Weinstein story was published, because she had considered the man attractive and believed she consented to the encounter, despite her young age.

“I don’t have a normal trajectory, I don’t know if you do either,” she told Farrow, son of actress Mia Farrow, who replied with a slight grin, “I do not.”

The conversation lasted more than 90 minutes, soliciting laughs from the audience along with some strong emotion from McGowan. At one point, Farrow reached over and gave a tissue out to the actress as she shed tears. Despite this, McGowan didn’t shy away from answering Farrow’s hard-hitting questions.

McGowan defended her criticism of the Time’s Up movement for its ties to Creative Artists Agency, a top talent agency and a major force in Hollywood, saying, “They are dirty people. They are bad people.” She also defended her right to criticize Alyssa Milano, the former “Charmed” co-star and Time’s Up supporter who McGowan called “a lie” earlier this week (Milano is friends with Georgina Chapman, Weinstein’s estranged wife, and her husband works as an agency for CAA.)

Through an upcoming documentary, a social media campaign and her new book, which criticizes systems of gender-based oppression, McGowan strives to represent empowerment. Still, she carries a fear of repercussions. Asked what she was afraid of now, McGowan replied with a straight face: “Assassination.”

“I know that people like me get killed,” she said.

The actress linked certain misfortunes to a vendetta from Weinstein, a not so far-fetched suggestion considering Weinstein reportedly hired intelligence companies largely composed of former Mossad agents to dig up dirt on women and journalists who wished to publicly accuse him of sexual misconduct.

She referred to a “plant” at a book signing the day before, when a trans woman had slammed her over LGBTQ sensitivity. McGowan said she was later told her critic was paid off. She also said that she was told an unnamed individual was offered a large sum to obtain her hotel room number. The actress was arrested and currently faces charges for possessing drugs in Virginia after traces of cocaine were found in her wallet en route to the Women’s March in 2017.

“I hate that handcuffs have been on me and not him,” she said, referring to Weinstein.

“When they slapped those handcuffs on me, they were cold and heavy. I had a plan for my mugshot of looking tough. But I was not in my body. When they did that, I did what I did when I was raped. I floated above. In that photo, I am literally not there. And I knew that was probably the expression when that happened to me,” she said. “There must be some kind of justice.”As the featured halftime performer for Sunday’s Super Bowl, Justin Timberlake may have wanted to avoid sensitive subjects at a press conference on Thursday.

But that didn’t happen.

When a reporter asked if Timberlake would support his almost-3-year-old son, Silas, if he wanted to play in the NFL someday, the “Can’t Stop The Feeling!” singer answered: “He will never play football.”

The performer hemmed-and-hawed a moment before adding: “It’s kinda like that thing where my main objective is that he become a great person and if he wants to get into the arts or sports, yeah, I mean, I would fully support that.”

"My main objective is that he become a great person," Justin Timberlake said at his press conference Thursday. Icon Sportswire via Getty Images

Timberlake didn’t explain why his son wouldn’t play football.

AdvertisementDear Mr. Neil Portnow,

The statement you made this week about women in music needing to “step up” was spectacularly wrong and insulting and, at its core, oblivious to the vast body of work created by and with women. Your attempt to backpedal only emphasizes your refusal to recognize us and our achievements. Your most recent remarks do not constitute recognition of women’s achievements, but rather a call for men to take action to “welcome” women. We do not await your welcome into the fraternity. We do not have to sing louder, jump higher or be nicer to prove ourselves.

We step up every single day and have been doing so for a long time. The fact that you don’t realize this means it’s time for you to step down.

Today we are stepping up and stepping in to demand your resignation.

The stringent requirements for members of NARAS to vote reflect the distorted, unequal balance of executives and creators in our industry. There is simply not enough opportunity and influence granted or accessible to women, people of color and those who identify as LGBTQ. We can continue to be puzzled as to why the Grammys do not fairly represent the world in which we live, or we can demand change so that all music creators and executives can flourish no matter their gender, color of their skin, background or sexual preference.

Let’s take a look some facts, most of which are courtesy of a recent report on Inclusion in Popular Music from USC Annenberg School for Communication and Journalism division :

In 2017, 83.2% of artists were men and 16.8% were women, a 6 year low for female artists.

A total of 899 individuals were nominated for a Grammy Award between 2013 and 2018. A staggering 90.7% of these nominees were male and 9.3% were female.

10% of nominees for Record of the Year across a 6 year sample were female.

Over the last six years, zero women have been nominated as producer of the year.

Of the 600 top songs in 2017, of the 2,767 songwriters credited, 87.7% were male and 12.3% were female.

The top nine male songwriters claim almost 1/5th (19.2%) of the songs in the 6 year sample.

The gender ratio of male producers to female producers is 49 to 1.

Only 2 of 651 producers were females from an underrepresented racial/ethnic group.

42% of artists were from underrepresented racial/ethnic groups.

The top male writer has 36 credits, the top female writer has 15 credits.

Of the newly released Billboard Power 100, 18% were women.

In publishing history, there has been only 1 female CEO and 1 male of color CEO. They currently hold these positions.

The position of President of a Label, is currently only held by one woman of color.

WOMEN COMPRISE 51% OF THE POPULATION.

We are here not to merely reprimand you, but to shed light on why there is such an outcry over your comments and remind you of the challenges that women face in our country and, specifically, in the music industry. Your comments are another slap in the face to women, whether intended or not; whether taken out of context, or not. Needless to say, if you are not part of the solution, then you must accept that YOU are part of the problem.

Time’s up, Neil.

Respectfully,

Marcie Allen, MAC Presents

Gillian Bar, Carroll Guido & Groffman, LLP

Renee Brodeur, Tmwrk

Rosemary Carroll, Carroll, Guido & Groffman, LLP

Kristen Foster, PMK-BNC

Jennifer Justice, Superfly Presents

Renee Karalian, Carroll, Guido & Groffman, LLP

Cara Lewis, Cara Lewis Group

Corrie Christopher Martin, Paradigm Talent Agency

Natalia Nastaskin, UTA

Elizabeth Paw, Carroll, Guido & Groffman, LLP

Carla Sacks, Sacks & Co.

Ty Stiklorius, Friends at Work

Lou Taylor, Tri Star Sports and Entertainment Group

Beka Tischker, Wide Eyed Entertainment

Marlene Tsuchii, CAA

Caron Veazey, Manager- Pharrell Williams

Katie Vinten, Warner Chappell

Marsha Vlasic, Artist Group International

Gita Williams, Saint Heron

Nicole Wyskoarko, Carroll, Guido & Groffman, LLPDrew Angerer via Getty Images

At the New York Daily News, they came to be known as “Doc assignments,” and employees who had been there long enough could spot them from a mile away.

The pitches followed a familiar pattern: Longtime Daily News editor Alexander “Doc” Jones would call upon a young female staffer, often outside his remit as a manager, to write a first-person story about an event he wanted her to attend. How could a young journalist resist? Here was an established personality in New York media offering up the possibility of a prominent byline.

He’d use that power to his advantage. Employees at the paper said he would approach young female reporters and assign them first-person stories about events in the New York area ― specifically events that obligated them to wear skimpy clothing to be shown in images in the newspaper or on the website.

One former employee said she initially felt proud when Jones asked her to write a first-person article.

“I was trying really hard to make an in for myself and was thinking this editor is picking me out of all my other co-workers, he must hear good things about my work ethic and wants to see what I can do,” said the reporter, who spoke to HuffPost on the condition that we not reveal any details about the article to avoid being identified.

But when she returned to the newsroom from her assignment, something felt off. The woman quickly realized that she would not get the editorial feedback from Jones that she was hoping for. She told HuffPost that she was left with the feeling that the assignment had been “self-serving” on Jones’ part, as if the real reason for the story wasn’t entirely editorial.

It was a “Doc assignment,” in other words.

“I felt like it was my responsibility to warn the young females on the staff about Doc.” - Former New York Daily News editor

“I felt like it was my responsibility to warn the young females on the staff about Doc,” said a former Daily News editor. “When it was that time of year when cheerleading or dance tryouts were happening, I would always warn them to be prepared for Doc to approach with this offer that sounds fun and exciting but is really just a scam to get them in a bikini or crop top and booty shorts.”

Tronc, the Daily News’ parent company, decided this week to fire Jones, along with Rob Moore, the newspaper’s managing editor, after investigating both of them for sexual harassment. The company also brought back Daily News alumnus Jim Rich in his previous role as editor-in-chief. (Rich worked at HuffPost in the interim.)

Employees had filed “various complaints” against Jones, who had previously received a “warning” about his inappropriate behavior, according to an internal email obtained by HuffPost. Upon investigating, and partially because of Jones’ “own admissions,” Tronc determined that he had made “unwanted physical contact with female employees such as kissing them, hugging them and/or grabbing their hands,” the email said. “As such, we are terminating your employment today.”

Jones had worked at the Daily News for more than two decades, his behavior long ago having become a concern for employees at various levels inside the Daily News’ office. People in the newsroom developed ad hoc techniques for dealing with Jones, finding ways to distract him, for instance, if he seemed to be talking for too long with a young woman.

“Look, bikinis and hypersexualized crime are part of tabloid culture. These are our roots. Doc turned that around on us.” - Former top Daily News editor

But his effect on the Daily News wasn’t confined to its internal culture. As the women who received “Doc assignments” over the years can attest, his personal predilections seeped into the pages of the newspaper.

Tabloids have always been frankly prurient, and the Daily News is no exception. Pick up an edition of the paper on any given day, and Page 3 will often feature lighter fare, including photos of voluptuous women, eccentric celebrity features and salacious crimes. But current and former Daily News staffers, who asked to not be named for fear of retaliation, told HuffPost that Jones exploited the hypersexualized culture of tabloids for his own ends. “It became such a regular occurrence in the newsroom,” an editor said, “that the staffers would just roll their eyes and shrug it off as ‘a Doc assignment,’ as if that made it OK.”

“Look, bikinis and hypersexualized crime are part of tabloid culture. These are our roots,” one former top editor at the paper told HuffPost. “Doc turned that around on us.”

The “Doc assignments” left many female reporters feeling degraded and embarrassed. Multiple staffers said the women appeared uncomfortable as Jones looked through the photos with them. One female staffer approach by Jones said she saw her assignment as “an opportunity for someone looking to make a ‘name’ for herself in New York media.” For Jones, she said, “it was an exploitative plan to get me to put on skimpy clothes.”

Beyond the assignments, Jones displayed a “pattern” of inappropriate behavior that disturbed his fellow employees, staffers told us. He had a penchant for summoning young women over just to ogle them, sources said. On multiple occasions, they added, he forcibly kissed women at the office.

The issue became well-known around the newsroom. “As a woman starting a job at the Daily News, you’re given a card key and a warning about Doc,” one current staffer said.

Jones was enough of a problem that staffers complained to human resources, to leadership, even to Jones himself.

“A couple of us would call him on the bullshit and try to stop it,” said a former male senior staffer, “but the people up top never got rid of him.”

Staffers had to try another route.

“They took matters into their own hands,” said a former editor.

“If I saw him standing too close or lingering too long [near a woman], I would always walk over to act as a buffer because you can see on it their faces that they were incredibly uncomfortable but didn’t have a way out,” one editor said.

Another former senior staff member said she would also try to distract Jones when he was talking to young women. “As I became a manager of young women, I’d just keep my eye on him,” she said.

There were other tactics the newsroom employed as a way to run interference. One of the former editors told employees they could say she had assigned them something else as a polite way out of one of Jones’ assignments. In at least one instance, a story in which a female reporter would have had to dress in a bikini was reassigned to a man so the young woman wouldn’t need to do it, another senior staffer said. “This is how they dealt with him internally, all the women knowing full well that HR wouldn’t be their saviors,” a top editor said.

But the system, created in response to a lack of structural support for complaints, was imperfect. And often Jones got his way. “Unfortunately, not all the young women on the staff had an editor looking out for them, and Doc seemed to know exactly which ones to target,” one of the editors said.

Jones is out now, but his behavior has had a lasting effect on some of the women who’ve worked at the newspaper. One of the women who completed a Doc assignment winces whenever she sees it popping up in a Google search. For her, it’s an example of the “mistreatment of a young woman at the Daily News.”

“Doc and the whole environment at the News of being a boys' club almost made me leave journalism entirely. I barely made it.” - Former female staffer

“What he did was play on my eagerness to write and be published in the paper in my early career,” she said, adding that the story “makes me look less like the serious journalist and writer I’ve aspired to be.”

“Doc and the whole environment at the News of being a boys’ club almost made me leave journalism entirely. I barely made it,” said another female employee who completed one of Jones’ assignments.The top Leadership and Investigators of the FBI and the Justice Department have politicized the sacred investigative process in favor of Democrats and against Republicans - something which would have been unthinkable just a short time ago. Rank & File are great people! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) February 2, 2018

The president’s comment came hours after he green-lighted the release of a controversial secret memo authored by congressional Republicans that alleges the FBI abused U.S. spying law investigating Trump’s campaign. The FBI this week urged Congress not to release the memo, saying it contains misleading and inaccurate information.

Democrats, meanwhile, have said the memo is just another attempt by Republicans to discredit Special Counsel Robert Mueller’s probe into the Trump campaign and Russia. Four former Trump officials have been charged in connection with the Mueller probe.

Trump’s frustration with the Russia investigations, which he’s often referred to as a hoax and a “witch hunt,” is longstanding and well documented. As the investigation has heated up in recent months, Trump’s allies have turned to a long-running right-wing conspiracy: the so-called deep state. The most recent example of this theory stems from a series of text messages sent between two romantically involved FBI employees ― Agent Peter Strzok and attorney Lisa Page. In one message sent the morning after Trump’s election win, Page joked about the existence of a “secret society.”

“It may be time to declare war outright against the deep state and clear out the rot in the upper levels of the FBI and the Justice Department,” Fox Business’ Lou Dobbs said last week.

The president seems to agree.

The notion that the FBI was somehow unfair to then-candidate Trump during the 2016 election should surprise anyone who followed it. The bureau at the time said nothing about its ongoing probe into ties between the Trump campaign and Russia. But then-FBI Director James Comey excoriated Hillary Clinton in a press conference in which he announced that the FBI would not recommend criminal charges in its probe of her email.

Then, in the days leading up to the election, Comey sent two letters to Congress ― one that Strzok helped draft ― that set off a media firestorm about the Clinton email investigation. Clinton later blamed Comey’s actions for her defeat.

Trump’s insistence on Friday that the FBI and the Justice Department had “politicized the sacred investigative process in favor of Democrats” also undermines the reason his own White House claimed for Comey’s firing in the first place. A memo justifying Comey’s firing, written by Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein, said he could not “defend the Director’s handling of the conclusion of the investigation of Secretary Clinton’s emails, and I do not understand his refusal to accept the nearly universal judgment that he was mistaken.”

Trump quickly sabotaged Rosentein’s explanation, telling NBC in an interview that the “Russia thing” was a factor in why he fired Comey, and that he would have removed the FBI director “regardless of recommendation.” At the time, Trump called Rosenstein a “highly respected” and “very good guy, very smart guy.”

Trump now reportedly insists Rosenstein, a Republican, is a Democrat, and a threat to his presidency.

This article has been updated to include previous statements of Trump and administration officials.Who says Valentine’s Day is only for celebrating ~romantic~ relationships?

This Valentine’s Day, celebrate the badass women in your life who keep you grounded. Whether she’s a book-loving feminist, a foul-mouthed DIYer, or your long-distance BFF, give her a Galentine’s Day surprise that’s as funny as she is.

See below for 22 funny gifts for funny gals:

1 A pair of magnets that look like your faces Etsy // KitAtlas These would either be hilariously cute or hilariously creepy. Get them here 2 This honest card Etsy // rhubarbpaperco Get it here 3 This mood-setting candle Etsy // LindsayLucasCandles Get it here 4 This card that literally defines #squadgoals Etsy // nocturnalpaper Get it here 5 This probably accurate temporary tattoo Etsy // encredelicate Get it here 6 This hilariously true wall banner Etsy // FunCult Get it here 7 This accurate description of your relationship Etsy // SadShop Get it here 8 This perfect descriptor of your BFF Etsy // ElloElloStore Get it here 9 This office essential for your boss lady BFF Etsy // LoyalNinja Get it here 10 This perfect gag gift Etsy // TetraVariations Get it here 11 This card outlining your future plans Etsy // SadShop Get it here 12 This shirt for your No. 1 love Etsy // ZeroFox30 Get it here 13 This for your bae Etsy // nocturnalpaper Get it here 14 This probably accurate eye mask Etsy // WokeBrownFeminist Get it here 15 This uncomfortably true cuff bracelet Etsy // CynicalRedhead Get it here 16 This amazing card for your Netflix-binging bestie Amazon Get it here 17 This amazing eggplant vibrator Fab Get it here 18 This tote bag for your crafty Galentine Etsy // KellyConnorDesigns Get it here 19 This card for your main bish Etsy // NoCoastPaperCo Get it here 20 This downloadable wall art Etsy // AtleeMayDesign Get it here 21 This "Basic Repellent" phone case Valfre Get it here 22 This card for your cynical bestie Etsy // Inkpug Get it hereAs Chloe Kim heads to the Olympics, her father’s commitment to her already deserves a gold medal.

A new ad for the 2018 Winter Olympics shows the sacrifice that the 17-year-old snowboarder’s father, Jong-Jin Kim, made so that his daughter could attain her Olympic dreams. And it’s based on a true story.

In the commercial, set to air during the Super Bowl on Sunday, Jong-Jin is late to pick up his daughter for snowboarding practice. He later makes the decision to leave his career behind so that he can be there for his daughter through her journey

“I have to do what’s best for my daughter,” Jong-Jin says in the ad before quitting his job.

The father is then seen accompanying his daughter to practices, watching Chloe’s snowboarding clips alongside her, waiting to hug her at the finish line after a competition, and being an all-around dedicated parent.

The ad concludes with Chloe driving her sleeping father as he clutches her trophy.

As emotional as the ad is, it shows just a snippet of the snowboarder’s relationship with her father. Jong-Jin, a South Korean immigrant, moved to the U.S. in 1982 to study engineering at California State University, Long Beach.

Jong-Jin bought Chloe her first snowboard when she was 4 years old. A few years later, he did quit his engineering job.

“He went home and just told my mom, ‘I’m done working, I’m going to make my daughter an Olympian,’” Chloe told the Los Angeles Times.

At the time, the snowboarder wasn’t aware of her dad’s big life change and wondered why her father was home more, she told Reuters. But looking back, she says that Jong-Jin’s decision was admirable and credits her father with much of her success.

“Now that I think about it, I think it was a really bold move and I can’t believe my mum was okay with it,” she told Reuters. “I think that’s so cool.”Canada’s Senate has voted to make the country’s national anthem gender-neutral, ending decades of efforts to replace the phrase “all thy sons” with “all of us.”

A date for the change will be set once the nation’s governor general gives her expected “royal assent.” The House passed the bill in 2016.

The fiercely debated legislation officially changes the opening lyrics of “O Canada” from: “O Canada! / Our home and native land! / True patriot love in all thy sons command” to: “True patriot love in all of us command.”

Prime Minister Justin Trudeau hailed the change as “another positive step towards gender equality.”

A major booster, Canadian writer Margaret Atwood, author of The Handmaid’s Tale, also praised the Senate vote.

Thank you @SenateCA! 'In all of us command': Senate passes bill approving #genderneutral anthem wording https://t.co/kOyXplgNYu — Margaret E. Atwood (@MargaretAtwood) February 1, 2018

Since 1980, when “O Canada” became the nation’s anthem, 12 bills have been introduced in the House to replace the word “sons.”

“I’m very, very happy,” the bill’s Senate sponsor, Independent Ontario Sen. Frances Lankin, told the Canadian Broadcasting Corp. “There’s been 30 years-plus of activity trying to make our national anthem, this important thing about our country, inclusive of all of us. This may be small — it’s about two words — but it’s huge.”

Passing the measure fulfilled the dying wish of Liberal MP Mauril Bélanger, who was a member of the House when the bill he introduced passed there. Bélanger, who was diagnosed in 2015 with ALS, or Lou Gehrig’s disease, died two months after the vote. He had long argued that the change “would ensure that more than 18 million Canadian women are included in our national anthem.”

But an 18-month debate in the Senate was acrimonious, and conservative members lashed the bill’s passage Wednesday.

Shameful, anti-democratic behaviour by #Trudeau-appointed senators, including #SenCA Speaker, as they shut down legitimate debate in Chamber — Sen. Denise Batters (@denisebatters) January 31, 2018

The anthem was written in 1908 as gender-neutral. Sometime before World War I, songwriter Robert Stanley Weir changed “thou dost in us command” to “in all thy sons command,” according to the CBC.

The French version of the anthem doesn’t include the word “sons.”