Reddit has an entire “Shower Thoughts” subreddit dedicated to “the miniature epiphanies you have that highlight the oddities within the familiar.” In honor of those weird, wonderful and sometimes profound musings, here are 25 of the best posts from the last week:“What just occurred in the courtroom was scary and caused a level of discomfort. I’m sorry that happened,” she said.

“I know it is hard but I need to ask all of you to try and not react in any physical way. It is not appropriate, it does not send the right message,” Cunningham continued. “It actually just causes more pain and more discomfort and certainly we have enough of that in this courtroom as a result of the defendant’s actions.”

Later in the day, Cunningham said there was “no way” she would hold Margraves in contempt of court. The father of three apologized in a statement to the court, telling Cunningham that today was the first time he had heard his daughters’ impact statements.

“I lost control and I apologize a hundred times. … I’m embarrassed,” he said. “I’m not here to upstage my daughters, I’m here to help them heal.”Not quite the hot look she had in mind.

Spartanburg, South Carolina, resident Erika Shoolbred posted a video Monday showing her hair dryer catching fire and then appearing to shoot flames.

“Talk about a bad hair day!” Shoolbred joked in a Facebook post. “My new hair dryer (more like hair frier) from OraCorp on Amazon.com became a blow torch on its first use this morning.”

Shoolbred was left with a small burn on her hand but was otherwise unharmed. She said she had to run the dryer “under the sink” to finally extinguish the flames. The product has apparently been pulled from Amazon, and Shoolbred told her friends that she’s gotten a full refund from the site.

While most commenters were happy she was OK, some were skeptical of the video’s authenticity, pointing out that you don’t see the back of the hair dryer.

We’ll leave that judgment call to you. We’re just thankful this incident didn’t happen to someone wearing the company’s bonnet dryer attachment.Generally speaking, love is for the birds.

But apparently not for a gannet New Zealand conservation officers nicknamed “No Mates Nigel,” who, until recently, was the only bird of his kind on the uninhabited island of Mana.

That is, unless you count the numerous decoys set up to lure birds like Nigel. Conservation officers put up 80 decoys years ago in an attempt to bring gannets back to the island after a four-decade absence.

It worked for Nigel, who showed up on the island in 2013, the first gannet to land there in 40 years.

He inexplicably became attracted to a particular concrete bird, for whom he constructed a nest and spent hours grooming her concrete feathers, according to the Guardian.

Nigel died this past week next to the concrete object of his avian affection, never having his feelings returned.

The Washington Post dubbed Nigel the “world’s loneliest bird.”

The ranger who found Nigel’s corpse, Chris Bell, said the experience was “incredibly sad,” reported the BBC.

“This just feels like the wrong ending to the story,” the ranger for New Zealand’s Department of Conservation added.

Nigel (center) is a gannett who lived 5 years on New Zealand's Mana Island and fell in love with a concrete decoy. Geobeats

Ironically, Nigel’s death happened just weeks after three real gannets made themselves at home on the opposite end of the colony.

Nigel had little interest in the real birds, instead spending time with his non-responsive decoy, according to the BBC.

Strange as Nigel’s sad love affair may seem, Bell believes the gannet is a hero in his own bizarre way.

“His legacy was that he was the first colonizer and, if this turns into a real colony, he will always have been the first,” Bell told Stuff.co.nz. “It’s because of Nigel that the other gannets know about Mana ... maybe in six months’ time there will be a happy story to tell.”

Nigel’s body will be sent to Massey University so experts can determine how he died.My dad just called me to laugh about this time when I was a kid and he sent me into a gas station to get snacks but had to come get me cause I’d started arguing with the guy at the cash register about overcharging me but really I just didn’t understand tax yet“He’s got a stance about shoulder-width and he has the mop at the top of the window! And then he hits and resets! He’s got his feet now moving apart looking just to the right to make sure no one’s around.

And he’s now positioning the mop again and slams it back into the window! Slams it a second time! That’s three! That’s four!

“Las Vegas odds say he won’t do it one more time!”Tiffany Haddish Smallz & Raskind via Getty Images

Tiffany Haddish created the perfect storm.

In December, the actress posted a selfie of herself and Beyoncé to Instagram with a caption that left fans wanting more.

“@beyonce was telling me that my wig was slipping.... But for real she told me to have fun and I DID!”

A post shared by Tiffany Haddish (@tiffanyhaddish) on Dec 22, 2017 at 10:26am PST

The “Girls Trip” actress on Wednesday elaborated on the events that led up to the adorable pic with an elusive caption while speaking to New York Magazine’s Vulture.

“Okay, so what had happened was, something had went down with somebody at the party, right? I’m not at liberty to say what had went down at the party, but Beyoncé was just telling me to have a good time,” Haddish told the site. “And I was like, ‘No, I’m gonna end up fighting this bitch!’ She was like, ‘No, have fun, Tiffany,’ and I said, ‘I’m only going to have fun if you take a selfie with me.’”

Haddish’s timing for the request was pretty perfect, but apparently her wig game wasn’t.

After Beyoncé agreed to the selfie, she immediately buried her face in Haddish’s wig, prompting Haddish to ask Bey if her wig was slipping.

“And she was like, ‘Mmm-hmm,’” Haddish said.

But believe it or not, the selfie wasn’t the part of the interaction that Haddish was most excited about.Verona Collection

For the first time, a major U.S. retailer is launching a hijab-friendly collection in collaboration with an Islamic fashion brand.

Macy’s has partnered with Verona Collection, an Islamic boutique, and plans to exclusively carry Verona products for both Muslim and non-Muslim women across the U.S. The modest fashion line, expected to launch on the Macy’s website on Feb. 15, includes a variety of hijabs or headscarves, as well as modest tops, pants, dresses and abayas, a loose garment worn by some Muslim women.

Lisa Vogl was inspired to launch Verona Collection from her own experience looking for fashionable and modest clothing. Photo provided by Macy's press release

“Verona Collection is more than a clothing brand,” founder Lisa Vogl said Thursday in a press release. “It’s a platform for a community of women to express their personal identity and embrace fashion that makes them feel confident on the inside and outside.”

Photo taken from verona-collection.com

Vogl, a single mother, converted to Islam in 2011. Not long after, she had a stark realization: Modest and fashionable clothing was both hard to find and hard to afford. She also realized that women of all backgrounds, not just Muslim women, were looking for loose and conservative clothing that was still hip and stylish.

Vogl’s experience in fashion photography ― her work has appeared in The Daily Beast, Marie Claire and other publications ― gave her the advantage she needed to launch Verona Collection in February 2015.

Her company was a huge success, with orders coming in from around the globe. In May 2016, Vogl opened one of the first Muslim women’s clothing stores in a mainstream American mall in Orlando, Florida.

Photo taken from verona-collection.com

Vogl’s company was able to tap into the mainstream fashion industry when Verona Collection was selected to be a part of The Workshop at Macy’s, a business development program intended to “give select high potential minority- and women-owned businesses the tools to better succeed and sustain growth in the retail industry,” the company says.

“Through The Workshop at Macy’s, we want to nurture and support minority- and women-owned businesses to build their capabilities and become the next generation of retail partners,” Shawn Outler, an executive vice president at Macy’s, said in a statement.

Vogl and her team were given the chance to showcase and sell their products last year outside Macy’s flagship location in New York City’s Herald Square, one of the world’s largest department stores.

Major corporations have been attempting to reach out to Muslim consumers. The efforts have not been without complications. L’Oreal recently hired Amena Khan, a Muslim beauty blogger, as its first model to wear a hijab ― only for Khan to step down days later amid backlash over a series of tweets she’d posted in 2014 that were critical of Israel.

AdvertisementJerry and Jessica Seinfeld hold a puppy during the Grammy Awards at Madison Square Garden. Kevin Mazur via Getty Images

A CBS representative has clarified that the so-called “consolation puppies” seen at Sunday night’s Grammy Awards were not actually permanent gifts for attendees, and the dogs are now back with a training agency.

“These adorable pups came from a licensed and experienced animal handling & training agency, which is also their home,” Tiffany Smith-Anoa’i told HuffPost in an email. “While at [Madison Square] Garden, they received a lot of Grammy love and were treated with the utmost care, all under the watchful supervision of these handlers. After their short segment, they returned to their home.”

She declined to provide the name of the training agency, so it’s unclear what the puppies’ day-to-day lives are like or what their futures hold.

The puppies made their cameo while “Late Late Show” host James Corden presented the award for Best Comedy Album, which went to Dave Chapelle. The nominees who didn’t win the category — Jim Gaffigan, Jerry Seinfeld and Sarah Silverman — all wound up with squirming puppies in their arms instead.

“I don’t want anyone to be upset tonight, so the good news is nobody goes home empty-handed, because all night we will be handing out consolation puppies,” Corden said.

Social media accounts for the stars were inundated with commenters asking if they’d really brought the pups home with them. And while many people simply thought it was a cute moment, not everyone was delighted.

Some observers noted that the busy, loud environment of an award ceremony could have been unnecessarily stressful for puppies. But most criticism focused on the fact that handing out animals as party favors would be a pretty irresponsible move.

“Dog ownership is a life-changing commitment, not something that should simply be done on a whim,” British Veterinary Association President John Fishwick told Sky News.

Very disappointed that the #GRAMMYs chose to gift puppies as a joke. Animals are not toys. #AdoptDontBuy — PETA (@peta) January 29, 2018

Shame on the #GRAMMYs and @JKCorden for handing out puppies as if they were nothing more than inanimate objects. https://t.co/6skRjZv9bd — AWF (@AWF_VETS) January 29, 2018

#GRAMMYs "gifting" puppies for laughs. Really. @JKCorden used puppies as props for a punchline in front of a global audience. Really!

Pets shouldn't be given away or bought on a whim. #AnimalWelfare is not a joke! RT if you agree @rickygervais @KeshaRose https://t.co/7wtw9zS1kD pic.twitter.com/sdVmNtMzWK — Dr Daniel Allen (@Dr_Dan_1) January 29, 2018

Representatives for Silverman and Gaffigan both confirmed to HuffPost that the comedians did not bring puppies home. And Seinfeld’s wife, author Jessica Seinfeld, wrote on Instagram after the ceremony that the couple went home puppy-less.

That said, some critics, like author and animal advocate Marc Bekoff, have made the case that even if the stunt was just a joke, it nevertheless sent a harmful message that living beings are merely props to be passed around for fun.

AdvertisementIowa Gov. Kim Reynolds (R) is not stopping her anti-abortion fight anytime soon.

“We know that our work is not done, that we must continue to work together to change the hearts and minds,” she said on Saturday during an annual event organized by a Christian group, the Faith and Freedom Coalition, The Des Moines Register reported.

Reynolds signed a bill into law this month that would effectively ban abortions after six weeks of pregnancy. The legislation is the strictest abortion ban in the country, quickly leading to legal battles with Planned Parenthood and the American Civil Liberties Union.

“I’ll tell you what, we’re not slowing down, we’re not going to stop. It’s a fight worth fighting,” she said to about 300 people in attendance.

The law, also known as the fetal heartbeat bill, requires women seeking an abortion to get an ultrasound before undergoing the procedure. If a fetal heartbeat is detected ― which typically can be heard about six weeks into a pregnancy ― the woman may no longer have an abortion. The law includes exceptions for rape, incest and the life of the mother.

“We are No. 1 in the country when it comes to protecting life,” Reynolds continued. “I believe all innocent life is precious and sacred, and as governor, I pledge to you to do everything in my power to protect life.”

In a statement after the bill passed in the Iowa Senate, Dawn Laguens, the executive vice president of Planned Parenthood, called it an “extreme and draconian policy that takes aim at a woman’s right to control her own body, life, and future.”Caitlyn Jenner has been named the recipient of the Champion of Israel and LGBTQ Rights Award. Brian Snyder / Reuters

Caitlyn Jenner is set to receive an award for her support of Israel and its record on LGBTQ rights, a move that’s stirred the ire of some in the U.S. LGBTQ community.

The U.S.-based World Values Network will honor Jenner with the Champion of Israel and LGBTQ Rights Award on March 8 in New York. The former Olympian and transgender icon will be presented the award by Rabbi Shmuley Boteach at the Champions of Jewish Values International Awards Gala.

“Israel is a bastion of global human rights and a great light to the nations,” Boteach said in a Jan. 24 press release. “But the Middle East is sadly a cesspit of human rights abuses, especially toward LGBTQ citizens who are routinely murdered, beheaded, and even hung from cranes.”

Jenner, he said, “is uniquely suited to highlight Israel’s incredible record on human rights and LGBTQ rights and protection to the LGBTQ citizens, which is utterly unique and unprecedented in the Middle East.”

A number of LGBTQ media outlets pointed out the conservative nature of the group and its event, at which former White House Press Secretary Sean Spicer will be an “honored guest.”

Jenner, meanwhile, has been an outspoken Republican for years.

Known globally as as an LGBTQ-friendly destination, Israel has in recent years been accused of “pinkwashing” ― using the queer community to deflect from larger issues like the nation’s ongoing conflict with the Palestine territories.

On social media, some people cast the news of Jenner’s award as an example of pinkwashing by U.S. supporters of Israel.

@Caitlyn_Jenner Israel is not friendly to Palestinians - look at the state they have left them in. We must help the Palestinian people @BDSmovement — Dan NZ ❤️ (@danielmonteath) January 23, 2018

Last year’s Tel Aviv Gay Pride was marked by protests centered focused on the pinkwashing allegations, with some demonstrators holding signs that read “There’s no pride in occupation.”

AdvertisementGoogle kicked off Black History Month by celebrating Carter G. Woodson, one of the first scholars of African-American history whose idea led to February’s designation.

Virginia-based illustrator Shannon Wright, in collaboration with the Black Googlers Network ― an employee group at the search giant ― created the image of Woodson’s likeness featured in Thursday’s doodle on Google’s homepage.

Woodson, often touted as the “father of black history,” was the child of two former slaves who, against odds, turned his insatiable curiosity into success. He supported his family via farming and mining, and was primarily self-taught. Woodson earn a masters degree from the University of Chicago and become the second African-American ever to receive a doctorate from Harvard. He created “Negro History Week” in 1926, according to the NAACP, which later became Black History Month.

“I am honored to kick off Google’s celebration this month by highlighting the life of this great American scholar,” Sherice Torres, Google’s director of brand marketing and a member of the Black Googlers Network, wrote in a blog post.

Torres described her background “as a black woman from an underserved, underperforming public school in Richmond, California,” and said some people in her community doubted she’d achieve much. She cited Woodson’s accomplishments as motivation.

“When I voiced my ambition to go to Harvard, I was told by teachers, guidance counselors, and even some family members that ‘people like me’ didn’t go to schools like that,” Torres wrote.

AdvertisementOctavia Spencer announced Wednesday that she plans to buy out a screening of the highly anticipated Marvel film “Black Panther” in an underserved community in Mississippi. The star’s reason is crucial, simple yet often overlooked: representation matters.

“I will be in [Mississippi] when this movie opens,” Spencer posted in a message on Instagram. “I think I will buy out a theatre in an underserved community there to ensure that all our brown children can see themselves as a superhero. I will let you know where and when Mississippi. Stay tuned.”

A post shared by Octavia Spencer (@octaviaspencer) on Jan 31, 2018 at 1:03pm PST

Spencer made a similar move last year, when she bought out a screening of “Hidden Figures” in a Los Angeles movie theater as her Oscar-nominated film reigned at the box office.

“My mom would not have been able to afford to take me and my siblings,” she wrote in an Instagram message posted January last year. If you know a family in need that would like to see our movie but can’t afford it have them come.”Speaker Paul Ryan hopes that people, like his fellow Republicans, won't misuse the Nunes memo. JIM WATSON via Getty Images

WHITE SULPHUR SPRINGS, W.Va. — With new controversy surrounding the release of a memo alleging FBI abuse ― a memo that Democrats say Rep. Devin Nunes (R-Calif.) materially changed ― Speaker Paul Ryan (R-Wis.) has a theory as to why Democratic leaders are calling on him to remove the Intelligence Committee chairman: They want a distraction.

“I think they’re just playing politics and I think they’re looking for a political distraction, is what I get out of that,” Ryan said Thursday, speaking from congressional Republicans’ annual policy retreat at the Greenbrier resort in West Virginia. “Look, the tax cuts are working. Tax reform is working.”

Ryan continued that the economy is going well, America has ISIS on the run, and Democrats want to “sidetrack us for some political gain.”

“I think they would love nothing more than to play politics and change the subject,” he said.

Ryan showed little awareness that he himself was sidestepping a question about a Republican effort to play politics: The Nunes memo is, after all, being used by Republicans to try to undermine and distract from special counsel Robert Mueller’s investigation into Russia’s alleged connections to the Trump presidential campaign.

The speaker did later address the reports that Nunes changed the memo, saying those changes had occurred before the Intelligence Committee voted to release the document, not after as the ranking Democrat on the House panel, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-Calif.), had alleged. Ryan also said those changes were an important step before releasing the memo, so that sources and methods of intelligence collection would be protected.

The speaker continues to insist that the Nunes document is not intended to discredit the FBI, the Department of Justice or the Mueller investigation ― even as President Donald Trump and other Republicans acknowledge that’s how the memo will be perceived.

When Ryan was asked if he really believed this memo wouldn’t be used to undermine the Mueller investigation, he said he was suggesting that “people should not draw lines, people should not implicate—”

“People are drawing lines,” NBC reporter Kasie Hunt interjected.President Donald Trump bragged Thursday morning that his State of the Union speech received the highest ever TV-viewing figures.

There’s just one problem. It’s not true.

Thank you for all of the nice compliments and reviews on the State of the Union speech. 45.6 million people watched, the highest number in history. @FoxNews beat every other Network, for the first time ever, with 11.7 million people tuning in. Delivered from the heart! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) February 1, 2018

Trump used Twitter to thank his supporters “for all of the nice compliments and reviews” about his televised Tuesday night speech to Congress. He said the TV audience of 45.6 million people was “the highest number in history.”

The figure Trump cited, which media research agency Nielsen collated from 12 broadcast and cable networks, was correct.

But as Nielsen noted on its website on Wednesday, former Presidents Barack Obama, George W. Bush and Bill Clinton all achieved higher viewing figures for their State of the Union addresses.

Obama scored a 48 million viewer high in 2010. Bush’s most-viewed SOTU speech was seen by 62 million in 2003. Clinton’s high was 53 million viewers in 1998.

The 47.7 million people who watched Trump’s inaugural address to a joint session of Congress in 2017 also was lower than two of his three predecessors’ speeches on the same occasion. Obama scored 52 million for his speech, and Clinton had 66.9 million. Bush’s figure was 39.7 million.

It’s not the first time Trump has lied about the size of something. He infamously kicked off his presidency by exaggerating the size of the crowd at his inauguration.

Trump’s latest fabrication didn’t go unnoticed on Twitter:

Fake News. Obama had more viewers than that his first two speeches. It's like you're allergic to facts and the truth. — DaddyFiles (@DaddyFiles) February 1, 2018

You are a liar! — Kathy Sievert (@sievert_ks) February 1, 2018

You do realize, Mr. President, that we, the American people, are checking your facts and the more you give us false info the less likely we will believe you when it counts. — Alexandro (@aalexandro02) February 1, 2018A tractor-trailer is seen parked on the site of Peru's famous Nazca Lines on Saturday after the driver took his vehicle off the road. Facebook

A truck driver is accused of ignoring warning signs and carelessly plowing across Peru’s famous Nazca Lines on Saturday, causing significant damage to the estimated 2,000-year-old archeological wonder, authorities said.

The UNESCO World Heritage Site, which features massive geoglyphs of animals, plants and various creatures that are seen from the air, was left with deep tire marks when the big rig left the road. The culture ministry released a photo showing the damage.

#COMUNICADO: Ministerio de Cultura denuncia penalmente a chofer de camión que ingresó a la Pampa de Nasca: https://t.co/SlcJeyYgMm #PrensaCultura pic.twitter.com/rdMf26Eo8r — Ministerio Cultura (@MinCulturaPe) January 29, 2018

A video posted on Facebook also shows the vehicle parked off of the road and surrounded by various tire tracks, CNN reported.

The ancient designs surrounding the vehicle, which collectively cover 280 square miles, are touted on UNESCO’s website as being “the most outstanding group of geoglyphs anywhere in the world and are unmatched in its extent, magnitude, quantity, size, diversity and ancient tradition to any similar work in the world.”

According to Argentine newspaper Clarín, cited by NPR, the driver defended his action, saying that he wasn’t familiar with the area and that he only left the road because of a mechanical problem.

The paper speculated, however, that he may have left the road in an attempt to avoid paying a highway toll.

The ancient designs, whose purpose remains unclear, cover 280 square miles. MARTIN BERNETTI via Getty Images

Local news site Peru21 identified the driver as 40-year-old Jainer Jesús Flores Vigo and said that he was only briefly detained as there wasn’t enough evidence to prove that he acted with intent.

Prosecutors for the public ministry say they will pursue charges.

Fiscal Pavel Ramos Peralta, de 2º Fiscalía Provincial Penal Corporativa de Nasca, apeló la decisión del Poder Judicial que dispuso hoy comparecencia restringida a favor de Jainer Jesús Flores Vigo (40), chofer del tráiler intervenido por invadir zona intangible de #LíneasDeNasca pic.twitter.com/0hLp5mXLjt — Ministerio Público (@FiscaliaPeru) January 31, 2018

Though the ancient artwork is estimated to be thousands of years old, it continues to puzzle and amaze observers as the exact reason for its creation is uncertain ― though UNESCO’s website notes that the geoglyphs are believed to have had ritual astronomical functions.

One recent example of its ability to surprise was in 2014, when a pilot discovered previously unknown geoglyphs across the land after sandstorms unveiled them.

This wasn’t the first time people have harmed the historic artwork, however.

In 2017, Greenpeace activists damaged some of the land when they pulled a publicity stunt in a protected area near an etched hummingbird figure. That act involved placing giant letters across the land, spelling out a message for their organization.

Simply walking on the land without special footwear will leave permanent scarring, the country’s deputy culture minister, Luis Jaime Castillo, said at the time of the incident.In little more than a week, the Afghan capital suffered three brutal terrorist attacks that killed at least 130 people and injured hundreds of others. A combination of domestic instability and foreign pressures are fueling the onslaught of violence pummeling Kabul, experts told HuffPost.

Taliban assailants in army uniforms slaughtered dozens of people in an hours-long raid at Kabul’s Inter-Continental Hotel on Jan. 20. One week later, as the city mourned the civilian deaths, the Taliban struck again: Suicide bombers drove a vehicle disguised as an ambulance down a crowded street. The vehicle exploded, killing more than 100 men, women and children.

On Monday, gunmen launched an assault on Afghan troops near a military academy in Kabul. The self-described Islamic State group claimed the attack, which killed at least 11 soldiers, but Afghan officials suspect the Taliban was responsible yet again.

The uptick in violence follows President Donald Trump’s recent decision to freeze the flow of U.S. security aid to Pakistan, a nation he has repeatedly accused of harboring Taliban terrorists who wreak havoc in neighboring Afghanistan. Pakistan has denied it provides a safe haven for the group.

“There is a lot of speculation in Afghanistan ― and with good justification ― that the increase in violence can be linked to the U.S. confrontational attitude toward Pakistan,” Vanda Felbab-Brown, a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution, told HuffPost.

After the aid suspension was announced on Jan. 4, Felbab-Brown warned of Pakistan’s potential retaliation against heightened U.S. pressure, such as increasing support for the Haqqani network, a Taliban affiliate based in the country.

But the short time frame between the U.S. administration’s decision and the string of Taliban attacks suggests a lack of correlation, she told HuffPost this week.

“If you think of the Inter-Continental Hotel attack, that came quite close to the announcement ― an attack like this takes a lot of planning,” she said. “And so I think that many of these attacks were probably in preparation for considerably longer than [would be possible for them to be] generated in response, with Pakistan instructing the Haqqanis or the Taliban to conduct such attacks.”

Afghan medical staff treat a wounded man after a car bomb in Kabul on Jan. 27. WAKIL KOHSAR via Getty Images

Felbab-Brown added that she believes Pakistan does not have full control over either organization.

Islamabad did condemn the suicide bombing attack, and called for “concerted efforts and effective cooperation ... to eradicate the scourge of terrorism.” Trump also decried the “murderous attack,” and said it renewed “our resolve and that of our Afghan partners.”

According to Felbab-Brown, there are several reasons for the Taliban to ramp up attacks in Afghanistan that are “completely separate and long preceding the U.S.-Pakistan confrontation.”

The main motivation, she said, would be to demonstrate its power and to discredit the Afghan government in the eyes of its citizens: “These three attacks have generated tremendous payoff for the Taliban, [such as] the public disquiet and opposition to the government.”

Residents have grown frustrated with state security failures as death tolls mount from one terrorist attack to the next. The country’s leaders have been distracted by untimely political infighting and chaos, including President Ashraf Ghani, who is currently ensnared in a bitter dispute with a longtime provincial governor he recently fired. Experts believe the Taliban has strategically capitalized on this enduring state of vulnerability.

“To a large extent, the Taliban’s ability to [execute attacks] is hugely assisted by the fact that the current [Afghan] government is not effective in maintaining the rule of law,” according to Afzal Ashraf, a visiting fellow at Nottingham University’s Centre for Conflict, Security and Terrorism. “[The government] is ineffective at economic policy and in making political changes, and it’s still tainted with allegations of corruption and inefficiency.”

Ashraf said attacks are becoming more frequent and severe in Kabul because groups like the Taliban and ISIS “want to bring their agenda to the fore” by attracting as much international news coverage as possible.

“In order to do that, they have to go beyond a certain threshold of violence,” he told HuffPost. “The primary message that the Taliban is trying to send to the international community is that they’re still around, and that the international community’s efforts are failing in Afghanistan.”

In the wake of one massacre after another, tension in the capital remains palpable, according to Kabul-based researcher Abdullah Fahimi.

“One short trip around the city can tell us how fragile and sensitive the situation is,” he said, noting he expects the carnage to continue in the coming weeks.TOP STORIES

(And want to get The Morning Email each weekday? Sign up here.)

THE FBI HAS ‘GRAVE CONCERNS’ OVER THE MEMO REPUBLICANS VOTED TO RELEASE “The bureau says the memo Republicans have used to undermine Mueller has ‘material omissions of fact that fundamentally impact the memo’s accuracy.’” Rep. Adam Schiff (D-Calif.) warned its release could cause a “constitutional crisis,” and alleged that the chairman of the House Intelligence Committee made “material changes” to the memo after lawmakers voted to release it. [HuffPost] [Tweet | Share on Facebook]

A HOPE HICKS WRINKLE IN THE DONALD TRUMP JR. EMAILS WITH THE RUSSIANS ”President Donald Trump’s former legal spokesman is expected to tell special counsel Robert Mueller about a previously undisclosed phone call in which White House aide Hope Hicks allegedly promised that emails from Donald Trump Jr. about a 2016 Trump Tower meeting with a Russian lawyer ‘will never get out,’ The New York Times has reported.” [HuffPost]

TRUMP REPORTEDLY ASKED DEPUTY ATTORNEY GENERAL ROD ROSENSTEIN IF HE WAS ‘ON MY TEAM’ When asking about the Russia probe. [CNN]

THE HEAD OF THE CDC RESIGNED OVER HER TOBACCO STOCKS The CDC is a national leader in the fight against tobacco. [HuffPost]

A TRAIN CARRYING GOP MEMBERS OF CONGRESS TO A RETREAT IN WEST VIRGINIA COLLIDED WITH A TRUCK The driver of the truck was killed, and six others injured ― including two lawmakers who were slightly hurt. [HuffPost]

ONE NEO-NAZI GROUP. FIVE MURDERS IN EIGHT MONTHS. What you need to know about the Atomwaffen Division. [HuffPost]ZURICH, Feb 1 (Reuters) - Twenty-eight Russian athletes have had their Olympic doping bans overturned and their results from the 2014 Winter Games in Sochi reinstated after their appeals were upheld by sport’s highest tribunal on Thursday.

The Court of Arbitration for Sport (CAS) said in a statement that it had found insufficient evidence during last week’s hearing in Geneva that the 28, banned by the International Olympic Committee (IOC), were guilty of anti-doping violations in Sochi.

However, it is not clear yet whether any of the 28 will be able to compete in the Winter Olympics in Pyeongchang, South Korea, which start on Feb. 9.

“With respect to these 28 athletes, the appeals are upheld, the sanctions annulled and their individual results achieved in Sochi 2014 are reinstated,” said the Lausanne-based tribunal.

Eleven other athletes were confirmed by CAS to have committed doping violations. However, CAS reduced their lifetime Olympic bans to a suspension from this year’s Games.

The IOC had previously banned Russia from Pyeongchang as a result of its “unprecedented systematic manipulation” of the anti-doping system.

Individual Russian athletes are able to compete as neutrals if they can prove their anti-doping credentials but the IOC said on Thursday that the 28 would not necessarily be invited to Pyeongchang. “Not being sanctioned does not automatically confer the privilege of an invitation,” it said.

The confirmation of eleven cases “clearly demonstrates once more the existence of the systemic manipulation of the anti-doping system at the Olympic Winter Games Sochi 2014,” it added.

The IOC regretted that CAS “did not take this proven existence of the systemic manipulation of the anti-doping system into consideration for the other 28 cases.”

Cross-country skier Alexander Legkov, who won gold in the 50 kilometers and silver in 4x10 km, and Alexander Tretyakov, who won gold in the men’s individual skeleton, were among those to be cleared.

Bobsleigh double gold medallist Alexander Zubkov was one of the eleven whose doping offenses were confirmed.

Russian Olympic Committee President Alexander Zhukov said the CAS ruling had restored the “good name” of Russian athletes, Interfax news agency reported.

Jim Walden, lawyer for Russia’s former anti-doping chief-turned whistleblower Grigory Rodchenkov, said the ruling provided “a very small measure of punishment for some athletes but a complete ‘get out of jail free card’ for most.”

Walden added that Rodchenkov “testified fully and credibly” at CAS and his evidence was verified by forensic evidence and other whistleblowers.

Russia has repeatedly denied any state involvement in the doping which was exposed by an independent report commissioned by the World Anti-Doping Agency (WADA).

CAS said its mandate was “not to determine generally whether there was an organized scheme allowing the manipulation of doping control samples....but was strictly limited to dealing with 39 individual cases and to assess the evidence applicable to each athlete on an individual basis.”WASHINGTON ― The Trump administration will leave some Syrians in the U.S. at risk of being deported while their country is still mired in war, but extend temporary protections for several thousand others, the Department of Homeland Security announced Wednesday.

The agency will extend temporary protected status, or TPS, for Syrians for another 18 months, which will allow an estimated 5,800 Syrians to legally continue living and working in the U.S. But Syrians who came to the U.S. after August 2016 will be shut out of the TPS program — despite the ongoing war in Syria and against the urging of human rights organizations, faith leaders and national security experts.

“After carefully considering conditions on the ground, I have determined that it is necessary to extend the Temporary Protected Status designation for Syria, Homeland Security Secretary Kirstjen Nielsen said in a statement. “It is clear that the conditions upon which Syria’s designation was based continue to exist, therefore an extension is warranted under the statute. We will continue to determine each country’s TPS status on a country-by-country basis.”

The decision, which was first reported by The Associated Press, is the latest in a string of moves by President Donald Trump to limit immigration by Syrians and temporary protections for people of all nationalities living in the U.S. without other forms of legal status.

Trump compared Syrian refugees to snakes and Trojan horses on the campaign trail, and then sought to temporarily ban all immigrants and visitors from the country in his multiple travel bans.

The president has also resisted extending TPS, which is granted to immigrants from countries hit by armed conflict, natural disasters or other urgent problems. Under Trump, DHS already ended TPS for El Salvador, Haiti, Nicaragua and Sudan and gave at least 250,000 nationals of those countries notice they needed to leave the United States. Trump also rescinded the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program, or DACA, which puts 700,000 young undocumented immigrants who came as children at risk of deportation. All told, that’s nearly a million people who are set to lose work permits and protections under Trump.

TPS for immigrants from Syria did not suffer the same fate as people from those other nations. The administration extended it for 18 months, which means Syrians who already hold TPS or have resided in the U.S. since at least August 2016 will be able to apply to renew their work permits and protections.

But the administration did not redesignate TPS, which means that people who came more recently are not eligible. This was a shift from the past. Given the ongoing conflict in Syria, the Obama administration both extended and redesignated TPS for people from the country multiple times, under the stance that even those who entered before it was first established in 2012 would also be in danger should they be forced to return.

It’s still true now, said Meredith Owen, policy counsel at Church World Service, which works on refugee and immigration issues.

“They’re acknowledging that the conditions persist to justify an extension, and yet if they’re not going to redesignate, that means that those Syrians in the United States who could potentially benefit from TPS ― if they don’t have another way to stabilize their status ― will be deportable back to the ongoing violence, brutality and torture in the seventh year of Syria’s civil war,” she said.

At least 5.4 million Syrians have fled their native country during the war, and another 6.1 million are displaced within the nation, according to the UNHCR, the United Nations refugee agency. About 465,000 people were killed in the Syrian civil war between 2011 and 2017, according to the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights.

Advocates estimate that an additional 2,000 Syrians came to the U.S. after August 2016, meaning they would have been allowed to apply for TPS had it been redesignated, although there are no official figures. They could have come through various avenues, including as students, tourists or business travelers. If they overstay the visas they used to enter the U.S. and cannot receive TPS, they could be at risk of deportation.Organizers of the prestigious Cannes Film Festival on Monday signed a pledge committing to policies promoting more gender parity, in response to activism from women in the film industry.

“The world is no longer the same. We must examine our own practices, our habits and our history,” said festival head Thierry Fremaux, who has faced criticism for the annual event’s inclusion of an abysmally low number of female-directed movies.

JEAN-FRANCOIS GUYOT via Getty Images

The adoption of the pledge on Monday came two days after a powerful protest organized by a group of French filmmakers pushing for gender equality, 5050 by 2020. Hollywood’s Times Up movement against workplace sexual harassment also advocated the commitment.

The demonstration featured 82 women, led by the Cannes festival’s jury president, actress Cate Blanchett. They marched along the festival’s red carpet on Saturday night, symbolizing the number of movies directed or co-directed by women that have competed in the festival’s main slate throughout its entire history.

Since the festival began in 1946, 1,645 movies directed by men have been featured, according to data compiled by 5050 by 2020. Some of the movies were co-directed by multiple men, amounting to 1,688 male directors.

The festival’s gender equity pledge has three main components, according to The Hollywood Reporter. Festival organizers will release statistics on the gender breakdown of film submissions, be transparent about members of the festival’s selection and programming committees, and will establish equal gender representation on the festival’s executive board.

The pledge also encourages festival organizers to develop goals “to achieve perfect parity.”

While modest and incremental, the pledge could encourage larger, long-term changes, as film festivals like Cannes play an important role in championing emerging filmmakers and showcasing movies that go on to receive critical acclaim and awards recognition.

Organizers of the pledge hope that other prominent film festivals adopt similar commitments. Leaders of this fall’s Toronto Film Festival, which often marks the unofficial start of the movie awards season, have also promised to sign the pledge.Bilal Askaryar (holding a Black Lives Matter sign) joined a protest against U.S. Education Secretary Betsy DeVos early last year at a school in Washington. He believes that as a Muslim, he was singled out for arrest at the demonstration. Reuters Video

When Bilal Askaryar woke up on the morning of Feb. 10 last year, he wasn’t expecting to get arrested. But it was a risk he was willing to take.

Askaryar is a 32-year-old communications specialist who lives in D.C. and who believes strongly in the right of Americans to participate in protests and, when necessary, in acts of civil disobedience. He participated in the Women’s March and in protests against Trump’s plans to restrict refugee immigration. That February morning, Askaryar briefly contemplated staying in his warm bed and skipping another, smaller protest set to take place at a local public school. But his conscience tugged at him.

“I didn’t want to be one of those people that opposes everything on social media or in dinner conversations among friends, but doesn’t actually do anything about it, when it comes down to it,” he told HuffPost. “I’m going to put my body on the line for those who can’t.”

Askaryar said that in the hours that followed his decision to attend, he came to believe that engaging in civil disobedience as a Muslim can carry with it certain hazards.

He said he ended up the only person facing legal charges for his actions that day, although he claims others at the protest were more combative with police officers at the scene. (The initial Washington Post story on the protest reported that one person was arrested, without providing a name.)

In subsequent stories on Askaryar’s case, media outlets honed in on his ethnicity and his place of birth ― Afghanistan. That was information he doesn’t think would have been spotlighted if he was a white protester.

But in a time when anti-Muslim hate crimes are spiking and Islamophobic rhetoric flows from the highest political offices in the land, these Muslims find themselves having to defend their identity as Americans.

Askaryar considers it ironic that while participating in civil disobedience, an act he believes is “the highest form of patriotism,” he had to contend with being portrayed as the “other.”

As the story of his arrest gained traction, Askaryar said he felt a sense of panic, and then disillusionment.

“I’d like to believe that every American citizen has a right to make his or her voice known and to fully exercise their First Amendment rights,” he said. “But in this case, it’s not true.”

Askaryar is a U.S. citizen originally from Afghanistan. Bilal Askaryar

“Where Were You Born?”

The night before Feb. 10, Askaryar heard on social media about a Black Lives Matter protest planned for Jefferson Middle School Academy in Washington. The BLM protesters and other local groups wanted to express their discontent with Trump’s new education secretary, Betsy DeVos, who was visiting the school. Askaryar and other Devos critics view her policies as detrimental to public schools.

When he arrived for the demonstration, Askaryar said he and others learned that DeVos’ team was trying to avoid confronting members of the local teachers’ union, who were protesting at the building’s front entrance. The BLM protesters positioned themselves at a side entrance, to force DeVos to enter through the front.

In a video, Askaryar (wearing a black jacket and gray beanie) is seen with another protester physically blocking DeVos from using the side entrance. Holding a Black Lives Matter sign, the activist shouts “Shame” as the education secretary retreats back into her car.

In the ensuing altercations with police, Askaryar said that, like him, other protesters were resisting officers’ instructions. Some demonstrators planted themselves in front of DeVos’ vehicle and refused to budge.

Yolanda C. Rondon, a lawyer with the American-Arab Anti-Discrimination Committee, was acting as a legal observer at the protest. She told HuffPost she wasn’t sure if police singled out Askaryar for arrest ― “I’m not inside the police officer’s mind,” she said.

But she does think Askaryar could have stood out to officers because of the way he looked. The police department had previously dealt with the BLM protesters, Rondon said. And most of the members of the National Lawyers Guild who joined in the protest were white, she said.

Officers “probably saw Bilal and saw that he’s not part of [those groups] and thought he’s just a troublemaker ... here to start some stuff,” Rondon said. “They probably did treat him differently because he wasn’t black and he wasn’t white.”

Demonstrators last February wait for the arrival of DeVos at Jefferson Middle School Academy. The Washington Post via Getty Images

Askaryar was charged with two counts of assault on a police officer, one count of failure to obey a lawful order, and one count of unlawful assembly and disorderly conduct.

All the charges were dismissed by a D.C. Superior Court judge in November.

Askaryar said he believes the risk of being arrested goes with participating in civil disobedience. But there was one part of his encounter with the police that caused him to worry.

He said one of the first things an officer asked him while he was being arrested was, “Where were you born?”

It’s when he heard this question that he said he started to feel scared.

“Being arrested was fine. I mean, I wasn’t planning on it. But there are worse things than spending a night in D.C. jail,” he said. “The thing that was actually scary was that the police immediately went to, ‘Where were you born,’ and assuming that I wasn’t a U.S. citizen.”

“I saw then that they think that’s relevant. And I knew I was in a sensitive situation because I happen to have been born in Afghanistan, which is a Muslim-majority country which people associate with scary things.”

Asked to comment on Askaryar’s allegations of bias, Hugh Carew, a spokesperson for Washington’s Metropolitan Police Department, told HuffPost that “if anyone believes that they were treated inappropriately by an MPD officer, we urge them to file a complaint with MPD or the Office of Police Complaints so the matter can be fully investigated.”

Askaryar said he’s not interested in pursuing that course of action. But he also said that for him, the arrest was only the beginning of the story.

Askaryar and a friend hold posters in front of the Washington Monument. Courtesy Bilal Askaryar

An American Citizen Defends His American Identity

Days after Askaryar’s arrest, he said he grew concerned about coverage of his case by local and national media. Along with defending himself against the charges, he found himself having to defend his American identity.

Askaryar’s family came to the U.S. as political refugees in the 1990s, when he was just 5 years old. Askaryar has since become an American citizen. A few weeks before his arrest, he’d published an essay on NPR about his family’s past, and America’s moral duty to continue to take in refugees fleeing persecution.

After his arrest, Askaryar noticed something curious. In a follow-up story on him, the Post highlighted that he came to the country as a refugee ― even making it the focus of the piece’s headline. The Post also contacted Askaryar’s father in California to ask about the family’s background and his son’s possible motives.

Askaryar doesn’t think white, non-Muslim activists arrested during acts of civil disobedience would have their family’s immigration history detailed in this way.

“How many times when white protesters get arrested do people think to call their parents? Or ask their parents about their ethnic background and motivations?” Askaryar said. “Everything about the coverage of my participation in the non-violent civil disobedience was framed as immigrant or refugee arrested for assault. That’s not how we talk about Caucasians who get arrested on civil disobedience.”

The Post’s reporting was picked up on other sites, including right-wing outlets Gateway Pundit and PJ Media. The sites narrowed in on Askaryar’s former status as a refugee. They also highlighted his sexual orientation, based on an article he had written for The Washington Blade, a queer online magazine in D.C.

He said he began receiving online backlash from right-wing commentators, with some calling for him to be sent back to Afghanistan.

Reading headlines like “Gay Refugee from Afghanistan Charged with Assault for Blocking Betsy DeVos” and “Afghan refugee pleads not guilty to charges following DeVos protest at D.C. school,” Askaryar said he began feeling fearful about his safety and the safety of his family. He was also concerned the publicity would hurt his career prospects.

Most of all, he said he was astonished media organizations thought the fact that he had come to this country as a refugee decades ago was relevant to his protest against DeVos.

Kristine Coratti Kelly, vice president of communications and events at the Post, told HuffPost that because Askaryar and his lawyer declined to speak with the newspaper for its follow-up article, the story relied on his NPR essay “to give readers a sense of who he is. His father confirmed the account, telling us, as we reported, that his son’s motivation in taking part in the protest was to ‘protect education.’”

“It’s ridiculous, I’m an American citizen,” Askaryar said. “I was there because I believe as an American citizen that dissent is the highest form of patriotism. It doesn’t matter where I was born 30-something years ago.”

“If I was there protesting the president of Afghanistan visiting the United States, maybe [his immigration history] would be relevant,” he added. “But I was there protesting the secretary of education of the United States of America.”

He said the only difference he sees in the attention he received “is my ethnic background.”

Askaryar participates in the Women's March in 2017. Bilal Askaryar

When Being A Visible Muslim Draws Suspicion

In the years since the 9/11 attacks, Muslim organizations in the U.S. have documented a rise in anti-Muslim hate crimes and rhetoric. There are also more subtle ways in which presenting oneself as a Muslim in society spurs unintended consequences.

Some describe the perils of “flying while Muslim” ― referring to the discrimination and profiling Muslims face while traveling on airplanes. Simple things, like using the word “Allah” or reading a book about Syria, can cause fellow passengers alarm, and sometimes result in Muslims being kicked off flights.

Muslim women describe facing verbal harassment online. Linda Sarsour, an outspoken Muslim activist and one of the leaders of last year’s Women’s March, is often the target of such attacks.

Muslim communities have also been subjected to massive, unwarranted and targeted surveillance by law enforcement ― with officers eavesdropping on conversations, infiltrating student groups, and monitoring sermons in mosques.

Such religious profiling has enflamed already tense relations between American Muslims and law enforcement, Rondon said.

“I think it’s important to note that, similar to the black community, Muslim and Arab communities have had strenuous relationships with the police, particularly because they feel [officers] are only there to police them and not to keep them safe,” she said.

Askaryar said he believes he stood out from the rest of the activists at Jefferson Middle School Academy not because of what he was doing, but because he was a Muslim man with a beard.

Askaryar has sported a beard since 2015. Although he’s a devout Muslim and some Muslims choose to have beards to emulate the Prophet Muhammad, Askaryar said he didn’t grow one because of his faith. Rather, it was simply something he decided to do for aesthetic reasons.

For most of his life, he said, he had been “relatively passing” as an American citizen. But once he had the beard, he said he began to notice a difference in the way he was labeled. People began to “assume maybe this guy is a Muslim or Middle Eastern.”

Blair Imani, a community activist based in Brooklyn, New York, is well acquainted with how appearances associated with being a Muslim can change other people’s perceptions.

Before Imani converted to Islam in 2015, she said she was seen by others only as a black woman during protests in which she participated. But after she began wearing a hijab, she said the heckling she received at demonstrations changed. People started to telling her to “go back to where you’re from” ― even though black Muslims have been in the United States for centuries.

“As a black woman, protest and standing up against police brutality was in the canon of who I was expected to be,” she said. “But once I converted, there’s this foreignness that the Muslim identity is given.”

Mariam Durrani, an anthropologist who studies Muslim youth at Hamilton College in Clinton, New York, agreed that Muslim Americans continue to be seen as foreigners. And because of the current climate of xenophobia and anti-Muslim racism, Muslims Americans ― like other minority groups ― are often held to higher standards when protesting.

“Muslim Americans are expected to be model citizens, which somehow means not being critical of policies or the government,” she told HuffPost.

A Political Awakening In Immigrant Muslim Communities

Black and indigenous Muslim American communities have been speaking up about discrimination for decades. But as the non-native community grows, Durrani said, its youth are starting to see themselves as stakeholders in conversations the country is having about race, class, and gender.

“Today’s activism is intersectional, digital, and begins with the premise that [Muslims] are part of this country and invested in its future,” Durrani said.

The problem is that when Muslim activists engage in protest, the story often becomes more about who is protesting, instead of what is being protested.

That’s what Imani sees when Muslim women protest while wearing the hijab.

“What would make it easier is if our message resonated in a way that honors who we’re protesting … versus, ‘Oh, she was wearing a scarf,’” she said.

Askaryar said his experiences last year haven’t deterred him from wanting to participate in civil disobedience in the future. But he called his arrest and the media coverage of it a “wake-up call.”

“I used to think that I could show up at these Black Lives Matter actions and volunteer because black kids should not be doing this because they’re in a lot more danger than I am,” he said. “But I’ve realized since that that may be true, but it’s also not a good time for Muslims, South Asians, Arab folks to be engaging in these things either.”

As an immigrant and a Muslim, he said he’s experienced discrimination. But this was the first time he really understood the double standard that Muslim activists, and other minority activists, are held to.A South Carolina voter, prevented from entering a polling place by her physical disability, receives assistance from a poll worker on the day of the state’s 2016 Democratic presidential primary. More people with disabilities are encountering barriers to voting, a problem that is being exacerbated by the widespread return to paper ballots. Gerald Herbert, The Associated Press

By Matt Vasilogambros

For decades, Kathy Hoell has struggled to vote. Poll workers have told the 62-year-old Nebraskan, who uses a powered wheelchair and has a brain injury that causes her to speak in a strained and raspy voice, that she isn’t smart enough to cast a ballot. They have led her to stairs she couldn’t climb and prevented her from using an accessible voting machine because they hadn’t powered it on.

“Basically,” Hoell said, “I’m a second-class citizen.”

The barriers Hoell has faced are not unusual for the more than 35 million voting-age Americans with disabilities. As many jurisdictions return to paper ballots to address cybersecurity concerns — nearly half of Americans now vote on paper ballots, counted digitally or by optical scanners — such obstacles are likely to get worse.

Many people with disabilities cannot mark paper ballots without assistance, so they rely on special voting machines that are equipped with earphones and other modifications. But the return to paper ballots has made poll workers less comfortable with operating machine-based systems, said Michelle Bishop, a voting rights advocate for the National Disability Rights Network. Under increasing pressure to oversee a smooth, secure election, untrained poll workers have discouraged the use of accessible voting machines, leaving voters with disabilities behind.

It’s a constant complaint from voters with disabilities nationwide, Bishop said. In the last election, for example, a voter called her to report that a machine was placed in the corner, turned off, with a flower wreath hung on it.

“The message is: You’re not wanted here,” Bishop said. “We get reports of poll workers discouraging their use. They say, ‘I haven’t been well trained,’ ‘It’s intimidating to me,’ ‘We’ll set it to the side and get through Election Day.’ ”

Indeed, according to an October study by the Government Accountability Office, nearly two-thirds of the 137 polling places inspected on Election Day 2016 had at least one impediment to people with disabilities. In the 2008 presidential election, it was fewer than half. The GAO also reported that state inspections of voting accessibility had fallen nationally over the same time.

Among the infractions: The accessible voting machine wasn’t set up and powered on, the earphones weren’t functioning, the voting system wasn’t wheelchair-accessible, or the voting system didn’t provide the same privacy as standard voting stations.

Lack of access to proper voting machines, among several other issues, has led to a decline in participation, according to a survey of voters in the 2016 election by Rutgers University. Voter participation among people with disabilities has gone down over the past two presidential elections — from 57.3 percent in 2008 to 56.8 percent in 2012 and 55.9 percent in 2016.

Among non-disabled Americans, voter participation also dropped between 2008 and 2012 — from 64.5 to 62.5 percent, according to the Rutgers survey. But that percentage changed little from 2012 to 2016.

The Rutgers study also notes that many polling places have physical barriers, such as steep ramps and poor path surfaces, which block people with disabilities from voting. Political parties don’t target “get out the vote” efforts to people with disabilities and many of them struggle to find transportation to polling places.

Other factors that contribute to the problem — such as a lack of training for poll workers, limited access to registration materials, and insufficient resources for election officials — were laid out in a September 2016 white paper from the Ruderman Family Foundation, a disability rights advocacy organization.

The proliferation of voter ID laws may compound the problem, since people with disabilities are less likely to drive and to carry a photo ID.

“We’re segregating in the way we vote,” Bishop said. “Separate is not equal. That’s a lesson this country should have already learned by now.”

Barriers to Voting

In few places is this gap more visible than in West Virginia — a state with the highest percentage of people with disabilities, according to the U.S. Census Bureau, and one of the worst voter participation rates for people with disabilities.

Just 46 percent of West Virginians with disabilities who were eligible to vote participated in the 2016 election, worse than any other state but Kentucky, at 42.5 percent, according to the Rutgers researchers. Gina Desmond, an advocate for Disability Rights of West Virginia, said the lack of access has led many people with disabilities to question their role in the democratic process.

“It’s surprising how many people don’t think they have the right to vote,” Desmond said.

In a predominantly rural and mountainous state, transportation options are limited, said Susan Given, the executive director of Disability Rights of West Virginia. Polling places in the state’s 55 counties are spread out and often located in outdated buildings that aren’t accessible to people with disabilities.

People with disabilities who can’t get into polling places often have to vote curbside with assistance from a poll worker, Given said, robbing the voter of a private and independent ballot.

The organization also gets complaints that machines for voters with disabilities often don’t work or are turned off, following a similar national pattern.

Recently, Disability Rights of West Virginia hired an advocate who will visit polling places this year to see whether they are accessible. The organization also holds outreach events at high schools, psychiatric hospitals, homeless shelters and service providers to explain the voting rights of people with disabilities.

Voter participation among West Virginians with disabilities did go up by 3 percentage points since the 2012 election. But, Desmond said, the state has a long way to go.

Success in Colorado

In Colorado, where 69 percent of registered voters with disabilities voted in 2016 — among the highest rates in the country — advocates and state officials have taken numerous steps to make voting accessible, according to Jennifer Levin, a senior attorney at Disability Law Colorado.

In the decade following the passage of the 2002 Help America Vote Act (HAVA), Disability Law Colorado went to all 64 counties in the state, met with clerks, checked for accessibility barriers, and used state funding to help polling places meet federal HAVA and Americans with Disabilities Act standards. (Nationwide, physical barriers to voting places have steadily dropped since 2000, according to the GAO.)

Now after every election, the secretary of state releases a county-by-county audit on whether localities are meeting standards for accessible polling places. After the 2016 election, for example, Denver satisfied a majority of disability access criteria, while El Paso County, home to Colorado Springs, met every one. Because of this enforcement, Levin said, accessibility shortcomings in the state are rare.

In 2015, her organization again partnered with the secretary of state’s office to test five new voting machines. After collecting data, officials settled on one machine that every county will use for voters with disabilities. Now, voters can choose to use a paper ballot or an accessible machine ballot.

The state’s adoption of vote-by-mail and automatic voter registration for all voters also has made it easier for people with disabilities to cast their ballots.

Other states have taken similar measures. Before the 2016 election, New Hampshire adopted a new tablet-based voting system for the blind, while Rhode Island recently became the ninth state to enact automatic voter registration — which eliminates the need for people with disabilities to submit paper forms that are not accessible to them.

Levin finds poll workers are still afraid of new technology. “We get complaints where a person walks in and asks to use the machine, and a worker says, ‘It doesn’t look like you need it,’ ” Levin said. “They were discouraged and intimidated by it.”

City officials in Washington, D.C., said they had poll workers ask every voter whether they want to use a paper ballot or a machine, taking away any excuse for unplugged machines or untrained workers. But several polling places still fall short, according to a 2016 survey by Disability Rights DC at University Legal Services, a nonprofit advocacy organization.

Some states are trying to bridge the access gap through legislation. In New York state, where the voter participation rate among people with disabilities is 48.8 percent, Senate Democrats in January introduced 13 voter-focused pieces of legislation. One bill would redesign paper ballots to be more readable. Another, written by state Sen. Michael Gianaris, would allow the distribution of voter registration forms at offices that provide services to people with disabilities, while also allowing voters to change their precinct to one whose voting systems are more accessible.

“We’re looking for ways to make voting easier at a time when people are trying to make voting harder,” said Gianaris, a Queens Democrat. “Our record for voter participation is abysmal. The fight we’re having right now is to open up the process.”

Kathy Hoell, second from left, joins another activist to advocate for disability rights at the state Capitol in Lincoln. Hoell helped Nebraska become a nationwide leader in voter access for people with disabilities. Courtesy of Kathy Hoell

Hoell, now the executive director of Nebraska’s independent living council, which advocates for independent living among people with disabilities, said she was tired of facing obstacles.

“Part of my way of dealing with these things is I just go to the top and start yelling,” Hoell said. After HAVA was enacted, Hoell went to John Gale, Nebraska’s secretary of state, to persuade him to invest in accessible voting machines, better train poll workers, and make polling stations compliant with federal disabilities regulations.

In the years since, she said, his office has found ways to include people with disabilities in the voting process.

As a result, according to the Rutgers study, Nebraska has the highest voter participation rate among persons with disabilities in the country, at more than 70 percent.