What appears to be a typo on Donald Trump Jr.'s Twitter account is creating excitement among marijuana enthusiasts. HuffPost Illustration/Getty Images

For many people, Donald Trump Jr.’s Twitter account is the gift that keeps on giving. This time, stoners are the recipients.

How will they justify releasing this memo? Intelligence community is on fire about what they say risks 40 years of congressional oversight of the agencies https://t.co/cbpVtsjVVb — Andrea Mitchell (@mitchellreports) February 1, 2018

The president’s son responded with this tweet that seemed to reference The Washington Post’s slogan, “Democracy Dies In Darkness.”

However, there was one teeny-weeny, itsy-bitsy typo that changed the meaning of the message.

Apparently the press only likes their information "leaked" from unverified sources rather than released openly from congress... I think it will be tough for them to sell their "democracy dies in dankness" byline with this kind of logic. https://t.co/fXHv0UjLtX — Donald Trump Jr. (@DonaldJTrumpJr) February 1, 2018

For those not in in the know, the word “dankness” is actually a positive term among marijuana enthusiasts, one used to describe cannabis that Urban Dictionary says is “superdank,” the “stickiest of the icky” and “the craziest of the haziest.”

To put simply: really good weed.

Many people found the typo hilarious and let Trump Jr. know they approve wholeheartedly.

"Democracy dies in dankness" is one of the best typos of our time. — Ben White (@morningmoneyben) February 1, 2018

"Democracy dies in dankness" is my next stoner rock album https://t.co/x6HtKbkTcV — David Kroman (@KromanDavid) February 1, 2018

If it's what you say I love it especially later in the summer. — robbiese7en (@robbiese7en) February 1, 2018

One person wanted the president’s son to make a slight change to the tweet.

Sure, some had reservations with the actual message Trump was attempting to send, but why let that get in the way of a giggle, right?

Terrifying implications of the coordinated attack to discredit this investigation aside, ‘dankness’ might be my favorite spelling error ever. https://t.co/Q6S9wC7gkr — Jimmy Dahman (@JDahmanIII) February 1, 2018

Other people had serious questions how the word showed up on Trump Jr.’s phone, considering its status as a marijuana slang term.

"Dankness" is an interesting autocorrect DTJ has on his phone https://t.co/n8a7B9xqtm — Isaac Saul (@Ike_Saul) February 1, 2018

One man helpfully suggested that both Trump and his dad embrace “dankness” more often.

If only Don Jr, or Sr, for that matter, engaged in occasional “dankness” they’d both be wayyyy more chill and we’d all be a lot less angry about the situation. — Dan Burkhardt (@TheDanBurk) February 1, 2018

Another saw the opportunity for the Trumps to make a lot of green.

BREAKING NEWS: UP IN SMOKE TOUR 2018 WILL BE MAKING STOP AT WHITE HOUSE AND FEATURE SPECIAL GUEST 311 #FATNUGS — Dan Ambrose (@IAmDanAmbrose) February 1, 2018

The typo sparks memories of one made by the president in May that drew a frenzy of attention. “Despite the negative press covfefe,” Trump tweeted. After much speculation as to the meaning of the tweet, Trump later deleted the message, posting, “Who can figure out the true meaning of ‘covfefe’ ??? Enjoy!”

To Trump Jr.’s credit, he has not edited or removed his tweet as of Thursday afternoon.

Washington Post reporter Mark Berman appears to prefer this version of the paper’s slogan over the current one.You know a cuter way to pick a winner?

In its annual stunt on Wednesday, “The Tonight Show Starring Jimmy Fallon” had puppies forecast the victor for Sunday’s Super Bowl.

You’ll have to watch above to see whether the New England Patriots or Philadelphia Eagles get the pooches’ nod.

And if you’re thinking of using the results to place a wager, you might want to reconsider.Ellen DeGeneres and and wife Portia de Rossi celebrate birthdays just days apart. Christopher Polk via Getty Images

Just a couple of Aquarians living their best life.

TV host Ellen DeGeneres, who turned 60 on Jan. 26, wished her wife, Portia de Rossi, a happy 45th birthday on Wednesday by sharing a sweet snapshot of them kissing on the set of her show.

A post shared by Ellen (@theellenshow) on Jan 31, 2018 at 9:28am PST

She also posted a best-of video of de Rossi appearing as a guest.

Happy birthday to my beautiful, wonderful, perfect wife. pic.twitter.com/OwXLei1K7i — Ellen DeGeneres (@TheEllenShow) January 31, 2018

In addition, the talk-show host managed to squeeze in a birthday shoutout to Justin Timberlake and Kerry Washington, who have the same birthday as de Rossi.

“I knew there was a reason I liked you both,” DeGeneres said.

Happy birthday, @JTimberlake and @KerryWashington! Did you know you share a birthday with Portia de Rossi? I knew there was a reason I liked you both. — Ellen DeGeneres (@TheEllenShow) January 31, 2018

Horoscope.com lists Aquarius strengths as being “progressive, original, humanitarian, independent.”

Hmmm. Sounds like a few famous Aquarians we know.The amount of white supremacist propaganda on college campuses in the U.S. increased 258 percent between fall 2016 and fall 2017, according to a report the Anti-Defamation League released Thursday.

There were 147 incidents of white supremacist flyers, banners, posters or stickers found on college campuses during the 2017 fall semester, the report states, compared to 41 such incidents in the fall semester of 2016.

The ADL counted a total of 346 incidents of hate propaganda that had been spread on 216 college campuses in 44 states and Washington, D.C., since September 2016.

“White supremacists are targeting college campuses like never before,” Jonathan Greenblatt, the CEO of the organization, said in a statement. “They see campuses as a fertile recruiting ground, as evident by the unprecedented volume of propagandist activity designed to recruit young people to support their vile ideology.”

The propaganda delivered “a range of messages,” according to the report.

“It may promote a white supremacist group, or trumpet the urgent need to ‘save’ the white race,” the report says. “Frequently, the propaganda attacks minority groups, including Jews, Blacks, Muslims, non-white immigrants, and the LGBT community.”

The groups responsible for the majority of the propaganda belong to the so-called “alt-right,” a newer generation of organized racists and fascists. The report says one such group, Identity Evropa, targeted college campuses with its propaganda 158 times, accounting for 46 percent of the incidents counted by ADL.

Identity Evropa eschews traditional white supremacist imagery and language in favor of more innocuous-sounding slogans like “Our Generation. Our Future. Our Last Chance.”

Other groups, however, like the Atomwaffen Division, posted flyers directly threatening minority groups or featuring Nazi imagery.

Twitter

The ADL report offers further evidence of an emboldened and increasingly active white supremacist movement in the U.S. This movement gained international attention in August 2017, when white supremacists held a nighttime march through the campus of the University of Virginia in Charlottesvile before violently confronting counterprotesters.

The next day, these same marchers were part of a violent pro-Donald Trump rally in Charlottesville — the largest gathering of white supremacists in over a decade — that turned deadly when a member of the group Vanguard America allegedly drove his car through a crowd of counterprotesters and killed 32-year-old Heather Heyer.

White supremacists killed twice as many people in 2017 as they did the year before, according to a separate ADL report published last month.

Neo-Nazis and other members of the "alt-right" march through the University of Virginia campus on Aug. 11, 2017 Anadolu Agency via Getty Images

White supremacists made other concerted efforts to make their existence known on college campuses last year.

Identity Evropa held a private speaking event at San Diego State University. At Southern Methodist University in Dallas, Texas, white supremacists associated with Vanguard America tweeted photos of themselves giving Nazi salutes on the campus. And at the University of Texas in Austin, 25 people affiliated with the white supremacist group Patriot Front filmed themselves wearing masks and marching with torches through the campus.

Patriot Front held a torchlit march through the University of Texas campus in Austin in November 2017. YouTube

Prominent “alt-right” activist Richard Spencer also delivered speeches at Auburn University and the University of Florida.

The night before the speech at the UF, HuffPost asked Spencer and Eli Mosely, formerly of Identity Evropa, why they focused so much of their efforts on universities.

“This is a young person’s movement,” Spencer said.

“Young people matter, and college campuses have been where political battles have been fought since the ’60s and before it,” Mosley said. “This is where political change happens. Fundamentally, it’s where the most anti-white institution is. Academia has become a factory for anti-white individuals, and to teach whites to hate themselves.”

“When we go to these schools, we’re not going to intimidate people of color or anything like that,” he added.

Spencer’s speech the next day was drowned out by rowdy counterprotesters. Afterward, three white supremacists who had traveled to Florida for Spencer’s speech were arrested for firing a gun at counterprotesters.

Spencer is scheduled to speak at Michigan State University and the University of Cincinnati in the next few months.

White supremacist groups have already been active in targeting campuses with their propaganda in the first month of 2018.

Members of Idenity Evropa tried to disrupt an ethnic studies class at the University of California, San Diego. Last week, Vanguard America vandalized a Black History Month poster at Middle State Tennessee University with its own propaganda. And Patriot Front claimed to have posted its propaganda at San Diego Mesa College in California on Wednesday night.

White supremacist flyers have been stuck to Black History Month flyers around @MTSU campus. If you see one, please send it to us and try to remove them!



We will be discussing these flyers, white supremacy, and activism on Wednesday Feb 7th at 6:00 in STU 220. pic.twitter.com/EOhgMof6VO — Black Student Union (@MTSU_BSU) January 26, 2018

#PatriotFront activists placed posters at San Diego Mesa College. pic.twitter.com/GBIbtVjJFO — Patriot Front (@FrontPatriot) January 31, 2018John Moore via Getty Images

Two weeks after he announced his candidacy for a U.S. Senate seat in Arizona, former sheriff Joe Arpaio gave an interview to a far-right publication that has pushed wildly anti-Semitic claims that the Holocaust was a hoax and that the Sept. 11, 2001 terror attacks were the result of a Jewish plot.

Arpaio talked to the American Free Press on Jan. 21, arguing for his viability as a Senate candidate and defending President Donald Trump’s agenda, according to a report from the liberal media watchdog group Media Matters. It’s at least the fifth time Arpaio has talked to the newspaper, which the Anti-Defamation League describes as “an anti-Semitic conspiracy-oriented publication.”

In an interview with HuffPost, Arpaio wouldn’t condemn American Free Press for saying that the murder of 6 million Jews and millions of other people never happened. And although he appeared to acknowledge that the Holocaust was a historical event, he said he wouldn’t comment on American Free Press or its articles claiming the Holocaust was a hoax.

“I talk to anybody,” he said. “I have an open-door policy. I don’t research every company that talks to me.”

HuffPost emphasized to Arpaio that American Free Press is an extremist and anti-Semitic publication.

“Alex Jones,” Arpaio replied, referring to the infamous InfoWars conspiracy theorist who has claimed the massacre of children at Sandy Hook Elementary School was a hoax, that 9/11 was orchestrated by the U.S. government, and that juice boxes make kids gay. “Is he extreme?”

HuffPost replied that yes, Jones is pretty extreme.

“Well I go on his show,” Arpaio said. HuffPost, he added, is a “very controversial” paper too, that “isn’t nice” to him.

American Free Press has served as a platform for Holocaust denial, a prominent anti-Semitic movement often promoted by neo-Nazis that either denies or downplays the well-documented genocide of Jewish people during World War II.

American Free Press published an article with the headline “Meet The Man Who Invented The Holocaust” in 2015, referring to Nobel Peace Prize winner and Holocaust survivor Elie Wiesel. That same year, it published an article with the headline “Why Can We Question Anything But The ‘Holocaust?’” In 2012, the paper published an audio interview titled “Holocaust Hoax Exposed.” In 2011, it published one titled “Jewish Fingerprints All Over 9/11,” about a supposed Jewish “plot” to attack America.

And the publication’s bookstore once sold a book titled The Holocaust Never Happened & The CIA Killed JFK, which claims to “destroy the hoax of the 6 million Jewish victims of Nazi Germany.”

What happened in World War II, Arpaio told HuffPost, was a “sad” part of history.

“I’m not contesting that,” he said, adding that he has a “deep respect for the Jewish people.”

HuffPost listed the American Free Press’ Holocaust-denying headlines, and asked whether he would condemn the publication.

“I’m not even commenting on that,” he said. “I don’t know what [those articles] said.”

Arpaio and his office gained national notoriety during his 24-year tenure as sheriff in Maricopa County, Arizona, for terrorizing the area’s Latino population, unlawfully rounding up and detaining people he accused of being in the U.S. illegally. In a jail he called a “concentration camp,” Arpaio often marched Latino inmates into a segregated tent city surrounded by an electric fence. An estimated 160 people died in Arpiao’s jails, many by suicide.

We've been covering Joe Arpaio for more than 20 years. Here's a couple of things you should know about him... 1/many — PhoenixNewTimes (@phoenixnewtimes) August 26, 2017

Despite his claims of having an “open-door” policy with the media, The Phoenix New Times — which has diligently covered Arpaio for years — claims Arpaio banned its reporters from press conferences, ignored requests for county records, and threatened to arrest reporters. In 2007, Arpaio orchestrated the arrest of the paper’s co-founders on misdemeanor charges, but prosecutors declined to prosecute. The co-founders sued over the arrest and won a $3.75 million settlement.

Last year, Arpaio was convicted of criminal contempt for violating a court order mandating his department stop unlawfully detaining individuals based on suspicions of their legal status. Trump pardoned Arpaio in July 2017, sparing him jail time. This month, he announced his bid for U.S. Senate.

Ryan Lenz, a senior investigative writer for the Southern Poverty Law Center, which tracks extremism in the U.S., called American Free Press one of “the most prominent and insidious far-right publications out there.”

The publication, he noted, was founded by Willis Carto, an avowed white supremacist, Nazi sympathizer and Holocaust denier. An American World War II veteran, Carto famously once stated that he regretted fighting against the Nazis.

By granting American Free Press interviews, Lenz said, Arpaio assigns an “imprimatur of legitimacy to conspiracy theories and racist and extremist thought.”

Joe Arpaio endorses then-Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump prior to a rally on Jan. 26, 2016 in Marshalltown, Iowa. Scott Olson via Getty Images

Arpaio is a hero to many in the far right, and when thousands of his supporters across the country see he talked to American Free Press, the publication’s ideas can appear “legitimate” in their eyes, Lenz said.

“The interview serves as a vehicle for these ideas to travel from the margins into the mainstream.”

Arpaio is not the only public official to have granted American Free Press an interview in recent years. Last week, CNN’s KFile uncovered an interview Rep. Lou Barletta (R-Pa.) did with the publication in 2006. Like Arpaio, Barletta is now running for Senate.

And Jon Feere, now a senior adviser at Immigration and Customs Enforcement, gave an interview to American Free Press in 2012, when he still worked at the Center for Immigration Studies, an anti-immigrant think tank.

Arpaio has spoken to American Free Press on at least four other occasions, including in 2014, when he granted an interview to writer Victor Thorn, author of books The Holocaust Hoax Exposed: Debunking the 20th Century’s Greatest Fabrication and Made in Israel: 9-11 and the Jewish Plot Against America.

America does not do a good job of tracking incidents of hate and bias. We need your help to create a database of such incidents across the country, so we all know what’s going on. Tell us your story.Larry Nassar’s defense attorney, Shannon Smith, told Detroit radio WWJ on Thursday that she has a “very hard time believing” her client sexually abused hundreds of young girls and women.

Smith, who has represented the disgraced doctor since December 2016, commented on his ongoing sentencing that has taken place in recent weeks.

“I have a very hard time believing that my client could have even possibly assaulted that many people day in and day out in front of their parents. And that every single one of those things was a crime, but he was such a manipulator he got away with it,” Smith said. “I just can’t imagine that’s true.”

Nassar has been accused by over 265 women of serial sexual abuse under the guise of medical treatment. His victims include Olympic gymnasts Aly Raisman and Simone Biles, along with dozens for former Michigan State University athletes. One of his victims was as young as 6 during the time of the abuse.

Nassar pleaded guilty to 10 of those accusations in November and was sentenced to 40 to 175 years in prison last week on seven of those charges. On Wednesday, a sentence hearing for the remaining three counts began.

Smith added that she believes many of the survivors are confused and that Nassar never actually sexually abused them.

“Some of those girls, to be quite frank, they didn’t even know what to think because they never felt victimized. He was never inappropriate to them. And because of everything they’ve seen, they just feel like they must have been victimized. And I think that’s really unfortunate,” she said.

She insinuated that media reports influenced the 156 women who gave victim impact statements in court during Nassar’s first sentence hearing.

“As much as they were allowed to speak at sentencing, and that was something we agreed to, even during the sentencing, more and more people were coming forward thinking ‘I was fine my whole life and now all of a sudden I have realized I was a survivor,’” Smith said. “I think that’s really sad.”

Larry Nassar in court with his defense attorney Shannon Smith on Nov. 22, 2017. JEFF KOWALSKY via Getty Images

She went even further, saying that Nassar’s behavior was appropriate because “there is a legitimate medical treatment that involves touching sensitive areas and even penetrations.” Smith added that Nassar’s case should serve as a warning to other doctors because they need to “protect” themselves “from false allegations.”

While pelvic floor exams are legitimate and used in instances of bladder leakage and chronic pelvic pain, it is rarely done on women under 18 years old and always requires parental consent.

HuffPost guest writer and physical therapist Lori Mize recently wrote about how Nassar’s treatments were nowhere near what a legitimate pelvic floor exam looks like.

“There is no doubt he did a lot of good for a lot of his patients.” - Defense attorney Shannon Smith on her client Larry NassarAmerican students are being taught an inadequate and often sanitized version of history when it comes to slavery, according to a new report.

The report, from the Southern Poverty Law Center, looks at how slavery is presented in K-12 classrooms and found that students are often taught a deeply incomplete version of events. Students learn inspirational stories ― about figures like Harriet Tubman and good Samaritans who helped slaves reach freedom in the underground railroad ― before they learn about the horrors of enslavement. When they learn about slavery, it is often presented as an isolated, albeit unfortunate phenomenon, disconnected from white supremacist ideologies that abetted it and the racism that continues as a pervasive part of American life today.

Only 8 percent of high school seniors surveyed by an independent polling firm for the study identified slavery as the primary reason for the Civil War. Almost half identified tax protests as the main cause.

Teachers also posted disappointing results. About 66 percent of social studies teachers surveyed said they discuss the immorality of slavery with their classes. A little over half of surveyed teachers said they talk about the continued legacy of slavery in today’s society with students. Southern Poverty Law Center said the study surveyed more than 1,700 social studies teachers that subscribe to its teaching tolerance project, as well as others found on commercial lists.

The study also reviewed 15 states’ content standards, and 10 popular U.S. history textbooks. It found that while some states did better than others, they generally demanded only superficial-level teaching on the subject of slavery. Textbooks were similarly problematic.

While more than 90 percent of surveyed teachers said they feel comfortable talking about slavery in their classroom, many teachers revealed a higher level of discomfort in answers to open-ended questions, especially when dealing with young children.

“I focus on the resistance factor more to avoid the children being scared by man’s humanity to man [sic]. I don’t want to steal any child’s innocence, though I want to make sure that the children know the real history of their country,” wrote one teacher.

The impact of inadequate teaching about slavery does not end when students leave the classroom. It contributes to how they see the world, the country’s distribution of power, and the institutions around them.

“It’s not simply an event in our history; it’s central to our history,” the report notes.

Fixing the way slavery is taught in schools has a specific urgency at this moment in history, amid a surge in white nationalism, the report says. Understanding and facing the history is an essential first step of alleviating the indelible stain slavery has left on the country.Fiona, the “superstar” hippopotamus from the Cincinnati Zoo and Botanical Garden, has revealed her Super Bowl pick.

Though the big game between the Philadelphia Eagles and the New England Patriots goes down on Sunday, Fiona selected her winner on Thursday afternoon’s episode of “The Fiona Show” on Facebook Watch. Two boxes, each sporting one team’s logo, were placed in front of Fiona. Both boxes had some lettuce atop them.

“This is Fiona’s first sports prediction,” Christina Gorsuch, Cincinnati Zoo’s curator of mammals, said in a statement about the choice. “It will be interesting to see which box looks and smells the most tempting to Fiona. For her, the real choice is which of the boxes looks like the better toy and closest to something she would like to eat!”

Fiona made her first sports prediction Thursday. Cincinnati Zoo Botanical Garden/Facebook

Ultimately, Fiona chose the Philadelphia Eagles to take it all home. It’s especially apropos for Fiona to root for the underdog as she was one herself when she was born premature. At a mere 29 pounds at birth, Fiona was a miracle baby and has been thriving ever since. She celebrated her first birthday just last week.This isn’t “ The Office” revival fans have been hoping for.

Someone on Reddit used face-swapping software to drop President Donald Trump into the beloved sitcom, putting his face onto that of Michael Scott, Steve Carell’s bumbling boss.Sen. Jon Tester's battle for a third term likely will be one of this November's most closely watched races. Joshua Roberts / Reuters

WASHINGTON ― Based on some of his recent votes in the Senate, you might get the impression that Sen. Jon Tester represents a blue state ― certainly not one President Donald Trump won by 20 percentage points in 2016.

The Montana Democrat, a top Republican target in November, has surprised progressives with his often vocal and early opposition to Trump’s executive branch nominees this year. Tester voted against the appointments of Health and Human Services Secretary Alex Azar and Secretary of State Mike Pompeo. The senator earned Trump’s wrath in earnest after raising alarms about misconduct allegations surrounding Ronny Jackson, the White House physician whose nomination by the president to lead the Veterans Affairs Department was derailed.

Most recently, Tester announced that he intends to oppose Gina Haspel, Trump’s controversial choice to lead the CIA.

“I’m not a huge fan of waterboarding,” Tester said bluntly when asked about how he will vote on Haspel, referring to the deputy CIA director’s involvement in the agency’s interrogation program and her subsequent role in destroying videotapes that documented the procedures.

Tester’s opposition to these Trump nominees stands in sharp contrast to other vulnerable red-state Democrats up for re-election in November. Sens. Joe Manchin of West Virginia and Joe Donnelly of Indiana, for example, supported Pompeo and intend to vote for Haspel. They have also voted with Trump and his agenda more often than Tester, according to the FiveThirtyEight Senate vote tracker.

“He’s a profile in principled courage. For those who know Tester, they know he’s voting like he truly feels ― not a finger-in-the-wind calculus,” said Faiz Shakir, the national political director for the American Civil Liberties Union.

But Tester, 61, has by no means been some kind of resistance hero. He supported many of Trump’s initial cabinet picks and has helped craft legislation this year that would deregulate some of nation’s banks ― bucking liberals who say it would overly benefit large financial institutions.

In his first campaign ad released last month, the senator also highlighted 13 bills he helped write that Trump has signed into law ― legislation that mostly centered on improving health care and benefits for veterans. His team was also quick to point out that GOP senators shared concerns about Jackson’s nomination.

“We’re going to do what’s right,” Tester told HuffPost last week, when asked whether he was worried about how his recent voting record was going to play back home. “I look at it from the standpoint of who’s best to do the job. ... And that’s the same way I looked at it in previous administrations, too. So it really has nothing to do with the election.”

Tester led the fight against the nomination of Navy Rear Adm. Ronny Jackson (right) to head the Veteran Affairs Department, incurring the wrath of President Donald Trump. Joshua Roberts / Reuters

Tester’s Republican opponent won’t be clear until after the GOP Senate primary on June 5, but there’s no question he confronts a tough race as he seeks a third term. Trump’s approval rating in Montana has been among the highest in the country. A poll released earlier this year by Axios/SurveyMonkey ranked Tester as among the most politically vulnerable senators on the ballot in November ― and that was before his opposition to Jackson made him a particularly personal target for Trump.

It’s still early in the campaign cycle, however. And Tester already has shown he can connect with voters in Montana ― a state that since 1964 has only been carried once by a Democratic presidential candidate (Bill Clinton, in 1992).

Tester, a farmer who as a child lost three fingers on his left hand in a meat grinder accident, started in politics as a local school board member. After two terms as a state senator, in 2006 he won his U.S. Senate seat by knocking off a longtime GOP incumbent. Six years later, he won re-election by 4 percentage points as Republican Mitt Romney carried Montana in the 2012 presidential race by more than 13 points.

Voters also give weight to whether lawmakers have delivered for their constituents, and that’s been a strong suit for Tester.

“The reason these [Democratic] senators who represent more conservative states have been successful at building their own brand and developing coalitions beyond partisanship, is that their work and time in Washington is centered on what they think is best for their state,” said a Senate Democratic campaign aide. “Even in conservative states, voters’ worldview is centered on how what’s going on [in Washington] will help them personally, not necessarily ideology or political division.”

That’s why Tester’s campaign has so far focused on his work as the top Democrat on the Senate Veterans’ Affairs Committee. Last week, in the wake of his high-profile clash with Trump over Jackson’s failed nomination, he released another ad that featured dozens of veterans touting him as someone who’s willing to fight for them. (Roughly 1 in 10 people in Montana are veterans, according to the Census Bureau)

It’s also why Tester has highlighted his efforts to fund community health centers, on which many Montanans depend upon.

Tester’s big challenge, however, will be convincing Montanans that he’s an independently minded voice amid GOP attacks labeling him an obstructionist who’s beholden to the progressive agenda. Montana state auditor Matt Rosendale, the favorite in the GOP primary who already has the backing of conservative Sens. Rand Paul (R-Ky.), Mike Lee (R-Utah), and Ted Cruz (R-Texas), has echoed Trump by attacking Tester for blocking the president’s agenda.

TESTER MUST GO! SUPPORTED the terrible #IranDeal. OPPOSED Pompeo – who brought home 3 Americans from NK. DESTROYED Admiral Jackson... BLOCKS Trump’s judicial noms. BACKS AMNESTY & SANCTUARY CITIES... the list goes on and on... #DefeatTester #mtsen #mtpol https://t.co/ElEA5RDERW pic.twitter.com/zUJIuqQ691 — Matt Rosendale (@MattForMontana) May 11, 2018

Republicans argue that Tester should be defeated not only his votes against Trump nominees (the senator also voted against Neil Gorsuch’s appointment to the Supreme Court) but for his opposition to the GOP tax cut law.

The GOP is investing heavily in the argument that Democratic opposition to tax cuts ― as well as whether Democrats want to repeal them ― will be key to turning out voters in November.Country singer Carrie Underwood says she felt ashamed after a police officer in Brentwood, Tennessee, pulled her over for speeding on Monday.

“What’s the big hurry, ma’am?” the officer asks in a dash cam video obtained by Inside Edition.

“I wasn’t even paying attention,” Underwood said. “I know that’s no excuse.”

Although the 34-year-old singer didn’t get a ticket, the self-proclaimed rule follower wasn’t happy with herself.

In fact, she may have teared up afterwards, according to a tweet she posted shortly after the incident.

Well, it happened today. After 18 years, I can no longer say I’ve never been pulled over for speeding. I feel so ashamed! I may or may not have cried in my car after the cop let me go. #RuleFollower #GrannyDriver #ImSorry — Carrie Underwood (@carrieunderwood) January 29, 2018

Brentwood Assistant Police Chief Tommy Walsh told RadarOnline.com that Underwood’s verbal warning did not constitute “special treatment.”

“These are things we do every day with any number of folks,” he said. “In this case, she was given a verbal warning but that wouldn’t be different than anybody else. We give many verbal warnings.”Jonathan Ernst / Reuters

WASHINGTON ― If you listen to Republican leaders these days, you’d think workers all over America were rolling around in big fat bonuses thanks to the GOP tax plan. But in a lot of cases, these one-time payouts aren’t nearly as generous as employers, politicians and even the news media are making them out to be.

Take Lowe’s. On Thursday, the home improvement chain announced that more than 260,000 hourly employees in the United States would be eligible for “a one-time bonus of up to $1,000,” a move the company attributed directly to tax reform. If you’re a Lowe’s employee, that’s thrilling news ― until you read a little closer and notice the operative phrase: “up to.”

Lowe’s is following in the footsteps of America’s largest employer, Walmart, and its most direct competitor, Home Depot, in rolling out a $1,000 bonus program that grabs headlines. But the bonuses are actually structured according to tenure. At all three chains, you only get the full $1,000 if you’ve been employed with the company for 20 years.

In the sky-high-turnover world of retail, two decades with the same company is a remarkable feat. If you’ve hung on that long, there’s a decent chance you’re the one running your store.

Instead, you’re much more likely to be a worker on the opposite end of the spectrum: an employee with two years or less time on the job. In that case, you would get a $200 bonus at Walmart or Home Depot, and $150 at Lowe’s, well below the $1,000 figure being cited by politicians and cable news guests.

Lowe’s, Home Depot and Walmart are using roughly the same progressive bonus structure, which Walmart first announced earlier this month:

Less than two years: $200 ($150 for Lowe’s workers)

Two to four years: $250 ($200 for Lowe’s workers)

Five to nine years: $300

10 to 14 years: $400 ($500 for Lowe’s workers)

15 to 19 years: $750

20+ years: $1,000

Despite that more complex picture, it’s the $1,000 figure that’s become a political talking point. House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi (D-Calif.) called the bonuses “crumbs,” since they typically represent a small fraction of corporate profits and expected tax savings. Republicans pounced on the remark. Vice President Mike Pence was one of many who argued Pelosi was out of touch.

“If you’re going to say that $1,000 is crumbs, you live in a different world than I’m living in,” Pence said Wednesday while at a luxury resort. “If I had another $1,000 in my pocket at the end of the year, I have a term for that: Christmas.”

HuffPost asked Walmart, Home Depot and Lowe’s what percentages of its workers would get the full $1,000. All three declined to share their figures.

HuffPost readers: Did you get a bonus tied to the tax overhaul? Tell us about it!

Structuring the bonuses according to tenure makes plenty of sense, as Walmart spokesman Blake Jackson explained. Along with doling out the one-time bonus, Walmart is also raising its minimum wage ― a much more costly labor expense over the long term. Employees who’ve been around a long time tend to be making more money than newer employees, so they are far less likely to get a pay bump from the wage floor coming up. The bonus helps make up for that.

“We built the bonus structure keeping in mind that the longer you’ve been with Walmart, the less likely you are to see a benefit from the wage increase,” Jackson said.

If the retailers follow industry trends, their workforces skew heavily toward short tenures, and therefore smaller bonuses. According to the Bureau of Labor Statistics, retail has more job separations than the average across all occupations. Retail workers quit, got fired or were laid off at a 4.3 percent rate in November, for instance, compared to 3.5 percent for all workers. The average job tenure for all U.S. workers is 4.2 years, according to the most recent data.

That would put your average American worker in the second-lowest bonus bracket.

To be clear, any bonus is a good thing for a worker. Having $200 is better than having nothing, especially if you stock shelves for $11 an hour and live paycheck to paycheck. And if you’re getting that $200 unexpectedly, you probably don’t care whether your company attributes it to Republican tax cuts, a tightening labor market, growing corporate profits or the Eagles making it to the Super Bowl.

But the details of the bonus plans are a reminder of the political spin and public relations blitz surrounding the entire GOP tax plan. With the corporate tax rate dropping from 35 to 21 percent, employers want to look like they’re passing a large share of that savings onto workers, and Republicans in Congress and the White House want to help them do it.

Lowe’s is one of more than 250 firms that have announced more money for workers as a result of the new tax law. We know that because House Republicans have been continuously updating a running list.

The law contained few tax provisions that directly benefit low-wage workers, who already are unlikely to have much federal tax liability. Republicans said workers would get higher wages as a result of the lower corporate rates. The argument was that the corporate tax cut would encourage companies to make massive capital investments that would increase worker productivity and make labor more valuable over time. That could happen, but most economists think Republicans’ rosy projections are overly optimistic.

The GOP’s actual argument for how tax reform would benefit workers never involved a smattering of bonuses. Nevertheless, every time a company has announced a bonus, Republicans have said it proves their point and added to the list.

But a bonus isn’t the same as a raise; if all you get is a one-time bonus, your base salary remains the same. Among the nearly 50 Fortune 500 firms on the GOP list, fewer than half have actually raised wages for workers, according to a HuffPost analysis earlier this week. (Among those that did, the falling unemployment rate may have had more to do with it than a tax windfall.) And some of the firms on the list haven’t even announced bonuses. UPS, for instance, simply said that it would “expand and accelerate investments in our people, technology, [and] transportation fleet” thanks to tax reform.

In some cases, the talk of $1,000 bonuses has overshadowed more significant changes by employers. A dollar-an-hour raise means a lot more to a Walmart worker over the long term than a one-time $200 bonus. If someone works full-time hours, that translates into an extra $2,000 pre-tax each year. And in the case of Lowe’s, the company said it would expand its paid parental leave program to include 10 weeks paid maternity and two weeks of paid paternity.

Unlike a one-time bonus, at least those benefits will still be around next year.Supporters of Michigan Democratic gubernatorial candidate Abdul El-Sayed are attacking reports questioning his eligibility to run as the work of racially motivated party insiders threatened by his progressive politics.

The uproar exposes deep-seated suspicions between warring Democratic Party factions, and threatens to turn Michigan’s gubernatorial primary into an internecine battleground of the kind party leaders hope to avoid in November.

“It is pretty obvious to me that this is a racist attack masquerading as a legal concern,” said Betsey Coffia, a Traverse City-based progressive activist, said of a magazine article that raises legal questions about El-Sayed’s eligibility to be a candidate.

“Nobody can come out and say something blatantly racist, but I do think there is underlying racism and xenophobia with this kind of attack,” said Kelly Collison, chair of the Michigan Democratic Party’s progressive caucus.

The controversy burst into the open with an article that appeared Wednesday on the website of Michigan’s Bridge magazine: “Abdul El-Sayed’s stint in NYC may derail bid for Michigan governor.” It cited an obscure state law requiring any candidate for state office to be a “registered elector,” or voter, in the state for the four years preceding a run for office.

Abdul El-Sayed, the former health director of Detroit, is running a progressive campaign for Michigan's Democratic gubernatorial nomination. Abdul El-Sayed for Governor/Facebook

El-Sayed, a 33-year-old physician who led Detroit’s Health Department from 2015 to 2017, has maintained continuous voter registration in Michigan, where he was born and raised, since 2003.

But Bridge noted that when El-Sayed went to medical school in New York City in 2012, he registered to vote in New York. El-Sayed’s New York registration from 2013 to 2015 made him ineligible to vote in Michigan during that time, according to five out of six anonymous lawyers Bridge said it consulted.

Those attorneys told the magazine El-Sayed’s opponents would have strong grounds for a legal challenge to his eligibility to appear on the ballot.

“There will be a court case, guaranteed,” an anonymous Democratic official assured Bridge. “The only question is who is going to step up to take him out.” Another nameless Democrat warned of a “nightmare scenario” in which El-Sayed prevails in the primary only to have Republicans successfully challenge his status on the ballot in the general election.

The Bridge article also implied that El-Sayed was dishonest when he claimed he tried to vote for Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.) during the March 2016 Michigan primary, where Sanders upset Hillary Clinton, but the lines at his polling place in Detroit were too long. El-Sayed was actually registered to vote elsewhere in the state at the time, and only registered in Detroit weeks after the primary, Bridge reported.

El-Sayed remained officially registered to vote in Michigan throughout this period, according to the magazine. A spokesman for the Michigan Department of State told Bridge that given the cancellation of his Michigan driver’s license, El-Sayed would have been asked to verify his Michigan address if he had tried to vote during this period. He would not, however, have been categorically forbidden from voting.

El-Sayed has owned an apartment in Ann Arbor since 2008, allowing him to claim continuous residency in Michigan.

It’s illegal to vote in more than one place ― which no one is alleging that El-Sayed did. But Americans are legally permitted to register to vote in more than one state. It’s a question that legal scholars weighed in on extensively in January 2017, when President Donald Trump pointed to multiple-state registration as evidence of widespread voter fraud.

Former Michigan Senate Minority Leader Gretchen Whitmer (D) campaigns for governor in Detroit, Michigan, on Dec. 19, 2017. The Washington Post/Getty Images

El-Sayed’s campaign responded with outrage at the notion that he would be ineligible to run in Michigan.

“We have looked at this question closely and are confident Abdul El-Sayed is qualified to run for Governor of Michigan,” Robert Lenhard, an attorney representing the campaign who previously served as chair of the Federal Election Commission, said Wednesday in a statement.

“Michigan law has never held that absences from the state for school or work cause you to lose your residence,” Lenhard added. “This issue is just a red herring.”

In a private video message to supporters, El-Sayed also addressed his attempts to vote for Sanders. Standing in front of the Detroit church where he tried to vote, El-Sayed explained that he was told twice that there would be at least a 90-minute wait to cast his ballot. El-Sayed said his duties as health director didn’t allow such a time commitment.

That he apparently was still registered to vote in Ann Arbor would not have precluded him from using a provisional ballot to vote in Detroit, El-Sayed noted.

To hear El-Sayed’s campaign and his backers tell it, establishment Democrats are pushing a whisper campaign about El-Sayed’s eligibility out of a combination of genuine prejudice; fear that El-Sayed’s Muslim and Arab heritage would hurt him against a Republican in November; and contempt for El-Sayed’s left-leaning policy positions and maverick campaign style.

“The nightmare scenario here is that the strongest candidate ― with real progressive values and new ideas ― gets kneecapped by a racist, insider smear campaign, only to have the insiders’ pick lose in the general election,” Adam Joseph, communications director for El-Sayed’s campaign, said in a statement that inverted the “nightmare scenario” imagined by an anonymous Democrat in the Bridge article.

THREAD (this is a long one so have a seat):



I try not to talk much about this, because I’d rather focus on what we can do together to fix our broken politics. But running for office with my name, my faith, and my ethnicity has it’s challenges. — Abdul El-Sayed (@AbdulElSayed) January 29, 2018

Upstart progressive candidates often struggle to gain traction against well-funded establishment contenders. An investigation in The Intercept last week documented an elaborate system Democratic elites use to promote congressional candidates they see as more “electable” in party primaries ― even when those candidates have losing records ― and undermine others.

The El-Sayed campaign and its boosters compare the questions about El-Sayed’s eligibility to President Donald Trump’s “birther” campaign questioning whether President Barack Obama was born in the United States.

“Just like racists attacked President Obama years ago, when many questioned whether he was ‘born in the United States’ and compelled him to produce a birth certificate, the current attacks on El-Sayed’s eligibility are driven by hate,” Khaled Beydoun, a law professor at the University of Detroit Mercy, wrote on Facebook.

Another El-Sayed backer argued that a more apt analogy might be the way Hillary Clinton’s 2008 presidential campaign subtlely insinuated that the country was not ready for someone as “foreign” as Obama.

“For a lot of us who paid attention to the 2008 presidential race, these sort of attacks feel treacherously familiar,” said a senior aide to a progressive member of Congress, who spoke on condition of anonymity. “When there was too much steam gathering behind the candidate that the anointed establishment favorite didn’t like, the chosen tactic wasn’t to fight back and argue it on the merits, the chosen tactic was to malign Obama with some vile racist smears.”

“They must feel pretty threatened. Why else would they go on the attack and dog-whistle that this son of Michigan doesn’t belong?” - Betsey Coffia

Coffia, the Traverse City activist, considered the timing of the eligibility questions ― so many months after El-Sayed entered the race ― a testament to his success as a candidate.

“They must feel pretty threatened,” she said. “Why else would they go on the attack and dog-whistle that this son of Michigan doesn’t belong?”

But some Democratic voters take umbrage at El-Sayed and his allies comparing the ballot eligibility questions to the birther crusade.

Obama’s birthplace was never legitimately in question, whereas critics say there are real issues with El-Sayed’s eligibility. And they note that former state treasurer Robert Bowman abandoned his 2010 gubernatorial bid amid questions about his residency.

Steve Hood, a black Democratic political consultant and talk show host based in Detroit, called any analogy to birtherism “way out of line, because nobody is being racist.”

Gary Ringer, a black firefighter and community activist in Detroit, said the retort represented a lack of “accountability.”

“Everybody wants to bring up Obama and other things that aren’t relevant,” he said.

Neither Hood nor Ringer said they had been seriously considering voting for El-Sayed prior to the controversy.

For Democrats, the stakes are high in Michigan, a one-time Democratic stronghold that narrowly went for Trump in the 2016 election. Now, with two-term GOP Gov. Rick Snyder leaving office and many observers predicting a blue wave in the midterm elections, Democrats are working to claw back a toehold in the state.

Although public polling is sparse in the Democratic gubernatorial primary, Gretchen Whitmer, 46, a former Democratic state Senate leader, is widely viewed as the front runner. Whitmer’s mainstream progressive campaign, which has emphasized bread-and-butter issues like promoting the skilled trades and raising the minimum wage to $15, has drawn the backing of the pro-choice group EMILY’s List, influential labor unions and former Gov. Jim Blanchard (D). She has raised over $3 million.

El-Sayed, who won acclaim as Detroit health director for pioneering a program that provided low-income city schoolchildren with eyeglasses, has embraced state-level single-payer health insurance.

El-Sayed’s strongest support has come from backers of Sanders’ presidential campaign and like-minded voters. His detailed plan to revive Michigan’s struggling cities by curbing speculation and protecting homeowners from excessive property tax assessments attracted favorable coverage in the pages of the Nation. He has raised over $1.9 million.

Whitmer also was subject to a report in Bridge featuring anonymous quotes from longtime Democratic fixers complaining about her general election viability, and urging other candidates to enter the race. The grumbling prompted charges of sexism.

Asked to respond to questions about El-Sayed’s eligibility, Whitmer campaign communications director Annie Ellison said in a statement: “Whitmer is not focused on chatter about who is or is not getting into the race and frankly there has been way too much distraction from how we fix our roads, grow our economy, and protect health care for Michigan families.

“Anything that distracts from how we solve problems and put people first in this state is not something she’s paying attention to,” Ellison added.

In a follow-up question, HuffPost asked whether Whitmer’s campaign would rule out challenging El-Sayed’s eligibility ahead of the April 24 ballot deadline.

“We take Dr. El-Sayed at his word and the campaign will not be challenging anyone’s eligibility,” Ellison said.

However, in response to rising chatter about the controversy, Michigan Democratic Party chairman Brand Dillon on Thursday released a statement acknowledging the legitimacy of the questions about El-Sayed’s eligibility and asking that he “take appropriate legal action, including asking the courts for a ruling on his eligibility as soon as possible.”

“Regrettably, we feel this is the only way to put this matter to rest quickly and without ambiguity,” Dillon said. “We hope the court would handle this request swiftly and diligently so all of our great candidates, including Dr. El-Sayed, can put this issue behind them and focus on the issues that really matter to the people of Michigan.”

.@MichiganDems chair: "We are calling on Dr. El-Sayed to take appropriate legal action, including asking the courts for a ruling on his eligibility as soon as possible. Regrettably, we feel this is the only way to put this matter to rest quickly and without ambiguity." pic.twitter.com/32MYHh6SZA — Daniel Marans (@danielmarans) February 1, 2018

HuffPost pressed Dillon to explain why the state Democratic Party would cite the comments of attorneys quoted anonymously in Bridge rather than conduct its own analysis.

He argued that a legal analysis commissioned by the state Democratic Party would still elicit skepticism that the party is playing favorites, especially if it affirmed the idea that El-Sayed’s eligibility is in doubt.

“That would only deepen cynicism that we were trying to suggest that we thought he shouldn’t be [on the ballot],” Dillon said.

Michigan’s partisan primaries are due to take place on Aug. 7.Johnson said that his family left the restaurant in two cars ― his mother and father in one, and the actor driving the other. He recounted seeing his parents’ car swerving ― indicating they were in a fight ― before his dad pulled over to the side of the road, and his mother walked into the road.

After rescuing Ata, the actor said he didn’t remember what he said to his mother.

“I remember she didn’t say a thing,” he said. “In that moment, one of the greatest lessons I’ve ever learned was how precious life is and how in an instant, it can all go away. [It] changed me.”It’s remarkable in 2018 that a state with 12.8 million people and 20 members of Congress could have zero women representing it.

Welcome to Pennsylvania, the state with the largest all-male delegation in the country.

That depressing statistic may change after this year’s midterm elections. A couple of male congressmen have resigned in the Keystone State after being caught up in sexual misconduct scandals, and four more are retiring at the end of this year. As elsewhere around the nation, a slew of impressive women have stepped up to compete for those open seats, motivated by the #MeToo movement and Donald Trump’s presidency.

Democrats are especially excited about Chrissy Houlahan. In late January 2017, just after the first Women’s March, EMILY’s List sent a generic fundraising email to its 3 million members asking for a few dollars to help elect female Democratic candidates.

Most people just clicked the button in the email prompting them to donate. But Houlahan, a 49-year-old mother of two from Devon, Pennsylvania, hit “reply” and attached her resumé, hoping someone in D.C. might notice her and help her figure out how to run for Congress.

Houlahan, an Air Force veteran, inner-city teacher and successful businesswoman, had spent the days after Trump’s election comforting two distraught family members: her 25-year-old daughter, who identifies as queer, and her father, a 75-year-old Holocaust survivor who fled Poland as a child. Both were terrified of what the election meant for people like them.

“My dad, this Holocaust survivor and naval officer ― a pretty tough guy ― was crying, worrying that people like him who came to this country with nothing to offer would still have the opportunities he was allowed,” Houlahan told HuffPost. “That was the beginning of thinking I needed to do something.”

Chrissy Houlahan is running to replace Rep. Ryan Costello (R-Pa) in Pennsylvania's 6th District. Chrissy Houlahan campaign

Houlahan’s email did catch the attention of a staffer at EMILY’s List, who passed it up the ranks of the Democratic women’s PAC. The powerful fundraising group immediately picked her as a viable challenger to the incumbent congressman from Pennsylvania’s 6th Congressional District, Rep. Ryan Costello (R).

“She’s got this incredible resumé,” said Julie McClain Downey, a spokeswoman for EMILY’s List. “We were like, ‘Is this some sort of joke? Yes, of course we’ll help you run for Congress.’”

Houlahan is a political strategist’s dream candidate. She studied engineering at Stanford, aspiring to become an astronaut, before becoming a captain in the Air Force. She taught chemistry at an inner-city public high school in North Philadelphia through Teach for America, and served as chief operating officer of a successful basketball shoe company and Springboard Collaborative, a nonprofit that supports childhood literacy. Her policy priority is health care, “making sure people have what I believe is access to a human right.”

If Houlahan defeats Costello in the 2018 midterms, she’ll bring some much-needed diversity of perspective and experience to Pennsylvania’s delegation.

“It’s not just that it’s all men― it’s all men who are lawyers, for the most part,” Houlahan said. “We have people with one skill set representing us.” (Actually, seven of them are lawyers, but a majority are career politicians.)

Six Pennsylvania congressmen are not seeking re-election this year, which has created a real opportunity for women to penetrate the old boys club in a heavily gerrymandered state. (The outgoing lawmakers include Rep. Pat Meehan, a Republican, who is resigning after having sexually harassed one of his staffers, and Rep. Tim Murphy, an anti-abortion Republican who allegedly urged the woman with whom he was having an affair to terminate her pregnancy.)

“In the last year, it has become abundantly clear that it is no longer acceptable to have women shut out of leadership positions,” said Stephanie Schriock, president of EMILY’s List, who has endorsed two women so far in Pennsylvania.

EMILY’s List is already fundraising for Houlahan and Christina Hartman, an international nonprofit leader who is challenging incumbent Rep. Lloyd Smucker (R). The group is likely to endorse more women candidates in the coming months, which may include former Philadelphia Deputy Mayor Nina Ahmad, who is running for Rep. Bob Brady’s (D) open seat, and Navy veteran Rachel Reddick, who is challenging Rep. Brian Fitzpatrick (R). Jess King, another Democrat running for Smucker’s seat, has been generating grassroots excitement with her progressive populist campaign.

These are only a handful of the women running. Laura Quick, a single mom and UPS package car driver from Lebanon County, is running for the seat being vacated by Rep. Charlie Dent (R). Most of these Republican-leaning districts, of course, will be difficult for a relatively unknown Democratic woman to flip. Houlahan, however, has a very strong shot of winning.

Pennsylvania’s 6th District, despite having obviously been drawn to give GOP candidates an advantage (Houlahan likens it to a spiked dragon), broke for Hillary Clinton in 2016. EMILY’s List and the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee are funneling resources this year into districts that favored Clinton but are currently represented by Republicans, and Houlahan’s early fundraising numbers have been very strong thanks to the support of those groups. The resistance movement has also given Democrats like Houlahan new momentum this year, as evidenced by the massive, unprecedented wave of women running for office and getting involved in politics who have never done so before.

Republicans are nervous about Houlahan. National Republican Congressional Committee Chair Steve Stivers called her race against Costello a “bellwether” that could predict how the party fares nationally in the 2018 midterms.

“If [Democrats] win in Pennsylvania against Ryan Costello, they’ve got a shot to take the majority,” Stivers told Politico last summer.

Houlahan hopes not only to win, but to bring other women with her to represent Pennsylvania in Congress.

“I feel bullish,” she said. “It’s important that there’s not just a token woman or two representing Pennsylvania, but that we really get that critical mass to change the course of history.”dolgachov via Getty Images

Kaitlyn was a 19-year-old student at the University of California, Berkeley when she found out she was pregnant, despite practicing safe sex. She and her partner were using a condom, and although it slipped, she also had an IUD. Kaitlyn was shellshocked when she took a test at the campus health center and learned she was seven weeks along.

Kaitlyn, who asked to use her first name, knew right away that she wanted to have an abortion, and she wanted to take the abortion pill. But as a member of the reproductive rights group on campus, she also knew the university didn’t offer it. Instead, she went to a local ER for an ultrasound then got a referral to a Planned Parenthood clinic. The provider was considered out-of-network by her university insurance plan, but she was able to get some coverage from the state.

By the time everything was sorted out, Kaitlyn was no longer a candidate for the abortion pill, which must be taken fairly early on in a pregnancy. She’d spent more than $200 out of pocket, which she says was staggering given that she was a student putting herself through school. She lost about $100 in wages from her job at a local bagel shop, missed class and called out of her internship, all of which were extremely out of character for her.

“I had to go through so many steps, and I didn’t need to,” said Kaitlyn, who is now 21 and a recent graduate. “It was a lot of money. It was stressful. Really, it was awful.”

California has among the best abortion access in the country, but none of the state’s public universities provide students like Kaitlyn with on-campus abortion services of any kind.

That could soon change.

This week, the California senate passed a bill requiring the 34 University of California and California State University campuses to provide medication abortion — often called the abortion pill — in their health care centers, ensuring it is available to students by no later than January 2022. If the bill moves through the state assembly and is signed into law by the governor, California would become the first state in the nation to pass such legislation at a time when many states are chipping away at access to the abortion pill.

The pill is actually a combination of two drugs taken over the course of several days: mifepristone and misoprostol. Together, they can safely end a pregnancy before 10 weeks gestation. Medication abortions now account for 45 percent of abortions before 9 weeks gestation nationwide, despite state-level attacks on the method. Thirty-four states require that the person providing the medication be a licensed physician, even though groups like the World Health Organization say it is safe for providers like midwives and nurse practitioners to administer, and 19 states require a clinician be present when the pills are taken — again, despite research showing telemedicine abortions are safe.

It is not, however, just the abortion pill that is restricted on American college campuses. A 2015 report on the reproductive health services available at more than 150 college health centers nationwide found just two offered medical abortion services of any kind.

The campaign behind Senate Bill 320 began two years ago, when the student advocacy group Students United for Reproductive Justice noticed Berkeley’s student health center did not offer the abortion pill.

“We thought, why isn’t this a service?” Adiba Khan, a sociology and public health double major who helped found the group her sophomore year, told HuffPost. They spoke to fellow students about their experiences trying to access abortion services on campus, and were surprised by the hurdles they had to jump through — even in a state like California, which has none of the major policy restrictions popular in other parts of the country.

Every month, more than 500 students at California’s public universities seek the abortion pill at off-site health care providers, according to the University of California San Fransisco’s Advancing New Standards in Reproductive Health. More than half of students at University of California and California State University campuses qualify as low-income, and roughly 60 percent of students would need to spend at least two hours on public transportation to access abortion services.

“When your health center has all the means to do it, but chooses not to because it’s controversial, that’s the issue,” said Adiba Khan, who added she had no advocacy experience prior to pushing for this bill. “The whole point of a student health center is to cater just to students and to make sure services are pretty easily accessible.”

The bill has not been without controversy, and anti-abortion groups such as Californians For Life have opposed it on the grounds that student health centers are not equipped to handle the procedure. Supporters of the bill argue that is not true, as a group of private funders including Tara Health Foundation and the Women’s Foundation of California have agreed to pay for implementation of the policy, including training and equipment — which also means the state will not pay for the roll-out.

They have agreed to supply at least $14 million, and possibly up to $20 million, Surina Khan, CEO of the Women’s Foundation of California, which helped craft the bill, told HuffPost.

“If there are health centers in universities that will need ultrasound machines, or training about how to administer medication abortion, that will all be provided for through the funder consortium’s resources,” Surina Khan said.

She was not surprised that funders have stepped forward in support of the bill, and believes groups would be willing to back similar efforts in other states given what a hot-button issue reproductive rights are in the United States.