Bloomberg via Getty Images

President Donald Trump on Friday signed a series of executive orders that could make it easier to fire federal government employees, potentially undermining the unions that represent them.

The three executive orders Trump issued would reduce the timeframe for firing poor performers, curtail the amount of paid time federal employees can receive for union work and direct agencies to negotiate more restrictive union contracts in a timely fashion.

By signing the orders, the president was “fulfilling his promise to promote a more efficient government by reforming civil service rules,” Andrew Bremberg, director of the White House Domestic Policy Council, said in a call with reporters.

“Every year, the Federal Employee Viewpoint Survey shows that less than one third of federal employees believe poor performers are adequately addressed by their agency,” Bremberg said, according to Government Executive. “These executive orders make it easier to remove poor performing employees, and ensure that taxpayer dollars are more efficiently used.”

Unions representing federal workers denounced the orders on Friday, calling Trump’s actions an “assault on democracy.”

J. David Cox Sr., president of the American Federation of Government Employees, said in a statement that the orders constituted “a direct assault on the legal rights and protections that Congress has specifically guaranteed to the 2 million public-sector employees across the country who work for the federal government.”

“This is more than union busting – it’s democracy busting,” Cox said.

Several Democratic lawmakers also criticized the orders on Friday.

“Attacking unions and demagoguing federal workers won’t help morale,” Rep. Gerry Connolly (D-Va.) tweeted.

Trump continues his assault on the federal workforce with today's executive orders. Attacking unions and demagoguing federal workers won't help morale. Show the federal workforce that serves all Americans the respect it deserves, Mr President. — Gerry Connolly (@GerryConnolly) May 25, 2018

Sen. Tim Kaine (D-Va.) called the president’s actions “a cheap political stunt.”

AdvertisementAll photographs courtesy of Robert Tennent.

by Matthew Rodriguez

*Trigger warning: Sexual assault*

In 2017, Robert Tennent experienced a sexual assault that led to a period of celibacy. During that time, he attended counseling to be able to introduce sex to his life again.

It took five months, but Tennent finally met someone he trusted and they had sex. Afterward, he took out his camera and snapped a photo.

Now, almost a year after he began taking photos of the men with whom he was intimate, Tennent compiled the photos into Come Back to Bed, a photo book chronicling his romantic and intimate entanglements after the trauma of sexual assault.

Tennent spoke to INTO about the very first photo he took, queer power dynamics and allowing yourself to feel pleasure.

Robert, take me back to the very first time you took a picture of a man you were intimate with after five months of celibacy. What was the thought behind taking a picture of the guy?

He was the first person I really clicked with after my assault. He was really handsome and we got along like we’d know each other for months. Unfortunately, he lived in a different country, so me taking the photo was simply to remember him and remember the night we had together. From there I developed my pictures and just kept them on my phone.

Your photos definitely celebrate the body. What do you think they have to say about the body as both a site of trauma but also a site of pleasure?

The body is so beautiful to me. The ways muscles flex in different positions and how light bounces off his arms and his chest. It’s a contrast ― how can something so beautiful, do something so awful? I didn’t associated the body as a site of trauma, I associated trauma with the act of sex. It took me a really long time to be able to let someone touch me again. But after the first few times I felt like the pleasure aspect came back.

As the photographer, why did you choose the setting of the bedroom. Obviously, you were intimate with these men, but why that moment in the bedroom as opposed to taking a photo of them elsewhere?

Because it’s where we were the most vulnerable with each other. We talked for hours, shared stories, kissed, made love. I got to know these men really well from the conversations we had before and after sex. Being completely naked with someone else creates a bond and especially when there is sexual tension and passion.

What do you think your art says about the possibility of pleasure after trauma?

It’s a reality. You can certainly feel pleasure again. As hard as it may seem at the beginning, over time it gets easier. I named the book Come Back to Bed for two main reasons. These were words I had heard many times, when you wake before your lover, when they wake up before you do. You want to get back to the place where you were the closest, literally. And the second reason was because it was a message to my younger self. The reality of coming back to bed or being intimate again was possible over time.

Right now, we’re in the moment of #MeToo and #TimesUp and a lot of those conversations in the queer community have been about how queer power dynamics are different. How do these photos speak to the nature of power dynamics in queer relationships?

In the queer community, it’s less about gender and more about race. My mother is Vietnamese and my father is from New Zealand, therefore, I am mixed. I have had experiences where I have been disregarded because of my race. There is also a lot of femme shaming in the gay community and that comes into play with power dynamics. These images more so speak to power dynamics between dominant and submissive partners. There are images where I am the submissive figure and a few where I am quite dominant.

In most of your pictures, the bodies are obscured in some way. They are kind of scrunched inward or the person is lying on their tummy. Did you position them this way or did your models choose their own positions? What do you think these positions say about intimacy and bodies?

These images were mainly taken spontaneously where I’d say “Oh, that looks good ― don’t move.” Some were taken during, before, and after sex. There are images where we had just finished and I pulled my camera out and took a photo of him catching his breath. Some of these photos are extremely intimate because they were captured during the moment and our bodies are intertwined. I did ask a few of them to get into certain positions because I wanted to play with shape and watch how the body would react to different positions.

What did you learn about your own trauma by going through this project?

There are things in life that are just going to happen despite what you do. The sun will rise and it will set ― until it suddenly doesn’t, and there is nothing I can do about it. I believe in fate. I am responsible for my feelings and I am responsible for how I choose to heal or better myself.

The project taught me that time off is healthy and should be done more often, to keep myself sane and happy.

Come Back to Bed is currently available online.Ramadan has denied the allegations. SIA KAMBOU via Getty Images

French police took prominent Swiss academic Tariq Ramadan into custody for questioning on Wednesday, just months after two women accused the Oxford University professor of rape.

A legal source told Agence France-Presse that Paris judicial police summoned the academic for questioning “as part of a preliminary inquiry in Paris into rape and assault allegations.”

The allegations emerged late last year and prompted Ramadan to take a leave of absence from his post at Oxford. In a November statement, Oxford said it “acknowledged the gravity of the allegations” against Ramadan and emphasized “the importance of fairness and the principles of justice and due process.”

French author Henda Ayari was one of the two women who filed police complaints against Ramadan. She said the scholar raped her in a Paris hotel room in 2012.

Another woman, who has remained unnamed in news reports, accused Ramadan of raping and beating her in a hotel room during a 2009 conference in Lyon, France.

Four other women have accused Ramadan of making sexual advances toward them while they were students, BBC reported.

Ramadan, a professor of contemporary Islamic studies at Oxford University, has denied the allegations. In November, he directed his lawyer to sue Ayari for defamation.

“Many people are angry because I denounced someone whom people respect a lot,” Ayari told The New York Times in October. “I, for example, never would have thought he would do that to me, never, never. I had a great admiration for him for years. For me, he was something like a saint.”

The writer and activist had described the attack in a 2016 book without naming Ramadan as the alleged attacker. But she said she decided to publicly name him in the fall of 2017 “because there are religious men who profit from their position to abuse women.”

Ramadan is an influential and at times controversial commentator on modern Islam, known to challenge Islamic fundamentalists and encourage dialogue between faiths. He is the grandson of Hassan al-Banna, who founded the Muslim Brotherhood in the 1920s.“You are powerful witnesses to a menace that threatens our world, and your strength inspires us all,” Trump told the parents of American student Otto Warmbier at the 2018 State of the Union address. NICHOLAS KAMM via Getty Images

President Donald Trump singled out the “cruel dictatorship” of North Korea during his State of the Union address on Tuesday, calling its leader, Kim Jong Un, a “depraved character” and “menace that threatens our world” while touting his administration’s efforts to prevent the country from developing nuclear weapons capable of reaching the United States.

Trump devoted a large segment of his address to criticizing the regime, casting the diplomatic efforts of prior administrations as insufficient, and once again slammed his predecessors as too soft on the Kim regime, saying they “invited aggression.”

“Past experience has taught us that complacency and concessions only invite aggression and provocation,” Trump said. “I will not repeat the mistakes of past administrations that got us into this very dangerous position.”

The president pointed to the parents of American student Otto Warmbier, who died last June after he was returned to the U.S. following his imprisonment in North Korea, as evidence of Kim’s brutality.

“You are powerful witnesses to a menace that threatens our world, and your strength inspires us all,” he said.

Trump’s hard-line stance comes the same day The Washington Post reported that the White House pulled the likely nomination of a respected foreign policy expert to be the U.S. ambassador to South Korea, a key diplomatic position that has been vacant for more than a year. Victor Cha was widely expected to be nominated, but his name was reportedly withdrawn from consideration after Cha expressed concerns over policy decisions related to North Korea, including U.S. consideration of a limited strike on the country in what has been called the “bloody nose” strategy.

Cha confirmed late Tuesday that his name was no longer under consideration.

Officials had hoped an envoy would be in place before the start of the 2018 Winter Olympics in Pyeongchang next month.

Tensions between North and South Korea have appeared to thaw in recent weeks after Kim offered an olive branch to Seoul on New Year’s Day, saying he would open diplomatic channels between the two countries for the first time in years. Pyongyang later agreed to send athletes to the Olympics in February and said it would hold military talks with the South in an effort to improve relations on the Korean peninsula.

Trump took much of the credit for the diplomacy, asking on Twitter earlier this month: “Does anybody really believe that talks and dialogue would be going on between North and South Korea right now if I wasn’t firm, strong and willing to commit our total ‘might’ against the North.”

“Fools, but talks are a good thing!” he concluded.

South Korean President Moon Jae-In agreed with his U.S. counterpart, saying he gave “a lot of credit to President Trump” and that he wanted to express his “gratitude.”A rare “super blue blood moon” had space enthusiasts across the world in awe Wednesday.

People living in certain parts of the Western Hemisphere were able to catch a glimpse of an unusually large, glowing red moon Wednesday morning that NASA scientists have dubbed a “lunar trifecta.”

The celestial phenomenon occurs when there’s a full moon for the second time in a month, known as a “blue moon,” that is also at its closet point in orbit to Earth, known as a “supermoon.” To top it off, it all happens during a total lunar eclipse, which gives the moon a reddish glow as it passes through the Earth’s shadow.

The results were stunning for some viewers, especially those closest to the eclipse’s path of totality, which included the western part of North America, Australia and parts of Asia, according to Space.com.WASHINGTON ― President Donald Trump insisted Tuesday night that America had “turned the page on decades of unfair trade deals that sacrificed our prosperity and shipped away our companies, our jobs, and our nation’s wealth.”

Alas, the numbers tell a different story.

The trade deficit, according to the most recent data published by the Commerce Department, has increased by $53.4 billion, or 11.6 percent, over the past year. That figure includes rising trade deficits with both Mexico and China ― two frequent targets of Trump’s trade wrath dating back to his campaign for office.

Persistent trade deficits result not only in domestic manufacturing job losses, but an overly financialized economy prone to banking instability.

The Commerce Department data isn’t totally grim. Exports are rising ― imports are just increasing more.

That’s largely because Trump hasn’t actually done anything on trade. He didn’t sign the Trans-Pacific Partnership, one of President Barack Obama’s flagship foreign policy efforts, and he also didn’t meaningfully alter any other major trade pact. As a result, existing trends in the global economy have been magnified. The TPP ― which the vast majority of Congressional Democrats and many hardline conservative Republicans opposed ― almost certainly would have exacerbated the trade deficit.

Tuesday night, Trump preferred to focus on small anecdotes rather than the big picture.

“Many car companies are now building and expanding plants in the United States ― something we have not seen for decades,” Trump said. “Chrysler is moving a major plant from Mexico to Michigan; Toyota and Mazda are opening up a plant in Alabama. Soon, plants will be opening up all over the country. This is all news Americans are unaccustomed to hearing ― for many years, companies and jobs were only leaving us. But now they are coming back.”POOL New / Reuters

The White House has pulled back from nominating a respected foreign policy expert to be the U.S. ambassador to South Korea after he expressed concerns over policy decisions related to North Korea, according to a report Tuesday in The Washington Post.

The Trump administration was widely expected to nominate Victor Cha, a former adviser to President George W. Bush and a professor at Georgetown University, to head the U.S. embassy in Seoul, a position that has been vacant for more than a year. Officials had hoped he would be confirmed before the 2018 Winter Olympics in Pyeongchang, South Korea, which begin next month.

The Post, citing people familiar with the appointment, said Cha’s nomination was derailed after he expressed concerns about the consideration of a limited, preemptive strike on North Korea meant to send a message to the dictatorship of Kim Jong Un. That prospect has become known as the “bloody nose” strategy

Cha reportedly also said he opposed plans to undermine a U.S. trade deal with South Korea, which Trump called “horrible” last year and has threatened to end.

Cha confirmed that he was no long under consideration for the position in an opinion article published late Tuesday in the Post.

In the piece, he addressed his opinions about the “bloody nose” strategy, saying the answer to the North Korean threat was “not, as some Trump administration officials have suggested, a preventive military strike.”

“I empathize with the hope, espoused by some Trump officials, that a military strike would shock Pyongyang into appreciating U.S. strength, after years of inaction, and force the regime to the denuclearization negotiating table,” he wrote. “Yet, there is a point at which hope must give in to logic. If we believe that Kim is undeterrable without such a strike, how can we also believe that a strike will deter him from responding in kind?”

He noted that such preemptive action could put in danger the 230,000 Americans in South Korea at any one time, including tens of thousands of military personnel.

Cha concluded with recommendations for coercive diplomacy and urged the U.S. to increase its cooperation with South Korea and Japan, writing: “A sustained and long-term competitive strategy such as this plays to U.S. strengths, exploits our adversary’s weaknesses and does not risk hundreds of thousands of American lives.”

The White House had already spent months conducting background checks on Cha and had sent his name to South Korean officials as part of a formal process meant to signal Trump’s intent to nominate him, according to the Post. Cha was widely seen a hawkish choice regarding engagement with North Korea, a stance that appeared to be in line with the Trump administration.

Evans Revere, a senior fellow specializing in Korean policy at the Brookings Institution, said it was “unfortunate that the United States will continue to be without an ambassador in Seoul at this crucial juncture.”

But he said the decision not to nominate Cha is in line with the Trump administration’s slow pace to fill key diplomatic vacancies.

“It troubles me to say that this administration does not seem to regard such appointments as priorities, as witnessed by the fact that there are still so many high-level diplomatic vacancies, many of them in countries in crisis,” Revere said in an email. “This administration appears to place little emphasis on the institutions and the people necessary to pursue our diplomacy and promote our interests and our values.”

Other experts also expressed concern over Cha getting sidelined.

Bad sign if administration isn’t big enough to accommodate Victor Cha, one of the most respected Korea experts in Washington. Administration desperately needs more expertise—should have had Korea ambassador months ago. https://t.co/ocVR5c3I2l — Max Boot (@MaxBoot) January 30, 2018

Victor Cha reportedly objects to possible "bloody nose" strike on NK and tearing up KORUS... and may no longer be nominee for Ambassador. The days grow darker, Asia-watching friends. https://t.co/ltdphe1Y0d — Mira Rapp-Hooper (@MiraRappHooper) January 30, 2018

Revere added that U.S. interests in South Korea remain in capable hands. The embassy has been under the stewardship of Chargé d’Affaires Marc Knapper since former ambassador Mark Lippert left shortly before Trump’s inauguration.WASHINGTON ― President Donald Trump used his 2018 State of the Union address to once again cast himself as the only U.S. leader to successfully pursue the self-described Islamic State terrorist group.

Once again, he needs to be corrected.

“Last year, I also pledged that we would work with our allies to extinguish ISIS from the face of the earth,” Trump said Tuesday night. “One year later, I am proud to report that the coalition to defeat ISIS has liberated very close to 100 percent of the territory once held by these killers not only in Iraq but in Syria as well.”

The play here is pretending there was no coordinated effort to combat ISIS prior to Trump’s 2017 inauguration ― that after the ISIS quasi-state in Iraq and Syria first became a major concern stateside when it murdered American hostage James Foley back in August 2014, and after it was linked to attacks throughout the U.S., Europe, Asia, Africa and Australia, President Barack Obama and other world leaders just couldn’t get their act together.

That’s nonsense.

Obama authorized a U.S. campaign against ISIS days after Foley’s murder. And weeks later, his administration brought together other concerned governments in a large coalition focused on eradicating the group. His team sustained that anti-ISIS coalition through difficult high-profile disputes, changes in U.S.-friendly governments and attacks on member countries, and crafted the strategy the U.S.-led coalition still employs in the ISIS fight: relying on local partners to retake territory, and supporting them with air power, intelligence and some on-the-ground support.

Trump isn’t wrong to say that during his presidency ISIS has come close to losing nearly all of its territory in Iraq and Syria, including the high-profile cities of Mosul and Raqqa. And some military commanders say he has helped the campaign by devolving the power to call in U.S. airstrikes. But he’s being deceptive by failing to mention that his contribution is tactical. The strategy was already in place.

“Like the American jobs he claims to have created that were announced long before he took office, Trump will take credit for the Islamic State’s defeat,” Obama-era Pentagon official Andrew Exum predicted last year. “And Americans need to be fine with that, because as much as many of us do not want this president to get the credit for the work of others, defeating the Islamic State is a national good that should be bigger than politics.”

But Trump’s comments also mask another reality. While the terrorist group has lost its strongholds, there’s no clear Trump administration plan to solve the local political crises ― of popular representation, sectarian and ethnic mistrust, and interference by Iran, Saudi Arabia and other neighboring powers ― that allowed it to rise and gain tens of thousands of recruits.

U.S. government work to address those issues continues. But the State Department and the associated U.S. Agency for International Development are weaker than ever, while saber-rattling that threatens to inspire more anti-U.S. meddling by countries such as Iran is on the rise. Trump isn’t one for optimistic talk about reconstruction and civil society, but lawmakers and experts have warned for years that those are key bulwarks against extremism in the region.

There’s also the risk Trump has boosted anti-Americanism with policies like his Muslim travel ban, talk about “shithole countries” and his apparent delight in suggesting that he has made the anti-ISIS war more vicious. (There’s been a massive jump in civilian casualties in the campaign since he took office, but it’s unclear whether that is because of his policies or simply the fact that fighting moved into urban areas where ISIS fighters often hid among civilians.)

In other words, victory is far from assured.WASHINGTON ― President Donald Trump avoided criticism of Russia in his State of the Union address on Tuesday night, despite facing multiple foreign policy challenges from Moscow ― and domestic claims that he is too soft on the U.S. geopolitical rival amid multiple investigations of its role in influencing the 2016 U.S. election.

Trump mentioned Russia only once in his hour-plus speech, in a broad reference to concerns abroad.

“Around the world, we face rogue regimes, terrorist groups, and rivals like China and Russia that challenge our interests, our economy, and our values,” Trump said. “In confronting these dangers, we know that weakness is the surest path to conflict, and unmatched power is the surest means of our defense.”

That framing fits neatly with Trump’s thinking. He has praised authoritarian Russian President Vladimir Putin as “a strong leader,” blaming U.S.-Russia tensions on the Obama administration’s failure to be tough rather than on Russian actions condemned by both parties.

But it overlooks Russian policies the Trump administration otherwise claims to have on its radar ― notably, Moscow’s ongoing occupation of the Ukrainian territory of Crimea and its support for violent separatists in eastern Ukraine and the brutal regime of Syrian President Bashar Assad. It also entirely ignores the conclusion of the U.S. intelligence community ― sometimes challenged and sometimes accepted by Trump ― that Putin interfered in the 2016 election to improve Trump’s odds.

The Trump administration has reaffirmed the U.S. commitment to treaty allies worried about Russian expansionism, has approved the largest arms sale to Ukraine since 2014 and has ordered strikes against Assad over his chemical weapons use. Yet skepticism about his approach is alive and well, most recently over his meddling with the Justice Department investigation into allegations that his campaign colluded with Moscow, and his administration’s decision to not yet impose fresh sanctions against Russia-friendly actors that Congress last year enabled it to levy.

Tuesday night’s performance did nothing to change that equation. Instead, it just invited fresh barbs.

President touting sanctions on Cuba and Venezuela. Ok. How about Russia? #SOTU2018 — Pete Buttigieg (@PeteButtigieg) January 31, 2018A U.S. Army soldier tosses bottled water, provided by FEMA, to be passed on to residents in a neighborhood without grid electricity or running water in Puerto Rico on Oct. 17. Mario Tama via Getty Images

Federal Emergency Management Agency officials said Wednesday the agency was not cutting off aid to hurricane victims in Puerto Rico, walking back statements one of their officials made in an incendiary NPR report on Monday.

In an interview with the outlet, a FEMA official said that food and water provisions to the island would “officially shut off” on Wednesday. But following an ensuing public outcry, which included Puerto Rican officials, the agency released a statement on Wednesday saying there was never a decision made to end aid to the island.

“FEMA and the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico are not stopping the provision of commodities after Hurricane Maria,” FEMA Public Affairs Director William Booher confirmed in the statement to HuffPost. “FEMA and the Commonwealth will continue to provide commodities to voluntary organizations and local officials who still have a need.”

“There is no decision to stop distribution of commodities,” the statement continued. “As progress continues from response to recovery across the island, we will continue to support the needs of survivors supporting the government of Puerto Rico.”

Booher told The New York Times on Wednesday that the Jan. 31 deadline was mistakenly publicized by the agency in the NPR interview. The date, he said, actually marked an internal planning date to evaluate if the U.S. territory still needed aid.

Booher also reiterated that the “aid is not stopping” and insisted the agency was not backtracking on a decision. FEMA’s newest statement, however, comes after two days of widespread backlash.

San Juan Mayor Carmen Yulín Cruz slammed FEMA over the possibility of ending aid to Puerto Rico at the Latino Victory Summit on Tuesday. Cruz pointed to citizens on the island who still have no power, no water and no financial stability. Nearly 30 percent of Puerto Rico Electric Power Authority subscribers are still without electricity as of Wednesday, according to government data.

Booher’s statement to the Times on Wednesday echoed what FEMA spokesman Daniel Llargues told HuffPost the day before.

He said the information the FEMA official provided NPR was not false but also “not completely accurate.”

“Nothing is changing on the 31st,” Llargues told HuffPost on Tuesday. “If it’s changing in days or weeks to come, it’s because it has been requested with local officials”

“Some municipalities don’t need it any longer,” he continued. “Some that don’t have running water or power, we’ll continue to supply commodities to them, always in coordination with state and local officials.”

In a somewhat unclear statement to HuffPost on Tuesday, the agency said both that “FEMA provided commodities are no longer needed for emergency operations” and that “FEMA will continue to support any identified needs.”

“The commercial supply chain for food and water is re-established and private suppliers are sufficiently available that FEMA provided commodities are no longer needed for emergency operations,” Booher said in the Tuesday statement. “FEMA will continue to support the Government of Puerto Rico to meet the needs they identify.”

“FEMA will continue to support any identified needs and will provide supplies to volunteer agencies and other private non-profit organizations who are working with households in rural, outlying areas to address ongoing disaster related needs as power and water is gradually restored,” he added.

FEMA’s Wednesday statement does not explicitly say whether there will be any changes in distribution or quantity of aid for the island.

State Coordinating Officer and Secretary of the Department of Public Safety Héctor Pesquera released a statement on Wednesday addressing what occurred after initial reports said FEMA would end aid to the island.

“We immediately established communication with FEMA’s operations coordinator for Puerto Rico, Mike Byrne, to clarify the situation,” he said in statement to HuffPost. “After the conversation, both teams agreed that at no time had it been agreed upon to begin the transfer of FEMA’s responsibilities to the Government of Puerto Rico as part of the transition process from the response phase to the recovery phase.”

“We are confident that FEMA will continue to provide the help that is necessary,” he continued. “Agreements between the federal government and the local government are focused on supporting the people who remain in need after Hurricane Maria.”The comedian went live after the address to pick apart the president’s speech, which he joked had left people “barely conscious.”

And when Trump said he had “sought to restore the bonds of trust between our citizens and their government,” Colbert snarkily replied: “Well, better luck next year.”President Donald Trump didn’t even have to show up to deliver his State of the Union speech on Tuesday night... because Stephen Colbert’s “Late Show” team already did the job for him.President Donald Trump has made a tweak to his diet.

Rudy Giuliani told the Washington Post that when the two met for lunch recently, Trump ate a burger, but with only half a bun as a means of making it healthier. Trump didn’t change what was inside the half-bun: The burger was still cooked well-done, as he likes it.

The former New York City mayor, who is now part of Trump’s legal team, told the newspaper he sometimes goes with half a bun on burgers himself.

“It’s a good way to do it,” Giuliani, who ate a Cobb salad at the Trump meeting, said.

In January, White House physician Dr. Ronny Jackson told the president to eat better and lose about 10 to 15 pounds. However, Jackson also pronounced Trump to be in “excellent” health despite his well-known love of fast food.

“You know, I told the president that if he had a healthier diet over the last 20 years, he might live to be 200 years old,” Jackson said at the time, per The Hill.

Trump’s burger tweak included more bun than in the past. Last year, former campaign manager Corey Lewandowski said Trump’s typical McDonald’s order while on the campaign trail was two Big Macs, two Filet-o-Fish and a chocolate milkshake. But at that point, the future president wasn’t eating the buns at all.

“Well, he never ate the bread, which is the important part,” Lewandowski said on CNN. “He was busy campaigning. We didn’t have time to sit down for a meal.”

A post shared by President Donald J. Trump (@realdonaldtrump) on May 26, 2016 at 2:29pm PDT

The New York Times also reported that Trump would rip the buns off burgers while campaigning.

“Do you know how many calories you save that way?” Trump told the Boston Herald’s Howie Carr.

Trump cuts the carbs when he’s eating pizza, as well.

“I scrape the toppings off my pizza,” he told US Weekly in 2015. “I never eat the dough.”

Once in the White House, his eating habits seemed to change.

Sen. Minority Leader Chuck Schumer (D-N.Y.) recounted a lunch with the president earlier this year during a podcast interview with The New York Times.The new cast of "Queer Eye," coming to Netflix on Feb. 7. Rob Kim via Getty Images

A makeover of President Donald Trump proved to be a bit of a challenge even for the new “Fab Five,” the cast of the reboot of “Queer Eye for the Straight Guy,” the groundbreaking show that premiered on Bravo in 2003 and ran through 2007.

But the new cast persevered, offering their suggestions on making Trump great again (even if he hadn’t actually been great before) in an interview with me on SiriusXM Progress this week.

The original “Queer Eye” featured five gay style gurus based in New York who taught straight men about fashion, design and culture and helped spark a new genre in makeover shows.

Debuting on Netflix on Feb. 7, the new “Queer Eye” has the cast headquartered in Atlanta, with the group of style experts heading into red-state America. The show’s design guru, Bobby Berk, noted that “the old show was ‘Queer Eye for the Straight Guy’” while “the new show is just ‘Queer Eye’” ― and that’s for a reason.

“We’re out there not just focusing on straight guys, telling straight guys what they need to do different,” he explained. “We’re out there helping everyone ― straight guys, trans guys, gay guys, women. And [we] really just want to not just go out and create a bunch of metrosexuals ― just teaching guys how to groom. It’s more about transforming them, not just on the outside.”

So, on to a proposed Trump makeover.

After a few sighs, some laughter and an “Oh, God!” from the group, the show’s grooming guru, Jonathan Van Ness, plunged in.

“Sticking with my vertical, I would say, I... ugh, um.” He paused. “Well, maybe just a gorgeous facial hair moment to, like ― hide. You know, give him a little roughness. And make him not like such a freshly-shaven baby head – who is wreaking havoc! Oh, and a lace front [wig]. A nice, dork, natural JFK moment.”

The show’s culture expert, Karamo Brown, would take Trump “to a small village in Mexico where he’s trying to build this damned wall.”

“And I would say, ‘Let’s go ahead and put you in front of these people,’” Brown said, “‘and I want you to look at them in their eyes and tell them, truly, that you really think they are criminals and rapists.’”

“First of all, I would get rid of some of the gold!” exclaimed Berk, the show’s design expert. “All this flashiness. I mean, he is clearly trying to make up for things that aren’t quite adequate, you know, by coating everything in gold.”

Food and wine expert Antoni Porowski said he’s “thinking about poor Melania and poor little Barron.”

“I don’t know if he ever has, but teach him how to make a meal for his family and show up,” Porowski said. “Because she’s been put through the wringer.”

Fashion stylist Tan France, however, said he wouldn’t do much at all.

“I haven’t got much bad to say about him,” France confessed to gasps from the rest of the cast. Pushing back, France added, “The only thing I would say is that he needs to get an actual tailor. I think he’s going to God knows where —”

Berk interjected: “No, it’s because of his diapers. They make his pants poofy.”

In case it’s not evident, a key difference about the new “Queer Eye” is that the new “Fab Five” weigh in on cultural and political issues of the day and get into charged discussions with their “heroes,” as they call their makeover subjects. (France, who is Muslim, is outspoken about being married to a Mormon cowboy.) The show’s creator, David Collins, explained recently that while the earlier “Queer Eye” was about “tolerance,” the new version is about “acceptance.”

“Where gay men were in 2003, when the show originally came out, is not where we are in 2018,” Brown, who is African-American, said. “I think the beauty of what we are doing now as a cast is not only that we are diverse, but we’re bringing our true selves and our lives to the show, which is great.”

“I don’t think anyone’s ever seen an openly gay Muslim man on television being this proud, and for him to go into the South, that’s obviously going to be [a] conversation,” he continued. “And I think that’s what we all do so well. We have these culturally relevant conversations in a way that is not going to turn people off, but is going to invite them into our community and say, ‘Hey, let’s have some fun, but let’s also learn.’”

Pointing to why “Queer Eye” could be even more relevant in 2018, France added: “I think before, we were very much sticking to a whitewashed version. It wasn’t so much diverse. You wouldn’t really talk about our personal lives in the old show, whereas now you find out so much about us.”

In Trump’s America, even if the president himself doesn’t get his much-needed makeover, that can only be a good thing.A CNN video shows Duncan shook hands with Trump as he said, “Mr. President, let’s release the memo.”

Trump replied, “Don’t worry. 100 percent.”

But on Wednesday White House press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders says the president hasn’t read the document.

The White House is completing a “legal and national security review” before it takes action on the memo, Sanders told host Chris Cuomo in a Wednesday morning appearance on CNN’s “New Day.” Sanders added she hasn’t seen the document herself.

House Republicans voted Monday to release the controversial, four-page document that they say could bring an end to special counsel Robert Mueller’s investigation into Russian interference in the 2016 election.

The memo, which Republican staffers authored, contains allegations that government officials breached the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act as the FBI began investigating Trump’s presidential campaign. In seeking a warrant, officials inappropriately used information contained in a “dossier” on Trump that the Democratic National Committee and Hillary Clinton’s presidential campaign funded, the memo contends. GOP lawmakers have called it “sickening” and “worse than Watergate.”

On “New Day,” Sanders referred to the FBI investigation as a “hoax,” but stated that the White House plans to see it through.

Press secretary Sarah Sanders calls the probe into potential collusion between the Trump campaign and Russia "a total hoax" and "a waste of taxpayer money," but says the White House wants to see it through https://t.co/V6BqoB1WFr — New Day (@NewDay) January 31, 2018

Assistant Attorney General Stephen Boyd warned the House Intelligence Committee’s chairman, Rep. Devin Nunes (R-Calif.), in a letter last week that releasing sensitive information contained in the memo without allowing intelligence agencies to review it would be “extraordinarily reckless.”

“[W]e do not understand why the committee would possibly seek to disclose this information without first consulting the relevant members of the Intelligence Community,” Boyd wrote. Other top Justice Department officials, including Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein, pleaded with White House Chief of Staff John Kelly on Monday not to release it, according to a Washington Post report.

Republicans, including Sanders, have argued that releasing the document is an issue of transparency. Trump has five days from Monday’s vote to decide whether or not to block it.

Just before the State of the Union, the press secretary said the White House had “no current plans” to release the memo. Trump’s Tuesday night comment, however, flipped the script.The Publix supermarket chain has a checkered history on LGBTQ issues. John Greim via Getty Images

A major U.S. supermarket chain is facing claims that one of its stores refused to cover HIV prevention medication for an employee through its insurance plan.

David Holland, director of the Fulton County PrEP Clinic in Atlanta, told The Body website that he had tried to obtain coverage for pre-exposure prophylaxis, or PrEP, for a patient who works at a Publix supermarket in Georgia.

Publix, he said, denied the request.

“We’ve started over 400 people on PrEP at our clinic alone, and this is the only person that we weren’t able to get PrEP for,” said Holland, who is also an assistant professor of medicine at Emory University.

Although the employee, who was not identified, attempted to appeal the decision, the request was rejected two more times, much to Holland’s surprise.

“What we found out from the insurance company was that it came, ultimately, from the employer,” he said. “It wasn’t just an insurance issue; it was [that] the employer did not want it covered in the insurance.”

According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, daily use of PrEP can reduce the risk of contracting HIV from sex by more than 90 percent. Medical sources estimate that the out-of-pocket cost of the drug without insurance can be as high as $13,000 per year.

Publix didn’t immediately respond to HuffPost’s request for comment. However, spokeswoman Brenda Reid told The Body, “Annually, we evaluate benefits covered under our health plans. There are numerous medications covered by the plan used in the treatment of HIV.”

She added, “There are some medications that have coverage limitations or require prior authorization.”

The response from the Lakeland, Florida-based company has prompted some speculation that it refused to cover PrEP on moral grounds, discriminating against gay and bisexual men, who remain disproportionately susceptible to HIV infection. (It is not known whether the employee who requested the drug identifies as LGBTQ.)

Publix Grocery Chain Denies PrEP Coverage to Its Employees https://t.co/OSsISVVkjk via @TheBodyDotCom It was just a matter of time. We saw this coming. Discrimination in healthcare is NOT RELIGIOUS FREEDOM. It's discrimination whether you're gay or a woman who needs contraception — Martha Plimpton (@MarthaPlimpton) January 29, 2018The Trump administration’s announcement this week that it would not immediately impose new sanctions against Russia for its alleged meddling in the presidential election ticked off “Late Night” host Seth Meyers.

In a “Hey!” segment on Tuesday, Meyers said President Donald Trump looked obviously cozy with Moscow, thanks to the move.

“If you were a spy, your code name would be ‘Big Fat Spy,’” Meyers said.

Members of Congress approved the measure 517-5 in July.

“You couldn’t get that kind of bipartisan agreement on a bill that proclaims puppies are cute,” he said.“He was selling sweet-tasting candy with poison in it,” Jones said Tuesday night.

He then criticized the president for implying that immigrant children are gang members, calling it “completely unacceptable.”Rep. Trey Gowdy (R-S.C.) announced Wednesday that he will not seek re-election this year.

“Instead I will be returning to the justice system,” Gowdy, who previously worked as an attorney and prosecutor, said in a statement. “Whatever skills I may have are better utilized in a courtroom than in Congress, and I enjoy our justice system more than our political system.”

There is a time to come and a time to go. This is the right time, for me, to leave politics and return to the justice system. Full statement here → pic.twitter.com/7I8AApqvs1 — Trey Gowdy (@TGowdySC) January 31, 2018

Gowdy was first elected to Congress in 2010. He has served as the chair of the House Oversight Committee since June, and chaired the House Benghazi Committee from 2014 to 2016, investigating the 2012 attack on the American diplomatic compound in Libya that left a U.S. ambassador and three other Americans dead. During that probe, Gowdy faced criticism for focusing the investigation on former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton, who was running for president at the time.

Gowdy is one of several high-profile Republican House members to announce their retirement ahead of the 2018 midterm elections. According to Cook Political Report, there are currently 32 open Republican seats in the House and 13 open Democratic seats.

On Monday, 12-term Rep. Rodney Frelinghuysen (R-N.J.) said he wouldn’t run again, setting up a battle to take over his chairmanship of the powerful House Appropriations Committee. Other significant GOP retirements include Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (Va.), Financial Services Committee Chair Jeb Hensarling (Texas) and Foreign Affairs Committee Chair Ed Royce (Calif.).

On the Senate side, Tennessee’s Bob Corker, Arizona’s Jeff Flake and Utah’s Orrin Hatch have said they will step down after this term.

AdvertisementCuomo: How can he unify that room?

Sanders: I think [by] doing exactly what he did last night. And I’m going to be a little bit in disagreement with you. I think Nancy Pelosi looks like that all the time. I think she should smile a lot more often. I think the country would be better for it. She seems to embody the bitterness that belongs in the Democratic Party right now.

I think last night was a good step forward, hopefully they can let go of some of that. They have to make a big decision. They need to decide, Chris. Do they love America more than they hate this president? And are they willing to put some of those differences aside, come together and do what is right for this country?Actor David Schwimmer is hoping to help the #MeToo movement with another hashtag: #ThatsHarassment.

The “Friends” star recently filmed a series of short films with filmmaker Sigal Avin that are designed to empower people to report sexual harassment and get companies to reform their workplaces.

The six films show different examples of workplace sexual harassment.

“I want to change things,” Schwimmer wrote in an essay about the campaign for NBC News.

It’s an issue that’s been close to Schwimmer’s heart since he was a child.

“I grew up with stories of sexual harassment from my mother: She was a young, attractive lawyer, working in the emerging field of family law in California, and there weren’t a lot of them at the time. But while working at different firms before she established her own, she was subjected to sexual harassment and a lot of discrimination, chauvinism and sexism — by judges, other lawyers, even clients.”

“I grew up with those stories, and so did my sister. Years later, I heard from my sister and pretty much every woman I know that they had all experienced some form of sexual harassment, and many are victims of sexual assault.”

Schwimmer isn’t jumping on a bandwagon. For the past 20 years, he’s been an advocate for child and adult victims of sexual violence with the The Rape Foundation. He’s been on the board of directors for the last 15 years.

Still, Schwimmer admits things started getting worse before the 2016 election.

“I really noticed that women were being more openly demeaned and discredited and then, with a presidential candidate boasting of committing sexual assault on audio tape, I thought, This is real. This is unacceptable. I’m the father of a six-and-a-half year-old daughter; if I’m going to do something about this for the future generations, now is the time.”

Schwimmer stars in one of the films, playing a supportive boss who promotes a female employee, only to ruin the moment by trying to kiss her.

Avin said it’s important that the films use “nice, friendly” male characters.

“They’re not monsters, they’re not mean,” she said, according to USA Today. “They’re just nice guys, good-looking — which almost makes it confusing. You don’t really even know it happened.”

The films are starting to get picked up by networks, and shortened versions are beginning to appear in New York City taxi cabs.The Washington Post’s first edition headline covering President Donald Trump’s State of the Union address didn’t go over well on social media.

Twitter users panned the original five-column headline:

The Washington Post

By the time the evening was over, the newspaper had given its front page a major makeover, replacing the “call for bipartisanship” of what many called a highly-partisan and even extremist speech with a quote from the address instead.

Ironically, that line was first delivered by Hillary Clinton in 2010:

The Washington Post

While it’s not unusual for newspapers to undergo changes between editions, it’s unclear what role the more than 3,000 comments on Twitter ― mostly negative ― played in this case.

The newspaper later released a statement saying those changes were in fact due to newsroom discussions and not the social media outcry.

Executive editor Martin Baron said the early headline was for an edition with a 9:15 pm ET deadline, just as Trump was starting his speech.

“As the speech was being delivered and observed, editors quickly concluded that a different headline would better reflect the full speech,” he said, adding:

“Like most newspapers, The Post often rethinks, refines and rewrites headlines from one edition to the next based on its own internal discussions about what best captures the nature of a story. Headline changes last night were based exclusively on our customary internal conversations.”

Here is some of the reaction to both the initial headline and the later version:

Are you insane? He equated immigrants with Ms-13 and want to stop family reunification . No way. That's as divisive as it comes. — Arriadna 🗽 (@Arriadna) January 31, 2018

it would be nice if



a) you didn't need to be scolded into fixing a ridiculous headline

b) you actually fixed it — Avi (@AviAhvee) January 31, 2018

fixed it for you pic.twitter.com/kY0QN2huGp — Adam Parkhomenko (@AdamParkhomenko) January 31, 2018

Congrats on a headline you absolutely, positively won't regret tomorrow. — Kevin M. Kruse (@KevinMKruse) January 31, 2018

Twelve editions from now, you'll have it absolutely nailed. — The Hoarse Whisperer (@HoarseWisperer) January 31, 2018

You do realize that line, the "new Anerican moment" line, was lifted from a Hillary Clinton speech in 2010. It was a very Melania moment indeed. — mikey_shriver (@mikey_shriver) January 31, 2018

I guess WTF was too pithy? — Bronco Bama (@BronckoBamma) January 31, 2018

why is it not obvious to you that this is also bad? — Eric Armstrong (@_ericarmstrong) January 31, 2018

Keep trying. — Cari Dick (@CariDick) January 31, 2018

In its second attempt at a cover, Wa Po is still sanitizing and normalizing DT’s speech. #sotu pic.twitter.com/kC4BVVep42 — Nia Spencer (@niaaspencer) January 31, 2018

Still nope. — The Doctor: CALL UR SENATORS: 202-224-3121 (@TheTenth2017) January 31, 2018

Personally I would have gone with "Well He Didn't Poop Himself" — RuPaul Ryan (@itsrupaulryan) January 31, 2018Jimmy Kimmel brought people on both sides of the immigration debate face to face for what he likely hoped would be an enlightening discussion.

But as the comedian himself admitted toward the end of the segment on Tuesday’s broadcast of “Jimmy Kimmel Live”: “We made almost no progress.”

Of the six opponents of the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrival program that President Donald Trump has moved to end in March, only one appeared semi-willing to allow DACA recipient Esmeralda to remain in the U.S.

The others believed the young mother should be sent back alone to Mexico, from where her parents brought her when she was 2 years old. They said she should be made to apply for legal status in America from there.

(They had similar feelings on the other 700,000 young undocumented immigrants, or Dreamers, who are nervously waiting for Congress to negotiate deportation relief.)

The opponents remained resolute, even after learning that Esmeralda works, pays taxes, attends nursing college and now has a child of her own ― and that her Kansas-born fiancé Michael is a prison staffer who will soon be deployed overseas with his part-time job as a soldier in the U.S. Army National Guard.

Kimmel summed up his feelings when one of the opponents claimed “we live in a most-loving, compassionate, exceptional country.”

“I think that this country has become cruel,” Kimmel said.Stormy Daniels’ attorney Michael Avenatti posted photos Sunday on Twitter showing Donald Trump’s personal lawyer Michael Cohen getting into an elevator at Trump Tower with a man appearing to be a Qatari banker accused in a lawsuit affidavit of boasting that he bribed Washington politicians.

Avenatti said Cohen was in the building shortly after the presidential election meeting with a group of Qataris, including Ahmed al-Rumaihi, an official of Qatar’s national wealth fund.

The photos of Cohen appear to be screengrabs of a video posted on C-Span from the “Trump Tower Cam” dated December 12, 2016. A group of men — including the man who appears to be al-Rumaihi — can be seen getting into an elevator with Cohen. Cohen pats one of the men on the back as the group enters the elevator.

A photo apparently taken from a C-Span video appears to show Michael Cohen (right) about to enter a Trump Tower elevator with a man who looks like Qatari Ahmed al-Rumaihi (left), looking over the shoulder of the lobby guard. C-Span screengrab/Michael Avenatti tweet

In a tweet, Avenatti linked to the video (up top) showing the men entering the elevator (just after 7:42:30) and most of them leaving (shortly after 9:08:15). This is a clip of the video showing the group of men with Cohen:

Why did the men meet, Avenatti asked in his tweet, adding: “and why did Mr. Al-Rumaihi later brag about bribing administration officials according to a sworn declaration filed in court?”

Why was Ahmed Al-Rumaihi meeting with Michael Cohen and Michael Flynn in December 2016 and why did Mr. Al-Rumaihi later brag about bribing administration officials according to a sworn declaration filed in court? — Michael Avenatti (@MichaelAvenatti) May 13, 2018

Al-Rumaihi was accused last month of trade libel and contractual interference in a $1.2 billion lawsuit filed by rapper Ice Cube and business partner Jeff Kwatinetz. The suit accuses Al-Rumaihi and other investors of failing to pay funds promised to the partners’ BIG3 basketball league.

An affidavit filed last week in California Superior Court in Los Angeles accused Al-Rumaihi of plotting to use the promised investment to influence former White House chief strategist Steve Bannon.

“After making partial payment to the BIG3, there were numerous occasions during the 2017 season where Mr. Al-Ruhmaihi would bring up Mr. Bannon’s name to me and comment about Mr. Bannon’s political positions, his views on the blockade, the Trump administration’s position toward Qatar, and he persistently inquired about wanting to meet with Mr. Bannon,” Kwatinetz stated in the affidavit.

“Mr. Al-Rumaihi requested I set up a meeting between him, the Qatari government, and Steven Bannon, and to tell Steve Bannon that Qatar would underwrite all of his political efforts in return for his support.”

Kwatinetz, who is a friend of Bannon’s, said that he rejected the offer because he considered it a bribe. He stated that he did not tell Bannon of the conversation.

Kwatinetz said in the affidavit that “Al-Rumaihi laughed and [said] that I shouldn’t be naive, that so many Washington politicians take our money.”

Avenatti also tweeted a photo in the lobby of Trump Tower the same day of the apparent meeting of Cohen talking with Michael Flynn. But that photo appeared to be a screen grab from a different YouTube video of the lobby. Flynn is not seen with the man who appears to be al-Rumaihi or the group he is with. Trump fired Flynn as his national security adviser after Flynn lied about his contacts with then-Russian Ambassador Sergey Kislyak.

Cohen did not immediately respond to a request for comment about Avenatti’s tweets.

Avenatti indicated that the photos and information he posted Sunday were payback for the “refusal of various” unspecified “parties to come clean” and to “stop with the personal attacks.” Although he didn’t specify who he was talking about, the attorney taunted: “Keep pushing us.”

Warning ignored. So here it goes.

December 12, 2016 - Trump Tower. Details to follow... pic.twitter.com/aEuuhRHB4a — Michael Avenatti (@MichaelAvenatti) May 13, 2018WHITE SULPHUR SPRINGS, W. Va ― A train carrying Republican members of Congress to a legislative retreat in West Virginia collided with a garbage truck Wednesday outside Charlottesville, Virginia.

One person traveling in the truck was pronounced dead and two more were seriously injured, according to lawmakers who treated the three men in the truck.

Albemarle County Police identified the deceased man as Christopher Foley, one of the truck passengers. Rep. Phil Roe (R-Tenn.), who’s also a doctor, said it was his opinion that Foley, 28, was killed instantaneously.

The University of Virginia Medical Center said it received a total of six patients from the crash, one of whom is in critical condition:

Our final update today on the 6 patients transported to UVA Medical Center following the train accident in Crozet: 1 patient is in critical condition, 1 patient is in good condition, 3 patients are being evaluated, and 1 patient has been discharged — UVA Health System (@uvahealthnews) January 31, 2018

Some lawmakers’ family members were also on the train. According to an Amtrak spokesperson, two crew members and three passengers aboard the train suffered minor injuries.

Lawmakers present said that Rep. Chuck Fleischmann (R-Tenn.) suffered a minor injury when he fell over as a result of the impact. An aide for Rep. Jason Lewis (R-Minn.) said the lawmaker had been taken to the hospital and was being examined for a possible concussion.

Lewis downplayed his injury in a media statement, calling his transport to the hospital standard protocol.

“I’m fine compared to, tragically, the truck drivers, and thankful for the prompt action of our doctors and first responders,” Lewis said. “My thoughts are with the family of the individual who passed away.”

Emergency medical responders treated the scene as a hazmat situation, on account of the garbage truck’s load.

BREAKING: GOP train hit a truck on way to retreat. Sources say driver getting medical attention; members okay. Pic-> pic.twitter.com/99xmsGFEEs — Rachael Bade (@rachaelmbade) January 31, 2018

Lawmakers described a gruesome scene on Wednesday. Rep. Michael Burgess (R-Texas) who is also a doctor, had to switch out of a bloodied shirt after treating the men.

Rep. French Hill (R-Ark.) told Bloomberg passengers felt “a very sudden jolt” when the collision happened, but the train remained on the tracks and slowed to a stop.

“There’s a lighted crossing guard where the train crosses,” Hill said. “The guardrails were down but the train hit the garbage truck.”

Video shows emergency crews on the scene of a collision between a truck and a train carrying GOP lawmakers and aides to a retreat in West Virginia. https://t.co/vg90xqMQJR pic.twitter.com/X2ag2zkyXF — ABC News (@ABC) January 31, 2018

“Today’s incident was a terrible tragedy,” House Speaker Paul Ryan (R-Wis.) said in a statement. “We are grateful for the first responders who rushed to the scene and we pray for the victims and their families. May they all be in our thoughts right now.”

Republican leadership said the retreat will continue ― albeit with a security briefing first and a prayer for those involved in the incident.

President Donald Trump spoke to Ryan, who was aboard the train, via telephone.

.@maryaliceparks Front of the train heading to the Greenbrier pic.twitter.com/QGUxUbo8m7 — Jeff Denham (@RepJeffDenham) January 31, 2018John Kenneally, a Monster Energy vice president accused of sexually harassing two different women at the company, has resigned after HuffPost published details of his behavior last week.

Yet the company is standing by two other men also embroiled in misconduct accusations and related lawsuits. The company’s head of music marketing, Brent Hamilton, is awaiting trial on felony charges for allegedly strangling his ex-girlfriend. Phillip Deitrich, another manager, stands accused of bullying a female subordinate in front of her male colleagues and sabotaging her ability to work.

Both men still work at Monster. The female Monster employees involved lost their jobs.

Kenneally, a 60 year-old Atlanta-based executive named in two sexual discrimination lawsuits filed last year against the drinkmaker, was gone by Friday, according to one current and one former employee at Monster Energy. A spokesman for Monster would only confirm that the company “accepted his resignation,” meaning it didn’t implore him to stay.

His interim replacement is Andrew Wilkinson, another executive at Monster, the company confirmed. A former female employee’s lawsuit describes Wilkinson as enabling Kenneally’s behavior.

John Kenneally resigned from Monster Energy, the company confirmed. LinkedIn

During his time at Monster, Kenneally started up a romance with a colleague, Page Zeringue, convincing her to take a promotion working for him. When their relationship soured, he turned abusive, sending her lengthy text messages in which he called her a “bitch” and a “whore” and once made a racially charged comment about “black dicks.” He eventually helped engineer Zeringue’s firing, according to her lawsuit.

HuffPost published those texts, shocking many current and former employees, who said they hadn’t been aware of the extent of Kenneally’s misconduct.

Texts between former Monster executive John Kenneally and his subordinate Page Zeringue shocked many inside the company HuffPost

Zeringue, who remains unemployed, was only slightly mollified by the news.

“This is only a small step towards greater justice,” Zeringue told HuffPost in an email. “John was enabled by the founders of Monster ― Rodney Sacks and Hilton Schlosberg ― who routinely turned a blind eye to internal abuse while people such as us lost our jobs, life savings, and our futures.”

A Monster spokesman disputed some of Zeringue’s claims when HuffPost reached him on Wednesday. “Messrs. Sacks and Schlosberg,” the spokesman said in a statement, “Take these issues seriously.”

“Monster Energy has zero-tolerance for discrimination or harassment of any kind,” the company said in a statement to HuffPost. “If the company’s discrimination and harassment policies are violated, appropriate action is taken, up to and including termination of employment.”

“It is also worth noting that Mr. Kenneally’s resignation was accepted by the Company,” the statement says.

Kenneally was on paid leave pending an internal investigation after HuffPost contacted Monster earlier this month about its forthcoming article.

The company, which is partly owned by Coca-Cola, also said the lawsuits women filed against Monster ― five in total ― are unrelated and without merit.

A spokesman for Coca-Cola declined to comment on these cases. He did say that the company recently reminded its own employees of its policies on harassment and discrimination and its commitment to not retaliating if someone comes forward to report abuse.

The departure of a single man accused of misconduct hardly suggests a culture shift at Monster, a drink company that markets primarily to men, promotes itself with “Girls” dressed in skimpy outfits, makes a beverage called Assault and once produced a Monster-branded condom labeled “unleash the beast.”

It’s notable that the company has not chosen to discipline the other men named in these suits.

Fran Pulizzi, a former business development manager at the company who also sued Monster over Kenneally’s behavior, alleged in her own lawsuit that Kenneally’s interim replacement, Wilkinson, helped enable Keneally’s misconduct.

Pulizzi became the target of vicious retaliation after she reported Kenneally’s actions to Monster’s human resources department, according to her lawsuit, which said that Kenneally directed colleagues to stop working with her and addressed her in abusive and derogatory ways. Pulizzi told HuffPost that Keneally also spread harmful rumors about her personal life.

Wilkinson was Pulizzi’s direct supervisor for a few months while this retaliation was ongoing, her suit says. And though he was initially sympathetic to her situation, something quickly changed, according to Pulizzi’s lawsuit. Wilkinson stopped returning her calls and emails, she told HuffPost. He also gave Pulizzi a poor performance review after working with her for only a few months, possibly at Kenneally’s urging, according to the suit.

It’s upsetting that the company replaced one man, credibly accused of sexual harassment, with another man who enabled that behavior, Pulizzi told HuffPost.

“It tells me nothing’s changed at Monster,” she said.

Still, Pulizzi and Zeringue are hopeful that by speaking up about their experiences, something will change.

“In the last week, we have heard from scores of Monster employees who are too afraid to speak up,” Zeringue said. “We hope that our continued attempt to seek justice ― will help alleviate their fears.”