Helen Mirren is now rap royalty.

The British actress got R-rated to slay James Corden in a lyrical battle on Tuesday night’s broadcast of “The Late Late Show.”

Corden poked fun at “The Queen” star’s love life, her accent and movie roles in the “Drop the Mic” segment. At one point, he even donned a fake crown to declare himself the winner.

But the host’s celebrations were premature as Mirren fired back in fierce style.

One stand-out line?

“Sorry James, I’m not single. But you know I taught your little mister to tingle…”

Ouch!Dakota Johnson wants you to know that she wasn’t looking at Angelina Jolie, guys. And even if she was, she wasn’t the only one.

The “Fifty Shades Freed” actress tried to set the record straight about a viral photo of her appearing to slyly peak at Jolie ignoring Jennifer Aniston make a presentation at the Golden Globes this month.

A post shared by @obviousbutamazing on Jan 7, 2018 at 7:06pm PST

“So is Armie [Hammer]’s wife! “ Johnson told Jimmy Fallon on the “The Tonight Show” Monday, when the host showed her the photo and asked her to explain. “Elizabeth is very blatantly looking at her, she’s like, ‘What is she gonna do?’” Johnson said of Elizabeth Chambers, who was sitting at the same table.

Johnson insisted that Jolie, who married actor Brad Pitt after he and Aniston split, wasn’t the subject of her sneaky gaze.

“Truthfully, I don’t think that I was really, actually looking at her. If you follow the trajectory of my eyes, I was looking over there ― there was like an actual kids’ table, which was the ‘Stranger Things’ table, and I really love ‘Stranger Things’ so much.”

Sadie Sink, Caleb McLaughlin, Millie Bobby Brown and Gaten Matarazzo attend the Netflix Golden Globes after party. Handout via Getty Images

The actress said she was trying to discreetly take a video of the young cast of the Netflix series, which included Millie Bobby Brown, Gaten Matarazzo, Caleb McLaughlin, Sadie Sink and Noah Schnapp.

And yes, she knows that sounds weird.

“Like, everybody there is a famous person, but I was trying to take a video of these kids,” she joked.Tom Kelley Archive via Getty Images Oh heeeeey, '80s!

The most popular baby names don’t change too dramatically from one year to the next, but clear trends emerge over longer periods of time. So if you were born anytime in the late 1980s, odds are you had a fair number of Samanthas and Ashleys in your class.

We examined Social Security Administration data to identify the most popular baby names in the U.S. from 1987 to 1989. Although some names remain popular today (hi to all the Michaels, Matthews and Elizabeths out there), others have fallen out of fashion (condolences to the Tiffanys, Ambers and Crystals).

Keep scrolling to see the list of 30 most popular names for boys and girls in the late ’80s.

Girls

Jessica Ashley Amanda Brittany Jennifer Sarah Stephanie Samantha Elizabeth Lauren Nicole Megan Heather Amber Melissa Tiffany Danielle Emily Rachel Christina Michelle Kayla Laura Kimberly Rebecca Courtney Katherine Amy Crystal Sara

Boys

AdvertisementWASHINGTON ― During his first State of the Union address, President Donald Trump took credit for the achievements of the black president who preceded him.

“And something I’m very proud of, African-American unemployment stands at the lowest rate ever recorded,” Trump said as the crowd packed into the U.S. Capitol on Tuesday night went wild. Vice President Mike Pence and House Speaker Paul Ryan (R-Wis.) gave the line a standing ovation.

Screenshot

But members of the Congressional Black Caucus, dressed in kente cloth, were unmoved. They didn’t clap. They didn’t emote at all. They sat there and gave Trump a blank stare.

Members of Congressional Black Caucus offer no reaction as Pres. Trump says "African-American unemployment stands at the lowest rate ever recorded" in #SOTU address https://t.co/q18EZzVe9p pic.twitter.com/Xxkqc7hFt9 — CBS News (@CBSNews) January 31, 2018

OMG SOMEONE GET ME A GIF NOW OF CBC MEMBERS REFUSING TO CHEER TRUMP ON AS HE BOASTS ABOUT BLACK UNEMPLOYMENT. NOW!! #SOTU — Christina Coleman (@ChrissyCole) January 31, 2018

Their lack of enthusiasm is understandable. The White House hasn’t detailed which of the Trump administration’s policies are to thank for the drop in black unemployment. And many political observers have noted that the unemployment rate began dropping before Trump took office, during the Obama administration.

The black unemployment rate fell from 16.5% to 7.8% from January 2011 –January 2017. Now it’s 6.8%. Thank President Obama – not @realDonaldTrump. #ThanksObama #AYearofTrump — Black Caucus (@OfficialCBC) January 30, 2018

“It’s not as if black unemployment was 18 percent under Barack Obama and, as soon as Trump took office, it plummeted. Black unemployment fell fairly consistently from 2010 on, as did the rates for whites and Hispanics,” wrote Philip Bump for The Washington Post.

“From January to December 2017, the unemployment rate among black Americans fell 1 percentage point. During the same period in 2016, it fell the same amount. In 2015, it fell 1.9 points. The previous year, it fell 1.5 points. The year before that, it fell 1.8 points,” Bump said.

Rep. Sheila Jackson Lee (D-Texas) invoked rapper Jay-Z’s recent comments that Trump was “missing the whole point.”

“I probably followed the mode somewhat of Jay-Z,” she told HuffPost. “I frankly believe there’s black unemployment, and black unemployment among young African-American men, who need more than praise about unemployment. They need job training, they need education, starting from primary and secondary schools of which neighborhoods they live in that the schools are not where they should be. They need support for their families.”

“So I thought it was disingenuous, and it was placating, and insulting, to be very honest with you. Where’s the compassion and the passion for comprehensive issues dealing with our community? Gun violence? The need for housing?”

Igor Bobic contributed reporting.WASHINGTON — President Donald Trump’s first State of the Union address was competently delivered and — for him — relatively inoffensive. The mainstream media and the television pundits will surely deem it to be a presidential moment, representative of yet another pivot to the center.

But one speech does not erase Trump’s record. The speech’s banality — its embrace of optimism and platitude — is a mask. Do not be fooled: Political extremism, divisive rhetoric and bizarre behavior have characterized the first year of Trump’s presidency and underlie many of the harmless-sounding proposals he talked about Tuesday night.

In his first State of the Union address, President Donald Trump downplayed or didn't mention many of his administration's policies. Mandel Ngan/Getty Images

Trump mentioned none of those facts in his State of the Union address. Indeed, the speech was most notable for all of the policies and initiatives of his administration that he downplayed or left out entirely.

On immigration, his signature issue, the president called for compromise on the status of undocumented immigrants who came to the U.S. as children. But he failed to mention that the crisis that has beset these immigrants, known as Dreamers, is one of his own making. Last year, Trump canceled Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA), which granted Dreamers renewable two-year deportation protections and work permits. Thousands of them have already lost their protections. Trump also didn’t talk about his unilateral cancellation of protected status for hundreds of thousands of Haitians, Nicaraguans, Salvadorans and Sudanese — people who have lived in the U.S. for years and will now have to leave. And he didn’t mention his three attempts to ban people from Muslim-majority countries from entering the U.S, the third attempt of which is due for a U.S. Supreme Court ruling later this year.

On the economy, Trump bragged about job growth and the Republican tax cut bill, but he didn’t mention that those tax cuts were overwhelmingly tilted toward the wealthy and corporations. He argued that the country is undergoing a “new American moment” under his presidency, promising, “There has never been a better time to start living the American dream.” He talked about bonuses and wage gains, but he certainly didn’t mention that the richest 5 percent of taxpayers would see the largest percentage increase in after-tax income under the law.

On defense, Trump bragged about U.S. success in the war against ISIS. But he didn’t mention that if he gets his way, transgender members of the military won’t be able to serve openly.

On North Korea, Trump described his policy against the hermit kingdom as “waging a campaign of maximum pressure” to prevent Kim Jong Un’s regime from acquiring nuclear weapons. That sounds like a reasonable — even presidential — thing to say. But it obscures the fact that Trump’s actual policy toward North Korea has been erratic and ineffective. Last year, North Korea tested a missile capable of hitting the U.S. mainland. Instead of pushing for nuclear negotiations, the Trump administration is reportedly considering a preemptive strike against North Korea — which nonproliferation experts say would do little to deter the rogue state’s nuclear ambitions and would put millions in South Korea at risk of a retaliatory attack. Hours before Trump’s speech, The Washington Post reported that the Trump administration had dropped Victor Cha, a former White House official, from consideration to become the U.S. ambassador to South Korea because he had warned of the risks of a so-called “bloody nose” attack on North Korea.

On Iran, Trump asked Congress to “address the fundamental flaws in the terrible Iran deal.” Left unsaid was the fact that Washington’s European allies have already said they will not cooperate with an effort to unilaterally rewrite the terms of the Iran deal. The best-case scenario is that the U.S. ends up isolated as Iran, France, Germany, Britain, China and Russia continue abiding by the nuclear deal. The worst-case scenario is that Iran points to a U.S. violation of the agreement as an excuse to scrap the deal entirely and resumes production of weapons-grade nuclear material. And although Trump praised protesters in Iran “who rose up against the crimes of their corrupt dictatorship” and congratulated himself for voicing his support for the movement, he didn’t mention that he has spent months fighting in court to ban Iranians — protesters or otherwise — from entering the U.S. at all.

On nuclear weapons, the president suggested that “someday in the future there will be a magical moment when the countries of the world will get together and eliminate their nuclear weapons.” But privately Trump has expressed a desire for a nearly tenfold increase in the U.S. nuclear arsenal, NBC reported last year. His administration is now pursuing the development of new low-yield nuclear weapons, according to a leaked copy of the Nuclear Posture Review obtained by HuffPost.

On Guantanamo Bay, Trump actually described his policy: an executive order that effectively reverses his predecessor’s commitment to closing the offshore prison. But he managed to avoid threatening to send American citizens to the prison where an ad-hoc judicial system has replaced what most Americans would consider due process. And he made no mention of his past threat to restart a now-defunct torture program.

On social issues, Trump said hardly anything. His administration is no longer standing behind transgender students who want to use the restroom of their choosing, but you wouldn’t know from listening to his speech. He didn’t mention his support for a ban on all abortions after 20 weeks’ gestation or his decision to reinstate the Reagan-era global ban on funding organizations that offer abortion as a family planning option or Republicans’ multiple attempts to defund Planned Parenthood. He touted “faith and family” as the “center of the American life” but faces sexual misconduct allegations from a number of women — and he backed a Senate candidate who had been accused of sexually pursuing teenage girls.

The mood in the chamber ― at least on the GOP side ― resembled a monster truck rally. Republicans said they loved the speech. They enthusiastically cheered the many applause lines. They hooted. They hollered. They chanted “U-S-A,” with Rep. Matt Gaetz (R-Fla.) pumping his fist to the rhythm of the cheer and Rep. Jody Hice (R-Ga.) holding up a red “Make America great again” hat.

But on the Democratic side, many sat when Trump entered the chamber. Many others spent a considerable amount of time on their phones as the speech became the third-longest State of the Union ever delivered, at one hour, 20 minutes and 34 seconds.

Democrats hissed during some of Trump’s claims. One line that will likely stick in memory will be his assertion that “a single immigrant” could bring in “virtually unlimited numbers of distant relatives” through family reunification. And the only reason it will be remembered is because it is so brazenly dishonest in a speech that contained a number of misleading claims, such as the GOP tax cut being the largest of all time. (It’s not.)

Hanging over the whole speech, but never acknowledged, was special counsel Robert Mueller’s investigation into Russia’s interference in the 2016 election and what role Trump and his associates played in any sort of collusion.

Trump mentioned Russia briefly, only once, as a “rival” that challenges U.S. interests. But during the election, Trump’s campaign saw Russia as a potential ally. At campaign events, he repeatedly praised President Vladimir Putin and said he longed for a U.S. president who acted more like the strongman.

The Russia investigation is a constant in the White House. Mueller has already indicted four people connected to Trump, and the probe gets closer and closer to the president and whether he tried to obstruct justice by firing the FBI director. And it continues to shape, and undermine, the other actions Trump takes as president.

Trump said a lot — his speech was one of the longest State of the Union addresses ever. But what he didn’t say tells you everything.WASHINGTON ― A Democratic Party think tank is behind a shadowy social media campaign pressuring Democratic lawmakers to oppose congressional resolutions to bring back net neutrality rules.

In the past two weeks, individual Democratic Party lawmakers have received Twitter messages from hundreds of different users urging them to oppose two resolutions that would nullify the Federal Communications Commission’s December vote to end net neutrality rules for internet service providers. Democrats, digital companies and open internet advocates have harshly criticized the FCC decision.

A message shared by a Twitter user as part of the Progressive Policy Institute's influence campaign. Twitter

Both resolutions received wide support from Democrats. The one offered by Rep. Mike Doyle (D-Pa.) in the House has 110 co-sponsors, all Democrats. A bill in the Senate from Sen. Ed Markey (D-Mass.) is endorsed by all 49 members of the Democratic caucus, as well as Sen. Susan Collins (R-Maine).

The Twitter messages encouraged lawmakers to drop their support of the resolutions, which were offered under the Congressional Review Act (CRA), and to pass a bipartisan net neutrality bill instead; something that does not exist at this moment.

But rather than an organic expression of policy preferences by disparate Twitter users, the wave of messages started as an online advertising campaign by the Progressive Policy Institute, a centrist think tank affiliated with the Democratic Party that has consistently opposed net neutrality regulations imposed by the FCC.

Lindsay Mark Lewis, executive director of the Progressive Policy Institute, told HuffPost that the advocacy campaign is meant to target “pragmatic Members of Congress” in pursuit of a “real legislative solution” to net neutrality. Lewis called the Doyle and Markey bills “nothing but a gesture without a solution.” He added that the think tank has long supported a legislative solution to the net neutrality issue, something that Democrats and Republicans in Congress have never agreed on.

It is not easy for a casual Twitter user to determine that they might be taking part in the Progressive Policy Institute’s political advertising campaign. The message commonly shared by Twitter users does not note any connection to the think tank. Also, none of the original advertisements appear in the think tank’s official Twitter feed, since Twitter allows advertisers to hide their purchased posts from the general public so that only users targeted by the ads will see them.

We need a #netneutrality solution NOW. Tell @SenatorHeitkamp to support a permanent, bipartisan NN bill https://t.co/WqOUVGEzfJ — PPI (@ppi) January 19, 2018

Supporters of the Doyle and Markey bills, however, believe the Progressive Policy Institute is operating on behalf of internet service providers like AT&T, Comcast and Verizon. (Verizon is the parent company of the corporation that owns HuffPost.) These companies have funded the opposition to net neutrality rules for years and backed the FCC’s recent decision to repeal them.

The Progressive Policy Institute “has a history of bending over backwards to do whatever large phone and cable companies ask it to do,” Tim Karr, a senior director at Free Press, a pro-net neutrality nonprofit group, told HuffPost.

Free Press and other net neutrality advocates point to the Progressive Policy Institute’s longtime opposition to FCC net neutrality rules and its publication of dubious reports on the cost of net neutrality that internet service providers have used to defend their lobbying against net neutrality.

Net neutrality advocates also find the Progressive Policy Institute’s Twitter campaign suspect because it came just as the internet service providers launched a lobbying campaign for what the advocates deem a “fake” net neutrality bill.

AT&T ran full-page ads in The New York Times and The Washington Post on Jan. 24, calling for Congress to pass bipartisan net neutrality legislation. That version of net neutrality, however, would be riddled with loopholes that allow practices like paid prioritization, in which websites can pay service providers to move their content faster than the content of their competition. Legislation introduced by Rep. Marsha Blackburn (R-Tenn.) is very similar to what AT&T wants. Lewis told HuffPost that the Progressive Policy Institute does not support Blackburn’s bill.

“These types of astroturf campaigns are extremely dangerous because they hide the fact that they are corporate lobbying and mislead lawmakers into thinking that there is real constituent support for terrible and unpopular policies pushed by big businesses,” Evan Greer, campaign director at the pro-net neutrality Fight for the Future, told HuffPost in an email.

Karr says that the only thing you need to look at is the think tank’s donors, which, he says, “includes extensive support from the broadband lobby.”

The Progressive Policy Institute, through its parent nonprofit the Third Way Foundation, has received five- and six-figure contributions from the major trade associations affiliated with AT&T, Comcast and Verizon, including U.S. Telecom, National Cable & Telecommunications Association and CTIA - The Wireless Association. Each of these trade groups vigorously opposed the Obama-era FCC’s net neutrality rules. (The Third Way Foundation has no relation to the think tank Third Way.)

Lewis said the Progressive Policy Institute supports net neutrality legislation “that confirms the open internet and aggressively deals with paid prioritization, beyond what any ISP likely would want.” He added, “We would like to see a real bipartisan effort to affirm the rules for the internet that can be defined for a generation.”

The Progressive Policy Institute spent “very little” on the initial advertisements to oppose the bills, Lewis said, and that the campaign was funded out the organization’s general support fund, which the industry trade groups have contributed to in the past. He did not respond to questions about whether the group received donations from telecommunications companies or their trade groups this or last year.UNITED STATES - JANUARY 30: President Donald Trump takes a selfie with Rep. Matt Gaetz, R-Fla., in the House chamber after Trump's State of the Union address to a joint session of Congress on January 30, 2018. (Photo By Tom Williams/CQ Roll Call) Tom Williams via Getty Images

A Republican lawmaker invited a notorious far-right troll who peddles absurd conspiracy theories to President Donald Trump’s State of the Union address on Tuesday.

Rep. Matt Gaetz of Florida gave a ticket to the speech to Chuck Johnson, a blogger who was permanently banned from Twitter after asking for help “taking out” a civil rights activist. A Gaetz spokeswoman on Wednesday confirmed the invite to HuffPost.

Gaetz told The Daily Beast Johnson showed up at his office the day of the speech asking for a ticket. Johnson said several members of Congress invited him, but he took Gaetz’s ticket.

Johnson said he had a “wild time” at the speech.

“I certainly did a bunch of jumping out of my chair,” Johnson told The Daily Beast. “Trump was straight-up gangster.”

Johnson’s website, GotNews, is known for a wide range of false and dangerous writing, and promotes itself with the tagline: “President Trump reads us. You should too.”

In 2014, he falsely accused a New York Times reporter of posing for Playgirl. That same year, he published the name and photo of a person he claimed had falsely reported a rape (The photo, taken off Pinterest, showed the wrong person). He maintains that former President Barack Obama is “clearly gay,” and described Eric Garner, the unarmed black man who died in a New York police chokehold, as a “street thug.” Johnson said he identifies with the “alt-right.”The top Republican in the Pennsylvania Senate told the state’s Supreme Court on Wednesday that he is refusing to follow a court order asking lawmakers to turn over data to help correct a gerrymandered congressional map.

The letter from Senate President Pro Tempore Joseph Scarnati was the latest move Republicans have made to slow down the process of redrawing the congressional map, which the Pennsylvania Supreme Court ruled was in violation of the state constitution earlier this month.

The court is giving lawmakers and Gov. Tom Wolf (D) until Feb. 15 to come up with a new map. If they can’t agree on one by then, the court has appointed a special master to get one in place so that the state’s scheduled election primaries can run smoothly. To help the special master draw a map, the court asked lawmakers to provide data on Pennsylvania municipalities and precincts by noon on Wednesday.

But Scarnati said he would refuse to comply. He said the court was not giving lawmakers a realistic time frame or guidance to redraw the map and was trying to “usurp” the right the U.S. Constitution gave them to draw congressional lines.

“In light of the unconstitutionality of the Court’s Orders and the Court’s plain intent to usurp the General Assembly’s constitutionally delegated role of drafting Pennsylvania’s congressional district plan, Senator Scarnati will not be turning over any data identified in the Court’s Orders,” Brian Paszamant, Scarnati’s attorney, wrote in a letter to the court.

Paszamant also said Scarnati did not have some of the data the court was asking for.

The Pennsylvania State Capitol in Harrisburg. billnoll via Getty Images

Scarnati and House Speaker Michael Turzai (R) argue that the U.S. Constitution only grants lawmakers, not state courts, the ability to draw congressional districts. They’re appealing the ruling to the United States Supreme Court. Experts say the appeal is a long shot, and lawyers for the Democratic voters who challenged the map say there’s no basis for the U.S. Supreme Court to review the case because it only involves a challenge under state law.

Benjamin Geffen, an attorney at the Public Interest Law Center, a Philadelphia-based group that represented the plaintiffs in the case, said the court had clearly invited Scarnati and other lawmakers to participate in drawing a new map.

“It appears he’s not willing to participate in the court-ordered process of replacing the unconstitutional congressional plan with a constitutional one,” he told HuffPost. “We will certainly be prepared to submit a proposal on Feb. 15 if the legislature and governor don’t reach an agreement before then, consistent with the court’s order. If Senator Scarnati chooses not to participate in that process, well the court’s still gonna have plenty of maps to consider.”

Geffen said it wasn’t clear if Scarnati had any data that the court couldn’t get from other parties.The so-called leaks coming out of the White House are a massive over exaggeration put out by the Fake News Media in order to make us look as bad as possible. With that being said, leakers are traitors and cowards, and we will find out who they are!Three famous rich men announced a vague plan to disrupt the American health care system this week, and people went a little nuts. Why is difficult to discern.

Sure, a joint statement from Amazon CEO Jeff Bezos, Berkshire Hathaway CEO Warren Buffett and JPMorgan Chase CEO Jamie Dimon seems like a big deal, no matter what the reason. They’re well-known, extremely wealthy people who run companies of which other people have heard.

But their 400-word press release actually contributed to the Dow Jones Industrial Average falling by more than 300 points on Tuesday, with traditional health care companies like insurers and pharmacy benefit managers especially feeling the sting because lots of investors apparently believe Bezos, Buffett and Dimon are about to eat their lunch.

When the cult of the billionaire CEO meets the obsession of business media and Wall Street with Silicon Valley-esque buzzwords, all bets are off.

What was missing from the introduction of BezosBuffettDimonCare, however, was the slightest indication of what these three men really plan to do, or any hint as to how their three corporations might succeed at containing health care costs where everyone else has failed. They’re going to start some kind of new company? To do something? At some point?

The utter lack of information didn’t stop people from going a little loony. The stock market tumbled. Business news outlets went all-out, pushing the story to users’ phones so everyone would know right away. These responses signaled big news, but the substance of the companies’ announcement didn’t match the hype.

The American health care system is bad. It’s too expensive, it’s horribly inefficient, and too many people don’t have access to care. If BezosBuffettDimonCare can help, that would be a welcome miracle. The Wall Street Journal tellingly compares this initiative to Bezos’ funding private space flight and Elon Musk’s hyperloop project.

It’s often said that health care is ripe for disruption, which is true. If Bezos can transform retail, Buffett can transform rich people into richer people, and Dimon can transform hundreds of thousands of family homes into a multibillion-dollar federal fraud settlement, surely they can transform the health care system. That makes perfect sense?

Or, as Yale University economist Zack Cooper put it:

I do hope Amazon, JP Morgan, & Berkshire succeed. Health care is wildly inefficient However, it’s a bit like Mayo Clinic, Cleveland Clinic, and Partners Health coming out and saying they don’t like their computers so they’re going to form a new IT company https://t.co/wQ0s2BWz2u — Zack Cooper (@zackcooperYale) January 30, 2018

Outsiders trying to disrupt health care don’t have a great track record to date, unless you count Theranos’ novel strategy of selling blood tests that don’t work or Oscar Health’s stunningly creative model of having a smartphone app and losing tons of money.

Trouble is, if all it took to fix what ails the American health care system were a handful of tycoons sitting in a room, those problems would be fixed by now. During decades of rising costs, however, employers’ main innovations have been raising everyone’s deductibles and enrolling workers in wellness programs that don’t work.

OK, so what did Bezos, Buffett and Dimon actually announce? Let’s turn to the first paragraph of the press release their companies disseminated.

Amazon (NASDAQ: AMZN), Berkshire Hathaway (NYSE: BRK.A, BRK.B) and JPMorgan Chase & Co. (NYSE: JPM) announced today that they are partnering on ways to address healthcare for their U.S. employees, with the aim of improving employee satisfaction and reducing costs. The three companies, which bring their scale and complementary expertise to this long-term effort, will pursue this objective through an independent company that is free from profit-making incentives and constraints. The initial focus of the new company will be on technology solutions that will provide U.S. employees and their families with simplified, high-quality and transparent healthcare at a reasonable cost.

Ah, reducing costs and using technology. Why didn’t someone think of that before?

Selling health care is a good business. Pharmaceutical companies, health insurers, hospitals and doctors do quite well for themselves. Buying health care, as any human resources manager and any human American can tell you, sucks.

“The ballooning costs of health care act as a hungry tapeworm on the American economy,” Buffett said in the press release. That line has gotten a lot play. The Oracle of Omaha truly is wise.

While all three executives were quoted acknowledging the difficulty of the task before them, they also laid out a pretty ambitious mission. “The three of our companies have extraordinary resources, and our goal is to create solutions that benefit our U.S. employees, their families and, potentially, all Americans,” Dimon said.

That derring-do, plus the power of name recognition, is what investors and the business media keyed in on. Again, though, what exactly can these three companies do with their joint venture that big employers haven’t been trying for decades?

Much has been made of the potential for BezosBuffettDimonCare to move the needle on health care costs because the three companies employ about 1 million people. That seems like a lot unless you give it a moment’s thought.

Walmart employs twice as many people, and its efforts to contain company health care costs have succeeded only on the margins. More than 150 million Americans have health insurance from their employers, including many big companies, and those firms have been unable to get doctors, hospitals and drugmakers to budge much on price.

There are a slew of business groups ― some decades old ― founded with the sole mission of saving the health care system. The National Business Group on Health and its regional affiliates. The Leapfrog Group. Individual companies from Xerox to Whole Foods (now part of Amazon, as it happens) have tried, too. Success has been limited.

Just two years ago, dozens of major corporations (including Verizon, which owns HuffPost through its Oath subsidiary) banded together to form another one of those umbrella groups. Who can forget the tremendous victories won by the Healthcare Transformation Alliance?

The federal government provides health coverage to nearly as many people as all employers combined, through programs like Medicare and Medicaid, and Uncle Sam even lacks the clout to push health care providers to change the way they do things.

Why is this so hard, and why might the geniuses behind three brand-name companies fall short as everyone else has?

For a start, health care represents 18 percent of the U.S. economy. A lot of people think that’s too much. You know who doesn’t? The people who run and profit off the health care system.

Every penny of the more than $3 trillion spent on health care each year goes into people’s pockets, and none of those folks are going to let Bezos, Buffett and Dimon pick their purses without a fight. And these are people who don’t lose very often.

Is BezosBuffettDimonCare going to develop new drugs, medical devices and surgeries, and then charge $1 for them? Is it going to open new hospitals and clinics that don’t bill patients halfway to death? Is it going to somehow force doctors to accept lower rates than they do now? Is it going to make health insurance companies approve more claims and accept lower profit margins?“We must get much tougher on drug dealers and pushers if we are going to succeed in stopping this scourge,” Trump said. “My administration is committed to fighting the drug epidemic and helping get treatment for those in need, for those who have been so terribly hurt. The struggle will be long and it will be difficult ― but, as Americans always do, in the end, we will succeed, we will prevail.”

During his speech, Trump also paused for applause for one of his guests, Ryan Holets, an Albuquerque, New Mexico, police officer who, along with this wife, adopted a baby from a pregnant homeless mother struggling with opioid addiction. Their baby girl, Hope, now 3 months old, was also in attendance.

Trump’s rhetoric echoed his comments from the earliest days of his presidential campaign in 2015 when he visited places hit hard by the opioid crisis. Despite his tough talk, Trump has taken little action to address the epidemic as president, and it has showed no sign of slowing since he took office.

President Donald Trump barely mentioned the opioid crisis in his State of the Union address Tuesday night. Win McNamee via Getty Images

Rob Jarvis, a Democratic candidate running for congress in Ohio, a state ravaged by opioids, timed how long Trump spent on the crisis in tonight’s speech. “We got about 49 seconds,” he reported to HuffPost. And most of what Trump said, he noted, was fear-based.

“Where was the plan to actually improve the treatment?” he wondered. Or the plan to address the drug companies who helped spur the epidemic through their prescription painkillers. “Should I be happy that he mentioned it? Or should I be upset that he has no plan?” Jarvis said. He decided he was upset.

“I think it’s on the back burner,” Jarvis said. He added that residents in his district have all but given up hope of an adequate response from Trump. “I think the best word is despondent,” he said. “The idea of hope right now in our region of the state is not something that people talk about much. Everybody knows somebody that has a substance abuse problem. You are past the point of anger. We feel broken. We feel abandoned.”

Ohio’s overdose deaths spiked in 2017, rising by 41 percent between May 2016 and May 2017. Drug overdoses claimed roughly 64,000 lives in the United States in 2016, with the vast majority related to opioids, helping to drive the average American life expectancy down in back-to-back years for the first time since the 1960s. With the crisis showing no signs of abating in 2017, experts predict it will be the third consecutive year of declining longevity, which hasn’t happened in nearly a century, since the Spanish flu pandemic in 1918.

Critics have seen Trump’s response to the crisis as slow and muddled. Last spring, Trump created an opioid commission to study the epidemic and make recommendations. Many of its proposals were aimed at organizing a public health response to those suffering from opioid addiction. Trump spent most of the past year unsuccessfully pushing to repeal Obamacare ― which would mean tens of thousands of addicts would have lost access to drug treatment.

The commission’s final report was released in early November. “The time to wait is over. The time for talk is passed,” wrote Chris Christie (R), then the governor of New Jersey and chairman of the commission, in a letter addressed to Trump accompanying the panel’s report. “175 deaths a day can no longer be tolerated. We know that you will not stand by; we believe you will force action.”

The 138-page document outlines dozens of recommendations across a variety of areas, including drug prevention and treatment strategies, law enforcement and education. The report itemizes federal drug control spending by function, and notes that Trump’s proposed 2018 budget would increase funding on interdiction by 10 percent, while cutting prevention spending by 11 percent.

The commission also identifies the White House Office of National Drug Control Policy as a key player in the battle against the opioid epidemic. But it’s not clear the Trump administration agrees. The president has yet to nominate a full-time drug czar to lead the ONDCP, and a 24-year-old former campaign staffer had reportedly been running many of the agency’s operations until earlier this month, when he announced plans to step aside amid scrutiny of his work history and résumé. Trump has also reportedly floated the possibility of slashing ONDCP’s budget by 95 percent and shifting its key responsibilities to other departments.

All of these actions have led to questions about whether the White House is taking the opioid epidemic seriously enough. “I think they have highlighted the issue by appointing a commission and having [the Department of Health and Human Services] issue a health emergency,” said Regina LaBelle, the ONDCP’s chief of staff during President Barack Obama’s administration. “But little of substance has been done on the issue to date.”

Trump formally designated a public health emergency for the crisis in October. The move came two months after his commission recommended he instead declare a full-on national emergency, which would have opened up billions of dollars of funding. The public health emergency fund currently holds only about $57,000, which amounts to 2 cents for each individual in the U.S. struggling with opioid addiction, according to the progressive nonprofit Drug Policy Alliance.

With the White House recently estimating that the true cost of the opioid epidemic topped $500 billion in 2015, critics have accused the administration of dedicating insufficient attention and resources to the crisis. Even during his address on Tuesday, Trump spent far more time discussing other issues, including a handful of crimes committed by undocumented immigrants over the past few years.

“His SOTU remarks ring hollow ― no new proposals, no call for substantial new resources,” said Daniel Raymond, policy director at the Harm Reduction Coalition. “If Trump were running a corporation to end this crisis, shareholders looking for results would be ready to oust him.”

Although Trump’s opioid commission has put forth some positive proposals, they won’t bear results unless the president funds them adequately, said Dr. Yngvild Olsen, medical director of the Institutes for Behavior Resources in Baltimore.

“The resources need to be there to fully implement the good ideas — particularly the ones that focus on expanding access to evidence-based treatment and increasing support for people and families struggling with addiction,” Olsen said. “For this we need more than just the outrage the president expressed in his State of the Union address tonight.”WASHINGTON ― President Donald Trump used his first State of the Union address to continue his attacks on black NFL players and other athletes who have kneeled during the national anthem to protest police brutality and racial inequality.

Trump, midway through the Tuesday night speech, highlighted a 12-year-old boy in attendance named Preston Sharp, who helped start a movement to place more than 40,000 flags on the graves of veterans last year. After praising Sharp for a “job well done,” Trump said the boy was also a reminder that all Americans should stand for the national anthem.

“Young patriots like Preston teach all of us about our civic duty as Americans,” Trump said during the speech. “Preston’s reverence for those who have served our nation reminds us why we salute our flag, why we put our hands on our hearts for the Pledge of Allegiance, and why we proudly stand for the national anthem.” He put a ham’s emphasis to that last phrase, which was written in all-caps on the version of the speech distributed to reporters, and then grinned.

President Donald Trump continued his fight with athletes who have protested during the national anthem during his State of the Union address Tuesday. NICHOLAS KAMM/AFP/Getty Images

It was a subtler version of the same attack Trump has leveled in the past at athletes and other figures in sports ― all of them black ― who kneeled or protested during the national anthem before NFL games last fall, or who otherwise criticized him. Last year, Trump called on NFL owners to fire any “son of a bitch” who protested before a game; his press secretary also called for the firing of ESPN anchor and journalist Jemele Hill after she called the president a “white supremacist.”

While the language may have changed, Trump is continuing a long history of white politicians using black athletes to goose their bases and advance racist political causes.Chip Somodevilla via Getty Images

Most Americans trust the FBI, and few people want to see special counsel Robert Mueller fired, according to new HuffPost/YouGov polling. But Republicans’ faith in the FBI has eroded since 2015. And views of the Russia investigation remain stable — albeit extremely polarized.

A slim 51 percent majority of the public say they have at least a fair amount of trust in the FBI, according to a new HuffPost/YouGov poll, down 12 points since 2015. Most of that change comes from Republicans and independents, among whom the percentage saying they trust the agency dropped by 22 points and 15 points, respectively. Allies of the White House have spent much of January ramping up their attacks against the FBI’s Russia investigation.

Americans across the political spectrum take issue with the FBI, although the exact nature of their complaints vary significantly. Three-quarters of Donald Trump voters say they disapprove of the FBI’s handling of the Russia investigation, with a similar percentage saying the FBI is biased against the president.

By contrast, 73 percent of Clinton voters approve of the Russia investigation, but the vast majority say the FBI did more to harm Clinton than Trump during the presidential election.

Overall, just under a third of the public believes that the FBI is biased against the president, with 12 percent believing it’s biased in favor of him, 22 percent that it’s fair, and the rest unsure. Those polled say, 38 percent to 30 percent, that they trust the FBI over Trump, with the remainder undecided.

In recent weeks, House Republicans have advocated loudly for the release of a memo from Rep. Devin Nunes (R-Calif.) that alleges wrongdoing by the FBI. But the story has gained limited traction: Although nearly six in 10 Americans say they’ve heard at least something about the memo, just a fifth say they’ve heard a lot about the story. More than 40 percent say they’ve heard nothing at all.

Just 22 percent of Americans say they believe in the existence of the “Deep State,” a supposed ”cabal that operates independently of elected officials in Washington,” while 17 percent have heard of it but don’t believe it exists. More than 60 percent have never heard the term or aren’t sure.

About three-quarters of Americans say they’ve heard that Trump attempted to fire Robert Mueller as special counsel on the Russia probe, the survey finds, but not everyone is convinced. A fifth of the public, including 45 percent of Trump voters, say they don’t believe that Trump attempted to fire Mueller.

Few want to see Mueller ousted, although many don’t have any opinion at all ― just 15 percent say the president should fire him, with the rest about evenly divided between saying Mueller should stay in his post (42 percent) and saying that they’re uncertain (43 percent).

Americans say 35 percent to 27 percent that they approve of Mueller’s work on the Russia probe, with another 39 percent undecided. Respondents say by a 13-point margin, 43 percent to 30 percent, that the Trump administration’s relationship with Russia is a legitimate issue, according to another HuffPost/YouGov poll taken just before the latest round of Mueller stories broke. About a third consider that relationship to be a “very serious” problem, with about half saying it’s at least “somewhat serious.”

Both sets of numbers represent a modest downtick in concern since a December survey taken in the wake of former Trump National Security Adviser Michael Flynn’s guilty plea to lying to the FBI about his contacts with the Russian government.

With the exception of a few news cycles like the one following Flynn’s plea, however, public opinion on the topic has remained notably stable. Since last March, the share of Americans saying that the Russia story is a legitimate issue has remained in the range between 42 and 50 percent, with no lasting trends either upwards or downwards.

HuffPost

One reason for that: Opinions are largely, though not entirely, baked in along political lines. In the most recent poll, 91 percent of voters who supported Clinton, but just 12 percent of those who backed Trump, say they consider the White House’s relationship with Russia at least a somewhat serious problem.

The HuffPost/YouGov polls were conducted Jan. 23-24 (on the Russia investigation) and Jan. 26-27 (on Mueller and the FBI). Each consisted of 1,000 completed interviews among U.S. adults, using a sample selected from YouGov’s opt-in online panel to match the demographics and other characteristics of the adult U.S. population.

HuffPost has teamed up with YouGov to conduct daily opinion polls. You can learn more about this project and take part in YouGov’s nationally representative opinion polling. More details on the polls’ methodology are available here.WASHINGTON — Ahead of Tuesday night’s State of the Union address, Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke said to expect “big news” from President Donald Trump on infrastructure and national parks.

“Stand by in the State of the Union: We’re going to rebuild our parks. Here it comes,” Zinke reportedly said last week on “The David Webb Show” on SiriusXM.

Instead, Trump gave the American public more vague plans about rebuilding the nation’s “crumbling” roads, bridges and railways. Those hoping for an announcement specific to national parks will have to wait, as the president did not mention them.

To the disgust of Democrats and conservationists, Trump’s 2018 budget request called for slashing the National Park Service’s funding by nearly 13 percent. Then in October, the administration turned around and proposed drastically hiking entrance fees at 17 of America’s most popular national parks, including Yellowstone, Yosemite and Glacier. The move, NPS said, “would generate badly needed revenue for improvements to the aging infrastructure of national parks.”

“We need to have the vision to look at the future of our parks and take action in order to ensure that our grandkids’ grandkids will have the same if not better experience than we have today,” Zinke said at the time. “Shoring up our parks’ aging infrastructure will do that.”

Zinke ― whose job it is to manage about 500 million acres of federal land, including the 59 national parks — has repeatedly vowed to address the park system’s estimated $12 billion maintenance backlog. NPS estimates that the proposed fee hikes would generate $70 million in additional revenue per year, or about 0.6 percent of the backlog.

In April, Trump donated $78,333.32, a portion of his salary, to NPS, which Zinke said at the time would go toward improving maintenance of the nation’s battlefields.

In his 80 minute address — the third-longest State of the Union in history — Trump found no time for national parks. Instead, he spoke generally about rebuilding the nation as a whole.

“I am asking both parties to come together to give us the safe, fast, reliable and modern infrastructure that our economy needs and our people deserve,” he said. Trump added that he will push Congress to approve a $1.5 trillion plan.

“We will build gleaming new roads, bridges, highways, railways and waterways all across our land,” Trump said. “And we will do it with American heart, American hands and American grit.”

Sen. Steve Daines (R-Mont.), chair of the Energy and Natural Resources Subcommittee on National Parks, told E&E News not to read into what was absent from Trump’s comments on infrastructure.

“While he didn’t specifically call out national parks tonight, I can tell you for certain, because we’re working with the White House and Secretary Zinke, it’s one of his highest priorities,” Daines said.

Critics view the White House infrastructure plans as a threat to America’s beloved parks and other public lands. To simplify and fast-track his rebuilding efforts, Trump is expected to gut environmental protections. A leaked draft obtained by The Washington Post indicates the administration will scale back environmental requirements in order to make it easier to construct pipelines, roads and bridges.

“National parks do not exist in a vacuum,” Theresa Pierno, president and CEO of the National Parks Conservation Association, said in a statement following Trump’s speech Tuesday. “Caring for our parks means not only fixing their roads and buildings, but also protecting their air, water, wildlife and lands. And yet, reports on the infrastructure proposal indicate the administration intends to dismantle bedrock conservation laws in the name of rebuilding.”WASHINGTON ― The FBI has “grave concerns” about a secretive Republican-authored memo that members of Congress have been using to undermine special counsel Robert Mueller’s investigation into the Trump campaign and Russian interference with the 2016 election.

In an extraordinary public statement on Wednesday, the bureau said the classified four-page memo authored by Republican members of the House Intelligence Committee had “material omissions of fact that fundamentally impact the memo’s accuracy.”

In a party-line vote, the House Intelligence Committee used a rarely invoked procedure to approve the release of the memo, which is based on classified documents the Justice Department provided to the committee. The memo reportedly alleges that the Justice Department and the FBI abused the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act to spy on Carter Page, who was associated with the Trump campaign, ahead of the 2016 election.

Actual FISA experts have treated that claim with extreme skepticism.

President Donald Trump onstage with Attorney General Jeff Sessions and FBI Director Christopher Wray as he participates in a graduation ceremony at the FBI Academy in Quantico, Virginia, on Dec. 15, 2017. Jonathan Ernst / Reuters

President Donald Trump has indicated he supports the memo being made public, telling a House Republican after the State of the Union address that he would “100 percent” release it. Trump’s statement was at odds with the position of his own White House, which had insisted an actual review process was in place.

House Speaker Paul Ryan (R-Wis.) on Tuesday urged his colleagues not to use the memo to undermine the Mueller probe, calling it “a completely separate matter.” His statement was a bit late ― Republicans and Fox News anchors had been using the mysterious memo to suggest it was time to fire Mueller or Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein, who has oversight of the special counsel investigation.

Rep. Devin Nunes (R-Calif.), the chair of the House Intelligence Committee and the man chiefly responsible for the memo, issued a statement on Wednesday saying DOJ and the FBI “stonewalled” Congress for nearly a year and that they issued “spurious objections to allowing the American people to see information related to surveillance abuses.”

“The FBI is intimately familiar with ‘material omissions’ with respect to their presentations to both Congress and the courts, and they are welcome to make public, to the greatest extent possible, all the information they have on these abuses,” said Nunes, a member of Trump’s transition team. “Regardless, it’s clear that top officials used unverified information in a court document to fuel a counter-intelligence investigation during an American political campaign. Once the truth gets out, we can begin taking steps to ensure our intelligence agencies and courts are never misused like this again.”

Asked if the Justice Department backed the FBI’s position, a department spokesperson noted that the FBI is part of DOJ, and did not immediately respond to a follow-up question. A spokesperson for Mueller’s office declined to comment.

Republican attacks on the FBI appear to have had a detrimental impact on the public’s trust in the bureau. The percentage of Republicans who said they had at least a fair amount of trust in the FBI dropped 22 points from 2015 to 2018, according to a recent HuffPost/YouGov poll. The percentage of independents who had at least a fair amount of trust dropped 15 points over that timeframe, while Democrats’ trust of the bureau remained roughly level.

Here’s the FBI’s full statement:

The FBI takes seriously its obligations to the FISA Court and its compliance with procedures overseen by career professionals in the Department of Justice and the FBI. We are committed to working with the appropriate oversight entities to ensure the continuing integrity of the FISA process. With regard to the House Intelligence Committee’s memorandum, the FBI was provided a limited opportunity to review this memo the day before the committee voted to release it. As expressed during our initial review, we have grave concerns about material omissions of fact that fundamentally impact the memo’s accuracy.

This article has been updated with comment from Nunes, a response from Mueller’s office, and information from the HuffPost/YouGov poll.Hundreds of activists plan to converge on congressional Republicans’ winter retreat in West Virginia to protest potential cuts to the social safety net, including a recent Trump administration policy allowing states to enact Medicaid work requirements.

The protest march, which will culminate at The Greenbrier, a hotel in White Sulphur Springs, is due to include a sizable contingent of people from West Virginia who depend on means-tested assistance programs like Medicaid, food stamps and cash welfare. Buses are also slated to bring protesters to the event from nine other states, including Pennsylvania, Ohio, and Arkansas.

“We’re stronger together. And right now, more than ever, we need our elected officials to be looking at how we expand the safety net, how we provide more opportunities and more stability to communities across the country, not less,” said Jennifer Epps-Addison, a co-executive director of the Center for Popular Democracy Action, a progressive umbrella group organizing the event with the help of local partners.

House Speaker Paul Ryan (R-Wis.) has long supported scaling back the U.S. welfare state. Yuri Gripas / Reuters

Since the overwhelming majority of West Virginians are white, the planned demonstration at The Greenbrier provides an opportunity to dispel the racist misnomer that the safety net is somehow designed to benefit people of color, according to Epps-Addison. The action will also be directed at mobilizing West Virginians, two-thirds of whom voted for President Donald Trump, Epps-Addison noted, and who may not be aware of the threat his policies could pose to their living standards.

Trump and congressional Republicans play up alleged over-dependence on the safety net “as a dog whistle to get people like the folks in West Virginia to support an agenda that is going to harm them more than anyone else,” she said. “We’re not gonna let them try to brainwash or confuse the white working class without standing up and having a say and helping people understand how these policies impact them.”

CPD Action, which played a key role in mass acts of civil disobedience against the Republican tax bill, is concerned that GOP leaders are gearing up to pay for the $1.4 trillion their tax cuts will add to the debt with massive cuts to social programs.

House Speaker Paul Ryan (R-Wis.) said in December that reforming “health care entitlements” ― Medicaid and Medicare ― are a top priority. Later that month, in an apparent reference to safety-net programs like food stamps, Ryan declared, “Welfare reform is our next big lift.”

“We don’t want to add to that feeling of distress when you are trying to make ends meet.” - Sammi Brown, West Virginia Healthy Kids and Families Coalition

A more immediate worry for progressive groups is the Trump administration’s policy of allowing states to experiment with work requirements for their Medicaid programs.

Liberal policy experts see the restrictions as a punitive policy that is likely to cause vulnerable people needless suffering by depriving them of essential health care.

The vast majority of non-elderly, adult Medicaid beneficiaries already work or are members of households that work, according to the nonpartisan Kaiser Family Foundation. Those who do not work are frequently ill or disabled, caring for a loved one, or report being unable to find a job, KFF found.

In addition, there is ample evidence that ensuring easier access to health care makes people more, not less, likely to seek work opportunities.

West Virginia activists like Sammi Brown, federal campaign director for the West Virginia Healthy Kids and Families Coalition, are already fighting a state-level proposal to add work requirements to Medicaid.

“We know that if you did not have to [seek help], you wouldn’t,” Brown said. “We don’t want to add to that feeling of distress when you are trying to make ends meet.”

If Congress were to impose additional budget cuts and restrictions on federal funding for social programs, it would hit West Virginia particularly hard. The state has the fourth-highest percentage of people on food stamps, and the seventh-highest rate of Medicaid enrollment, with about 30 percent of residents receiving coverage from the program.

Courtney Powell, a 29-year-old single mother of three living in Wheeling, depends on Medicaid to finance medical coverage for her 4-year-old son who has a rare form of hemophilia.

Powell has foregone work to care for her son, who needs round-the-clock attention and is frequently hospitalized. Federal disability benefits for his condition allow Powell to make ends meet.

“If he didn’t have this diagnosis and they could take it away, there’d be nothing I wouldn’t do for him,” Powell said, imagining the opportunity to put in an 80-hour week. “But right now, the ‘nothing I wouldn’t do’ is being there for him and doing his meds daily and being his advocate for all of his medical problems.”

Now, Powell is worried that as an adult who is technically able-bodied, she could be targeted by Medicaid cuts. She hopes to make it to the protest tomorrow

“The most important thing is that … they get real stories and they know who is truly, truly being hurt,” she said, choking back tears. “It is not just about the numbers.”While parts of Puerto Rico have stabilized, there are towns in rural areas still struggling to maintain a steady supply of food and water.

“The mountains are still without power, potable water, and some areas have lost the main roads. This means that some residents have to drive ... 30 to 40 minutes to get to a store when it usually takes five to 10 minutes,” Domingo Marqués, a clinical psychologist who lives in San Juan, told CNN on Tuesday. “The elderly have it worse since they depend on others for transportation.”WajahatAli

Trump cited the 2016 killing of two New York teens by members of the MS-13 gang while pushing for his new immigration plan, seemingly comparing millions of undocumented immigrants in the U.S. to violent gang members.

“For decades, open borders have allowed drugs and gangs to pour into our most vulnerable communities,” Trump said during his speech. “They have allowed millions of low-wage workers to compete for jobs and wages against the poorest Americans. Most tragically, they have caused the loss of many innocent lives.”

This maneuver left many Americans on Twitter unimpressed, as they called out the president and declared their solidarity with immigrants. Some even pointed to studies that show immigrants are less likely to commit crimes than U.S.-born citizens.

Just because you are an inmigrant does not mean you are a criminal. If Trump cannot get it now, he will never get it. Make your voice count. — Carmen Yulín Cruz (@CarmenYulinCruz) January 31, 2018

Just to be clear: Trump brought out a grieving family to use as a part of a political performance meant to demonize immigrants as being inherently violent when the research clearly shows that immigrants, both documented & undocumented, commit less crime than native born Americans — Clint Smith (@ClintSmithIII) January 31, 2018

All immigrants have merit and all immigrants have need. No one leaves their home frivolously and everyone deserves a chance at what we were lucky enough to be born into. — Jesse Thorn (@JesseThorn) January 31, 2018

I reject this administration's bigotry.



I believe in a kinder America, where immigrants are welcomed and embraced, and are free to pursue the American dream.



If you do too, please support @UNITEDWEDREAM: https://t.co/RMhKLqrpuU #StateOfTheDream pic.twitter.com/DIyWzmC86l — Alyssa Milano (@Alyssa_Milano) January 31, 2018

We have become numbed to the vileness of Trump's anti-immigrant rhetoric--but it's pure racism & deeply un-American. In last night's "unifying" speech he once again tried to link all immigrants to murder, rape & danger. — David Rothkopf (@djrothkopf) January 31, 2018

Whether you support the President or not, this can't be changed: immigrants commit crimes at a lower rate than native-born people. 40 MILLION of our neighbors are foreign-born. Few are MS-13. — Ray Suarez (@RaySuarezNews) January 31, 2018

Las Vegas Shooter:

Not an immigrant

Sandy Hook Shooter:

Not an immigrant.

Charleston Church Shooter:

Not an immigrant.

Aurora Movie Theater Shooter:

Not an immigrant.

Texas Church Shooter:

Not an immigrant

Columbine Shooters:

Not immigrants.#SOTU — Michael Skolnik (@MichaelSkolnik) January 31, 2018

The president heavily linked immigration to crime in his #SOTU.



In fact, first-generation immigrants commit fewer crimes than native-born Americans.https://t.co/imc0k8sqAu pic.twitter.com/1aWIuMTdyg — Sahil Kapur (@sahilkapur) January 31, 2018

Many politicians who attended the SOTU also showed their support.

Daisy was my guest at the State of the Union. Smart, driven, kind and generous. She’s a Dreamer. Works two jobs, takes care of her family, believes in her country. She’s the example of how immigrants make us safer, stronger, a greater country. #sotu pic.twitter.com/j9MV5FfOgs — Beto O'Rourke (@BetoORourke) January 31, 2018

Why is that whenever the President speaks of immigration it always seems to be in the context of gang members and murderers? There were dozens of DREAMers at the #SOTU tonight who could teach him a lot about immigrants. — Adam Schiff (@RepAdamSchiff) January 31, 2018

Perhaps most notably, immigrants and children of immigrants spoke out in response to Trump’s divisive rhetoric. Former U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara and former U.S. Chief Data Scientist DJ Patil even listed the ways in which they’ve contributed to the country as immigrants.

Never forget immigrants, and children of immigrants, can and have done it all in America, most of the time without speaking English as our first language. And we still do it all - usually harder, better, faster and stronger. Because we have to. You're welcome. #SOTU — Wajahat Ali (@WajahatAli) January 31, 2018

My mom is an immigrant

My dad is an immigrant

I am an immigrant

My mother's 6 brothers came to America too

It is a deeply interdependent family

All successful

All tax-paying (one is an accountant!)

All proud & contributing Americans

Call it #ChainMigration

Or call it America — Preet Bharara (@PreetBharara) January 31, 2018

Speaking as an immigrant & son of immigrants my

Father helped create Silicon Valley

Brother is a neurosurgeon

Sister is a doctor 4 veterans

Brother is a entrepreneur

Cousin is a neurosurgeon

Cousin is a professor

Cousin is a radiologist

& much more...

Most of all, we’re 💯🇺🇸 https://t.co/zdobaTVGsI — dj patil (@dpatil) January 31, 2018