#marvel does it again with 'Black Panther'. Very impressed with the story and filmmaking. @michaelb4jordan absolutely kills it as the villain and is the best one since Loki. Also @DanaiGurira kicks so much ass and I loved every second of it. Going to make serious $. pic.twitter.com/YBrg2x3NnzRep. Paul Gosar (R-Ariz.) wants his fellow lawmakers' State of the Union guests to be arrested. Tom Williams/CQ Roll Call via Getty Images

WASHINGTON ― About 30 young undocumented immigrants are attending the State of the Union on Tuesday as guests of lawmakers ― and one of their colleagues wants to use the opportunity to have those guests arrested.

Rep. Paul Gosar (R-Ariz.) contacted both the Capitol Police and Attorney General Jeff Sessions to ask them to consider checking identification of State of the Union guests and “arresting any illegal aliens in attendance,” he said on Twitter.

It was a clear threat to the so-called Dreamers, young people who came to the U.S. as children, whom Democrats invited to watch President Donald Trump’s speech. State of the Union guest lists are typically used to signal lawmakers’ priorities, and Democrats invited Dreamers to show their support for granting them legal status. Gosar showed his support for having them deported.

“Of all the places where the Rule of Law needs to be enforced, it should be in the hallowed halls of Congress,” he said in a statement. “Any illegal aliens attempting to go through security, under any pretext of invitation or otherwise, should be arrested and deported.”

Gosar also asked police to arrest individuals who used fraudulent Social Security numbers and identification to go through security. There’s no reason to think Dreamers would have done so ― individuals with protections under the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program, or DACA, can get legitimate Social Security numbers and driver’s licenses, not to mention other types of valid ID.

Capitol Police and the Department of Justice did not immediately respond to request for comment on whether Gosar made the request or whether they planned to act on it.

House Speaker Paul Ryan (R-Wis.) spokeswoman AshLee Strong said that “the speaker clearly does not agree.”

But by the time Gosar fired off his tweets, Dreamers were already in the building. Many of them participated in a press conference inside the Capitol complex with Democrats to call for legal status for young undocumented immigrants, who are set to lose protections and work permits because Trump rescinded DACA.

They said they weren’t going to be scared off by the congressman.

“We feel confident that things are going to turn out for the best, and they can try to intimidate us in any way, scare us in whatever way, but we’re not afraid,” Aldo Solano, a Dreamer attending the address as a guest of Rep. Earl Blumenauer (D-Ore.), told HuffPost after the press conference.

Astrid Silva, a Dreamer attending as the guest of Rep. Ruben Kihuen (D-Nev.), said Gosar’s tweets made her wonder how he acts toward undocumented immigrants in the area he represents.

“If that’s what he’s doing to us who are here in the Capitol at the State of the Union, what’s he doing to people in his community? What kind of fear is he inflicting in the people that live in his town, in his state?” she said. “It shows a really horrible notion of what his power is ― or what he thinks it is.”

Democratic members who invited Dreamers were similarly undaunted by Gosar’s remarks. Rep. Michelle Lujan Grisham (D-N.M.), the chair of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus, said during the press conference that she found it “personally offensive” that Gosar would interfere with her ability to represent her constituents.

Rep. Sheila Jackson Lee (D-Texas) said during the press conference that lawmakers were doing their “duty” and guests should not be denied the ability to participate.

“I would say to the congressman, you try it,” she said.

Gosar even received a jab from a fellow Arizona Republican. Sen. Jeff Flake, who supports protections for Dreamers, retweeted Gosar’s comments with the message “This is why we can’t have nice things...” That led Gosar to jab back about the senator’s upcoming retirement.

This is why you got forced out of office. https://t.co/XWNdJUoEhC — Rep. Paul Gosar, DDS (@RepGosar) January 30, 2018“Doesn’t Look Like Anything To Leigh... And Bill” is HuffPost’s weekly “Westworld” recap in which we break down the craziest thing you might have missed. This week: Season 2, Episode 4, “The Riddle of the Sphinx.”

We sphinx you better sit down for this, “Westworld” fans, because holy moly here comes the Man in Black.

Viewers have been wondering whether there was a secret value to the Westworld and Westworld-adjacent parks since Season 1, and Sunday night’s episode, “The Riddle of the Sphinx,” finally gave us some answers.

It turns out William/the Man in Black (Jimmi Simpson/Ed Harris) and his company Delos have been developing a way to extend human life, and their test subject is none other than the late founder, James Delos (Peter Mullan).

The research on putting human consciousness into robots apparently started soon after the Delos company took over the park. In a scene from Season 2, Episode 2, that takes place in the past, William tells a sick and retiring James Delos vaguely that “things are progressing” but that James needs to have more patience.

Now, in present time, Android James, who has the consciousness of the long-dead human James in his brain capsule, is holed up in an underground facility. It’s a similar one to ― if not the same one as ― the facility that Delos executive director Charlotte Hale (Tessa Thompson) showed Bernard Lowe (Jeffrey Wright) in the Season 2 premiere.

Over the last 30 years or so, James’ son-in-law William, along with a team of Delos engineers, have been monitoring Android James while he’s in captivity. Each day, Android James completes the same mundane tasks ― exercising, showering, preparing his coffee. But throughout Episode 4, we watch as iteration after iteration of this robot malfunctions for various reasons, forcing the team to reconstruct the droid again and again. William, who ages from Jimmi Simpson to Ed Harris during this trial period, visits sporadically, “testing” whether Android James is ready for the outside world. He never is.

“It goes right in line with human error kind of snowballing into a catastrophe,” Simpson told HuffPost. “It’s clearly what was not set out to be done, but that’s what ended up happening. It could be considered a selling point at one point and it ends up torturing the idea of this man’s soul for his entire life. So yeah, it doesn’t surprise me that things went bad and got confusing.”

Of course, if and when the new technology is successful, Charlotte and company will have cheated death, giving (very rich) people the chance to live forever. This is perhaps why the company wanted to get the android Peter Abernathy (Louis Herthum) safely out of the park: He might contain the DNA or consciousness of the real James Delos. (Read all about that here.)

But wait, there’s more. Bernard, an android who’s dealing with his own mental deficiencies in the present timeline, comes to realize he’d previously been working in the same lab where Android James Delos has been. But Bernard was working on another human-android ― whose identity is still a mystery.

Other revelations from the episode included the return of Elsie (Shannon Woodward). Bernard, under the control of the park’s co-creator Dr. Robert Ford (Anthony Hopkins), had apparently attacked her and kept her prisoner in a cave this whole time.

Oh, and Grace (Katja Herbers), whom we met in Season 2, Episode 3, when she escapes a robot tiger sometime in the period after the park’s android hosts revolted, is actually the Man in Black’s daughter. Actor Clifton Collins Jr., who plays the host Lawrence, told HuffPost that this particular reveal signified one of the more relatable moments on the show.

“I think we’ve all had that friend where we’re like, ‘Oh, I just found out I had a kid.’ I think it’s one of those moments,” Collins said with a laugh. “I have my own daughter too, don’t forget, so there’s the heaviness of that too. So it’s the beautiful balance of comedy and tragedy. Whether it’s on the surface or deep below the line or previous scenes leading up to it, the table’s certainly set for that kind of stuff.”

On whether we’ll see more of William’s relationship with his daughter, Simpson stayed mum but teased, “There’s more information coming, definitely.”

As wild as this episode was, even bigger reveals appear to be on the way.

In Season 2, Episode 2, the Man in Black told Lawrence, “Dead isn’t what it used to be.” It’s a line that’s had fans speculating about the characters we thought were dead (Ford, for example) or the hosts we saw floating in a mysterious body of water in Season 2, Episode 1 (e.g., Teddy).

“For the show, obviously, [that line] is talking about the endless options we now have to extend life, whether it’s biological or artificial,” Simpson said, with Collins calling the phrase “a juicy one.”

“My mind goes to so many different places. I guess you’re going to have to wait and see, pal. … It’ll be probably more than likely Episode 8.”

With all this in mind, here are some questions we expect to be answered in future episodes:

Are the supposedly dead hosts coming back to life?

Robots don’t stay “dead” for long in Westworld. So, the fact that we see Teddy (James Marsden) and an army of droids floating in what appears to be a lake in the Season 2 premiere means little if anything in the grand scheme of things. This moment comes around two weeks after the hosts initially revolted, and much of the season so far appears to be leading us to discover how this happened.

It seems possible that these bots will wake up and take down the rest of Delos’ team, with the help of lead schemer Dolores (Evan Rachel Wood), of course.

“They could be in a pool of stasis with ‘Cocoon’-like energy-giving gel running through it. Maybe Wilford Brimley [who stars in the 1985 sci-fi movie ‘Cocoon’] is one of those people and he’s about to come out and kick ass,” Simpson joked. “Each thing they [creators Jonathan Nolan and Lisa Joy] reveal you know there’s something to the reason why they were doing it, you just don’t know why yet. You feel the importance.”

Is anyone who we think they are?

The answer to this question is, meh, probably not.

You can never be too sure about someone’s identity on “Westworld,” but after the scenes featuring Android James Delos, it’s clear brain capsules can be transplanted into any robot body you want.

One theory suggests that the Bernard we saw on the beach in the Season 2 premiere is actually Teddy in a Bernard body.

We saw multiple Bernard robots in the trailer; Bernard’s scar where he shot himself in Season 1 seems to vanish and reappear at various times; and in the “Westworld” Rickroll video from the creators, we got a glimpse of Bernard riding on the train, much like Teddy would.

Jeffrey Wright as Bernard ... or is it Teddy? HBO

Are Ford or Arnold alive?

We know another humanoid robot is likely making an appearance, so who could it be?

Viewers watched Ford die in the Season 1 finale, but rumor has it that’s not the last we’ll see of him. It’s possible the new human-android that Bernard is working on is a robot Anthony Hopkins.

Let’s face it, given all the messages Ford seems to get through to William via hosts, it already seems like he’s alive in some capacity. Why can’t he come back as robot Ford?

Arnold Weber, the human inspiration for Bernard, is another option.

In the trailer for Season 2, we saw multiple Bernard robots, which could be multiple Arnolds if you think about it. Maybe it’s Arnold who’s set to come back to life using this new brain capsule development.

“We’ll give you the answers and you’ll go, ‘Oh my God it’s even better than I thought!’” Simpson said.

Dead isn’t what it used to be after all.Olympic gymnast Aly Raisman said she’s not satisfied with the 40- to 175-year prison sentence for former USA Gymnastics and Michigan State University team doctor Larry Nassar, who has been accused of sexually abusing more than 150 girls.

“It’s like he got one year for each person, like that’s not enough,” Raisman told Us Weekly.

Raisman, a three-time Olympic gold medalist, revealed in November that Nassar abused her under the guise of medical treatment. Fellow gymnasts Simone Biles, Jordyn Wieber and McKayla Maroney also accused the former team doctor of sexual abuse.

“He’s gonna die in jail, but any number is never enough,” Raisman said. “I’m glad because so many people are watching and I hope that it does set an example to all the other abusers out there that their time is up and that abuse is never OK.”

Raisman has been an outspoken critic of USA Gymnastics, the U.S. Olympic Committee and Michigan State University for allowing Nassar’s abuse for more than two decades.

“We have to fix the problem and the organizations,” Raisman said.

Raisman reading her victim impact statement to Nassar in court. Brendan McDermid / Reuters

Before Nassar’s sentencing hearing began on Jan. 16, Raisman tweeted that USA Gymnastics is “100 percent responsible” for the abuse, adding: “We must understand how this happened to make sure it never occurs again... The system has to change so that athletes are safe.”

Raisman was one of more than 150 women to deliver victim impact statements in court during Nassar’s weeklong hearing.

“Larry, you do realize now that we, this group of women you so heartlessly abused over such a long period of time, are now a force and you are nothing,” she said in court.

Nassar was sentenced last week on seven counts of criminal sexual conduct in the first degree. He had already been serving 60 years in prison on child pornography charges and awaits sentencing on three additionally counts of criminal sexual conduct in the first degree.

AdvertisementDuring his speech ― which was initially labeled a “State of the Uniom” on the event’s tickets ― the president spoke about immigration, the economy and national security, among other topics, in front of a joint session of Congress.Jess O'Connell can claim credit for significant accomplishments during her relatively brief time as CEO of the Democratic National Committee. Leah Puttkammer/Getty Images

WASHINGTON ― Jess O’Connell, chief executive officer of the Democratic National Committee, said she is leaving her post at the end of February, creating a leadership void at party headquarters nine months before the crucial midterm elections.

The DNC hired O’Connell, a veteran Democratic operative, as leader of its day-to-day operations in May. O’Connell, a former executive director of the pro-choice Democratic group EMILY’s List, was billed as an experienced professional who could steady the party.

A DNC spokesperson maintained that O’Connell was not ousted, and that her decision was personal in nature. O’Connell is due to stay on to help with the transition to a new CEO.

O’Connell did not elaborate on her reasons for leaving in a farewell letter to voting DNC members.

“I’m proud to have helped to rebuild our party at a time when we needed it most,” O’Connell wrote. “I am grateful to Chairman Tom Perez for the opportunity to serve during such a pivotal moment in our history as we fight with everything we’ve got to protect and promote Democratic values and to elect more Democrats nationwide.”

During O’Connell’s tenure, the DNC played an important role in Democratic victories in special elections across the country, as well as the statewide elections in Virginia and New Jersey in November. For example, the DNC invested $1 million to elect Doug Jones to the open Senate seat in Alabama in December.

The party body has come a long way since the 2016 presidential election, when it was penniless and mired in perceptions that it had favored Hillary Clinton during the presidential primary.

In a bid to restore the health of the Democratic Party at the state level, the DNC increased monthly payments to state parties from $7,500 to $10,000. It also shepherded the proceedings of the Unity and Reform Commission, whose recommended changes to DNC budgeting and the presidential nominating process have drawn widespread praise.

“When Jess walked in the door, the Democratic Party was broken,” DNC Chair Tom Perez wrote in a letter to staff. “Less than a year later, and we’ve flipped dozens of state legislative seats from red to blue across the country, we flipped the governorship in New Jersey, we elected Democrats up and down the ballot in Virginia, we’ve elected Democratic mayors in every corner of the country including a slew of black women who now run major American cities and we elected Doug Jones to the United States Senate in beet red Alabama.”

Still, nearly a year into Perez’s chairmanship, the DNC continues to deal with staff shakeups and internecine dramas that feed perceptions of party unsteadiness. O’Connell’s departure follows the November ouster of DNC finance director Emily Mellencamp Smith.

O’Connell’s exit also comes after griping from some state party chairs about the slow pace at which the DNC was distributing $10 million in promised innovation grants to state parties. Days after a Vice News report about the grants, the DNC announced it would give out its first $1 million bloc of awards.

In addition, Perez, who defeated progressive favorite Rep. Keith Ellison (D-Minn.) for the DNC chairmanship, has struggled to secure the trust of the party’s restive left wing. In October, Perez sparked uproar from some DNC members and progressive activists when he stripped several Ellison supporters of their posts on key party committees.

Several Democratic officials want Perez to appoint Ken Martin, Minnesota Democratic Party chairman and president of the Association of State Democratic Chairs, as O’Connell’s successor. Martin, who backed Ellison’s chairmanship bid, enjoys the confidence of progressive activists.

“You need to pick somebody like a Ken Martin to be the CEO because you need somebody who is trusted by state party chairs and who understands the party infrastructure and culture,” said Jane Kleeb, Nebraska Democratic Party chairwoman, and a member of the board of Our Revolution, the legacy organization of Vermont Sen. Bernie Sanders’ presidential campaign. “There is no learning curve time.”

Chris Reeves, a Kansas Democratic national committeeman, said Martin “would be a great hire.”

Wisconsin Democratic Party Chairwoman Marth Laning said Martin would “be at the top of my list.”"I’ve heard people declare that transgender people can’t be drag queens, and drag queens are not trans," Peppermint has said. "And that’s certainly true for many people, but for me it’s not.” Tara Ziemba via Getty Images

“RuPaul’s Drag Race” veteran Peppermint is Broadway-bound.

The singer-actress, who was the runner-up on the show’s ninth season, is set to make history this summer as the first openly transgender woman to create a principal role in a Broadway musical.

She’s slated to star in “Head Over Heels,” which is billed as “an unpredictable Elizabethan romp.” The show is loosely based on Philip Sidney’s 16th-century text, “The Countess of Pembroke’s Arcadia,” and features music by The Go-Gos. (The all-female rock band’s hits “We Got the Beat,” “Our Lips Are Sealed” and “Vacation” are sure to be showstoppers.)

The show follows members of a royal family as they embark on an “extravagant journey wrought with mistaken identities, jealous lovers, sexual awakening, scandal and self-discovery, where everything (and everyone) is not quite what it seems,” according to a press release.

Though details about her role are scarce, Peppermint is lined up to star opposite Broadway performers Andrew Durand, Tom Alan Robbins and Rachel York in the musical, which begins a limited engagement at San Francisco’s Curran Theatre in April before opening at the Hudson Theatre in New York on July 26. The show is directed by Michael Mayer, who won a Tony Award for “Spring Awakening,” and co-produced by Gwyneth Paltrow.

Broadway should no doubt offer new visibility for Peppermint, who is set to become the second “Drag Race” contestant to appear on the Great White Way after Dwayne Cooper (aka Milan), who starred in the musicals “Motown” and “Hairspray.”

In 2007, transgender performer Justin Vivian Bond was nominated for a Tony for a special theatrical event for the cabaret act, “Kiki & Herb: Alive on Broadway.” Peppermint’s stint, however, is set to mark the first time a trans performer creates a brand new role in a musical written for the Broadway stage.

Peppermint recalled her decision to open up about her gender identity on “Drag Race” in an April interview with HuffPost.

“I didn’t really want to come in and say, ‘Hey everyone, I don’t know your names but I’ve got an announcement to make,’ I just wanted to let my persona and my talent speak for themselves,” she said. “And once I felt comfortable and established in the room and this group of people and knew that it was a safe space then I felt comfortable enough to share personal moments with them – including my trans experience.”

She elaborated further in a June interview with Slant, noting, “I’ve had people challenge me, and I’ve heard people declare that transgender people can’t be drag queens, and drag queens are not trans. And that’s certainly true for many people, but for me it’s not.”

AdvertisementThe company whose goal was once “to make the world more open and connected” is doubling down on local matters.

Facebook announced Monday it will begin showing more news from local outlets in the Newsfeed. The strategy shift is part of a broader push at the site to elevate content from trusted sources, given the site’s role in the 2016 election as a massive conduit of disinformation from Russian agents to the American public.

In a blog post discussing the changes, Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg said he hopes an emphasis on what’s happening locally might draw people’s attention away from the more divisive topics that have come to dominate national conversations.

“When I traveled around the country last year, one theme people kept telling me is how much we all have in common if we can get past some of the most divisive national issues,” Zuckerberg wrote. “Many people told me they thought that if we could turn down the temperature on the more divisive issues and instead focus on concrete local issues, then we’d all make more progress together.”

He also indicated he hoped Facebook users would become more civically engaged and involved on a local level after learning of their communities’ issues.

“People who know what’s happening around them are more likely to get involved and help make a difference,” he explained.HOUSE REPUBLICANS VOTE TO RELEASE CLASSIFIED MEMO THEY WROTE ATTACKING RUSSIAN PROBE “President Donald Trump’s Republican allies in Congress advanced their monthslong assault on special counsel Robert Mueller’s investigation into Russian interference in the 2016 election on Monday, voting along partisan lines to release a classified memo slamming officials from the Justice Department and Federal Bureau of Investigation who have investigated the Trump campaign’s ties to Russia.” [HuffPost] [Tweet | Share on Facebook]

WHAT TO EXPECT IN TONIGHT’S STATE OF THE UNION ADDRESS And why it may not be the reset that pundits want. Democratic lawmakers have invited Dreamers and sexual assault victims to the speech. And yes ― the tickets to the event spelled union “Uniom.” [HuffPost]

TRUMP ADMINISTRATION SIGNALS IT WILL NOT BE PURSUING NEW SANCTIONS AGAINST RUSSIA Despite a new law designed to punish Moscow’s alleged meddling in the 2016 U.S. election. Meanwhile, CIA Director Mike Pompeo said he was sure Russia would attempt to interfere with the 2018 elections. [Reuters]

FBI DEPUTY DIRECTOR ANDREW MCCABE IS RESIGNING After months of being under fire from the president. And meet the likely next deputy director. [HuffPost]

AN ESTIMATED 700,000 LGBTQ AMERICANS HAVE GONE THROUGH CONVERSION THERAPY At some point in their lives. [HuffPost]

19 U.S. TRAVELERS TO CUBA HAVE REPORTED SYMPTOMS SIMILAR TO THOSE OF AMERICAN DIPLOMATS Including hearing loss, dizziness, cognitive issues and difficulty sleeping.. [HuffPost]WASHINGTON, Jan 29 (Reuters) - The Pentagon has restricted the release of critical information on the progress being made in the war in Afghanistan, a move that will limit transparency, the U.S. government’s top watchdog on Afghanistan said on Monday.

For years, the Special Inspector General for Afghanistan Reconstruction, or SIGAR, has published a quarterly report that includes unclassified data on the amount of territory controlled or influenced by the Taliban and the government.

In a report published late on Monday, SIGAR said, however, it was told not to release that information. The military also classified, for the first time since 2009, the actual and authorized total troop numbers and attrition rate for the Afghan National Defense and Security Forces, or ANDSF.

“The implication is that I think the average American who reads our reports or reads your press accounts of it, has no meaningful ability to analyze how his money or her money is being spent on Afghanistan,” John Sopko, who leads the independent watchdog office, told Reuters in an interview.

The Pentagon sought to deflect blame for the decision, the latest move to limit the amount of publicly available information about the 16-year-old war in Afghanistan - America’s longest.

It said in a statement that the Department of Defense did not tell SIGAR to withhold the data, but rather it was the NATO-led Resolute Support coalition that made the determination.

It added that the Pentagon did not have the authority to overrule the classification made by Resolute Support, which is led by U.S. General John Nicholson.

“The Department continues to work with SIGAR, U.S. Forces-Afghanistan, and NATO Resolute Support to resolve concerns about restrictions on information that was previously unclassified,” Lieutenant Colonel Michael Andrews said.

Former officials and experts said that regardless of who restricted the information, it was particularly worrying because Afghan and U.S. officials had publicly set a benchmark it would now be difficult to measure.

The top U.S. general in Afghanistan set a goal in November of driving back Taliban insurgents enough to control at least 80 percent of the country within two years.

In its most recent report, SIGAR said that 43 percent of Afghanistan’s districts were either under Taliban control or being contested.

Sopko said people would to jump to the conclusion that information was being withheld because progress was not being made, which may not be the case.

A similar accusation was made during the Vietnam War, which later proved true.

“In essence, you can ask me almost any question and I will have to say, it is classified or non-releasable, I mean you go down the list, it is just amazing,” Sopko said.

He added that the Department of Defense did not give him any reasons for the move.

RECENT ATTACKS

The move by the Pentagon comes amid a spate of violence in Afghanistan over the past nine days that is putting a new, more aggressive strategy under the spotlight.

An ambulance bomb in the city center killed more than 100 people, just over a week after an attack on the Hotel Intercontinental, also in Kabul, killed more than 20, including four U.S. citizens.

President Donald Trump has committed an additional 3,000 U.S. troops to Afghanistan in recent weeks, bringing the total number of American troops in Afghanistan to about 14,000.

Michael Kugelman, with the Woodrow Wilson Center, said it made little sense to block the information.

“It’s not fair to the American people, to American troops and I would think it’s pretty hard to justify doing something like this,” Kugelman said.

It is not the first time data has been withheld on the Afghan war.

Last year, U.S. forces in Afghanistan restricted the amount of data it provided on the ANDSF, including casualties, personnel strength and attrition rates - data that has now been completely withheld.

The U.S. military said at the time the data belonged to the Afghan government, which did not want it released.

A former U.S. official, speaking on condition of anonymity, said there was pressure on the U.S. military to achieve the success that could create a risk of not being fully open with the facts.Dayan Candappa, who was hired at Newsweek shortly after leaving Reuters in 2016, has been placed on leave. C-Span

A top editor at Reuters who was accused of sexually harassing a subordinate in 2016 went on to secure an executive position at Newsweek just months later, it was reported on Monday.

Dayan Candappa, who was Reuters’ editor for the Americas before becoming Newsweek’s chief content officer, was accused of making sexual advances to a female subordinate at Reuters for 10 months before she reported him to management, BuzzFeed said, citing a copy of her complaint. He’s now on leave from Newsweek.

The unidentified woman, who remains an employee at Reuters, filed her complaint on Feb. 2, 2016. Candappa, who was described in her report as married at the time, left the company less than three weeks later. He then joined Newsweek Media Group on May 23, 2016.

BuzzFeed, citing an unidentified source, reported that Candappa was fired from Reuters within days of their receiving the woman’s complaint. A Reuters representative declined to comment to HuffPost on the details of Candappa’s departure.

“We don’t discuss individual employment matters,” Abbe Serphos stated in an email to HuffPost. “We have a zero-tolerance policy toward harassment and respond quickly and decisively to complaints. As a general rule, we work to protect the privacy of an employee who complains of harassment if that is the employee’s preference.”

Newsweek announced Monday evening that Candappa will be taking “an immediate leave of absence.”

Dayan Candappa went to Newsweek just months after being accused of sexually harassing a subordinate at Reuters. NICHOLAS KAMM via Getty Images

Based on the allegations raised by BuzzFeed, a Newsweek spokesperson told HuffPost on Tuesday, “Newsweek Media Group has put chief content officer Dayan Candappa on leave while the company conducts an independent investigation.”

According to the woman’s complaint cited by BuzzFeed, Candappa repeatedly pressured her to meet him outside of work and told her that “it would not be good” if she did not express interest in him.

Fearing that she might be fired in retaliation, she said that she tried to stay friendly with him. After several more months of his pressuring her and contacting her on her personal phone, she informed him that she wanted to stop all non-work-related communication with him. Shortly after, she said, her performance reviews fell, despite previously being told to expect top marks.

Claudia Parsons, who was Newsweek’s international news editor when Candappa was hired, told BuzzFeed that she had heard he left Reuters on bad terms, so she encouraged management to investigate his departure before agreeing to hire him.

Parsons said she was told by her then-boss, Jim Impoco, who was editor-in-chief at the time, that he did bring her concern to upper management and he was told that Candappa’s departure from Reuters had been investigated and his hiring had been cleared.

Attempts to reach Parsons and Impoco were not immediately successful.

It’s not clear why news of the 2016 complaint against Candappa is now coming to light, though it does follow a number of high-profile media figures facing similar accusations in recent days, including at Vice and the New York Daily News. There were no obvious indications that complaints against Candappa had arisen at Newsweek.

BuzzFeed reported that the woman who filed the report against him to upper management declined to comment.After a sharp dip in early 2017, the number of children arriving from Central America has increased almost every month since April. Advocates say fears of gang violence in their home country are outweighing worries about deportation by the Trump administration.

Children play in a Texas residential center for women and children detained at the Mexican border. The number of children found at the border has increased sharply since April, after a drop early in the Trump administration. Eric Gay, The Associated Press

By Tim Henderson

ROCKVILLE, Md. — After a dramatic drop early last year, the number of Central American children crossing the U.S.-Mexico border illegally has been rising sharply since April.

Advocates say the increase is being driven by fears of gang violence at home — fears that outweigh heightened concerns about deportation under the Trump administration.

“The reality is these children are not necessarily coming to the U.S., they’re just trying to get away from their home country,” said Catherine Hulme, project manager and attorney for unaccompanied children at the Pro Bono Resource Center of Maryland in Baltimore.

During the 2016 presidential campaign, Donald Trump promised to crack down on illegal immigration. And early in his administration, officials threatened to prosecute parents seeking to bring children from Central America.

The number of children crossing the southwest border appears to reflect that. Fewer than a thousand children were caught alone at the border in April, down from 7,346 in November 2016.

But their numbers have been increasing more recently, surpassing 4,000 in December. The number of family groups including children has increased even faster, growing from 1,118 in April to 8,121 in December.

The vast majority of the arriving children — almost three-quarters of children caught alone and more than 95 percent of those caught with family — are from Guatemala, Honduras and El Salvador.

Unlike most Mexican children, children arriving alone from Central America cannot be immediately deported.

Instead, they usually are turned over to the federal Office of Refugee Resettlement and live temporarily in a shelter, while their family or other sponsor can apply to gain custody of them. The children still face deportation proceedings in immigration courts.

U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement warned last summer that the trip is “dangerous and unlawful” and said “if you have no basis to remain in the United States, you will be identified, apprehended and returned to your home country.”

Brian Hastings, the Border Patrol’s acting chief of operations, blamed the increase on federal law that forces the agency to allow Central American children into the country rather than deporting them.

“We are creating a draw for people,” Hastings said, adding that the agency is drafting legislation that would address the issue.

When it comes to family groups, analysts say it’s not clear why the number is increasing, given that adults from Central America are subject to immediate deportation unless they can claim racial or political persecution to apply for asylum.

“If an entire family comes together, you’d just be setting yourself up to be separated at the border and sent back,” said Maryland state Del. Ana Sol Gutierrez, a Democrat and El Salvador native who volunteers to translate for families in local courts. Some parents might feel a need to bring very small children themselves, rather than see them travel alone, Gutierrez said.

Randy Capps, research director of U.S. programs at the nonpartisan Migration Policy Institute in Washington, said it’s possible some Central Americans are trying to sneak across the border with their families to avoid calling attention to relatives already in the United States illegally.

“It could have something to do with risks of coming in unaccompanied and identifying potential sponsors,” Capps said.

The children have been resettled in every state in recent years, with Los Angeles County getting the most between October 2016 and September 2017, at 2,893. Florida, Maryland, New York and Texas each had two counties in the top 10, and Virginia had one.

Those who work with the young newcomers say most of the immigrant children talk of fleeing gang violence. “The gangs have taken over everything,” a 19-year-old told a Maryland magistrate last week, explaining why he fled Honduras in 2015 and is unable to return.

Some analysts who favor tighter controls on immigration see the recent increase as a byproduct of moves to give legal status to so-called Dreamers, children brought to the United States illegally by parents years ago — even though the newcomers would not qualify for that status.

“Any time there’s talk of amnesty, more illegal immigrants come thinking they can get some kind of status or be part of some future amnesty,” said Andrew Arthur, a fellow in law and policy at the Center for Immigration Studies, a Washington, D.C., think tank that favors decreased immigration.

Arthur said Border Patrol officers in South Texas told him that smugglers hesitated to bring children in early 2017, thinking the children might be turned back and they wouldn’t be paid. But as it became clear that children would still be reunited with their U.S. relatives, the traffic started up again, Arthur said.

At a Maryland circuit court in this Washington, D.C., suburb, the 19-year-old from Honduras told the magistrate his story. He was playing ball in the street one day with five friends, all 13- and 14-year-old boys, and sat on the curb with them afterwards. He got up to leave first, and as he walked away, gangsters dressed as police officers walked up and killed the other five boys. The gang members fled, and he never learned why his friends were killed.

“Nobody can live there now,” said the teenager, who now lives in Maryland with his mother. She came to the United States when he was a small child, sending money home to support him and his little brother, who made the trip with him in 2015.

One way to get legal status is by gaining asylum, granted in cases in which unauthorized immigrants can show they were persecuted at home based on their religion, race or political beliefs. Another is through state family court rulings, such as those being sought here, that a child has been abandoned by at least one parent, which can lead to a green card for the child.

Earlier that afternoon, a 15-year-old from El Salvador told the magistrate how his mother, a fast-food cook in Maryland, had sent for him and his little brother to come to the border last year.

Had he waited until his 15th birthday, the boy said, the gangs would have recruited him by force. They scaled security fences at his school and took older boys away, threatening to kill their families if they refused, the boy said.

“They say, ‘You’ll never see them again,’” he said in court. Now that he’s here, he said, he’s attending high school, likes science courses, and wants to join the Marines after graduation.

Jennifer Alonso, who heads an immigration law firm in Maryland and represented one of the families seeking legal status for a child, said she’s spoken to thousands of children and parents in the past four years and “hears horrifying cases practically every week.” One Maryland man told her this month that his three nephews in El Salvador had been kidnapped and murdered, their bodies dismembered and scattered.

“There is a great misconception that Central Americans are coming solely to work and for economic reasons,” Alonso said. “That may have been true in recent decades but right now, I can tell you they are coming out of fear.”

Today’s migrant children and the families hosting them face more hostility under the Trump administration, said Valerie Twanmoh, director of the Esperanza Center in Baltimore, a charity that helps families reunite with children who were detained at the border.

In Maryland, immigration authorities have contacted families and asked to see homes where children will live, Twanmoh said. This has raised concerns among some about exposing their immigration status, and some have backed out of agreements to host children.

In Los Angeles, some parents are afraid to claim their children and turn to surrogate hosts who might be cruel to the children or force them to drop out of school and work, said Mercedes Núñez Roldán, a manager for released youth at an Esperanza center in Los Angeles. The center handled 2,300 children from the border in the past year.

“You ask them how they’re related to the child and they say, ‘a friend,’” she said. One child ran away from such an arrangement and ended up sleeping at a construction site so he could stay in school, she said.

But worries about deportation aren’t enough to stop many parents.

“There’s no price that’s too high, if you’re trying to reunite with children,” Twanmoh said. Families might save for years to pay for the trip, she said, and the children sometimes travel for weeks or months to cross Mexico and get to the border.Indonesia’s LGBTQ community has drawn increasing hostility in recent years. CHAIDEER MAHYUDDIN via Getty Images

JAKARTA (Reuters) - Rights groups on Tuesday condemned the actions of religious police in Indonesia’s ultra-conservative province of Aceh, where a dozen transgender people were detained at hair salons at the weekend and “publicly shamed.”

Indonesia has the world’s largest Muslim population but Aceh, on the northern tip of Sumatra, is the only province that enforces Islamic law and outlaws homosexuality.

Religious police and vigilantes in Aceh often raid homes and places of work and detain people on suspicion of engaging in homosexual activity.

Police in North Aceh district confirmed the raids and detentions of 12 transgender people after residents complained their children were being harassed, the national daily Kompas said.

“There were mothers who came crying to me, worried about their children,” said district police chief Ahmad Untung. “This is not right, and we hope this social disease can be resolved,” he told the paper.

The suspects were forced to cut their hair to look more “masculine” and were later released without charge, media said.

Rights group Amnesty International said the raid showed Aceh had become “an increasingly hostile place” for the lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender (LGBT) community.

“The latest raids on beauty salons are just the latest example of the authorities arbitrarily targeting transgender people simply for who they are,” Usman Hamid of Amnesty International Indonesia said in a statement.

“Cutting the hair of those arrested to ‘make them masculine’ and forcing them to dress like men are forms of public shaming and amount to cruel, inhuman and degrading treatment, in contravention of Indonesia’s international obligations.”

Last year, the provincial and central governments drew international condemnation after authorities in Aceh tried two young men on charges of engaging in gay sex and then publicly caned them - the first such case in the country.

Indonesia’s lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender community has drawn increasing hostility in recent years. Conservative groups and politicians have urged parliament to revise the national criminal code to criminalize same-sex relations.Actress Margot Kidder, who rose to fame playing Lois Lane in the 1978 film “Superman,” has died at the age of 69.

TMZ is reporting that Kidder died in her home near Livingston, Montana, but the cause of death has not been announced.

A representative for Kidder told HuffPost the actress died in her sleep on Sunday, May 13.

She is survived by a daughter, Maggie McGuane.

Born in Yellowknife, Canada, on Oct. 17, 1948, Kidder started acting professionally in 1968, mostly working in TV until she appeared in the 1975 Robert Redford film “The Great Waldo Pepper.”

Along with starring as Lois Lane in four “Superman” films, Kidder appeared in 1974′s “Black Christmas” and 1979′s “The Amityville Horror.”

Christopher Reeve and Margot Kidder filming a scene from "Superman" in 1977. Allan Tannenbaum via Getty Images

Kidder’s career declined in the 1980s, but she returned to the public eye in 1996, as she was dealing with mental health issues that had left her homeless.

She was later diagnosed with manic depression, telling People that she had been diagnosed with the condition in the late 1980s, but refused to take the recommended prescription of lithium, the recommended treatment at the time.

Margot Kidder with Jay Leno in November 1996. NBC via Getty Images

“It’s very hard to convince a manic person that there is anything wrong with them. You have no desire to sleep. You are full of ideas,” Kidder told People months after a 1996 incident where police took her away in handcuffs to Olive View-UCLA Medical Center.

Kidder was married three times but had been single since the mid-1980s.

News of Kidder’s death brought out Twitter tributes from all facets of show business.

RIP Margot Kidder https://t.co/aK2orqGkm9 — Jake Tapper (@jaketapper) May 14, 2018

RIP Margot Kidder. One of my favorite movies of hers is the original Black Christmas. It introduced some elements that are now genre tropes and she’s fantastic in it. — Kumail Nanjiani (@kumailn) May 14, 2018

RIP Margot Kidder https://t.co/oQhbPhENjI — Ben Shapiro (@benshapiro) May 14, 2018

So saddened by the news that dear #MargotKidder has died peacefully in her sleep yesterday. We continued to have fun together over the last 40 years and she was a joy to be around. pic.twitter.com/16ARRj6Hy6 — Sarah Douglas (@TheSarahDouglas) May 14, 2018“Celebrity Big Brother” returns to CBS next month, and Jimmy Kimmel has a potential ratings-boosting tip for its producers.

Hint: It’s all to do with President Donald Trump’s administration.

On Monday’s broadcast of “Jimmy Kimmel Live’” the comedian noted that former White House aide Omarosa Manigault Newman had been confirmed as one of this season’s housemates.

Kimmel then suggested some other politically minded companions who may be free to join her.No but I'll tell you what they are, and then what you are.



They are pissed off at being exploited by a generation of pampered baby boomers who have never known hardship and have screwed them on housing, health care, and Brexit.



You on the other hand are truly useless.Early insight into the details of President Donald Trump’s first State of the Union speech suggests his Tuesday address will be restrained and placatory, challenging his penchant for angry outbursts and divisive rhetoric.

Media figures, meanwhile, will be challenged not to give him too much credit for that.

Unlike the off-the-cuff remarks Trump makes during his campaign rallies and press conferences, and the controversial tweets he fires off at all hours of the night, Trump’s State of the Union address has been meticulously prepared in advance and will presumably be read off a teleprompter.

He won’t call white supremacists “very fine people” or call a protesting athlete a “son of a bitch,” and, if the pattern continues, journalists and pundits will praise him for acting “presidential.”

That praise would be unwarranted, critics are saying ahead of the address.

Teleprompter Trump > Twitter Trump



Only problem is Twitter Trump is actually Trump. — ian bremmer (@ianbremmer) January 28, 2018

After Trump forced the FBI's Deputy Director to step down today I better not hear ANY pundits claim Trump's State of the Union is him being presidential cause he could read a teleprompter — Adam Blickstein (@AdamBlickstein) January 29, 2018

Yet The Washington Post has already suggested that toned-down rhetoric in Trump’s speech could be “a chance for reset” in a Saturday article titled “Can a divisive president flip the script?”

There’s little evidence that he even wants to, regardless of what he says in his address on Tuesday. The Trump presidency has been marked by one divisive, exclusionary policy after another, and he continues to lash out at Democrats and other political nemeses on Twitter on a nearly daily basis.

Trump has already made it very clear who he is with his behavior and policies, former Bush speechwriter David Frum said on CNN Monday.

“Look, you can train a seal to sit on the side of a pool for an hour and behave itself,” he said in reference to Trump’s upcoming speech. “That doesn’t make it no longer a seal.”

Despite this, pundits and journalists continue to tell Americans they should feel hopeful when Trump meets the bare minimum of decorum in his speeches.

Media, let’s break the cycle:



* Trump reads a speech off a teleprompter and doesn’t puke on himself

* media coverage says wow, so presidential

* next morning he returns to himself

* the rest of us save your tweets/headlines and remind you how ridiculous you look. #SOTU — Amy Siskind (@Amy_Siskind) January 28, 2018

The Post published another widely panned op-ed on Saturday from CNN’s Fareed Zakaria, who wrote that Trump’s prepared speech at the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland, was “forthright, intelligent and conciliatory, embracing the world rather than condemning it.” His speech, Zakaria continued, should leave us encouraged that Trump isn’t out to “destroy” the American political system after all.

That’s a remarkably low bar for being encouraged. Zakaria’s upbeat outlook in light of the Davos speech came just days after reports emerged that Trump attempted to fire Robert Mueller, the special counsel overseeing the FBI’s investigation of Russian interference in the 2016 election, last summer.

Even Zakaria conceded that the next day, Trump “might veer off in an entirely different direction.” By Sunday morning, the president was picking a fight on Twitter with rapper Jay-Z, seemingly over allegations that Trump had called Haiti and African nations “shithole countries.”

Like Zakaria, many media figures had similar praise for Trump last spring when he addressed a joint session of Congress for the first time and roused emotions by honoring the widow of a fallen soldier. The prepared speech was widely celebrated as a turning point for Trump, who was lauded for finally finding his footing in the political sphere.

“He became president of the United States in that moment, period,” CNN commentator Van Jones said.

“That was one of the most extraordinary moments you have ever seen in American politics,” he continued.

The White House website even has a page rounding up the positive praise for the February speech. It “Struck an Inspiring, Even Bipartisan Tone,” the Minneapolis Star Tribune wrote; a “Tone of Unity and Optimism,” according to the Deseret News; and was an “Optimistic Message to the Nation,” the Albuquerque Journal wrote.

But the new, presidential Trump didn’t last long. Less than a week later, Trump unleashed a series of tweets accusing former President Barack Obama of wiretapping him at Trump tower and called him a “bad (or sick) guy!”

Months later, media figures again praised Trump after he tweeted his sympathies and read measured remarks from a teleprompter following the mass shooting at a Las Vegas music festival.

“He has been very low key about this one, very presidential, if you will,” CNN’s John King said.

CBS News analyst Fran Townsend, a former homeland security adviser under President George W. Bush, made similar remarks.Rep. Frederica Wilson (D-Fla.) plans to sit out President Donald Trump’s State of the Union address Tuesday night.

“I’m not going, because to go would be to honor the president,” Wilson told CNN on Monday. “And I don’t think he deserves to be honored at this time, after being so hateful towards black people and then black countries, Haiti, and the whole continent of Africa.”

Wilson was referring to recent comments from the president in which he described Haiti and African nations as “shithole countries.”

“It hurts,” she said. “He has brought the White House to the lowest, and I don’t think he needs to be honored with my presence.”

In a tweet earlier this month, Wilson wrote that it would be “hypocrisy” for her to go to the State of the Union.

I cannot in good consciousness attend the #SOTU address after the president went so low in his remarks about Haiti & African nations. It would be hypocrisy to go to an event at which he is honored. — Rep Frederica Wilson (@RepWilson) January 16, 2018

AdvertisementMost people would say you are solidly in the progressive corner of the party. You were endorsed by Our Revolution. Do you think it represents a change in the party to give you that platform? And how will you balance the need to address more moderate voters?

We are just one Democratic Party.

We have to be reminded that we are the party of the working class. I mean, if you go back in years, we need to remember that the Democratic Party was formed by the unions. It was the party of the working class.

We have to remember our values and stick to our values. The more we stick to our values, the more we are going to continue to win elections.

What happened in Virginia was a message that if we stick to our values, we can win elections. And that’s what Americans want to see.

They want to see us fighting for the right issues.

We cannot be centrist any more. We have to go back to our values.

For the Democratic Party acknowledging, number one, that the progressive values are the Democratic values ― to giving me the opportunity as a person of color, I mean, for choosing me to do this speech I think is a message that we are ready to be united. There is no more ‘progressive’ and ‘establishment.’ We want to be together. We want to be one party fighting for the right issues and the progressive issues are the Democratic issues.Virginia Del. Elizabeth Guzman (D) immigrated to the United States from Peru 20 years ago. As a single mother with a high school diploma and a certificate for bilingual clerical work, it was a challenge to make ends meet.

Now, with two master’s degrees, a career as a management analyst for the city of Alexandria, and a watershed election win under her belt, Guzman, 44, is about to make her debut on the national stage. Virginia’s first Latina immigrant lawmaker will deliver the Democrats’ Spanish-language response to President Donald Trump’s State of Union address on Tuesday.

“I can’t describe my emotions,” Guzman said. “It is an honor. And I’m happy to be able to be the voice of people that live in this country and are unhappy with the current administration.”

A phone call from House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi (D-Calif.), who invited Guzman to make the speech, brought home the significance of the moment.

“She was on the list of people that at some point I would like to know. But this happened so fast,” Guzman said.

Virginia Del. Elizabeth Guzman (D) immigrated from Peru to the United States 20 years ago. On Tuesday, she will respond to President Donald Trump in Spanish. Elizabeth Guzman

Guzman’s speech, which was recorded on Sunday, is expected to be broadcast on Univision, Telemundo and CNN Español. Guzman will attend the State of the Union address as Pelosi’s guest.

Guzman first got involved in politics in 2008, when she volunteered for Barack Obama’s presidential campaign. Obama’s vision of making “this country a place that will be more inclusive, more welcoming, to respect each other regardless of your race” inspired Guzman, she recalled.

But it was Guzman’s work on Sen. Bernie Sanders’ (I-Vt.) presidential campaign eight years later that would ultimately motivated her to run for office.

Guzman vividly remembers a virtual town hall Sanders held with his convention delegates after he officially conceded the Democratic presidential nomination to Hillary Clinton.

“He said if we really believe in his message about the working class ... policies and laws are taking place at the state and local level. And if we really wanted to create change, then we needed to run for office,” Guzman said.

Guzman, who hails from Prince William County in the outer suburbs of Washington, D.C., took Sanders’ words to heart. She was tired of Republicans like Trump and then-Prince William County Board of Supervisors chairman Corey Stewart maligning her and her fellow immigrants.

It was time, she decided, for a public official who actually represented the area’s growing community of Latino immigrants and could dispel, rather than abet, stereotypes about them.

“My goal was to prove that if Latinos just get up and vote and make their voices heard, we could actually have fighters, people who are champions of immigrant issues, minority issues.” - Virginia Del. Elizabeth Guzman (D)

“My goal was to prove that if Latinos just get up and vote and make their voices heard, we could actually have fighters, people who are champions of immigrant issues, minority issues,” said Guzman.

Guzman, who lives in Woodbridge with her husband and four children, went on to run for Virginia’s 31st House district and win comfortably.

In the Democratic primary, Guzman beat Sara Townsend, the district’s previous Democratic candidate, by about 200 votes.

In the general election, Guzman ran as an unapologetic progressive, advocating for issues including immigrant rights, organized labor and Medicare for all. She was one of 13 victorious Democrats who signed the anti-corruption group Activate Virginia’s pledge not to accept money from Dominion Energy or Appalachian Power Co., the state’s two largest utility monopolies. (In Virginia, which has no campaign finance limits, many critics believe that large utilities use their largesse to secure favorable legislation that effectively allows them to effectively evade regulation.)

Guzman vowed to fight for working families like hers, emphasizing her support for universal health care, more early childhood education funding and a $15 minimum wage, which she considers a “family issue.”

“I want these families to make more money so they can work less and spend more time with their children, so when their children grow up, they don’t make trouble,” Guzman said.

As a result of her staunchly liberal positions, Guzman picked up the support of left-leaning groups like the Progressive Change Campaign Committee, the Working Families Party and Our Revolution, the legacy group from Sanders’ presidential run.

But unlike some unabashedly progressive candidates, Guzman managed to stay in the good graces of the state’s Democratic Party, which aided her bid. She also had the backing of the Latino Victory Fund, which works to grow Latino political power, regional immigrants rights group CASA in Action, and the digital startups Flippable and Sister District, which helps elect Democratic state legislators.

On the strength of small-dollar donations, Guzman went on to raise over $1.1 million ― the third-most of any Virginia House candidate. She defeated eight-term GOP incumbent Scott Lingamfelter by 10 percentage points on Election Day.

Guzman and Kathy Tran were the first two immigrant women elected to the legislature; Guzman and Hala Ayala were Virginia’s first two Latina lawmakers.

Guzman was part of an unexpectedly large Democratic wave in Virginia’s November election that brought Democrats to within a random name-drawing of a 50-50 tie in the state House.

But when the dust settled, Republicans would have a 51-49 majority, ensuring continued GOP control of the lower chamber.

“I am pro-family. I want to have families united.” - Virginia Del. Elizabeth Guzman (D)

Since arriving in Richmond this month for the new legislative session, Guzman has already experienced the limits of being in the chamber’s minority party. A bill she introduced that would require Virginia employers with 15 or more full-time employees to provide their workers with 40 hours a year of paid sick leave died in subcommittee.

However, a bill Guzman introduced requiring the state to pay out transition assistance money to wrongly imprisoned individuals within 30 days of a request advanced out of subcommittee. She is hopeful for a similar fate for other legislation she is sponsoring, including an income tax credit for Virginians who install solar panels on their homes.

The rough-and-tumble work of advancing a progressive agenda in a GOP-controlled state legislature can be frustrating and unglamorous.

But Guzman’s State of the Union response Tuesday night will provide a respite from those complexities. It is an opportunity for Guzman to let her passion for helping ordinary people ring out unfiltered.

Speaking directly to Spanish-speaking Americans, she plans to remind viewers that Democrats “will continue to fight for the working class.”

“We will continue to fight to maintain programs that have been helping people, like the CHIP program and Medicaid,” she said.

Guzman also plans to speak about the need to provide permanent legal protection to Dreamers, the undocumented immigrants brought to the country as children. Former President Barack Obama’s Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program shielded some 800,000 of those individuals from deportation and allowed them to work legally. Trump announced in September that the program would end in March. Devising a compromise that would protect Dreamers with a legislative fix is currently the subject of heated negotiation in Congress.

Guzman hopes Americans appreciate that parents who brought their children with them when they immigrated illegally for work did so to keep their families together.

“I am pro-family. I want to have families united,” she said.

When asked how she plans to balance her progressive views with the need to address more moderate voters as well, Guzman rejected the notion that a separate message is needed to address such voters.

“We are just one Democratic Party,” Guzman said. “We have to be reminded that we are the party of the working class. We need to remember that the Democratic Party was formed by the unions.”

“What happened in Virginia was a message that if we stick to our values, we can win elections,” she said. “And that’s what Americans want to see from us.”