WASHINGTON ― President Donald Trump’s first State of the Union speech on Tuesday night will offer an “optimistic” and “forward-looking” view, according to his White House. He will detail the successes of his first year in office. He will reach out to Americans beyond his base.

And, if the past is any guide, within days if not hours, not a word of it will matter in the least.

While past presidents have used their highest-profile address of the year to get the nation’s attention and outline their priorities, Teleprompter Trump’s message will likely be stepped on by Twitter Trump and Random Comments to the Press Trump.

Even Republicans acknowledge it.

“All the talking heads will talk about it,” said one Republican National Committee member, who spoke on condition of anonymity to candidly discuss the president. “Until the next distraction.”

And when would that distraction take place? Wednesday? Thursday? Late Tuesday night?

“Good subject for an office pool,” the RNC member quipped.

Also, if the past is any guide, Trump’s propensity for false statements will keep fact-checkers busy Tuesday night. According to a White House briefing that previewed the speech for reporters last week, Trump will sell the recently passed tax cut plan as “the biggest” ever ― a boast that is not accurate.

Both the 1981 Ronald Reagan tax cuts and the 2001 George W. Bush tax cuts (made permanent by President Barack Obama in 2012) were larger. In all, seven tax cuts have been larger than the recent tax package as a percentage of the total economy, and three have been larger in inflation-adjusted dollars.

Despite this, the senior Trump administration official hosting the briefing last week ― who spoke on the condition of anonymity at the insistence of the White House ― opened his remarks by calling the new law “the biggest tax cut in history.”

The official said the theme of Trump’s speech would be “building a safe, strong and proud America” and that Trump would mention his “record-setting accomplishments.” In addition to bragging about the tax cuts, Trump would also highlight: his infrastructure plan to rebuild roads and bridges; his plan to build a wall along the U.S.-Mexico border and reduce legal immigration while protecting undocumented immigrants who were brought to the United States as children; his views on international trade; and his plan to increase spending on the military while “defeating terrorists around the world.”

Trump spoke briefly about the speech on Monday at a White House photo opportunity, saying he hoped Democrats would work with him on the immigration plan because “the Republicans really don’t have the votes to get it done any other way.”

He called it “a big speech, an important speech,” that would cover “a lot of territory,” adding: “We have a lot of things to discuss and we’ll be discussing them, and I hope you enjoy it.”

Both as a candidate and as president, Trump has enjoyed good reviews with speeches written by his staff that he merely reads off a teleprompter ― despite his frequent ridicule of politicians who used the devices during the GOP primaries.

Trump’s speech to a joint session of Congress last February, for example, brought praise from unlikely sources. “He became president of the United States in that moment,” proclaimed Van Jones, a former Obama adviser and now a CNN commentator.

Yet within days, Trump was accusing Democratic congressional leaders of having ties to Russia and claiming ― with zero evidence ― that his predecessor had wiretapped him at his Trump Tower headquarters in New York City. Controversy after controversy about Trump’s words and actions followed, quickly burying whatever goodwill he’d earned in his speech.

So while previous presidents could rely on days or even weeks of positive publicity for their proposals after their State of the Union addresses, few are expecting Trump’s speech to generate anything similar.

“That won’t happen,” said Republican pollster Neil Newhouse. “This is a different kind of presidency.”

Rory Cooper, a political consultant who worked in George W. Bush’s White House, said the State of the Union address can be a great opportunity to advance an agenda. Bush, in 2003, pushed the AIDS relief program PEPFAR, which a decade and a half later is recognized for its significant accomplishments in places like Africa.

Cooper added, though, that he has no expectation that Trump will follow through on any of his stated goals. “Will President Trump stay on message afterwards and sell the agenda? Of course not,” he said. “But it will be instructive in a way.”Anyone who tuned in to the Grammys on Sunday night likely still has chills from Kesha’s performance of “Praying.” It was one of the most tweeted-about moments of the night, so it make sense that the person on the keyboard end of a Sony Music account mentioned it too. Except things aren’t that simple when it comes to the singer, her label, and the purported subject of the song, and Twitter was not going to let that slide.

“No words. All love. #GRAMMYs,” @SonyMusicGlobal wrote on Twitter and Instagram, with a photo of Kesha and her backup chorus of women that included Camila Cabello, Cyndi Lauper, Julia Michaels, Bebe Rexha and Andra Day.

No words. All love. #GRAMMYs A post shared by Sony Music (@sonymusicglobal) on Jan 28, 2018 at 6:57pm PST

Sure, that’s how most viewers felt when watching Kesha belt out her defiant ballad that confronts an abuser who put her through hell and told her she’d be nothing without him. But the person everyone assumes she’s singing to is Dr. Luke, the producer whom Kesha has accused of sexually assaulting and emotionally abusing her for years. In 2014 she filed for an injunction attempting to free herself from her contract with Dr. Luke’s Kemosabe imprint of Sony. That case failed in court in New York in 2016, when the judge ruled that despite her claims of abuse, the contract wasn’t doing her “irreparable harm” because he was allowing her to record without him (but still for his company).

That’s when fans and celebrities rushed to support the singer, hoping to “#FreeKesha,” and Taylor Swift gave her $250,000 to help her with “any of her financial needs during this trying time.” She dropped her suit against him in Los Angeles later that year. Dr. Luke is still suing Kesha for defamation, however, claiming her suits made his career grind to a halt.

Photo: Getty Images

Meanwhile, she released her third album, “Rainbow,” including hit single “Praying,” on Kemosabe last year. Though Dr. Luke is no longer the CEO of the label, the New York Times reported that his financial ties to Kesha’s music (including through his music publishing company) remain in place, so he is profiting from her sales. The very album and song fueled by the pain he allegedly caused her earned Kesha her first Grammy nominations, for Best Pop Vocal Album and Best Pop Solo Performance.

All of this was on the minds of fans who spotted the praise from @SonyMusicGlobal. The backlash on Twitter was so harsh, the offending tweet has since been removed (a screenshot can be viewed here), but it remains on Instagram as of this writing. The comments there are similar.

“YOU PROTECTED HER ABUSER FOR YEARS. #timesup,” she_flyz commented on Sony’s Instagram post.

“You protect and perpetrate rapists,” alexinthesky added. “You don’t get to pretend like you’ve been a friend to Kesha or women in general. We see right through you, vultures.”

The real gag is.....we gonna see these white roses and no change in the industry. Maybe I'm wrong. But Kesha is still signed to Sony. Dr. Luke still getting work. R. Kelly still booking shows. And the list goes on. #GRAMMYs — Gerrick D. Kennedy (@GerrickKennedy) January 29, 2018

“Whomever is tasked with running this account needs an in-depth lesson in PR and propriety,” wrote nzipperman on Instagram. “Take 30 seconds and dig into Sony’s history with Kesha and then seriously consider deleting this unbelievably ignorant, patronizing and offensive post. #timesup”

To be fair, the person running a social media account on a Sunday night is not usually high up on the corporate ladder and probably didn’t have a say in Kesha’s contract.

Kesha, for her part, held her head high despite not taking home any trophies. She showed up to the Sony after-party in a bright red gown and cape, which Vanity Fair likened to a Handmaid’s Tale homage. Interpret that as you will.Many stars who have worked with Woody Allen have said recently that they regret working with the director in light of allegations that he molested his adopted daughter Dylan Farrow when she was a child.

Woody Allen hugs Diane Keaton at American Film Institute's 45th Life Achievement Award Gala Tribute on June 8, 2017, which honored Keaton. Michael Kovac via Getty Images

Diane Keaton, whose career was launched by roles in Allen’s “Manhattan” and “Annie Hall,” is not among them, however. The actress tweeted a video on Monday that shows an interview Allen did with “60 Minutes” in 1992.

“Woody Allen is my friend and I continue to believe him,” Keaton wrote.

Woody Allen is my friend and I continue to believe him. It might be of interest to take a look at the 60 Minute interview from 1992 and see what you think. https://t.co/QVQIUxImB1 — Diane Keaton (@Diane_Keaton) January 29, 2018

In the interview, Allen addresses allegations that he molested Farrow in her home when she was 7 years old. The incident allegedly happened during Allen’s breakup from Farrow’s mother, actress Mia Farrow. Allen claims Mia Farrow “coached [Dylan] methodically to tell this story.”

“I have something very nasty planned for you,” Allen says Mia Farrow told him over the phone several weeks before the allegations came to light. The director also claims during the interview that Mia Farrow told him, “You took my daughter and I’m going to take yours” numerous times. Mia Farrow had recently learned that Allen was having an affair with her 21-year-old daughter Soon-Yi Previn, whom the actress had adopted with her previous husband.

Diane Keaton and Woody Allen talk in a still from the film "Annie Hall." United Artists via Getty Images

But Dylan Farrow has stood by her story.

She published an open letter about the alleged incident in The New York Times in 2014. The letter included a personal appeal to Keaton: “You knew me when I was a little girl, Diane Keaton. Have you forgotten me?”

That same year, Keaton told the Guardian that she barely knew Dylan Farrow and was not close with Mia Farrow.Takoma Park residents check out mushrooms, locally made cheese and 10 varieties of apples at the weekly farmer's market. Jennifer Bendery

TAKOMA PARK, Md. ― It hasn’t snowed in weeks, but road salt is still crumbled along the sidewalks. Once-vibrant red brick walkways are now faded and spotty at the edges. Dogs walking here without winter boots could end up with sores on their paw pads. Who knows when, or if, city workers will get around to sweeping up this mess.

If this sounds like the kind of place that Donald Trump would have won in 2016, with his promises of revitalizing forgotten towns, it is not. Takoma Park is a far cry from communities like Johnstown, Pennsylvania, where white, working-class Americans are struggling economically but unshaken in their loyalty to Trump. You may have read a profile of Johnstown here, or other profiles of people in Trump Country here and here and here and here and here and here and here and here and here.

This is Clinton Country. Takoma Park is doing just fine economically, and its residents are diverse and very progressive. We’re talking vegan-friendly cafes, boutiques with sustainably made clothes, yoga and art classes galore, and a weekly farmer’s market year-round. Voters in this town, which straddles Maryland and Washington, D.C., went for Hillary Clinton by 75.9 percent in the Maryland county and 92.5 percent on the D.C. side.

The sidewalks of Takoma Park could use an economic boost. Jennifer Bendery

People here will give you plenty of reasons why they didn’t vote for Trump ― his divisive rhetoric; his disdain for the media and for democracy itself; the way he talks about women, people of color, immigrants, LGBTQ people, Muslims, Mexicans and others.

But a year into Trump’s presidency, we wanted to see if people in Clinton Country* are still standing by their candidate. HuffPost spent parts of Friday and Sunday asking residents on the streets and in local shops if they are remain certain they made the right choice in Clinton.

“Oh God, yes,” said Margery Goldberg, 67, who owns an art gallery in the city. She was shopping at Magic Carpet, an eclectic gift shop, when she overheard HuffPost asking the owner about Trump. She jumped into the conversation before the owner could get a word in.

“Everything about Trump bothers me,” Goldberg declared to the store, rifling through mermaid paraphernalia and chunks of soap shaped like crystals. “I have a lot of names for him. Stupid Satan is one.”

“I think he’s trying to do everything he possibly can to destroy democracy, destroy our environment, become a dictator, kill the air, land and water, have nobody here but rich people,” she went on. “He’s a racist. He’s a bigot. He is anti-Semitic. He’s anti-everything.”

Margery Goldberg at Magic Carpet. Jennifer Bendery

Goldberg pulled out her iPhone and scrolled through photos of political art on display at her establishment, Zenith Gallery. There’s the “Trump Pumps” series of sculptures, including the Pussy Grabber metal shoe with a wheel for a heel. There are purses of resistance ― “pursisters” ― with words like “RESIST” and “EMPATHY MATTERS” printed on them. The pièce de résistance, though, was the “Trump-Putin voodoo dodo doll” in a gold toilet full of fake poop. She made that one.

“I don’t support Donald Trump at all,” Clarice, 30, said flatly as she balanced a coffee while pushing a baby stroller back and forth outside a Starbucks. “I could list a lot of reasons, but we’d probably be here all day,” said Clarice, who asked that her full name not be used in this story. “I can’t say anything good has come from his presidency, other than the fact that America is still standing and we haven’t completely burned down. I mean, that’s kind of like a really low bar.”

HuffPost talked to a dozen people in town. Nearly all said they voted for Clinton in 2016 ― and would do it again.

“‘Not very good,’ is the printable version of what I have to say,” said Paul, 35, when asked how he would sum up Trump’s first year.

Paul, who declined to give his last name, was sitting quietly in the back at the House of Musical Traditions, an instrument store where he works. He has a long blond ponytail and a couple of piercings. He struggled to describe how the past year has felt under Trump.

“One disaster after another is sort of how it feels,” Paul finally said. “Mr. Trump has not changed my mind about him. That’s how I’ll put that.”

Some of the signs found in store windows in Takoma Park. Jennifer Bendery

Across the street from the Roscoe the Rooster memorial statue, Jill and Gary Jones were fiddling with a parking meter. They had just parked their car, which sports a “Still With Her” bumper sticker. Both laughed when asked if they stand by their votes for Clinton.

“Absolutely. One hundred percent,” said Jill, 62.

“Probably more so,” chimed in Gary, 55, donning a beret and sunglasses.

The Joneses said they were just reading about Clinton’s accomplishments as secretary of state, and were blown away by details they had not known.

“Hillary made gender and peace, and gender and the strength of communities, on the same plane,” Jill said. “Once you talk about women’s rights as human rights, as Hillary did, you talk about how those states fail or don’t fail when women are treated well.”

“And always will be, too, damn it!” said Gary, now back on the question of whether he’s still loyal to Clinton.

People in Takoma Park are unwavering in their belief that Hillary Clinton was the right choice for president. Jennifer Bendery

Two people told HuffPost they wrote in a third-party candidate in 2016, and would do it again. Just one person, Victor Olalekan, said he voted for Clinton but wouldn’t do it again.

Olalekan, 23, had just finished his last day of training at Busboys and Poets, a hipster cafe in town. Huddled in the cold across the street with his friend, Kerry Charles, he said if the vote were held again today, he wouldn’t vote at all.

“I’m looking back. The emails, we were in a ridiculous war... there is nobody currently for the people,” he said. “The more I researched, the more I don’t want to deal with politics at all.”

Regardless of whether Olalekan is done with voting forever, he’s clearly not happy with what Trump is doing. He said people don’t realize how profoundly the president is fanning racism in the country. Olalekan, who is black, said he has friends in Nashville, Tennessee, who “are scared” because white nationalists now have a supporter in the White House.

“That’s not OK. That’s not how it’s supposed to be,” he said. “Trump just needs to get off Twitter. He’s used to being a reality show. This isn’t a reality show.”

*The Washington Post wrote a story about Clinton Country last week. We had this genius idea weeks ago and were sad they beat us to it. But because there are zillions of Trump Country stories, we decided there’s plenty of room for more stories like this.A protestor burns a leaflet during a demonstration in Bonn, Germany, against the merger between seed company Monsanto and pharmaceutical company Bayer. OLIVER BERG via Getty Images

The U.S. Justice Department this month is expected to approve a merger of two huge corporations ― St. Louis-based seed company Monsanto and German crop-chemical conglomerate Bayer ― and the consequences could be enormous.

The $66 billion deal, already approved by the European Union, will create the world’s biggest pesticides and seeds monopoly. The hookup will confine 61 percent of global seeds and pesticides production in the hands of just three megacorporations ― the other two being newly merged DowDuPont, and ChemChina, which acquired pesticides and seed company Syngenta last year.

Is that a problem?

It depends who you ask. Monsanto and Bayer are pitching their consolidation as a way to develop the technology and innovation necessary to feed a world that in two decades is likely to be home to 10 billion people. For critics ― environmentalists and many farmers ― it’s a terrifying step toward a near-monopoly in agriculture, giving giant companies unprecedented access to farmer data, squeezing out small farmers, and potentially raising food prices for consumers.

Monsanto is already a bogeyman for environmentalists because of its genetically modified seeds ― which critics say promote monocultures, trapping farmers into a cycle of dependence as well as an increased reliance on chemicals ― along with its history of producing controversial chemicals such as Agent Orange and the weedkiller glyphosate.

Many conservationists fear the merger continues a trend of concentrating huge power over the global food supply in just a handful of corporate giants.

“We will witness in our lifetimes the total disappearance of biodiversity from our farms, the disappearance of small farmers, and the end of real food and our food freedom,” Vandana Shiva, the veteran seeds campaigner, has previously warned.

Vandana Shiva campaigns against "seed slavery" and promotes biodiversity. Gustau Nacarino / Reuters

Evgeniy Kozarenko, CEO of the Dublin-based organic seed treatment company Nagritech, is worried. The U.S. and the European Union “just approved the creation of a monster,” he told HuffPost. “Together, these two companies will influence farmers’ opinions and markets all over the world on a scale we’ve never seen before. We do not have the budgets to market our organic fertilizers, pesticides and herbicides. Other organic manufacturers also will not be able to compete.”

These fears are amplified by a growing concern that farming is on the cusp of a digital revolution that could allow the agribusiness to exert unprecedented control over farmers. Friends of the Earth Europe and several nongovernmental organizations have accused the EU of allowing a “Facebook of farming” to be created. Companies would be able to access farmers’ data to sell them seeds and pesticides.

“It’s not difficult to imagine a smartphone ad arriving within seconds of a farmer encountering weed or insect damage while he’s harvesting his crop,” the Missouri Farm Bureau Federation has said.

Monsanto itself has hinted that data is a key reason for seeking the merger with Bayer. “There is no new dirt,” Monsanto CEO Hugh Grant told Fortune. “We need to get much smarter societally about how we farm.”

The seed company has already invested heavily in the digital economy, shelling out nearly $1 billion in 2013 to buy the Climate Corp., a data company that provides farmers with weather data and predictions. The technology was reportedly being used on more than one-third of all U.S. farmland in 2014.

Monsanto’s “farm-to-fork” data platform, Climate Fieldview, which the company promotes as a “key 2018 growth driver,” uses tractors fitted with sensors and GPS, algorithms, and data drones to monitor field conditions and advise farmers in real time.

“The merger will create the biggest platform of its kind ― and give Bayer-Monsanto a ‘first mover’ advantage similar to Facebook, in the way that it affects competitors,” said Mute Schimpf, a spokeswoman for Friends of the Earth Europe. “The new platform allows Bayer-Monsanto to control how, where, when, and by whom food is produced. As Facebook’s algorithms decide which newsfeeds we see, so ‘Baysanto’ will decide which pesticides are used, and which seeds are planted.”

Friends of the Earth was one of more than 70 environmental organizations that signed a letter to the European Commission arguing that “Bayer-Monsanto would become the biggest player in the field of data platforms and data collection, exposing farmers to risks and problems similar to those seen in existing data platforms such as Google, Amazon and Facebook.”

Monsanto, however, says it’s the farmers who will benefit from the deal. “Now more than ever, farmers need access to tools that support the decisions they make to maximize their return on every acre,” said Brian Carroll, a company spokesman. He added that this kind of data helps farmers farm more sustainably and manage their risks.

Other Monsanto officials, speaking on condition of anonymity because of company restrictions on discussing the issue, told HuffPost that farmers were “a pretty cynical bunch” and would reject any platform they see as too self-serving.

But not everyone is convinced. More than 1 million people last year petitioned the EU’s competition commissioner, Margrethe Vestager, to block the deal, which polls showed was deeply unpopular.

Activists from Friends of the Earth Europe stage a "marriage made in hell" protest against the Monsanto-Bayer merger outside the European Commission in Paris. Eric Vidal / Reuters

In the U.S., groups representing farmers and conservation organizations wrote to the Justice Department predicting negative impacts on competition, farmers and consumers. They argued that the combination of seed and digital businesses would allow huge corporations to “create proprietary platforms that are closed to competition.”

Monsanto officials are cagey about the need for new laws. “The worry would be if regulation drives paranoia,” one company official said. “If the debate ended in a situation where farmers were scared about sharing their data, it would undermine a huge opportunity for, ultimately, more sustainable farming practices.”

Opportunities remain, though, for price discrimination and the use of data platforms to sell seeds, pesticides and fertilizers ― all of which, for now, is unregulated.

The Missouri Farm Bureau Federation says it’s in ongoing negotiations with agroindustry representatives about who owns data collected by digital apps such as Climate Fieldview.

“Two major concerns we have are: How is this going to affect the prices of products, and how is it going to affect the availability of products,” Spencer Tuma, the federation’s legislative affairs director, told HuffPost. She added that the group was worried about potential impacts on farmers, ranchers and ultimately consumers in the form of higher food prices.

“We think there is a responsibility for Congress to review some of the existing statutes governing whether those sorts of mergers have the ability to go through,” Tuma said.

Congress has the power to revise or rewrite existing merger laws. In July, 19 senators set out their concerns about the merger to the Justice Department’s antitrust division, so congressional action cannot be ruled out.

Carroll, though, was sanguine. “Bayer’s acquisition by Monsanto has undergone a lengthy and robust regulatory review process by the relevant competition authorities,” he said.

U.S. environmentalists are demanding that Monsanto sell Climate Fieldview as a condition of the deal. That leaves the fate of the world’s agricultural data ― who owns it, and how it is used ― undecided.A genealogist took commentator Tomi Lahren to task on Twitter after she made controversial comments about immigrants in this country. And she did so with Lahren’s own family history.

On Saturday, Lahren went on Fox News’ “Watters’ World” to defend White House chief of staff John Kelly’s remarks on immigrants. Kelly, formerly Trump’s homeland security secretary, told NPR last week that undocumented immigrants are “not people that would easily assimilate into the United States into our modern society.”

Lahren went even further and told host Jesse Watters that people who don’t speak English or who come from poverty shouldn’t be allowed to immigrate to the United States.

“These people need to understand that it’s a privilege to be an American and it’s a privilege that you work toward. It’s not a right. You don’t just come into this country with low skills, low education, not understanding the language and come into our country because someone says it makes them feel nice,” she said.

“That’s not what this country is based on. We are based on the rule of law, and we believe in bringing the best people into this country to make it even better. We don’t believe in importing poverty. Trust me, I live in California. We have enough poverty. We have enough issues. We don’t need any more.”

.@TomiLahren: "You don't just come into this country with low skills, low education, not understanding the language and come into our country because someone says it makes them feel nice. That's not what this country is based on." @WattersWorld pic.twitter.com/Dux0cABHar — Fox News (@FoxNews) May 13, 2018

The next day journalist and genealogist Jennifer Mendelsohn tweeted about Lahren’s comments and shared some telling details about Lahren’s ancestry.

Mendelsohn tweeted that, according to the 1930 census, the political commentator’s great-great-great-grandmother had been living in the United States for 41 years and was still speaking German.

Lahren’s great-great-grandmother spoke no English after living in the United States for a decade, and her great-grandfather’s 1884 baptism was recorded in Norwegian.

Except the 1930 census says Tomi's 3x great-grandmother had been here for 41 years and still spoke German.



Her 2nd great-grandmother had been here for 10 yrs. Spoke no English.



Her great-grandfather's 1895 baptism from MN? Recorded in Norwegian.#resistancegenealogy #receipts pic.twitter.com/rIySFu6fvL — Jennifer Mendelsohn (@CleverTitleTK) May 13, 2018

Mendelsohn later wrote in a series of tweets that “people are people, and always have been.”

“Some of our ancestors broke laws, some were model citizens. Some never assimilated or spoke English. Some did. Blind lionization of the people who came before us may be just as dumb as the wholesale demonization of current immigrants,” she wrote.

She added, “What I’m trying to show here is that these nativists can’t keep trying to back up their argument by saying ‘the country doesn’t work this way’ when clearly it does, and has: for their families. So why do they *really* not want these people here? That’s what we need to dig out.”

Mendelsohn’s message was that Lahren shouldn’t be ashamed of her ancestors but should be aware of where she came from before criticizing others.

“As long as people like Lahren continue to push a specious agenda that suggests today’s immigrants are somehow wholly different from previous ones, I’ll keep showing just how alike they really are,” wrote Mendelsohn.

Lahren did not immediately respond to a request through Fox News for comment and has not responded to Mendelsohn on social media.In TV fantasy world, a politician can argue an articulate, beautiful point with nuanced prose and gain votes for it ... but that’s not quite reality in America in 2018.

President Donald Trump gives his first annual State of the Union address on Tuesday. Given that his approval rating is solidly less than 40 percent, there’s a decent chance you’d rather see a “good” politician ― aka one with no baggage or issues who has been dreamed up by Hollywood writers ― on your television instead.

With that in mind, here’s a list of shows on Netflix that have easier-to-watch politicians.

"Unbreakable Kimmy Schmidt" on Netflix Netflix

The characters listed below wouldn’t necessarily do a better job than Trump ― as, after all, one of them is a cartoon. But if you need to easily escape into a different reality on Tuesday ... here you go.

Ji Sub Jeong/HP

This is part of Streamline, HuffPost’s weekly recommendation service for streaming shows and movies. Every Saturday, Streamline ranks the best shows to watch online, including a specific focus on Netflix.

So, starting with the most obvious ...

1. “The West Wing”

"The West Wing" on Netflix Netflix

This character is a classic example of what writers thought a “good” president should be, and what would also actually resonate with voters before the time of Trump (and arguably the rise of former President George W. Bush, too).

Sure, Bartlet made mistakes, and the long-running show means there are plenty of policy decisions Bartlet made that you can disagree with. But he can string words together very eloquently.

2. “Parks and Recreation”

Netflix

Leslie Knope never became president on the show, although it’d be nice to think she eventually got to that position. Given the recent setback of her idol, Hillary Clinton, perhaps Knope would run into the same unfortunate (and often unfair) problems Clinton faced in a general election.

In any case, watching Knope’s extreme optimism and solid belief system is a constant joy. Perhaps no real human has the energy and can-do attitude of Knope, but one can dream that qualified super-humans such as this exist out there. And that any such Knope would actually want to spend their time in politics to help others.

3. “Bojack Horseman”

Netflix

Woodchuck Coodchuck-Berkowitz is a cartoon woodchuck who briefly has lobster claws for hands. In “Bojack Horseman,” Coodchuck-Berkowitz struggles to maintain the governorship of California as unqualified celebrities run against him.

Perhaps Trump would have beaten Coodchuck-Berkowitz.

But like Bartlet, this is a politician with big ideas who knows how to give an inspiring speech. He also eventually replaces the lobster claws and gets normal-sized human hands. So that’s a plus in terms of competing with Trump.

4. “Unbreakable Kimmy Schmidt”

Netflix

Lillian Kaushtupper is not a typical politician. She’s an obstructionist at heart and often engages in illegal activities. Her campaigning tactics are also pretty similar to those of Trump’s 2016 campaign.

But while there is no guilt-free humor in watching Trump give a speech as president, Kaushtupper is definitely funny. And so, her rise as a politician is inarguably easier to watch.

5. “My Next Guest Needs No Introduction”

Netflix

Former President Barack Obama doesn’t play a fictional character on a show ― he plays himself on David Letterman’s new interview project. But that’s still a show, so it counts, don’t ask questions.Irish citizens will vote in May on whether to overturn a broad constitutional ban on abortion, lawmakers decided Monday.

The ballot referendum, which Cabinet ministers unanimously voted to allow, will ask people whether they want to strike down the Eighth Amendment, a 1983 addition to Ireland’s Constitution that gave fetuses equal rights to people. It is one of the strictest abortion bans in the world and allows for the procedure only in pregnancies that threaten the mother’s life.

In place of the amendment, the Irish legislature would take over the responsibility to craft laws on women’s reproductive rights.

The exact wording of the amendment is still being worked out, the BBC noted, but last year a cross-party parliamentary committee recommended legalizing unrestricted abortion up to 12 weeks into the pregnancy. Irish Prime Minister Leo Varadkar also agreed last weekend that the current ban needs to be liberalized.

Protestors against Ireland's abortion ban gather in Dublin, April 2016. Clodagh Kilcoyne / Reuters

Varadkar, speaking to reporters after Monday’s vote, said the ban has been ineffective.

“We already have abortion ― unsafe, unregulated, unlawful. We cannot continue to export our problem and import our solution,” he said, according to CNN. “I know this will be a difficult decision for the Irish people to make. For most of us, it is not a black-and-white issue ― it is very gray.”

Irish abortion rights activists estimate that each day 10 Irish women on average travel to the United Kingdom for legal abortion services. From 2010 to 2012, there were 1,642 abortion pill packages sent to Ireland, other reports show.

The great lengths Irish women must go to to seek out safe and legal abortions are time-consuming, expensive and emotionally taxing, women involved in the country’s abortion rights activism told HuffPost last year.

Abortion rights activists celebrated Monday’s announcement, but they remain cautiously optimistic.

The organization RepealEight urged the cabinet to set a firm date for the vote in May.

“We welcome the Cabinet’s formal agreement this evening to hold a referendum on the Eighth Amendment and the Taoiseach’s announcement that he will be campaigning to #repealthe8th. This is a momentous point in our campaign to repeal the Eighth Amendment." @ailbhes pic.twitter.com/HegTWFLHM7 — RepealEight (@repealeight) January 29, 2018

Linda Kavanagh, president of the Abortion Rights Campaign, urged supporters to closely examine the final wording in the referendum.

“Generations of people have fought too long and too hard for change in our abortion laws, and we will not accept any fudges or half-measures,” she said in a statement. “Modern, accessible and compassionate abortion care must be a guaranteed outcome of the referendum passing ― that is non-negotiable.”MOSCOW (Reuters) - President Vladimir Putin said on Tuesday the release of a U.S. list of Russian businessmen close to the Kremlin was an unfriendly act, but Moscow did not currently plan to retaliate.

The U.S. Treasury Department named major Russian businessmen in a so-called “oligarchs’ list” which was released earlier on Tuesday.

The list, drawn up as part of a sanctions package signed into law in August last year, does not mean those included will be subject to sanctions, but it casts a potential shadow of sanctions risk over a wide circle of wealthy Russians.

“It is, of course, an unfriendly act. It will complicate the difficult situation Russian-American relations are already in, and of course harm international relations as a whole,” Putin said.

Speaking at meeting with election campaign officials in Moscow, Putin said it was “stupid” to treat Russian in the same way as North Korea and Iran, while also asking Moscow to help broker a peace deal on the Korean peninsula.

But the Russian leader said he still wanted to improve ties with the United States and would refrain from any immediate retaliation.

“We were waiting for this list, and I will not hide it, were ready to take retaliatory steps, serious ones, which would have reduced our relations to zero,” Putin said.This article originally appeared at TomDispatch.com. To receive TomDispatch in your inbox three times a week, click here.

By Tom Engelhardt:

If I were to pick a single decision by an American president and his team in this century as our own August 1914, I would choose the invasion of Iraq in the spring of 2003. Of course, in that era of the “sole superpower,” there were no other great powers (as in the World War I moment) ready to leap into the fray, so the unraveling that followed across a significant part of the planet would prove not to be a world war but a one-power hell on Earth. And it’s continued to unfold over nearly a decade and a half. That invasion, which the geopolitical dreamers and supporters of the administration of George W. Bush guaranteed would be a “cakewalk,” cost next to nothing, and leave the United States forever dominant in the Middle East, that moment when Iraqis were sure to greet their American “liberators” with flowers and hosannas, that moment when hubris would gain new meaning proved an unmitigated disaster. The U.S. would punch a hole directly through the oil heartlands of the region and from that there would be no turning back.

Occupation, civil war, ethnic cleansing, terror movements, abuses of every sort ― and as far as we know, we may still not be near the end of its effects. Parts of the Middle East already lie in ruins, city after city reduced to rubble, whole populations in flight. In 2017, for instance, the Syrian city of Raqqa, the former “capital” of the Islamic State, was subjected, among so many other things, to 20,000 “coalition” (i.e. American) bombs. The U.N. has now declared 80% of it “uninhabitable.” In the wake of what passes for “victory” over the “caliphate” of the Islamic State (itself born in an American military prison camp) ― one of a number of similar “victories” in these years, starting with the U.S. military’s taking of Baghdad in April 2003 ― ISIS has gone underground, but not disappeared. Meanwhile, all the resentments, grudges, and conflicts that invasion and occupation released are still festering; the money for rebuilding is nowhere in sight; and the next iteration of the ongoing wars in the region has already been launched by NATO ally Turkey against U.S.-backed Kurdish fighters in northern Syria. So now, the Turks, the Kurds, Syrian and Iraqi Sunnis and Shiites, local militias of every sort, the Syrian government of Bashar al-Assad, ISIS guerillas, various al-Qaeda-linked groups, Russia, and Iran are all in the mix. And the Trump administration has committed its military to remaining in both Iraq and Syria until, it seems, the end of time. What could possibly go wrong?

And keep in mind that one other nightmare lurks just offshore (so to speak): Iran. The top officials of the Trump administration, Iranophobes all, are eager to finish the job started by the Bush administration so long ago by taking down Iran. It tells you something about the mood in Washington today that Defense Secretary James Mattis, who as CENTCOM commander in 2011 essentially lost his job thanks to his urge to go after Iran, is now considered the voice of reason on the subject in Washington.

In February 2003, I marched with vast crowds protesting the coming invasion of Iraq and the devastation it might bring. We knew that such an invasion couldn’t turn out well ― and so many more reasonable choices were available that would have left us in a better world. And keep in mind that Iraq was just one decision on the road to Donald Trump. Today, TomDispatchregular Andrew Bacevich looks back over that past world of choices and picks 11 all-American moments between the fall of the Berlin Wall and election 2016 that might have given us a different world and assumedly a different president.

How We Got Donald Trump (And How We Might Have Avoided Him)

The present arrives out of a past that we are too quick to forget, misremember, or enshroud in myth. Yet like it or not, the present is the product of past choices. Different decisions back then might have yielded very different outcomes in the here-and-now. Donald Trump ascended to the presidency as a consequence of myriad choices that Americans made (or had made for them) over the course of decades. Although few of those were made with Trump in mind, he is the result. Where exactly did Trump come from? How are we to account for his noxious presence as commander-in-chief and putative Leader of the Free World? The explanations currently on offer are legion. Some blame the nefarious Steve Bannon, others Hillary Clinton and her lackluster campaign. Or perhaps the fault lies with the Bernie Sanders insurgency, which robbed Clinton of the momentum she needed to win, or with Little Marco, Lyin’ Ted, and Low Energy Jeb, and the other pathetic Republicans whom Trump trampled underfoot en route to claiming the nomination. Or perhaps the real villains are all those “deplorables” ― the angry and ignorant white males whose disdain for immigrants, feminists, gays, and people of color Trump stoked and manipulated to great effect. All such explanations, however, suggest that the relevant story began somewhere around June 2015 when Donald Trump astonished the political world by announcing his intention to seek the presidency. My aim here is to suggest that the origins of the real story are to be found much earlier. The conditions that enabled Trump to capture the presidency stemmed from acts of commission and omission that occurred well before he rode down that escalator at Trump Tower to offer his services to the nation. Here’s the sad part: at each step along the way, other alternatives were available. Had those alternatives been exercised, a Trump presidency would have remained an absurd fantasy rather than becoming an absurd and dangerous reality. Like the Cuban Missile Crisis or the Vietnam War or 9/11, Trump qualifies as a completely avoidable catastrophe with roots deep in the past. So who’s at fault? Ultimately, we ― the American people ― must accept a considerable share of the responsibility. This is one buck that can’t be passed.

Coulda, Woulda, Shoulda

So what follows is a review of roads taken (and not) ultimately leading to the demoralizing presidency of Donald Trump, along with a little speculation on how different choices might have resulted in a decidedly different present.

1989: The Fall of the Berlin Wall. As the Cold War wound down, members of Washington’s smart set, Republicans and Democrats alike, declared that the opportunities now presenting themselves went beyond the merely stupendous. Indeed, history itself had ended. With the United States as the planet’s sole superpower, liberal democratic capitalism was destined to prevail everywhere. There would be no way except the American Way. In fact, however, the passing of the Cold War should have occasioned a moment of reflection regarding the sundry mistakes and moral compromises that marred U.S. policy from the 1940s through the 1980s. Unfortunately, policy elites had no interest in second thoughts ― and certainly not in remorse or contrition. In the 1990s, rampant victory disease fueled extraordinary hubris and a pattern of reckless behavior informed by an assumption that the world would ultimately conform to the wishes of the “indispensable nation.” In the years to come, an endless sequence of costly mishaps would ensue from Mogadishu to Mosul. When, in due time, Donald Trump announced his intention to dismantle the establishment that had presided over those failures, many Americans liked what he had to say, even if he spoke from a position of total ignorance.

1992: President H. Ross Perot. In the first post-Cold War presidential election, H. Ross Perot, a wealthy entrepreneur and political novice, mounted an independent challenge to the Republican and Democratic nominees. Both parties, Perot charged, were in bed with lobbyists, insiders, and special interests. Both were enthusiastically presiding over the deindustrialization of a once dominant American economy. The rich were getting richer, the national debt was growing, and ordinary citizens were getting screwed, he contended. His charges were not without merit. Yet when Perot lost, Washington was back to business as usual. We cannot know what a Perot presidency would have produced. Yet such a victory ― the American electorate, in effect, repudiating the two established parties ― might have created powerful incentives for both Republicans and Democrats to clean up their acts and find ways of governing more effectively. Had they done so, Trump’s later vow to “drain the swamp” of corruption and self-dealing would have been beside the point.

1993: Gays in the Military. Bill Clinton ran for the presidency as a centrist. Even so, once elected, he immediately announced his intention to remove restrictions on gays serving in the armed forces. This was, to put it mildly, anything but the act of a centrist. Outraged senior military officers made clear their intention to defy the new commander-in-chief. Although Clinton quickly backpedalled, the episode infuriated both cultural traditionalists and progressives. Within 20 years, a different generation of senior officers decided that gays serving in the military was no big deal. The issue instantly vanished. Yet the controversy left behind a residue of bitterness, especially on the right, that worked in Trump’s favor. Had the generals of 1993 suppressed their insubordinate inclinations, they might have ever so slightly turned down the heat on the culture wars. When the heat is high, it’s the tub-thumpers and noisy haranguers who benefit.

1998: The Lewinsky Scandal. When President Clinton’s sexual encounters with a young White House intern became known, Hillary Clinton stood byher man. The first lady’s steadfast loyalty helped her husband avoid being thrown out of office, providing cover for other feminists to continue supporting the president. Imagine if she had done otherwise, declaring his conduct unacceptable. The pressure on him to resign coming from those who had been among his strongest supporters would have been intense. This much is certain: had evidence of infidelity, compounded by prior allegations of abuse toward women, forced President Clinton from office, Donald Trump would never have had a chance of being elected president. In all likelihood he would never even have considered running.

2000: Cheney Picks a Veep. When George W. Bush wrapped up the Republican nomination in 2000, he tagged Dick Cheney, his father’s defense secretary, with the task of identifying a suitable running mate. After surveying the field, Cheney decided that he himself was the man for the job. As vice president, Cheney wasted no time in stacking the upper ranks of the administration with likeminded allies keen to wield American military muscle to smite “evil-doers” and expand America’s empire. Bush had promised, if elected, to pursue a “humble” foreign policy and forego nation-building. Had he not surrounded himself with Cheney and bellicose companions like Donald Rumsfeld and Paul Wolfowitz, he might possibly have stuck to that course, even after 9/11. Instead, urged on by the uber-hawks in his own administration, he embarked upon a misguided “Global War on Terrorism.” No single action played a greater role in paving the way for Donald Trump to become president.

2000: The Supremes Pick a President. If, in choosing a president on our behalf, the Supreme Court had given the nod to Al Gore instead of George Bush, might they have averted that never-ending, never-contracting war on terrorism? No doubt the 9/11 attacks would still have occurred and some U.S. military action would have ensued. But Gore did not share the obsession with Saddam Hussein that infected members of the Bush-Cheney axis. Arguably, a President Gore would have been less likely than President Bush to insist on invading a country that had played no part in the al-Qaeda conspiracy. Had the U.S. not embarked upon a preventive war against Iraq ― had this Original Sin of the post-9/11 era not occurred ― a Trump presidency would have been far less likely.

2003: Congress Rolls Over. To its perpetual disgrace, Congress assented to Bush’s demands to invade Iraq. It did so less because its members, including presidential aspirants like Senators Hillary Clinton and John Kerry, were persuaded that Iraq posed a threat to national security (it did not) than because they sought to insulate themselves from the political consequences of opposing a president hell-bent on war. For decades, Congress had allowed presidents to encroach upon its constitutional responsibility to declare war, but this would be the last straw. Supine legislators became complicit in a disaster that to this day continues to unfold. A Congress with gumption might have averted that disaster, recovered its cojones, and left us with a legislative branch willing and able to fulfill its constitutional responsibilities.

2003: GM Kills the EV1 Electric Automobile. In the 1990s, General Motors produced the first viable electric car. Drivers loved it, but GM doubted its potential profitability. Shareholders were more likely to make money if the company focused on manufacturing vehicles powered by gasoline engines. So in 2003, GM executives killed the EV1. The effect was to postpone by at least a decade the development of a mass-produced electric car. Had GM persisted, it’s just possible that the EV1 might have jump-started the transition to a post-fossil fuel economy and offered humanity a leg up on climate change. Instead, politicians spent years bickering about whether climate change was even real. More than a few Republicans made political hay by denouncing those waging a “war on coal” or inhibiting crucially needed oil exploration ― bogus charges that Trump adroitly exploited for his own purposes. Perhaps if the EV1 had fulfilled its potential, anyone mounting a presidential campaign while denouncing global warming as a hoax would have been laughed out of town instead of capturing the White House.

2009: Obama Bails Out Wall Street. President Obama entered the Oval Office with the U.S. economy in free-fall. His administration took prompt action to prevent systemic collapse ― that is, it bailed out Wall Street. Meanwhile the little guy got clobbered, with millions of Americans losing their jobs and homes. A billionaire complaining about the system being “rigged” might otherwise have tested the outer limits of irony, but for Donald Trump the government’s handling of the Great Recession was a gift from the gods.

2010: Presidential Twitter Accounts. Huge numbers of Americans have willingly surrendered their lives to social media. I’m guessing that there are more vegans and curling aficionados in the United States today than there are non-subscribers to Facebook. So it was perhaps inevitable that politicians would hoist themselves onto the social media bandwagon, keen to use direct, unmediated electronic communications as a way of mobilizing their followers. Yet the resulting impact on American politics has been entirely negative. The space available for reasoned exchanges has shrunk. Political discourse has become increasingly corrosive, its apparent purpose less to inform than to obfuscate, trivialize, and create division. This development was probably inevitable and will no doubt prove irreversible. Even so, it was not inevitable that the presidency itself should succumb to this phenomenon. In 2010, when Barack Obama “made history” by sending the first presidential tweet, it was as if the Pope had begun spending his idle hours hanging out at some corner saloon. Even if only in barely measurable increments, the dignity and decorum associated with the presidency began to fade and with it the assumption that crude or boorish behavior would automatically disqualify someone for high office. Donald Trump, a first-class boor and maestro of Twitter, was quick to take notice.

2010: Mitch McConnell Chooses Party Over Country. With the nation still in the midst of a devastating economic crisis, Republican Senate leader Mitch McConnell declared on behalf of his party that the denial of a second term to President Obama was “the single most important thing we want to achieve.” To hell with the country, the GOP wanted Obama gone. McConnell’s troops fell obediently into line and the last vestiges of bipartisanship disappeared from Washington. Of course, the president won reelection in 2012 anyway, but in effect McConnell refused to recognize the result. So when Obama exercised a president’s prerogative to nominate someone to fill a Supreme Court vacancy, McConnell ensured that the nominee would not even receive the courtesy of a hearing. An environment rife with hyper-partisanship presented the perfect situation for a political outsider skilled in the “art of the deal” to offer himself as the antidote to persistent gridlock. Congratulations, Mitch! You won after all!

And So...?

It’s time to look in the mirror, folks. Blaming Trump for being Trump simply won’t do. Like Lenin or Franco or Perón or dozens of other demagogues, Trump merely seized the opportunity that presented itself. Our president is a product and beneficiary of several decades worth of vainglory, cynicism, epic folly, political cowardice, missed opportunities, and a public not given to paying attention. In present-day Washington, no one can deny that the chickens have come home to roost. The biggest fowl of them all has taken up residence in the White House and, in a very real sense, we all put him there.Protests have swept across Iran in recent weeks, the largest in almost a decade, as Iranians take to the streets to protest abysmal economic conditions and allegations of widespread corruption.

In recent days, however, at least six Iranian women have captured the attention of the West by challenging the country’s hijab mandate. Images of these women taking off and waving their headscarves are going viral on social media.

Taking off the hijab in public is punishable with fines or even jail time. But police officials announced last month that they will no longer arrest women for failing to observe the Islamic dress code, which has been in place since the 1979 revolution. However, at least two women have been arrested, including one on Monday.

The protests appear to have been inspired by 31-year-old Vida Movahed, who reportedly was arrested briefly after being photographed waving her hijab while standing on a utility box on Enghelab Street in central Tehran, according to The Guardian.

Although her protest occurred in December and was not directly linked to the small uptick in women’s demonstrations, the image of her act of resistance quickly spread online.

Masih Alinejad, an Iranian activist and the founder of My Stealthy Freedom, a social media campaign that began four years go in which women in Iran post pictures of themselves without their headscarves, said the protests are not against Islam or women who choose to wear the hijab. Rather, she said, they are about having a choice. Her mother and sister choose to wear hijabs, she told HuffPost in a phone interview.

“We are fighting for freedom to choose to wear or not wear hijab,” she said. “Our fight is against compulsion. Our fight is for freedom of choice.”

Zahra Safyari, an Iranian who voluntarily wears a hijab, tweeted: “I wear the chador [an open cloak]. I chose to wear the hijab, it wasn’t forced on me by my family or the society, nor was it a work requirement. I am happy with my choice but I am opposed to forced hijab and that’s why I appreciate the Girls of Enghelab Street. Religion and hijab should not be compulsory.”

Other non-Iranian Muslim women, those who wear the hijab and those who don’t, also voiced their support for an Iranian woman’s freedom to choose, pointing out that the mandate is forced by the government and that “there is no compulsion in religion,” according to Islamic teachings.



The law mandating the hijab has been enforced since the 1979 Islamic Revolution, and a head scarf is obligatory for every woman in the country, even tourists and visiting foreign dignitaries.

Iran’s “morality police,” an official arm of the state’s police force that primarily focuses on women’s dress codes, has intensified over the last few weeks. Despite this, a growing number of women in Iran continue to defy the government’s encroachment on policing women’s bodies by getting creative with their hijab and testing the limits of the law.The House passed a bill on Monday night that protects amateur athletes from sexual abuse by enforcing mandatory reporting regulations and extending the statute of limitations for child victims.

The bill, which was sponsored by Sen. Dianne Feinstein (D-Calif.), came up for a vote one week after Larry Nassar was sentenced in what was the largest sexual abuse scandal in sports history. Congress agreed to use the Senate’s version of the bill to speed up its passage; it passed with a vote of 406-3. It just needs President Donald Trump’s signature to be made into law.

Nassar was sentencing to 40 years to 175 years in prison on seven counts of criminal sexual conduct in the first degree. The former USA Gymnastics and Michigan State University doctor has been accused of sexually abusing more than 150 young women and girls under the guise of medical treatment.

“As the Nassar sentencing comes to a close and the Olympic games quickly approach, we are reminded of the importance of protecting the safety and well-being of all of our athletes,” Rep. Susan Brooks (R-Ind.) said.

(L-R) Sen. Susan Collins (R-Me.), Sen. Dianne Feinstein (D-Calif.), Senate Judiciary Committee Chairman Charles Grassley and Sen. John Thune (R-SD) join former champion gymnasts Jeanette Antolin, Dominique Moceanu, Jamie Dantzscher and Mattie Larson for a news conference on January 30, 2018 in Washington, DC. Chip Somodevilla via Getty Images

The bill has a three-pronged approach to protecting athletes and regulating governing bodies of amateur athletics.

First, it requires coaches, trainers and others to report any sexual abuse allegation to the police within a 24-hour period. Several women said they reported Nassar to MSU representatives and others as early as 1997, but Nassar’s abuse was allowed to continue because no one adhered to mandatory reporting regulations.

Secondly, the legislation extends the statute of limitations to up to 10 years after a victim realizes he or she was abused. It’s not uncommon in child sexual abuse cases for survivors to have a delayed realization of the abuse they endured. Many of Nassar’s victims did not realize they had been abused until other women came forward with their stories.

Lastly, the bill limits athletes under the age of 18 from being alone with an adult who isn’t their parent. Nassar often abused young girls while he was alone with them during medical visits, and many survivors said the isolation of elite gymnasts allowed the abuse to continue.

“How a serial predator like Dr. Nassar could have preyed on so many young girls for a long time in such a flagrant fashion is appalling,” Rep. Ted Poe (R-Texas) said during a House debate of the bill.

“All kids should be able to go and do sports without having to worry about adult predators.” - Jeanette Antolin, former gymnast

Rep. Lois Frankel (D-Fla.) addressed several athletes who helped create the bill, including Mattie Larson, Jamie Dantzscher and Jeanette Antolin, during a news conference on Tuesday.

“It may be too late to protect these brave young women. But now you are here doing the protecting. You thought you’d be champion of the Olympics, but you are champions of human rights,” she said.

Antolin told HuffPost that the bill is meant to protect all amateur athletes, not just gymnasts.

“[This bill] goes across all amateur sports, not just gymnastics, not just swimming ― it’s all amateur sports to protect all kids,” she said. “Because all kids should be able to go and do sports without having to worry about adult predators.”

Lawmakers from both parties have also called for an investigation into USA Gymnastics and the U.S. Olympic Committee.

“The abhorrent abuses associated with this case are outrageous, and raise serious concerns about your organization’s ability to oversee your sport and protect your athletes from abuse and mistreatment,” multiple members of Congress wrote in a letter to USA Gymnastics.

Several officials at USA Gymnastics, MSU and the U.S. Olympic committee have resigned in the face of harsh criticism. MSU President Lou Anna K. Simon resigned last week. The entire USA Gymnastics board resigned, and former Olympic coach John Geddert retired. The NCAA also opened an investigation into how MSU handled the Nassar case.

Nassar is currently serving 60 years in prison on child pornography charges and awaits sentencing on three other charges of criminal sexual conduct in the first degree.

Travis Waldron contributed reporting.