President Donald Trump is set to deliver his first State Of The Union address on Tuesday. Pair that with a drinking game, and there may be no better test of your mettle.

As we’ve seen over the course of the last year, Trump is a bit of an, uh, unconventional president, so there’s a chance he gives an unconventional address. And that certainly makes creating a State of the Union drinking game more interesting. But we’re up to the challenge if you are.

Here’s the game we put together for the 2018 State of the Union. Have fun, but just remember, it’s a school night.

Take a sip if Trump says “Russia” or “China.”

Take a swig if Trump praises Putin.

Take a shot if Trump says something in Russian.

Finish the bottle if Putin is actually in the audience.

Take a sip if Trump says “fake news” or “collusion.”

Take a swig if Trump says “witch hunt.”

Take a shot if Trump names specific news outlets.

Finish the bottle if there is a person wearing a witch costume in the audience. (Start a new bottle if it’s CNN’s Jake Tapper.)

Honestly, Tapper could probably rock a witch's hat. Paul Zimmerman via Getty Images

Take a sip if Trump claims things are “going great.”

Take a swig if Trump claims credit for something great he had nothing to do with.

Take a shot if Trump claims credit for something that hasn’t even happened, or that happened prior to his presidency.

Finish the bottle if President Obama interrupts the State Of The Union broadcast with his own pirate feed to deliver an alternate speech.

Oh hi, Obama. Scott Olson via Getty Images

Take a sip if Trump mentions the Democrats.

Take a swig if, at any point, Democrats stand to applaud.

Take a shot if Trump speaks kindly of Democrats.

Finish the bottle if Trump creates a new nickname for any Democrat during the speech. (e.g., “Dicky Durbin”)

Senator Dicky Durbin totally misrepresented what was said at the DACA meeting. Deals can’t get made when there is no trust! Durbin blew DACA and is hurting our Military. — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) January 15, 2018

Take a sip if House Speaker Paul Ryan (R-Wis.) jumps to applaud before Vice President Mike Pence does.

Take a swig if Ryan or Pence points to someone in the crowd.

Take a shot if Ryan or Pence leans over and whispers something to make the other laugh.

Finish the bottle Pence and Ryan shed their human forms to reveal they’ve been Reptilians all along.

It's unclear who started applauding first in this photo. Bloomberg via Getty Images

Take a sip if Trump singles out someone in the crowd.

Take a swig if Trump singles out someone, and that person reacts like they wish he hadn’t.

Take a shot if that person is in his own family.

Finish the bottle if that person is Melania.

Oh hi, Melania. Alex Wong via Getty Images

Take a sip if applause ever goes longer than five seconds.

Take a swig if applause ever goes longer than 10 seconds.

Take a shot if applause ever goes longer than one minute.

Finish the bottle if applause ever goes longer than five minutes.

Take a sip if you see someone sitting quietly while others are applauding.

Take a swig if you see someone shaking their head.

Take a shot if a protestor gets into the hall, or if someone is heard shouting something at the president.

Finish the bottle if Trump refers to the protestor with some variation of “Get ’em outta here!” or “Rough ’em up a little.”

We really hope Trump doesn't call for anyone getting roughed up, though. The Washington Post via Getty Images

Take a sip if Trump goes obviously off script.

Take a swig if Trump makes “wise guy” type gestures with his hands.

Take a shot if Trump says something that sounds genuinely presidential. (Everyone playing the game must agree for this one to count.)

Finish the bottle if Trump gets through the speech without telling a single lie.

Jonathan Ernst / Reuters

Take a sip if Trump mentions the last election.

Take a swig if Trump mentions or alludes to Hillary Clinton.

Take a shot if Trump says “Crooked Hillary.”

Finish the bottle Trump brings out the 2016 electoral map, or if the camera settles on an audience member who’s not paying attention, but rather staring off into the distance, daydreaming of a world that might have been...A little girl wrapped in a shawl waits along with her mother at a railway station in New Delhi, India, on the cold winter morning of Jan. 3, 2018. Saumya Khandelwal / Reuters

Indian families’ traditional preference for sons over daughters has led to the existence of millions of “unwanted” girls in the country, a new government report estimates.

Many parents eager for boys continue to have children until the desired number of sons are born, according to a report released Monday as part of the finance ministry’s annual economic survey. A lot of daughters are born during this process, too. The report estimates that these “unwanted” girls number more than 21 million. As they grow up, they often receive poorer nourishment and less schooling than their brothers.

Despite those “unwanted” girls, India’s male-to-female sex ratio at birth still tilts significantly in favor of males. And it hasn’t improved even as incomes rise. The skewed ratio crosses socioeconomic classes. Even families in wealthier Indian states show a preference for having sons.

“The challenge of gender is long-standing, probably going back millennia, so all stakeholders are collectively responsible for its resolution,” the report’s authors write. “India must confront the societal preference ... which appears inoculated to development.”

A young girl sells balloons by the Yamuna River on the last day of the Ganesh Chaturthi festival in Delhi, India, on Sept. 15, 2016. Cathal McNaughton / Reuters

For India as a whole, the sex ratio at birth is about 1,108 males per 1,000 females, the report states. In two higher-income states, Punjab and Haryana, the sex ratio for those between infancy and 6 years of age is even worse: 1,200 males per 1,000 females. The natural sex ratio at birth is about 1.05 males for every female, according to the report.

How has the male-to-female ratio been skewed in India? Tests to determine the sex of a fetus are illegal in India, but families still test and then procure sex-selective abortions. The authors estimate these abortions, in conjunction with the country’s higher mortality rates for female children, have led to a gender gap of about 63 million women, whom they classify as “missing.”

And yet the researchers also found that India had improved on several indicators of gender equality, including women’s education and women’s power to make decisions in their households.

“In some sense, once born, the lives of women are improving but society still appears to want fewer of them to be born,” the authors write.

A school girl gets her face painted in the colors of India's national flag before taking part in the country's Republic Day celebrations in Jammu on Jan. 25, 2018. Mukesh Gupta / Reuters

The report suggests several possible reasons for India’s preference for sons. Male offspring perform important religious rituals for their parents. Property is often passed down within the male line, while women are traditionally expected to move in with their husbands’ families, taking their labor with them.

Sending a young woman to her new husband with a dowry has been illegal in India for decades, but many families still practice this custom. This means the birth of girls represents an extra financial burden for their parents.

The authors of the report urge Indian society as a whole to reflect on this cultural preference for sons ― especially with the growing evidence that when women acquire greater personal agency and participate equally in the labor force, it can boost the economy of an entire country.There’s a new buddy and new life for the buddy-cop TV series “Lethal Weapon.”

Sean William Scott will replace the fired Clayne Crawford on the show, which Fox renewed in time for its upfront presentation on Monday, according to outlets.

Scott, 41, is perhaps best known for his sex-obsessed character Stifler in the “American Pie” films.

Seann William Scott's credits include "Goon" and "The Dukes of Hazzard." George Pimentel via Getty Images

The future of “Lethal Weapon” became cloudy after Crawford was dismissed for his outbursts on the set. Studio-appointed therapy and an apology from the actor apparently weren’t enough to save his job.

Accompanied by a downcast photo, Crawford struck a magnanimous tone Sunday in congratulating the show on its renewal.

A post shared by Clayne Crawford (@claynecrawford) on May 13, 2018 at 1:31pm PDT

The producers, Warner Bros. Television, officially confirmed the decision to not re-up Crawford’s contract on Sunday. Several publications reported his ouster last week.

Scott will play a new character who becomes a partner, according to reports. Crawford played the loose cannon cop Martin Riggs, originated by Mel Gibson in the 1987 film “Lethal Weapon,” alongside Damon Wayans, who revived Danny Glover’s Roger Murtaugh from the film. Scott’s character could “possibly” be Riggs’ brother, according to TVLine.

“Seann is a fantastic addition to this already amazing cast,” Michael Thorn, president of entertainment of Fox Broadcasting, said in a statement. It added: “We can’t wait to see Damon and Seann together on screen.”It has been nearly 30 years since “The Wonder Years” premiered on ABC. The coming-of-age dramedy, set in the late ’60s and early ’70s, aired from 1988 to 1993, yet covered themes that remain relevant today. The series is still beloved by many; in 2016, Rolling Stone ranked “The Wonder Years” No. 63 on its list of 100 Greatest TV Shows of All Time.

So why did the popular show — which won four Emmys and was nominated for dozens of awards during its tenure — really end after Season 6?

Twenty-five years before the #MeToo and Time’s Up movements swept Hollywood, the show was rocked by its own sexual harassment scandal — a scandal that, according to explosive allegations from one of the show’s stars, played a major role in the show’s cancellation.

Alley Mills, who played Fred Savage’s TV mom, Norma Arnold, sat down with Yahoo ahead of next week’s anniversary of the show’s debut and claimed for the first time that a lawsuit led to the show’s demise.

“When we shot the series finale … nobody knew whether or not The Wonder Years was going to be renewed,” Mills says, as seen in the video above. “And that’s because of a completely ridiculous sexual harassment suit that was going on against Fred Savage — who is, like, the least offensive, most wonderful, sweet human being that ever walked the face of the Earth.”

In 1993, a 31-year-old costume designer for the show, Monique Long, filed a sexual harassment lawsuit against the show’s young stars, Fred Savage (who played Kevin Arnold), then 16, and Jason Hervey (who played older brother Wayne Arnold), then 20. Long alleged that the actors verbally and physically harassed her, and because of that, she claimed, she couldn’t do her job properly and was fired. Representatives for the show and for the actors vehemently denied these allegations years ago.

“So I just thought [the lawsuit] was a big joke and it was going to blow over,” Mills recalls. “It’s a little bit like what’s happening now — some innocent people can get caught up in this stuff; it’s very tricky. It was so not true. It was my dresser, and I don’t care if she’s listening — I probably shouldn’t be telling this, but I don’t care because it was so long ago and it’s gotta be over now.”

Mills claims that she “wasn’t allowed to talk” back then about the lawsuit, “which made me so upset. We had a gag order on us, and I wanted to scream on television, ‘This is ridiculous!’”

The lawsuit was dropped after an undisclosed out-of-court settlement was reached, a move that the actress alleges their network, ABC, was behind. “I just thought this was a joke. You know, they bought her off, which really made me mad,” she says. “That was incorrigible that the network did that; they should never have paid her off. They wanted to avoid a scandal or something, but it made them look guilty. You know, you don’t pay someone off when there was no crime, you just fire the girl.”

Jason Hervey, left, Fred Savage, and Alley Mills in the 1992 episode “Let Nothing You Dismay.” Photo: ABC Photo Archives/ABC via Getty Images

ABC didn’t comment on Mills’s claims regarding the alleged gag order or settlement, when contacted by Yahoo. Representatives for Savage and Hervey have yet to respond.

When reached via email, Monique Long — who still works as a costume designer — told Yahoo that she stands by her claims made in the lawsuit: “What I will say at this time is, that back then, claiming sexual harassment was NOT popular nor acceptable in Hollywood. Now all these years later the truth about the dark side of Hollywood and the rampant prevalence of sexual harassment in the industry is out. It’s an issue of power and control and continues to be! People can say what they want, but the truth has always been public record in the complaint and all the documents and depositions filed with the courts. If anyone wants the truth of what happened they can read it there. To this day I stand by the truth in those documents.”

Long adds, “My only response to Ms. Mills’s slander is that it proves exactly why women in the industry are forced to remain silent about sexual harassment.”

So did the lawsuit end “The Wonder Years”?

When asked directly if a seventh season was torpedoed because of the allegations, Mills proclaims, “Yeah.” She adds, “I mean, it would have gone as long as the show — when you keep up a certain amount of ratings, they keep a show going. But it was because of all that garbage.”

While ABC declined to comment on Mills’s assertion, back in 1993, two different reasons were cited for “The Wonder Years”’s cancellation. First, as the stars of the show matured, the themes and storylines needed to as well, something the network was uncomfortable with.

“When [Kevin] became 16 and 17, there were really things he needed to get to that we couldn’t do at 8 p.m., especially with the kind of venerable cachet that the show had obtained with its audience,” writer and executive producer Bob Brush told the Los Angeles Times years ago. “We would get notes from the network saying, ‘You could do this on any show besides ‘The Wonder Years.‘’”

Fred Savage grew up before our eyes on six seasons of The Wonder Years. Photo: Warner Bros/Everett Collection//ABC via Getty Images

An ABC spokeswoman told the Los Angeles Times that the broadcast standards department “felt it was inappropriate to present Kevin’s sexual awakening because of the setting in the 1960s, the gentle tone of the series and, most importantly, the 8 p.m. time period. … The show was largely viewed by young audiences who watch with their parents, and we had to be considerate of the viewer expectation that they could watch together and feel comfortable doing so.”

Second, the paper reported that escalating costs, including more location shoots and rising cast salaries, factored into the network’s decision to end the show.

When the cast filmed the series finale, “Independence Day,” no one knew if Season 7 was going to happen. People reported at the time that the mood on set soured as they wrapped Season 6 amid the harassment scandal. “We work together 14 hours a day, five days a week, and we’re like a family,” a female member of the crew told the magazine. “Now we’re not allowed to hug on the set because it could be construed as sexual harassment. It’s real sad.”

Mills says the ambiguity regarding the show’s fate “upset” her while filming what would ultimately be the series finale.

“So, when we were standing in that parade at the end in the final episode of the show, the camera was panning on all of the characters. And we didn’t know what our voiceover was that Daniel Stern does later. Usually we do, and we have this wonderful guy Kirk Trutner — he was our narrator on the set — and Kirk would read the narration so that when the camera comes in on you, you know what [Daniel] is saying and you know what’s happening, emotionally.

“We had no idea as the camera goes over us, for the last episode of the ‘Wonder Years,’ what they were going to say,” she recalls. “And I just said, ‘This is wrong.’ I was always kind of the loudmouth, because I was the grownup. … But I was very, very upset, and they all knew it.” After the finale aired, however, the actress says she was satisfied and realized that it was ultimately a fitting end.

As for her younger co-stars, Mills was fiery in her defense of Savage and Hervey 25 years ago, and she is just as unwavering in her support of them today.

1990 cast photo of, from left, Jason Hervey, Olivia d’Abo, Fred Savage, Dan Lauria, Alley Mills, Josh Saviano, and Danica McKellar. Photo: ABC Photo Archives/ABC via Getty Images

“[Fred] and his family are, like, the greatest human beings that ever lived. He still is! He is an amazing kid, Fred, just amazing; his family is amazing,” she says, sarcastically adding, “and you know, Fred, who would hold you by your ears and tell you that he loved you, that’s sexual harassment.”

She continues, “So it gets really tricky, you know, this thing that’s happening right now, all of these allegations. When they’re true, awesome. You know, bring it out, bring things to the light. But it’s so important — because I actually know a couple that are not [true] — it’s tricky, it’s really tricky because people would rather just let go of it than allow you your truth and your time in court. So, this was like, one of the first ones.”

— Reporting by Jon SanThe road to hell may or may not be paved with good intentions, but a stretch of highway in Arizona is being maintained with the best of intentions by Satanists.

The Satanic Temple of Arizona adopted a stretch of I-10 near Casa Grande, and sent volunteers armed with pitchforks to pick up trash on the highway to... well... actually it’s to Phoenix or Tucson, depending on which direction you’re driving.

America Curl, a member of group, told local Fox station KSAZ that she asked the state department of transportation if they could do the cleanup.

“I just want to clean up a highway. Please give me a highway to clean up, and they said fine,” Curl said.

After filling out a form and paying a fee ― then working like the devil to keep the road clean ― the group now has a sign:

“People have this perception that one side does the good stuff and the other side does all the bad stuff,” Stu de Haan, one of the founding members of The Satanic Temple of Arizona, told local NBC station News 4 Tucson.

He added:

“What we are really showing here is that Satanism is a legitimate religion, even though it’s non-theistic. We are showing the people do have a sense of community and they want to get involved.”

De Haan told the station his members don’t believe in the devil; they simply don’t believe in a god.WASHINGTON ― Ever since President Donald Trump signed a massive corporate tax cut into law last month, some of the biggest American companies have been touting pay increases as evidence of profits translating into meaningful gains for workers.

But there’s a problem with this spin: Nearly all of the companies involved, from Walmart to Wells Fargo, were wildly profitable before the legislation passed, and the benefits they’re now promoting constitute just a tiny fraction those profits. Compared with the massive gains analysts expect to accrue to shareholders as a result of the new tax law, these perks really are, as House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi (D-Calif.) said earlier this month, little more than “crumbs.”

Whatever revenues corporations have left after paying for workers, supplies and other costs of doing business ― including taxes ― gets booked as corporate profit, enriching the company’s owners. Nothing in the tax code prior to the GOP overhaul prevented companies from turning over any of these profits to their employees in the form of higher wages or bonuses. But by slashing the corporate tax rate rom 35 percent to 21 percent, the bill did make sure that a much larger share stays with shareholders. For some companies, the difference could mean billions of dollars a year.

Consider Verizon, HuffPost’s parent company, which said it would give all its workers 50 shares, which will vest over two years. With about 161,000 employees, at $54 per share at the time of the announcement, the total benefit would come to about $434 million. Since the company said it would save $3.5 billion to $4 billion from the tax bill, the stock award represents somewhere between 10 percent and 28 percent of Verizon’s annual tax savings, and just 1.4 percent of the company’s profit in 2017.

Meanwhile, Walmart, the nation’s largest private employer, announced it would spend an additional $700 million over the next two years on employee pay, thanks to the tax bill. That’s less than 5 percent of the company’s most recent annual profit. Walmart announced the closure of 63 Sam’s Club stores, which will result in hundreds of layoffs, the same week.

“Companies are probably more interested in a short-term public relations boost than anything else,” said Matt Gardner, a senior fellow with the Institute on Taxation and Economic Policy. “We can’t know whether these decisions had been made prior to the tax cuts.”

None of this is preventing House Republicans from attempting to take credit for every dollar workers receive. “For the families who are living paycheck-to-paycheck, an increase in take-home-pay and a $1,000 bonus to start out the new year ― these are not crumbs,” House Speaker Paul Ryan (R-Wis.) said in an email blast.

House Majority Whip Steve Scalise (R-La.) is keeping an official running tally of more than 250 companies that have announced pay increases because of the tax bill. Of the 48 companies from the list that also ranked among the 500 biggest firms by revenue in 2017, only 18 are actually raising wages, as of Tuesday morning. Most are doling out small, one-time bonuses and improved retirement benefits. Some haven’t announced pay increases of any kind.

Eleven of the 18 firms that did announce raises are banks, mostly bumping hourly pay to $15 ― which they would likely be doing without the advantageous tax changes.

HuffPost

One of the banks on the GOP list, Capital One, didn’t mention the tax bill when it told employees their hourly pay would rise to $15. A bank spokesperson told HuffPost the raises had nothing to do with taxes.

“As we noted to our associates, over the past year, we’ve focused on raising base pay as part of our long term pay strategy,” the spokesperson said. “Seeing top competitors move toward a minimum wage of $15/hour created an optimal opportunity for us to accelerate our pay strategy so that we can continue to maintain our competitive edge in attracting and retaining great talent.”

In other words, the Capital One pay increase had more to do with labor market conditions than a desire to share tax bill savings. The median hourly pay for a bank teller in 2016 was $13.10, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics, and several banks had been slowly raising teller pay of late. In its announcement celebrating the tax bill, PNC acknowledged that its new $15-an-hour minimum wage would complete a “goal that has been underway for some time.” In their announcements, Wells Fargo, JPMorgan, SunTrust, BB&T, and U.S. Bancorp all credited the tax bill for moving with their peers to a $15 minimum wage.

SunTrust also said it would hand out $1,000 employee bonuses ― but only to workers who completed a “financial fitness program.” Like other banks, SunTrust is raising its minimum wage to $15 an hour. The company also said it would offer unspecified “merit based pay increases for certain other hourly teammates.” SunTrust notched $2.3 billion in earnings in 2017.

Neither Bank of America nor American Express, which the GOP also listed as evidence that “tax reform works,” are raising wages as a result of the bill. Bank of America announced that it will pay a one-time bonus of $1,000 to 145,000 workers ― a total of less than 1 percent of the company’s $18.2 billion profit from 2017 alone. American Express said it would make an unspecified “incremental contribution to our employee profit-sharing plans.”

Though Republicans cite Hartford Insurance Group’s plan to give a $1,000 bonus to 9,500 employees ― an amount equal to about 3 percent of the dividends the company pays out each year ― the company’s CEO sounded ambivalent about the overall consequences of the tax bill itself, worrying it would spur a “race to the bottom” in tax policy around the world.

“I think we need to ultimately still recognize that the governments, the states need a certain percentage of revenue that supports basic goods and services,” Christopher Swift said at a Connecticut Business and Industry Association conference.

It’s possible the tax law itself created an incentive for companies to pay bonuses before the end of their fiscal years, which for some firms match the calendar year and for others extend through February. Since wages are deducted from a corporation’s taxable income, and the corporate tax rate is sharply lower for fiscal 2018, firms have an incentive to boost compensation earlier in order to reduce the amount of income subject to the higher rate.

“At the end of the day, total compensation for workers may be about the same as it would otherwise be, but the corporation gets tax savings from making the payment sooner rather than later,” Daniel Hemel of the University of Chicago law school and David Kamin of the New York University law school wrote in a blog post on Saturday.

Several companies said last fall that they’d use a tax windfall for stock dividends and buybacks, not for higher wages, simply converting it into shareholder wealth. But Republicans insisted workers would eventually benefit from the law. White House economic adviser Kevin Hassett wrote in an October paper that a lower corporate tax rate would spur investment that would ultimately result in wage increases of at least $4,000 annually. The wage hikes weren’t supposed to spontaneously appear in press releases; the theory is that companies would make new capital investments that would eventually make workers more productive, and ultimately more valuable.

If the tax bill is sparking increased investment, it’s probably too soon to tell. One influential analysis, by the financial firm Moody’s, said not to expect a surge.

“We do not expect a meaningful boost to business investment,” Moody’s analysts said in a report last week, arguing that most companies would use their increased profits to purchase shares of their own stock, enriching company owners, or by just paying off debt more quickly.

Dean Baker, a labor expert with the Center for Economic and Policy Research, said the lack of raises among the corporate announcements suggested the new tax law hadn’t really altered the labor market.

“The fact they’re giving bonuses indicates they don’t feel confident enough the tax cut’s changing the market environment where they will have to raise wages,” Baker said.

This article has been updated to include a comment from Daniel Hemel and David Kamin.The curious case of an Australian home’s randomly flushing toilet had a ssss-urprising conclusion.

Residents of a house in Doonan, Queensland, were stunned to discover a brown tree snake resting on top of the toilet’s electronic flush mechanism, inside the wall.

Snake-catcher Luke Huntley was called to deal with the critter, and shared footage of the animal’s removal on Facebook:

“The toilet had been flushing by itself randomly for days when they opened it up and found a surprise waiting for them!” wrote Huntley. “It was a quick catch but it needed to be. That or putting my hand down into the toilet water.”

The U.S. Geological Survey describes brown tree snakes as “mildly venomous.”

They are “not considered dangerous to an adult human and no known deaths have occurred,” USGS adds. “Young children can have reactions to tree snake bites.”Instant karma’s gonna get you... gonna knock you off your feet.

A package thief was caught on video last week at a home in Lynnwood, Washington, but she didn’t quite make a clean getaway.

She slipped in front of the house and was injured so badly she couldn’t get up:

The footage shows a driver rushing out to help. She howls in pain as he lifts her and carries her back to the car. Then he returns to the scene of the crime to get the packages.

The victim, Lizeth Ababneh, told Q13 News that the packages contained her husband’s medications.With the 2018 Winter Olympics in PyeongChang, South Korea, fast approaching, athletes from all over the world are preparing to display their prowess on the global stage.

But photographer Geert Weggen has captured some furry athletes in high jinks outside his snowy window in Sweden that appear to be excited about the Games as well.

Along with his series of photos posted to Bored Panda, the professional nature photographer explained how he set up tiny props for some red squirrels and waited patiently to compose just the right shot.

“Every day I wait for them to capture them for my camera. I started with this series with the first snow in October. Sometimes I never get the shot I am looking for,” Weggen said. But, he added, it’s a relaxing exercise for him when he finally gets the shot. “It gives me satisfaction and happiness when I capture in the end the moment I am looking after. And these wild squirrels are always happy as long there is food to be found.”

Same.

Check out his photos of these nutty aspiring medalists.New England Patriots guard Joe Thuney doesn’t just protect quarterback Tom Brady and open holes for running backs. During Super Bowl week’s Opening Night event Monday in Minneapolis, he showed he can solve a Rubik’s Cube pretty quickly under pressure.

Here’s the Patriots’ Joe Thuney solving a Rubik’s Cube in like a minute pic.twitter.com/OqCScRmWN8 — RandBall (@RandBall) January 30, 2018

Thuney, an All-ACC Academic Team pick (and a first-team All American) when he played at North Carolina State, said he learned to master the puzzle in a pretty obvious way. “I literally just read the manual that told you what moves kinda helped,” he said in the clip above.

AdvertisementEven going for a leisurely bike ride in Australia isn’t without its share of animal-related dangers, as a group of cyclists discovered last weekend.

A group of six riders was cycling through the Boonah region in southeast Queensland, about an hour from Brisbane, on Friday when a kangaroo suddenly emerged from bushland lining the road and leaped into a female rider.

“After we crested a hill, about 30km (18 miles) into the ride, we slowed for others to catch up,” one of the cyclists told news.com.au. “Two of us also saw kangaroos on both sides of the road. The ones on the left hopped away, the one on the right waited to join its mob.”

Video captured by the handlebar-mounted camera of one of the riders showed the moment when the large kangaroo bounded out of the bush on the right side of the road, crossed over to the other side of the road and ― in the process ― collided with one of the cyclists.

The cyclist, named Rebecca, was injured in the collision, but the kangaroo hopped away, apparently unscathed.A recent report that Hillary Clinton in 2008 failed to fire an adviser accused of sexual harassment, despite the urging of her campaign manager, got Trevor Noah going on “The Daily Show” Monday.

The host criticized her for not only keeping Burns Strider on the payroll (at reduced pay) but also for reassigning the whistleblower, who was on staff.

Clinton’s tweets pledging her support for the woman after the article came out rang a false note, said Noah.Joy Behar kicked off an interview with Sen. Kirsten Gillibrand (D-N.Y.) on Monday by confronting the lawmaker for calling on Sen. Al Franken to resign after being publicly accused of sexual misconduct.

Franken, whose last official day in office was Jan. 2, announced his resignation from Congress after eight women publicly accused him of behavior ranging from unwanted advances to unwanted groping and kissing. Gillibrand was the first Democratic lawmaker to call on him to step down.

“I just thought that was unfair to make him an example,” Behar said during Gillibrand’s appearance on “The View.”

Behar asked why Democrats didn’t hold a hearing and compared the allegations made against Franken to those made against President Donald Trump. At least 20 women have accused the president of sexual harassment and misconduct.

“Why did you push Franken out?” Behar pressed.

Gillibrand called Franken a friend and the situation “heartbreaking.” Still, she said, he had to go.

“He’s entitled a hearing. He is. But he’s not entitled to my silence, Joy,” Gillibrand said. She added that the allegations against Franken were different from those against other men in politics, including Trump, but said they all deserved attention and action.

“Why would you want to hold our elected leaders to the lowest standard and not the highest standard?” she asked.

Check out the heated clash in the video above.

Gillibrand, a frequent Trump critic, has invited San Juan Mayor Carmen Yulín Cruz to accompany her to the State of the Union address on Tuesday. Trump lashed out at Cruz in September when she requested aid to improve the humanitarian crisis caused by Hurricane Maria.

It is an honor to announce that Mayor @CarmenYulinCruz of San Juan, Puerto Rico will join me at the #SOTU. Throughout the crisis in Puerto Rico, Mayor Cruz has shown extraordinary leadership and fearless advocacy for her city. — Kirsten Gillibrand (@SenGillibrand) January 29, 2018Over the course of five years on “Silicon Valley,” Zach Woods has gone from That Guy From “The Office” to a venerated comedy powerhouse.

Throughout the most recent season of HBO’s hit tech satire, which ended Sunday with a refreshing optimistic flurry, Woods confirmed his position as the show’s heart and soul. Jared Dunn, his ever-earnest footman, rose up to become Pied Piper’s chief operating officer, right as the internet company finally found a much-needed stride. With his gangly physique and humble blue eyes, Woods walked off with the season’s best zingers and most moving plots, including a tender connection with a semi-sentient artificial intelligence creation named Fiona.

It’s been a journey for the 33-year-old Woods, who trained at Upright Citizens Brigade in New York before steadily working his way through Hollywood’s comedy tapestry. “The Office” led him to “Veep,” “The League,” “The Good Wife,” “Playing House” and small parts in movies like “Spy,” “Ghostbusters,” “Mascots” and “Other People.” Through it all, he’s maintained a perpetual nice-guy image, which carried over to our half-hour phone call last week. Some of Jared’s self-effacing affability seems to come straight from Woods’ bloodstream. We talked about Season 5 of “Silicon Valley,” Jared’s development over the course of the series, Steven Spielberg’s love for the show, and Woods’ love for “Call Me by Your Name.”

It feels like the show benefited from a renewed sense of spirit this year, largely because Pied Piper has finally found consistent success. For so long, the plot revolved around the guys’ constant setbacks.

Right, it was popping the balloon of their self-esteem at the end of every episode.

Are you relieved to see some forward momentum?

I’m really excited. I do think it’s different and new. Obviously, just the geography of the show is different, in that we’re in these offices now. I think a challenge with every sitcom is, how do you maintain things that people are attached to without becoming so reiterative that it just feels like you’re sort of watching a reenactment of previous episodes? They did a really good job this season of moving it forward in a way that hopefully doesn’t feel like it violates any of the core qualities of the show but does make it feel new.

Also, just personally, it’s interesting. Your body — or my body — is just kind of stupid. Like, your body doesn’t know whether you’re acting something because it’s happening or whether you’re acting it because it’s in the script. In the first season at TechCrunch, there’s a scene where we go onstage and everyone is cheering for us. And there was a room full of background actors who had literally been paid to be there and cheer. But, take after take, when you go onstage, because your body is so dumb — or because my body is so dumb — and everyone is cheering, you feel kind of cheerful. And conversely, if you’re doing episodes where every episode something shitty happens or disappointing happens, you sort of feel dejected at the end of the day, even though it’s not real.

This is an incredibly long-winded and rambling way of saying that, yes, it’s nicer to have good news.

So, maybe there’s been a bit more internalized cheer on the set as a result.

Yes, you just said in eight words what I said in over 300.

Zach Woods, Kumail Nanjiani, Martin Starr and Thomas Middleditch in Season 5 of "Silicon Valley." HBO

Heading into Season 5, did you know this would be Jared’s moment to rise up? Or is that something you learned script by script?

It’s hard for me to decipher because I don’t watch the show. It makes me self-conscious. I often don’t know what ends up being included in the cuts. Sometimes people will be like, “Oh, this was a big Jared episode,” and I’ll be like, “I have no idea.” I think what ends up on the screen versus what’s in the script can be really different.

I was really excited that he got promoted to COO. I loved doing that episode. I really feel fondly towards Jared. I guess maybe it sounds insufferable and pretentious when actors talk about their characters like they’re real people, but I do feel very fondly. So when he got that promotion, that was really fun to get to act. I just like that he’s unflaggingly decent except when he periodically loses his mind.

Like when Holden is around?

[Laughs] Yeah, exactly. I really love that. I thought the casting of that was amazing. That guy [Aaron Sanders] is so good. He really does sort of seem like a mini-Jared, which obviously Jared would be unable to tolerate.

Since you don’t watch the show, I don’t know if you’re familiar with how your interactions with Holden are edited. Jared is sometimes treated like a horror-movie figure, sort of stalker-esque. Did you see the relationship with Holden as Jared becoming a little villainous?

I don’t think he’s villainous. The thing I like about that is, there’s a danger when you have a character like Jared who is generally so sweet. It’s sort of like what I was thinking about earlier: You don’t want to just reiterate the same thing again and again ― A) because it’s boring, but B) because I don’t think that’s how people actually are. And especially someone like Jared, who is so unendingly positive. No one is really like that, so your more aggressive or dark impulses have to leak out in some way if you’re not expressing them in your waking life. They come out in these weird ways, like when he yells in German in his sleep. I don’t know if it made it in the cut, but there’s a scene where a camper said something mean to Dinesh, and I threaten to kill him in the finale.

There are people like that who I’ve met who are genuinely kind people, but because they don’t necessarily have a healthy outlet for their aggression, it comes out in these weird fits and starts. I feel like Jared is like that. I don’t think he’s a “Single White Female”-like killer.

Zach Woods and Thomas Middleditch in Season 5 of "Silicon Valley." HBO

The line you’re referring to did make the finale, and it’s amazing. It’s “how would you like to die today, motherfucker?” Given your deep improv background, when you’re performing a line like that, or when you’re reacting emotionally to Richard promoting Jared to COO, do you explicitly prepare your delivery?

Oh wow, that’s such an interesting question. No one’s ever asked me that. Well, the “I’m going to kill you,” or whatever it is, that was improvised. So I didn’t prepare for that. I feel like Jared is so protective of the Pied Piper guys that when that guy said, [“Will you shut the fuck up?”] in the scene, it made me mad. I was like, “You motherfucker! You don’t talk to Dinesh that way!”

In the scene when I become COO, I don’t think I prepared specifically what my reaction would be. I remember thinking about it and saying, “Try not to cry, try not to cry, try not to cry,” because I feel like Jared wouldn’t want to make a scene. He wouldn’t want to take up too much room in that moment. If you’re trying to cry, it looks creepy on camera. It’s like watching somebody jerk off or something. It’s masturbatory and weird. But if you try to resist it, usually that conveys the same thing.

So I guess in that way I prepared, like, “When he says that, I’ll just try not to cry.” Does that make sense? I feel like I’m talking about this in such an obnoxiously self-aggrandizing way, like I’m playing Richard III or something. I don’t want to lose track of the fact that it’s a half-hour comedy.

Hey, there’s an art to comedy. Those of us who don’t do improv and aren’t comedians of any stripe are perplexed by the foreign nature of how to react to these sorts of moments. Which leads to a broader question: By now, Jared is seen as the heart of this show. Are you conscious of that?

One of the benefits of not googling yourself ever and not watching the show is that the only real feedback you get is from people on the street. And the people who hate you don’t come up to you, so you only meet the people who have nice things to say. From the start, people have been so sweet. It’s funny; I think I’m at a level of recognizability — is that even a word? — where it’s just really nice. I think when people are really famous, it can be hard for them because they feel like it’s an invasion. But for me, it’s just a few times every day when someone will say something sweet and validating, and it’s just the best. I really love it.

I think with a show like this, any comedic or creative success any of us has on the show is due directly to what the other people on the show are doing. We’ll be on set and I’ll be doing a scene, and Kumail [Nanjiani] will be like, “Try this joke.” Or Martin [Starr] will be like, “Try it this way.” Or I’ll pitch something to Thomas [Middleditch]. It’s so collaborative, and also we try to set each other up all the time. It’s one of the best environments I’ve ever been in. In terms of non-competitive collaboration, it feels like everyone is rooting for each other, and that makes it so much easier for all of us to be funny. I realize that sounds like a pat press answer, but that’s really true. There’s a genuine affection underlying, even when the characters are hostile. I love Gilfoyle and Dinesh because I feel like that’s such a great love story expressed through petty hostility.

Which the writers certainly leaned into in a major way this season. It’s always been there, but it’s reached a new zenith.

Well, good. All love stories have to grow, right?

To your point about the ensemble, you did lose a major cast member this year in T.J. Miller. Everyone knows what it’s like to lose a colleague. Things feel different. How would you say this season of the show felt or operated differently than in previous years?

It’s funny; that change coincided with so many other changes in the show, like the fact that Pied Piper was now more successful, and we were in a different office. The story changed so much, separate from T.J. leaving, that it’s hard to identify what’s due to him leaving and what’s due to the new version of the show. But he’s such a specific energy. He’s such a wild id, or whatever. He’s a voracious presence in the fictional world of the show, and also just in person. I think it felt, in some ways, maybe a little calmer. But aside from that, not drastically different.

Martin Starr, Zach Woods and Kumail Nanjiani in Season 2 of "Silicon Valley." HBO

What was it like to act opposite Fiona, the robot Jared falls in love with?

That was so fun. I loved that so much. I don’t think [Suzanne Lenz, the actress who played Fiona] had ever done a big TV part, and she was amazing. I thought she was so incredible. It was sort of a thankless job. She had to keep her arms pinned behind her, and it was cold and she couldn’t wear long sleeves for some reason. She was a trooper.

What was the setup?

They had her in this green bald cap, and they would put her in all these bizarro rigs and stuff. Then they also had a robot on set that they would photograph. I know so little about digital effects that I have no insight into how they actually pulled it off. But I love that story so much. I thought it was a sad story. This woman — I mean, she’s not a woman; she’s a robot — gets preyed upon by her creepy overlord, and then she escapes and is ripped to pieces. I love that little love story when we’re out on the pool deck drinking Zinfandel together and talking about campfires. I felt like, in a weird way, she’s sort of like Jared. She’s relentlessly positive, kind of trying to be helpful, maybe a little cut off from certain parts of herself. There’s a lot of overlap between the two characters. I loved shooting that.

In real life, I’m terrified of those things, though.

In keeping with that sad storyline, do you have an active philosophy about grounding Jared’s tragic backstory with a sense of lightness?

Did you ever have those toys when you were a kid that were those blowup clowns with sand in the bottom? It’s like an inflatable clown and you can punch it, and it goes back for a second and springs forward. And it would always have a smile on its face. I feel like Jared is one of those clowns with the sand on the bottom. No matter how hard or how many times he gets hit, he just gently resurfaces with a benign smile.

I mean, my favorite stuff to improvise — and some of my favorite stuff that they write — is just Jared’s tortured mosaic of a past. Before playing Jared, I played a lot of characters who are sort of ego-driven. They wanted to be in control, or they wanted to be powerful or they wanted to be respected. They were people who wanted to be dominating or at least have their ego massaged. I think Jared is the absolute opposite. He almost has a dangerous lack of ego, where for him it’s just about how much he loves Richard, how much he loves the company.

I truly believe he would walk into traffic if he thought it would help Pied Piper. To me, that’s a fun thing to play. It’s fun to be able to try to find comedy from a character’s excess kindness or excess love. There’s a lot of comedy that can feel mean, and I’ve done a lot of that, where characters are being shitty to one another. I think that can be really funny, but I guess I like playing a character where the comedy comes from his self-sacrificial impulses instead of his ego.

That goes back to what we were saying at the start of this chat. When characters are up against constant failure, it can be punishing for the viewer. You need someone like Jared who operates with a different internal compass to contradict everyone who’s responding to the depressive reality of the tech industry and everything going on in their lives.

Totally, and that also goes back to what I was saying about the ensemble thing. That’s why I think the writing is so great, and the other guys are so wonderful. Because, without Gilfoyle in the show, Jared would probably seem saccharine and annoying. Without Jared, Gilfoyle might seem too cynical. The flavors are well balanced by Alec Berg and Mike Judge, and the fact that those guys are so specific creates room for you to do your own specific thing. Does that make sense?

Absolutely. One of the best lines from this season is “I know what it’s like to only be able to rescue half of your family.” Going back to the origins of the show, who brought to the table the idea that Jared would slowly reveal these heinous tidbits about his life? And at this point, how much of that is improv?

That line was actually improvised. I’m glad that made it in. That was a fun line. I was wondering if they were going to use that.

It’s this five-year conversation, I think, between writers and actors, in a nice way. There’s this great writer on the show named Carson Mell, who wrote the second episode of the show. He put in this line. I show up at the house, and I want to work for Pied Piper, and I say, “I’m sorry, I hope I didn’t frighten you. I know I have a somewhat ghostlike appearance.” Just from that little line, I was like, oh, OK, I see what they’re doing: Jared is self-critical, doesn’t want to bother anyone. Then, after I heard that line, when we were shooting the episode, I would try to improvise stuff that reflected that. If I have a ghostlike appearance, what other shitty things have I heard about myself? What else have I been through? I would improvise that stuff, and they would write it into the episode. It was back and forth.

Kumail Nanjiani, T.J. Miller, Zach Woods, Thomas Middleditch and Martin Starr in Season 3 of "Silicon Valley." HBO

You also appeared in “The Post” last year. Tell me what it was like to make a Steven Spielberg movie.

That was really interesting. I have a pretty small part in that movie, but he’s such an institution. There’s so many people I admire in that movie. It was sort of surreal. People use Spielberg almost as a synonym for the film industry. He’s such an iconic guy, obviously. I’m trying to think if I have any good stories. Oh, you know what I thought was interesting from that? A lot of famous people are so remote when you talk to them, understandably. They’re so withdrawn or recessed, or they’re giving you some version of themselves that they cultivated to protect their privacy.

And I was so excited to meet Meryl Streep, obviously. I genuinely don’t understand how this was possible, but she was so open. She was so receptive to people. She would talk to anyone. She would answer questions. I was sort of asking her nosy questions, and she would answer them. She was the most accessible famous person, and probably the most famous person I’ve ever met. I was thinking, “Is that the reason she’s such an incredible actor, that she somehow found a way to stay emotionally present, even in spite of the ludicrous amount of international attention she gets?”

And then Spielberg told me he liked the show a lot, which I thought was exciting. Maybe he was just being nice, but I was asking him what he related to in the show, and he was talking about the entrepreneurial spirit. I think when he was coming up, he felt like the underdog, maybe, and he relates to the scrappiness of the Pied Piper guys. That was really cool to hear from Steven Spielberg.

That’s what you want to hear about the people we exalt so much, like Meryl Streep and Steven Spielberg: that they deserve the pedestal we’ve put them on.

That was the nice thing. With Meryl Streep, it seemed like she was whatever the female version of a mensch is. Maybe that’s still just a mensch.

But I also don’t know. I talked to her for a few days. Maybe if I got to know her more, it would turn out she was actually a sadistic psychopath. I realize as I say this that this sounds like the most name-droppy interview. “Well, Meryl and Steven!”

But the cast of that movie is stacked. You can’t not name-drop. Everywhere you look, it’s someone impressive.

You know what drives me crazy is, Michael Stuhlbarg was in that movie. You know, the father from “Call Me by Your Name”? And he’s in “The Shape of Water.”

Yes! I love Michael Stuhlbarg.

I hadn’t seen “The Shape of Water” or “Call Me by Your Name” yet. I met him, and I didn’t know who he was. And then I saw those movies and I was like, “Fuck!” It’s very lucky for him that I hadn’t seen those movies yet, because I would have just cornered him and asked him 1,000 acting questions. I thought that monologue at the end of “Call Me by Your Name” was one of the most beautiful monologues.

When you see that monologue on the page, it’s so professorial and literary. You almost think, well, nobody speaks that poetically. But in his mouth, it turns to gold. It’s beautiful.

Yeah! That’s a really good point, that it’s so soulful. It reads as very intellectualized and abstract. And when he delivers it, you feel it in your heart. I admire that guy so much. He’s incredible.

Final question: What have you seen lately that you love?

Oh, that’s fun. These are fun questions. I really love “Fleabag.” I’ve been harassing my agents, like, “Can you please get me a meeting with Phoebe Waller-Bridge?” I just want to talk to her.

Have you seen her other show, “Killing Eve”?

No, I want to see it so bad. I’ve been bouncing around for a few weeks, but as soon as I have time to watch television, that is at the top of my list. I think she’s so brilliant. And “Fleabag” is a show that, when it starts out, feels so caustic and dark. It’s really funny, but it’s kind of harsh at the beginning. And then, by the end, it is the most heartbreaking. It’s such a deep show, and I think she’s just incredible. I have a major talent crush on Phoebe Waller-Bridge.

I love “Broad City.” I love “High Maintenance.” That’s a show with people on it. It’s not these bleach-toothed, perfect creatures. I like that they’re recognizable human beings on that show. It’s so funny and surprising.

What else? Let me think. Oh, I loved “The Death of Stalin.”

Made by your former “Veep” collaborator.

Yeah! I love him, Armando Iannucci. I thought that was really incredible.

And then there’s this playwright I love named Samuel Hunter. This is going to sound so hoity-toity, but I’ve been devouring his plays. I’ve seen a few of them, and I’m reading a bunch. But if anyone reads this interview, I strongly encourage them to check out Samuel Hunter. He has these beautiful, humane plays.There’s no denying that award show trophies are becoming increasingly less relevant, so why don’t we give them up altogether... and just hand out puppies?

That’s what happened to some nominees for Best Comedy Album at the 60th annual Grammy Awards on Sunday night. Dave Chappelle came out on top for “The Age Of Spin/Deep In The Heart Of Texas,” but Jerry Seinfeld, Sarah Silverman and Jim Gaffigan may have been the true winners.

Yes please. Kevin Mazur via Getty Images

“I should say to all the nominees that who are not going home with a Grammy — I don’t want anyone to be upset tonight, so the good news is nobody goes home empty-handed because all night we will be handing out consolation puppies,” host James Corden said. “So if you didn’t get a Grammy, you get a puppy.”

Adorable puppies were then delivered to their idle hands, making for some too-cute moments.

“I should tell you, Jerry, be careful. That’s Roxy, she’s a biter,” Corden said. “And then who got Ruby? I think that was Jim Gaffigan. She isn’t toilet trained. Just so you know.”

One group, however, was not particularly thrilled by the stunt. People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals sent out a tweet saying that “animals are not toys.”

AdvertisementBeyoncé and Jay-Z have reached dizzying heights of fame, but they’re not too big to be brought down a notch or two by their daughter, Blue Ivy.

Watch the adorable 6-year-old quiet her parents during Camila Cabello’s speech at the Grammy Awards on Sunday night.

Blue really told Beyoncé and Jay Z to calm down 💀 pic.twitter.com/BrTHWNr9ix — Best song on ST (@beyupdates_) January 29, 2018

Blue Ivy deftly deployed the universal shush finger to Beyoncé so she would stop clapping, then followed with a sort of put-on-the-brakes gesture with her hand to keep both mom and dad in check.

How cute is that?

The kid may have a producing career in front of her with the way she’s already calling the shots.WASHINGTON — President Donald Trump’s Republican allies in Congress advanced their monthslong assault on special counsel Robert Mueller’s investigation into Russian interference in the 2016 election on Monday, voting along partisan lines to release a classified memo slamming officials from the Justice Department and Federal Bureau of Investigation who have investigated the Trump campaign’s ties to Russia.

The episode has more than a touch of Washington theater to it: Republican staffers wrote the memo, and Republican members of Congress, who always had the power to vote to release it, spent weeks calling on themselves to do so.

But it was still an extraordinary event. In a letter last week, a top Justice Department official said releasing the classified memo would be an “unprecedented action” that would be “extraordinarily reckless” and could “risk harm to national security and to ongoing investigations.”

The department did not “understand why the Committee would possibly seek to disclose classified and law enforcement sensitive information without first consulting with the relevant members of the Intelligence Community,” the letter read.

It is extremely unusual for lawmakers — especially Republican lawmakers — to clash so publicly with law enforcement on issues of national security and classification. Trump has five days to block the memo’s release, but has indicated he will side with congressional Republicans on the matter, over the objections of the Justice Department.

Republicans argued that releasing their own memo is a matter of transparency. Making the GOP memo public will allow journalists and the public to at least partially assess the claims it makes. But fully judging its merits will also be difficult without access to the underlying intelligence information, which is also classified and will not be released.

At the same time, Republicans voted down a Democratic effort to release a memo authored by Democratic staffers that they say combated some of the inaccuracies in the GOP memo. While members of Congress will be allowed to read the Democratic memo, the public will not.

“The ‘release the memo’ crowd, apparently, doesn’t want to release the memo,” Rep. Adam Schiff (D-Calif.), the ranking member of the House Intelligence Committee, told reporters after the vote.

“We have crossed a deeply regrettable line in this committee, where for the first time in the 10 years or so that I’ve been on the committee, there was a vote to politicize the declassification process of intelligence, and potentially compromise sources and methods,” Schiff added.

There’s indeed more at stake than D.C. grandstanding: The release of the document is part of a pattern of behavior by the president and his congressional allies — all of it apparently aimed at undermining Mueller’s probe and shielding Trump from scrutiny.

Since Trump fired former FBI Director James Comey — then the official responsible for the Russia investigation — last summer, the president, Republican members of Congress and the right-wing media have battled to undermine public perceptions of the bureau and of the Justice Department:

Andrew McCabe, Comey’s former deputy, stepped down Monday after weeks of pressure from Trump and Republicans. Republicans have charged that McCabe was biased against the president because his wife ran for a Virginia state Senate seat as a Democrat, but FBI documents released earlier this month indicate he followed bureau recusal rules. The day after Trump fired Comey, the president called McCabe to complain about Comey being allowed to take a government-funded plane back to Washington, NBC reported Monday. When McCabe said he wasn’t asked to authorize the flight but would have approved it, Trump told McCabe to ask his wife — who lost her race for state Senate — how it feels to be a loser, and hung up the phone, according to NBC.

The president, Republicans in Congress, and the right-wing media have spun tales of a dark conspiracy involving Lisa Page and Peter Strzok, two FBI officials who were having an affair and exchanged text messages critical of Trump and other politicians from both parties. The evidence suggests Page and Strzok were actually driven more by loyalty to the FBI than partisan political considerations.

The memo the House voted to release Monday reportedly focuses on criticizing Rod Rosenstein, a Republican Trump appointee at the Justice Department who now has responsibility over the Mueller probe. The memo, The New York Times reported, accuses Rosenstein of approving an application to surveil a former Trump campaign official last spring. Trump has long resented Rosenstein, who appointed Mueller as special counsel after Trump fired Comey. Trump reportedly considered firing Rosenstein last summer, but instead ordered Mueller’s firing — only to back away the decision after his lawyer threatened to quit.

The sustained assault on the FBI seems to have affected perceptions of the bureau among Republicans and independents. Just over half of the public has at least a fair amount of trust in the FBI, according to a new HuffPost/YouGov poll, down 12 points since 2015. The percentage of Republicans and independents saying they trust the agency dropped by 22 points and 15 points, respectively.

The GOP memo lays the groundwork for that distrust. It was the work of the office of Rep. Devin Nunes (R-Calif.), the House Intelligence Committee chairman and close Trump ally who recused himself from the committee’s investigation into ties between Trump and Russia after he was caught last year promoting a different surveillance scandal with intelligence cooked up by Trump White House officials.

The memo reportedly suggests that FBI agents obscured their reliance on a controversial dossier about Trump’s ties to Russia when they sought a warrant to spy on Carter Page, a Trump campaign adviser. Republicans have long sought to discredit the dossier, which was compiled by former British intelligence officer Christopher Steele.

Committee members voted along partisan lines earlier this month to allow any member of Congress to read Nunes’ classified memo. Some of the Republicans who read the memo described the allegations as “sickening” and “worse than Watergate.” Democrats who read it said it was a partisan hack job.

“Rife with factual inaccuracies,” said Schiff. “This may help carry White House water, but it is a deep disservice to our law enforcement professionals.”

Ariel Edwards-Levy contributed to this article.