“The Daily Show with Trevor Noah” has your back when it comes to nailing that scoop interview with President Donald Trump.

On Friday, it issued a satirical step-by-step guide on Twitter about how to get the best out of a sit-down with POTUS ― as Fox News hosts regularly do.

The first step, according to “The Daily Show,” is to take a “softer approach.”

Are you a journalist hoping to score an interview with President Trump? Learn from the pros! The Daily Show Presents: The Fox News Guide To Nailing A Trump Interview



Step 1 — Take A Softer Approach: Your job isn't to hold the president accountable, it's to hold his hand. pic.twitter.com/ms3OSApo3w — The Daily Show (@TheDailyShow) January 26, 2018

Step two is all about flattery:

Step 2 — Flattery Will Get You Everywhere: The president knows he's always right, but he needs to know that YOU know that. pic.twitter.com/c0L1II4oGb — The Daily Show (@TheDailyShow) January 26, 2018

Step three focuses on helping Trump out, if he can’t find the answer he needs:

Step 3 — Help Out! Just because you have all the questions doesn't mean he needs to have all the answers. pic.twitter.com/mnrOIIMjk5 — The Daily Show (@TheDailyShow) January 26, 2018

Correspondent Desi Lydic tested out the steps to see if they worked:

Follow these steps and you, too, can nail your interview with President Trump. Watch The Daily Show's @DesiLydic employ Fox News's journalismic techniques: pic.twitter.com/E5Ucd8nzhB — The Daily Show (@TheDailyShow) January 26, 2018

And for those who needed further convincing, the show produced some stats to back up its claims:People who searched for his @seanhannity account were greeted with this message:

Twitter

His previous post was timed at 12:46 a.m. ET:

Form Submission 1649 | #Hannity — Sean Hannity (@seanhannity) January 27, 2018

Hannity’s account was reactivated at around 5 a.m. ET. It’s currently not known why it went down.

Hannity himself is yet to comment, and Twitter did not immediately respond to HuffPost’s request for information.

Other tweeters did have feelings on its disappearance, however:

So who will be blamed for Sean Hannity's Twitter account being deactivated?



•Kenyan Obama

•Crooked Hillary

•Cryin Chuck

•Must be fired Mueller

•The Deep State

•Secret Society

•Other — Is It Over Yet? (@gnomes_77) January 27, 2018

"Sean Hannity's Twitter"

Watching Hannity's Tin Foil Hat Followers Freak is ... pic.twitter.com/HuzMZ1hE71 — S.O.S. USA (@DeliaMacD1) January 27, 2018

Who wants to bet Hannity deactivated his own Twitter to make up some Bs conspiracy? Sean Hannity’s Twitter — Allyn Beake (@AllynBeake) January 27, 2018

*Sean Hannity's Twitter gets deactivated*



Sane Twitter: pic.twitter.com/wmCDoFEdaP — Shauna DeBono (@ShaunaRDeBono) January 27, 2018

Seeing Sean Hannity’s Twitter is gone is a great opportunity for all his suppressed viewers to maybe think for themselves for once — Joe Mccarthy (@2PMthoughts) January 27, 2018

Checks trends: Sean Hannity's twitter got deleted.

Me: pic.twitter.com/9HNnzDoQvc — Hank Hill (@HankTheCapper) January 27, 2018

Now that Sean Hannity’s Twitter is gone can we do the same thing to Donald Trump’s Twitter — Biggest Hannelius Fan (@ZendayaRocks34) January 27, 2018

"Sean Hannity's Twitter" I can finally say happy new year again!. Bye Sean you will not be missed! pic.twitter.com/D3rOzE4feG — Dorothy (@Dorothi78) January 27, 2018Pretty much as expected, “Saturday Night Live” second-time host Amy Schumer didn’t hold back when it came to girl talk in her opening monologue. She opened up about tampons, borrowing tampons, the size of tampons, hook-ups and masturbation — even now that she’s a married woman.

And she dissed new husband Chris Fischer’s proposal.

“The way that my now-husband proposed was so worthless,” the February bride said tolerantly. “It was such a dumb proposal. It was the morning. I was still asleep. He threw the box at me and said, ‘I got you this.’ But that’s a realistic proposal, you know.”

Now that she’s married, “Some people are like, ‘What are you gonna talk about now in your standup? All you talked about was getting railed.’ I’m a little sad. I’m never gonna get a ‘You Up?’ text again,” she lamented.

Schumer boasted about how women have each other’s backs when it comes to borrowing tampons. Though there was that embarrassing time in a locker room when someone who offered to give her tampon asked: “What size?”

But seriously, “This one is just for the ladies,” she said. “Remember how we were raised with the illusion of equality? … Then we got older.”

Schumer encouraged mothers to raise these boys “to be a little nicer at a young age.”

When “you’re a little girl and a little boy is mean to you or he teases you, what does everyone say?” she asked. “‘He likes you!’ ... He pushed me on the floor. ‘You’re going to prom!’”

Schumer urged viewers to see her new movie “I Feel Pretty.” But she told people to “bring tissues ... because you’re gonna want to masturbate.”

The entire “SNL” program was into female themes.

The usual political “SNL” cold open was replaced with a tribute by several cast members to each of their moms who appeared on stage with their grown children. The mothers got the chance to offer their own barbs about the show.Ji Sub Jeong/HuffPost

As lunch was winding down Wednesday in the Los Angeles Times cafeteria, Bruce Upbin, one of several newly hired but as-yet-unannounced assistant managing editors, sat alone at a table speaking a little too loudly into his headphone mic.

Upbin was a mystery to much of the newspaper’s staff, which had just voted to unionize the week before. He was one of several similarly unannounced middle-manager types who had come aboard in recent weeks. Although he and the others were listed in the Times’ human resources software as having editorial titles, they were reporting to Rob Angel, the Times’ chief business development officer. These new L.A. managers had also been working on the second floor, despite the newsroom being on the third. And, of course, there was the bizarre fact that they had yet to be introduced to any of the actual newsroom staff of about 400.

One L.A. Times employee, who spoke to HuffPost on the condition of anonymity, overheard Upbin say they were creating a national newsroom outside of the union, to service all of Tronc’s markets. Tronc, formerly Tribune Publishing, is the owner of the L.A. Times, along with other newspapers in 10 markets across the country.

Upbin also mentioned that he had a total of five people to hire. This was the closest thing Times employees have gotten in weeks to a real answer about what the company is up to — and it was a confirmation of some of their worst fears.

The new management team is apparently being framed as part of a “reorganization,” according to Harvard’s Nieman Lab. Since being hired in October, L.A. Times Editor-in-Chief Lewis D’Vorkin has quietly brought on a number of editors from around the country. In addition to Upbin, who had worked with D’Vorkin at Forbes, he hired former Fox Sports executive Steve Miller as an assistant managing editor for digital; Louise Story, a renowned former New York Times reporter, as managing editor; The Washington Post’s Sylvester Monroe as an assistant managing editor; and Will Tacy of Good Media as an editor.

Hello @sylvestermonroe @louisestory @bupbin @tacyw ! Those of us in the @LATimes newsroom would love to hear what you all are doing here! — Robin Abcarian (@AbcarianLAT) January 23, 2018

With the exception of Miller, none of these new managers has been announced to the public or even to the staff itself. And the only reason anyone knows any of this is thanks to the company’s internal HR software, which has proved to be one of the only windows into management’s thinking. HuffPost spoke with 12 current and former Times employees, all of whom asked to remain anonymous for fear of retribution. They described an atmosphere of intense secrecy, distrust and anxiety as they try to get to the bottom of a story they’re living instead of reporting: What exactly does Tronc have in store for them?

“The newsroom has basically become a large-scale intelligence operation to figure out what the fuck our managers are up to,” one current employee explained. And though the newsroom did discover bits and pieces, Upbin helped tie the whole thing together. Staffers fear that Tronc is building a shadow national newsroom — non-union, of course — that would duplicate not only parts of the L.A. Times union staff but that of other Tronc properties as well, making the union employees expendable. And, although Tronc and L.A. Times senior management — which includes D’Vorkin, Times President Mickie Rosen and CEO and Publisher Ross Levinsohn, who is currently on a leave of absence following allegations of sexual harassment — have refused to offer any clarity about what this might mean, much less acknowledge the existence of a new national operation, you can only stonewall a roomful of reporters for so long before they start digging on their own.

D’Vorkin and the newly hired managers did not initially respond to HuffPost’s requests for comment. On Jan. 29, after this story was first published, Louise Story told HuffPost, “I had agreed to work at Tronc and at The Los Angeles Times in very high-level managerial roles. But, as a result of recent significant changes in those roles, I decided not to work there in any capacity. I’m sorry that I won’t get to join the scores of great journalists who work there.”

A Shadow Scab Outfit

Part of what makes these new hires’ roles so difficult to pin down for staffers, though, is a curious little trait shared by all of Tronc’s new managerial hires (and at least a few non-managerial ones): They’ve all actually been hired under a different company than the one employing every other editorial employee on staff. Though union L.A. Times staffers are all employed under Los Angeles Times Communications LLC, according to the same internal HR system that revealed the existence of these hires in the first place, these mysterious new employees have been hired under a Tronc company that was renamed Los Angeles Times Network LLC in November, as reported earlier Friday by Nieman Lab’s Ken Doctor.

If you look on the California Secretary of State’s website, you’ll find the name change filing below.

California Secretary of State

The new L.A. Times entity first came to the attention of newsroom employees when they saw an “LA Network” referenced in a Tronc job listing.

Glassdoor

Employees realized this was likely the “network” mysteriously referenced in a slide from a presentation Levinsohn gave on Jan. 18, the same day sexual harassment allegations against him came out. This presentation was ostensibly about an upcoming network of unpaid contributors, along the lines of the one D’Vorkin implemented at Forbes.

TRONC

According to both a former employee and a current staffer, Levinsohn wasn’t explaining the full picture. In addition to this free contributor network, Tronc is apparently planning to create a series of specialized teams, called verticals, that will exist entirely within this new L.A. Times Network, which is being referred to internally as NewCo and which exists as part of the business side — not editorial, as one would expect from a news operation. Each of the new managers is supposedly presiding over a different vertical, multiple employees told HuffPost. For instance, Monroe will head up a vertical covering race issues, Upbin will be overseeing the tech vertical, and Story, who is in New York, will take on an investigative vertical. The work created under these verticals, both from professional and non-professional contributors, will then be distributed across not only the L.A. Times but also Tronc newspapers nationally.

Complicating this is the fact that many of these non-union verticals already exist under the actual L.A. Times editorial operation, which strives to maintain a strict separation from any business interests. (The paper has a history of trampling the line between business and editorial.) Some employees worry this is a precursor to layoffs for the union staffers, whom Tronc seems to be actively making redundant. Another possibility is that Tronc will focus on building up a non-union workforce under NewCo and kill the union through attrition.

On Jan. 19, the newsroom voted overwhelmingly to unionize, 248 to 44, with the NewsGuild. Given the turmoil in recent days, the union sent a note to members informing them of their so-called Weingarten right to be accompanied by a union representative in any meeting with management in which discipline seems possible. After workers vote to unionize, a company generally has to keep the status quo in place as the parties bargain toward a contract, meaning that, legally speaking, it would be tough for the company to fire a bunch of newsroom staffers and give their work to new non-union workers.

The NewsGuild declined to comment, but the standard union move here would be to demand information from the company on any new hires and where they fit in with the current organization. As one staffer put it, “Our strategy right now as a union is to find out everything we can and to raise our voices without fear of individual repercussions.”

Whatever its intentions, management is taking no steps to assuage staffers’ concerns.

At a recent meeting that D’Vorkin held with a group of reporters and editors, one employee asked what Levinsohn’s Jan. 18 presentation meant for Times staffers. D’Vorkin didn’t have an answer, according to a current employee and a former employee. “I didn’t see Ross’s presentation” was all he would allow. Staffers pressed him, explaining that that’s not what they’d asked — they had asked what was going to happen to them. “I didn’t see Ross’s presentation,” he said again.

“The Los Angeles Times is like a Soviet circus right now,” said one current employee. “Propaganda. Dancing bears. Mercurial leaders who say weird shit. People who disappear. It sucks, because we have a good team here.”

Blurred Boundaries

The company may not have officially explained what this hazy border between the Times and the business side of Tronc actually means, but its effects are already causing trouble for the paper’s increasingly anxious staff.

Last week, Dan Strauss, senior vice president and general manager for entertainment and lifestyle, met with a group of entertainment section editors. Strauss, who works at the Times under the Tronc business side, introduced several of the editors to Christina Schoellkopf, who is listed internally as a senior social media manager and who Strauss said would be running the entertainment social channels on a day-to-day basis. Schoellkopf, however, had been hired under NewCo, meaning she was technically a business employee and reported directly to a business manager.

When an editorial staffer raised an objection to someone from the business side running accounts that were supposed to represent the news outlet, according to an employee, Strauss said simply: “We’re all on the same team. We all work for the L.A. Times.” When the employee noted again that the two sides were supposed to be separate, Strauss said that they would take the conversation “offline” and discuss it later. They did not discuss it later.

In an email addressed to D’Vorkin and Miller that eventually got forwarded around the newsroom, Jessica Roy, the audience engagement editor, plainly laid out the reasons for her and her team’s discomfort:

Lewis and Steve- I wanted to raise some concerns I had based on my meeting this morning with Dan Strauss and the entertainment editors. Dan informed us that he has hired Christina Schoellkopf as a senior social media manager, and that she would be assuming responsibility for all entertainment editorial social media accounts. I have serious concerns about an employee who was vetted, hired by and reports to the business side of the Los Angeles Times making editorial decisions and assuming publishing control of our brand on social media. Such an arrangement is unprecedented in this newsroom ― and is not the standard practice in most newsrooms. Our audience has an expectation that these accounts are independent from the business side in the same way print readers expect that editors choose the stories on the front page. What we post on social media and how it is framed is an extension of the journalism that we do here at The Times, and it should come from our editorial side. Over the past few years, my team has guided best practices and style across all social media channels, including Entertainment. When we trained the WebEnt producers to do this, we went over things like photo permissions (which photos we legally can and can’t tweet, for instance), the L.A. Times voice on social media, our policy for corrections on social media, and general best practices. Furthermore, journalists in the newsroom adhere to certain guidelines and standards. We carefully craft social media messages to maintain both the objectivity of our work and the trust of our readership. I am deeply concerned this violates the separation between editorial and business. At the least, this infringes on the structures that ensure our editorial independence. I wanted to raise this issue with both of you to get your perspectives. -Jessica Roy Co-signed by the entire audience engagement team

D’Vorkin replied thanking her and assuring the team that there would be “more discussions to come.” When, exactly, D’Vorkin intends to hold those discussions remains unclear.

The secrecy surrounding both the editorial staff’s future and NewCo hires in general has begun to take its toll on the staff.

“They’re creating these supposed management jobs, and they’re not opening any of them to the people currently on staff,” said a current employee. “So no matter how many Pulitzers you’ve won, what your reputation is, [newsroom employees] have not been given the opportunity to apply for any of these jobs. D’Vorkin won’t even answer questions about them.”

The Crackdown

Though he has so far refused to answer any questions, D’Vorkin has been plenty busy asking them. According to multiple current and former employees, D’Vorkin is still livid about an article that appeared in The New York Times in November. That paper had obtained a recording of a meeting in which D’Vorkin forbade Los Angeles Times staffers from recirculating their own recent investigation into Disney’s business ties with the city of Anaheim. A couple of months later, NPR obtained a recording of a second meeting, in which D’Vorkin berated his staff for the first leak: “At its core, it was unethical. And frankly, I think it showed a degree that whoever was involved was morally bankrupt.”

Now, according to several employees, D’Vorkin is determined to find the leaker in his midst, and Tronc is supporting the cause by sending human resources executive Dyana Burke to L.A. to assist the investigation. According to one former employee, “They had to bring her in because there are no HR people left at the L.A. Times.” Cindy Ballard, Tronc’s former chief HR officer, resigned in December. Ballard, in the words of one former employee, was “the architect of the masthead purges” in August, in which the editor-publisher, a managing editor, a deputy managing editor and an assistant managing editor were axed.

D’Vorkin is also getting proactive about leaks, multiple staffers worry. They expressed concerns that Tronc was monitoring company phones and computers — and apparently they have reason to be worried. One former staffer noted that “people are being hauled before D’Vorkin and Burke to explain why, for example, they had an 11-minute conversation with Sydney Ember of The New York Times on a particular date.” Staffers have been using encrypted messaging apps, such as WhatsApp, to speak with one another, with some going so far as to buy actual burner phones to discuss their own newspaper.

“It strains belief that the editor-in-chief of a major newspaper, with all the other issues and challenges confronting the LAT, is conducting a leak investigation of his own staff,” a former employee told HuffPost. “That’s the kind of thing the FBI and NSA do to persecute journalists. To see an editor do it is dumbfounding, and sickening.”

Multiple staffers said that this investigation is what led to business editor Kimi Yoshino’s removal from the building on Wednesday. Management hasn’t explained why Yoshino was escorted off the premises and suspended for two days. But a former employee and a current employee both pointed to the Disney story that caused D’Vorkin so much grief, which Yoshino edited.

The staff of the Business section just sent the following letter to @latimes Editor in Chief Lewis D’Vorkin. I want to add that @kyoshino is the best boss I’ve ever had - smart, kind, compassionate and fair. Hope she’s back in the newsroom soon. pic.twitter.com/F8UcuUe9UN — Andrea Chang (@byandreachang) January 25, 2018

That Yoshino edited the Disney investigation is particularly significant considering that multiple current and former employees commented on D’Vorkin’s particularly rough treatment of Yoshino, with one describing his behavior toward her as “harshly critical” and “caustic.” Yoshino declined to comment.

A recent profile of D’Vorkin in the Columbia Journalism Review, titled “LA Journalism’s ‘Prince of Darkness,’” noted that “even those who speak positively about him acknowledge he can be difficult, threatening, and, in the words of one writer who worked with D’Vorkin for more than four years and actually likes him, ‘without journalistic ethic.’” Though D’Vorkin has been in his position for only a few months, he’s made sure to leave a mark, with one employee noting that “he’s at war with the entire staff. It’s incredible.”

Still, though the current editorial staff has fluctuated somewhere between misery and terror, the recent landslide union victory has offered some consolation. “People have zero confidence in top management,” said one current employee. “Nobody believes a word that comes out of Lewis’ mouth. They’re pushing a business plan from 10 years ago. And yet people are banding together, and we are still doing what we’ve done since 1881, which is putting out the goddamn paper every day.”

UPDATE: Jan. 27 — The Los Angeles Times Guild organizing committee has released a statement demanding that Tronc’s management team explain its plans for their future and reminding Tronc of the Guild’s rights as employees, saying, “As journalists, we demand transparency from the people we cover. As employees of the Los Angeles Times, we demand the same of the executives who run our company.” You can read the Guild’s statement in full here.

This story has been updated to include comment from Louise Story.

AdvertisementWASHINGTON ― A new era of internet regulation is about to begin.

Years after Facebook and Google went public, regulators in the United States and abroad are finally taking a closer look at the internet behemoths. And they’re not only looking at the way these companies have come to dominate markets, but also examining the heart of the two firms’ business models. What they decide will have powerful implications for the way we do business on the internet.

Most people associate Facebook with cute family photos and think of Google like a semi-reliable encyclopedia. But these services have only a tangential relationship to the way either company actually makes money. The twin Silicon Valley titans rely on two closely intertwined technologies, customer surveillance and advertising, to maximize shareholder profits. The pair control 63 percent of the U.S. digital advertising market, and in 2016, they secured 99 percent of all digital advertising growth. That profit-making combo is exactly what regulators are focused on in 2018.

Many of the companies’ difficulties stem from the European Union’s tough new stance on privacy. The biggest threat to their business model comes from the General Data Protection Regulation, new data privacy rules set to go in effect in the EU in May. For the most part, Facebook and Google prevent you from using their products if you decline to agree to their entire terms of service. You cannot pick and choose what to agree to and still use their free services.

The GDPR changes that by requiring online companies, in some cases, to get permission from each individual user to collect, share and combine their data for use by advertisers. Companies will not be allowed to ban people from their services who decline to share their data for advertising purposes. There are 508 million EU residents who will soon be able to opt out of helping Facebook and Google make money. If companies do not comply with the new regulations they will face fines totaling 4 percent of their global revenues.

“These laws and regulations, as well as any associated inquiries or investigations or any other government actions, may be costly to comply with and may delay or impede the development of new products, result in negative publicity, increase our operating costs, require significant management time and attention, and subject us to remedies that may harm our business, including fines or demands or orders that we modify or cease existing business practices,” Facebook stated in its most recent quarterly Securities and Exchange Commission filing.

But GDPR isn’t the only trouble ahead for Facebook and Google. There are also myriad investigations underway into allegedly abusive practices by the firms.

After fining Google a record $2.8 billion in 2017 for prioritizing its own products over competitors in its online search results, the EU’s competition commission continues to investigate the company for allegedly abusing its market dominance in the mobile phone market through its Android operating system. Germany’s antitrust commission issued a preliminary report in December stating that Facebook uses its dominant position to place unfair conditions on its users by combining data from the Facebook main site with data retrieved from third party sources through its “like” button. In December, France gave Facebook one month to stop combining data from its WhatsApp platform with its Facebook platform without user consent or face sanctions and fines. Ireland’s antitrust enforcer has also investigated Facebook for sharing WhatsApp data without user consent.

Congress grilled representatives from Facebook, Twitter and Google over their advertising and privacy practices in November 2017. (Pictured from left to right: Colin Stretch, Facebook general counsel, Sean Edgett, Twitter acting general counsel, and Richard Salgado, Google director of law enforcement and information security.) Joshua Roberts / Reuters

In the U.S., Congress continues to hold hearings on the use of Google and Facebook platforms ― including Instagram and YouTube ― by Russian trolls and international and domestic terrorists to recruit new members, spread their messages and disrupt U.S. elections. Missouri Attorney General Josh Hawley, a Republican, has also launched his own investigation into whether Google is in violation U.S. antitrust laws.

For the first time, the online business model of surveillance capitalism is coming under the microscope. But it didn’t have to be this way in the first place.

How Facebook And Google’s Surveillance Model Came To Own The Internet

The business model that we all submit to when we unthinkingly click “Agree” on those lengthy terms of service agreements, or plug in that Google Home or Amazon Alexa your parents bought you for Christmas, was not a foregone conclusion when commerce went online back in the 1990s. It came about from a lack of options and a need to show profitability to investors.

In the mid-1990s, businesses and news organizations used the traditional advertising model for content production previously used by television, newspapers and magazines when they went online. It seemed to be the only way to show profits to venture capital investors or corporate managers.

At the time, there was no secure way to transmit payments online, making a subscription model impossible. Advertising was the only option.

Wired magazine debuted its online site HotWired in 1994 and with it the very first banner ad, courtesy of AT&T. “A lot of the things that we did, and that we’re credited for, were really not brilliant decisions, they were constraints,” then-Chief Technology Officer for Wired Andrew Anker told the Internet Podcast in 2014, while noting the lack of secured payment technologies for credit cards at the time. “We had no choice.”

Ethan Zuckerman, the director of the Center for Civic Media at MIT, was one of these early web pioneers. As one of the co-founders of the venture capital backed Tripod.com, he had to show his investors that the company could pull in some kind of revenue. Everything failed except advertising and the attendant surveillance of users that could be harvested for marketing data.

There were problems, of course. One Tripod.com advertiser complained about their material appearing on a page celebrating anal sex. The solution Zuckerman came up with was to make the ad open in a different window when it loaded. He had created the much-loathed pop-up ad.

Zuckerman regrets the decisions he and the early web entrepreneurs made that paved the path to the widespread surveillance of human behavior by private corporations. In a 2014 essay for The Atlantic, he labeled this the ”Internet’s Original Sin.”

“I think we took the easy way out frankly,” he told HuffPost. “I think we should have been charging for services. We didn’t consider this idea that we were going to end up putting users under surveillance.”

But that’s what happened. Advertising became the predominant source of revenue for all of the early large-scale search engines. Tech entrepreneur Bill Gross even launched a purely ad-based search engine in 1998 that showed search results solely based on who paid the most money to get to the top.

Google founders Larry Page and Sergey Brin found the advertising models distasteful. In a 1998 academic article for Stanford, the duo detailed their search engine and explained the problems with search engine advertising. “The goals of the advertising business model do not always correspond to providing quality search to users,” they wrote. ”[W]e expect that advertising funded search engines will be inherently biased towards the advertisers and away from the needs of the consumers.”

Page and Brin eventually came around to funding their wildly popular search engine with an entirely new form of advertising. Instead of bombarding users with as many ads as possible, Google would use its access to user searches to tailor advertising to them based on what they were looking for at that very moment. They’d target users with fewer, more specifically tailored advertisements through their AdWords platform. Later, they’d expand their advertising program by purchasing their biggest competition, DoubleClick.

Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg's celebration after the company's IPO launch is seen on a screen in New York City. Shannon Stapleton / Reuters

Mark Zuckerberg also launched Facebook with a disdain for intrusive advertising, but it wasn’t long before the social network giant became Google’s biggest competitor for ad dollars. After going public with 845 million users in 2012, Facebook became a multibillion-dollar company and Zuckerberg one of the richest men on Earth, but with only a promise that the company would figure out how to monetize its platform.

Facebook ultimately sold companies on its platform by promising “brand awareness” and the best possible data on what consumers actually liked. Brands could start their own Facebook pages, which people would actually “like” and interact with. This provided unparalleled information about what company each individual person wanted to interact with the most. By engaging with companies on Facebook, people gave corporate marketing departments more information than they could have ever dreamed of buying, but here it was offered up free.

This was the “grand bargain,” as Columbia University law professor Tim Wu called it in his book, The Attention Merchants, that users struck with corporations. Wu wrote that Facebook’s “billions of users worldwide were simply handing over a treasure trove of detailed demographic data and exposing themselves to highly targeted advertising in return for what, exactly?”

In other words: We will give you every detail of our lives and you will get rich by selling that information to advertisers.

European regulators are now saying that bargain was a bad deal. The big question that remains is whether their counterparts in the U.S. will follow their lead.SHANGHAI — On a narrow side street in a leafy residential neighborhood, a man who identified himself only as Mr. Wang piles large appliances onto his flat-bed truck. Stacking them higher than would seem physically possible, he expertly balances rusty washing machines atop old industrial fridges, tightly strapping them down so they don’t topple. Men on motorbikes and a few women arrive in the alley, carting their unwieldy machines, which Mr. Wang packs onto his truck, arranging and rearranging his mound like an expert Tetris player.

Mr. Wang parks his truck at this spot almost every day, from early morning to late afternoon, collecting items that would otherwise be sent to a landfill or incinerator. He’s one of Shanghai’s thousands of informal recyclers, a citywide network of unlicensed workers, mostly migrants, who experts and locals alike say have done far more to recycle Shanghai’s waste than has the government or any formalized system.

Mr. Wang loads a washing machine onto his truck in Shanghai. GRAINNE QUINLAN for HuffPost

“It’s invaluable what these guys have done to reduce the trash in the city,” said Richard Brubaker, an environmental activist and founder of Collective Responsibility, a Shanghai-based sustainability consultancy. “Two out of five of Shanghai’s landfills are already filled today. The other three would definitely be full by now if it wasn’t for them.”

China’s massive waste problem is no secret. The country has consistently ranked as the globe’s worst ocean polluter. A 2015 report found that China was responsible for one-third of all plastic waste polluting the world’s oceans.

According to researchers, a majority of this ocean pollution stems from China’s failure to properly manage its domestic waste, which includes inadequate recycling systems. Though China ― often described as the world’s waste basket ― has developed a robust system for recycling imported waste from other nations, what little domestic recycling has occurred in cities like Shanghai has mostly been undertaken by informal waste workers.

Exact numbers are difficult to ascertain, but researchers have suggested that the informal system could account for 70 percent or more of recycling for items like plastic bottles and e-waste in major cities like Shanghai and China’s capital, Beijing. A 2015 report by Columbia University researchers said Beijing’s informal collectors could be responsible for “removing as much as 30 percent of total waste in the city.”

These informal waste workers aren’t driven by environmental concerns or government mandates. Instead, they saw a gap in the waste disposal system and sought to fill it.

“People may not realize it, but these guys, they’re entrepreneurs,” said Rose Martin, a consultant at Collective Responsibility, as she observed Mr. Wang working on that September afternoon.

A recycler rides his tricycle in an informal sorting center for recyclable waste in Shanghai. Experts say there may be tens of thousands of such informal recyclers working in the city. GRAINNE QUINLAN for HuffPost

Informal recycling in Shanghai (at 24 million residents, it’s the most populous city in the world) is a well-oiled machine, with every participant appearing to have a clear role.

Mr. Wang, a specialized “consolidator,” is near the top of the pyramid, amassing recyclables of a specific type (in his case, large appliances) across several neighborhoods. These items will end up at a larger sorting center and eventually at a recycling plant. Below Mr. Wang are the neighborhood-level collectors and waste pickers — modern-day rag-and-bone dealers — who collect recyclables from households and businesses or things discarded in the trash. A homeowner wanting to sell her old refrigerator may call her local waste collector, who’ll pay her a small sum for the appliance. This collector, who usually also specializes in a particular type of recyclable material, may then contact another, who will pay him a slightly larger amount to take the item. Every time an item changes hands, someone gets paid.

In just an hour, almost 10 people rode by to deliver appliances to Mr. Wang. He’d pull out a fat stack of colorful renminbi from his pocket whenever a new person would drop by, doling out cash for the items delivered. The deliverymen sometimes lingered, for a cigarette and a chat. Men from the neighborhood popped by too, making small talk.

Mr. Wang, right, chats with a fellow recycler in Shanghai. Mr. Wang's collection point has become a community gathering place. GRAINNE QUINLAN for HuffPost

A neighborhood fixture, Mr. Wang’s collection point has become something of a community gathering place. Mr. Wang, who said only that he was “in his 40s,” said he’d been coming to this spot for several years to ply his trade.

“It’s very hard work,” he said as he loaded the truck. “My body aches. I have a lot of problems with my neck.”

As Shanghai and China as a whole undergo something of a “green revolution,” with city and federal officials becoming increasingly concerned about environmental issues, including domestic waste, experts say the livelihoods of informal recyclers like Mr. Wang could soon be under threat.

A number of regulations have already been enacted in Shanghai that could change their way of life. It remains to be seen, however, whether the state will be able to create a formalized recycling system that’s better than the vast and intricate unofficial one that exists.

A handyman earlier, Mr. Wang said he moved about a decade ago to Shanghai from Jiangsu Province, located north of the city, and stumbled into this business. His three children — ages 10, 14 and 20 — live with their grandparents back home. He and his wife see them two or three times a year. He misses them, yes, but, “I work to survive,” he said with a shrug.

As the sun began to dip behind the trees, Mr. Wang climbed into the truck’s cab and, with a wave goodbye, inched out of the small side street ― his wares stacked so high they smacked into lower branches as he drove away. He would be making the 1½-hour drive back to his home in Kunshan, an industrial city on the outskirts of Shanghai. He hoped to avoid rush-hour traffic. If he got stuck, the journey could take more than two hours.

Until last May, Mr. Wang said he’d lived within the city limits, but he’d been “kicked out” by “authorities.” He wouldn’t elaborate.

Once he got home, he and his wife would dismantle appliances till late, separating the parts to be recycled from the bits that would be thrown away. The next morning, he’d be up before sunrise to repair any appliances he thought could still be resold whole. By 8, he’d be back behind the wheel of his truck, making the journey back to this small street in central Shanghai.

Every neighborhood in this sprawling city has its own Mr. Wang. Ask any resident about informal recyclers and they’ll invariably tell you about their local “plastic bottle uncle” or “paper lady.”

“They’re an iconic sight, these recyclers,” said Jake Newby, TimeOut Shanghai’s editor-at-large. “Think of Shanghai and you might think of these guys on tricycles piled high with paper or plastic bottles — piled so high that if the guy got off, the whole thing would tip over.”

An informal recycler takes a break on a Shanghai walkway. GRAINNE QUINLAN for HuffPost

No one knows exactly how many recyclers and waste pickers there are in Shanghai. But Yifei Li, an assistant professor of environmental studies at New York University Shanghai and an expert on the city’s waste sector, estimates it’s in the “tens of thousands,” if not more ― most of them migrant workers who, like Mr. Wang, came to Shanghai seeking work. Across China, there are as many as 2.5 million to 6 million informal waste workers, according to a 2013 study.

It’s not just neighborhoods that have their local collectors and pickers. Large residential and commercial complexes are have their own groups.

To illustrate this, Brubaker, who has spent years researching Shanghai’s informal recycling sector, offered a tour of the basement of a residential complex in the heart of the city. In a corner of the parking lot, Brubaker pushed open an unmarked door. Inside was a large room, dark and dank, in which every corner was filled with detritus. Here, a pile of wires and small electronic items; there, huge bales of paper and cardboard, and a stash of plastic bottles.

In the basement of a large apartment complex, recyclers sort and stockpile trash -- and live among the detritus. GRAINNE QUINLAN for HuffPost

At the very back of the room, there was evidence of life and living: crumpled sleeping bags on the ground; damp laundry hanging on makeshift clothing lines; cobwebbed potted plants lined up in a corner; and a red-and-gold paper sign with the Chinese character for “fortune.”

“This is where all the trash from the apartments ends up, and they sort it all,” said Brubaker, waving his arms around the room.

Richard Brubaker, founder of Collective Responsibility, picks up some recyclable waste in the basement of the apartment complex. GRAINNE QUINLAN for HuffPost

No one was there when he entered, but Brubaker said four or five men and women live in the room. They’re not paid by the property’s management, but they’d struck some sort of deal, Brubaker said. The building’s managers turn a blind eye, allowing the pickers to live and work here, unseen and unheard by the residents above. “A lot of people don’t know this is down here,” Brubaker said. In turn, the managers get a small cut of the group’s earnings.

At a mall in northern Shanghai a few days later, a woman with a large rucksack over her shoulder reached into trash cans and pulled out plastic bottles and other recyclables. When quizzed, a local identified her as the mall’s unofficial waste picker. “She’s here almost every day,” he said.

An informal recycler pushes his tricycle in Shanghai, China. GRAINNE QUINLAN For HuffPost

Michelle Huang, an NYU Shanghai student who spent a summer researching the city’s waste sector, said there are usually “two or three pickers in any mall or large building.”

“They get what they can — but for a city this big, they can’t possibly compensate for the sheer amount being thrown away,” said Huang.

Shanghai Daily reported in 2015 that the city’s residents were generating some 22,000 tons of garbage per day, at least 40 percent of which was being incinerated. Experts say the waste problem in China is getting worse every year.

The World Bank has estimated that China’s solid waste production will more than double to 500 million tons annually by 2025. China is expected to produce twice the amount of solid waste as the United States by 2030.

At an informal sorting center in Shanghai, recyclers sift through piles of wood items. GRAINNE QUINLAN for HuffPost

With these staggering numbers in mind, and as the nation’s landfills run out of room and concerns mount about health and environmental hazards of trash incineration, Chinese authorities have begun to make domestic waste management a priority. Last year, China told the World Trade Organization that it would no longer be accepting 24 categories of imported waste from other nations, sending shockwaves across Europe and North America, which have for decades relied on China to handle millions of tons of its waste. Observers say this move hints at China’s commitment to focusing more on managing its own waste streams.

Progress, however, won’t come overnight.

“For years, there have been no government recycling trucks or recycling bins in the city. There are no trash sorting sites either ― so everything gets dumped into one truck and incinerated or brought to a landfill,” said Huang, who rode in garbage collection trucks managed by the city government as part of her research. “There are conferences and discussions every year but things don’t really seem to be getting better.”

There are whispers of evidence, however, that change is afoot. Li, the NYU professor, said the city government had recently launched pilot recycling projects in a limited number of apartment complexes around Shanghai.

Zhang Qin is an employee of a new neighborhood recycling center in Shanghai. She spends her days in a small windowless office where she exchanges residents' recyclable materials for "prizes," such as shampoo, toothpaste and toilet paper. GRAINNE QUINLAN for HuffPost

In one neighborhood, a recycling center has been set up by a state-run charity. Residents can deposit paper, plastic and even e-waste in exchange for “prizes,” such as shampoo, toothpaste and toilet paper.

When photographs of the center ― all shiny and new with its color-coded bins ― were shown to residents of other neighborhoods, some of whom had lived in Shanghai for decades, most expressed bewilderment. “This is Shanghai?” they’d marvel.

A resident throws trash into a recycling bin at a new neighborhood recycling center. GRAINNE QUINLAN for HuffPost

At the same time, the city government seems determined to push out unlicensed recyclers.

This year, for instance, Shanghai police have been cracking down on motorized tricycles, which is how many recyclers transport their goods. The official line is that these vehicles pose a danger to traffic safety, but the effect on recyclers is clear. Many have had their tricycles taken away and can’t afford different vehicles. In June, police said they’d seized more than 2,500 motorized tricycles.

An recycler rides on the streets of Shanghai with a pile of bicycles. GRAINNE QUINLAN for HuffPost

Authorities have also been cracking down on Shanghai’s “urban villages,” low-income neighborhoods on the city’s outskirts where migrants mostly live. In the name of “beautification,” these villages are being demolished to make way for modern buildings and green spaces. But the result is that recyclers are finding themselves with nowhere to live in China’s most expensive city.

According to the Chinese magazine Sixth Tone, 30,000 residents and migrant workers were displaced when Hongqi, Shanghai’s largest urban village, was shut down last year. An additional 3,000 migrant residents from a different urban village were evicted last January, in the days leading up to the Chinese New Year festivities.

Experts say that it’s still unclear just how much the government hopes to formalize or centralize the system, and many expressed skepticism over whether a more formalized network could be more efficient and effective.

“Informal recycling is a sector that’s been here for so long. It’s very deeply rooted and is a very robust network,” said Li. “If the state takes over that business, it’ll be a lot of work. This is a successful business model for a lot of people. How do you fold that into a state apparatus?”

An informal recycler, who said she was from Anhui province, sifts through bags of plastic bottles in Shanghai. GRAINNE QUINLAN for HuffPost

But though the city’s informal recyclers have been praised for the work they’ve done to reduce Shanghai’s waste, it’s a sector not without flaws.

Without proper regulation or oversight, the work can be unsafe. None of the recyclers interviewed for this article wore protective clothing or gear. At one recycling site where groups were sorting through paper, metal and wood, unmasked workers were exposed to gusts of dust.

What’s known about the informal recycling sector in Shanghai is that individual collectors like Mr. Wang bring their items either to a recycling market, where they’ll be further sorted, or to an industrial recycling plant, where the recycling of the materials actually takes place. What is not transparent is who runs these recycling plants and whether these facilities and their owners are following legal practices that are sound for human health and the environment.

Reporter Dominique Mosbergen, right, speaks to a recycler at an informal sorting center for recyclable waste. GRAINNE QUINLAN for HuffPost

Taking a break from loading his truck, Mr. Wang leaned against a stack of TVs and lit a cigarette.

“Yes, I’m worried,” he said, when asked whether he’d seen any changes in the recycling business lately. “I don’t know what I’ll do if I can’t do this anymore.”

For now, however, the recyclers of Shanghai continue their work.

“There is no rest for us,” a jovial young man from Anhui province told me as he sorted through large bales of plastic bottles at a recycling site.A Texas chicken has received an honor few, if any, other birds get — a formal obituary.

A paid death notice for Big Mama, a 6-year-old Rhode Island Red, appeared on Tuesday in The Eagle newspaper, which is based in Bryan, Texas.

“Not many chickens deserve an obituary, but she does,” wrote Big Mama’s human family.

A family chicken worthy of an obituaryhttps://t.co/YqYCx7B6XQ pic.twitter.com/qWKs8zMAH4 — The Eagle (@theeagle) January 23, 2018

The obit said Big Mama initially had been raised in an apartment in Houston. Her previous owners took her to be euthanized in 2013, but a compassionate veterinarian instead had them relinquish their rights to the chicken so she could find a new home.

She was adopted by Stephanie and Gregory Sword and their two sons, who live in College Station.

The family says in the obit they were “hooked instantly” after seeing a photo of the bird.

Big Mama soon “discovered how beautiful life could be walking in the grass, being a member of a flock, and having 24-7 love,” the obit reads.

The chicken died in her sleep Sunday, at her favorite spot in the chicken coop, the Swords told local media.

Stephanie Sword told KBTX-TV that they never expected the obit to get so much attention.

“We’re just hoping that the story of Big Mama will remind others that every life, even that of a chicken, is valuable and worth saving,” she said.KMazur/WireImage via Getty Images

The year was 1998. Celine Dion’s “Falling Into You” was the reigning album of the year, and she was set to return to the Grammy Awards stage with the one-and-only Barbra Streisand. Their task: belt out a never-before-performed-live duet, “Tell Him.”

Dion and Streisand planned to rehearse. The song was nominated for best pop collaboration with vocals, so they wanted to get it right. Plus, they’d received a few unfavorable reviews of the duet; one referred to Streisand as “buttah” and Dion as her lackluster margarine substitute. “I’m scared / So afraid to show I care,” Dion whispers prophetically in the song’s opening lines. “But what you must understand / You can’t let the chance / To love him pass you by,” Streisand carols in response.

However, days before the ceremony, Babs came down with the flu. First, according to most accounts (but not all), she missed the necessary rehearsal, still hopeful that she’d make the show anyway. Then reality set in. Streisand was bailing. Illness had taken her.

″[Barbra is] extremely disappointed that she won’t be able to sing because of her continuing flu and fever,” her representative, Dick Guttman, said in a statement the morning of the award show. “She’s very sick and won’t be going to the ceremony.”

Grammy producers, along with Dion’s team, acted fast. Without “Tell Him,” a song extensively played on adult contemporary radio, they looked toward a different kind of cash cow: “Titanic,” the movie every teen had seen at least three times. In Streisand’s absence, Dion decided she’d sing “My Heart Will Go On” from the newly released James Cameron blockbuster, which, at that point, had grossed over $400 million at the box office but was not yet a worldwide phenomenon.

Dion reportedly rehearsed the performance once before taking the stage on Feb. 25.

“I was obviously very nervous for that performance, and I was hoping that I could live up to the challenge,” Dion told HuffPost via her reps, who relayed our nagging questions to the singer while she was preparing for a Vegas show this month. “I know it sounds a bit crazy, but I’m always nervous when I perform, whether it’s the first time doing a song or the hundredth time doing a song. Of course, the bigger the moment, the more nervous I am.”

Live up to the challenge she did. Dressed in a shimmering, era-appropriate one-shouldered gown, Dion sang the first verse of the now well-known ballad as she stood atop a dual staircase in front of a full orchestra. Halfway through the song, she descended the steps toward the grand piano at center stage, clutching her mic before dramatically twirling around and crooning, “You’re here, there’s nothing I fear!” (Classic Celine chest thumps included, of course.) She hit every note, astonishingly, and the audience rewarded her with a rousing ovation.

“I don’t remember exactly what I was feeling that night at the Grammys, but I just remember being part of something very special ― the movie, the song, those amazing actors,” she said. “Good thing I didn’t screw up, and the boat didn’t sink again!”

The performance was iconic. And, like any good pop culture moment, so too was the rumor mill surrounding it. Fan forums speculated afterward: Where was Streisand? Are she and Dion feuding? Is that why Babs didn’t show and left Dion to crush “My Heart Will Go On” on her own? Was Streisand really sick?

Was she [gasp!] being a diva?

Merriam-Webster

As you might recall, the ’90s was a decade of divas. We had Aretha Franklin, Mariah Carey, Whitney Houston, Shania Twain, Gloria Estefan, Tina Turner, Cher, Brandy, Faith Hill, Diana Ross, Streisand, Dion, and so on and so forth.

Back then, long before the #TimesUp moment, in the thick of third-wave feminism and the backlash that came to greet it, entertainment fans still salivated at the idea of pitting women against each other, of expecting each diva to prove her worth every time she made a public appearance. Divas weren’t friends; no. We didn’t want them to be. They could be friendly to each other, but we liked when they competed, not when they happily agreed to duets. We liked when they tossed insults behind backs in interviews, no matter how much an interviewer had to trap them into doing so.

“It is a bone-crushing spectator sport,” The Rise and Fall of Gay Culture author Daniel Harris wrote of diva worship.

So when VH1 Divas aired its first annual show in April 1998, a couple of months after the Grammys, the world watched as Celine, Aretha, Gloria, Shania, Mariah and surprise guest Carole King graced New York’s Beacon Theatre. And we readied ourselves for competition. Each diva performed two or three original songs before sharing the spotlight for a rendition of ”(You Make Me Feel Like) A Natural Woman” and “Testimony.” There were also duets, like the one between Aretha and Mariah. Singing “Chain of Fools” with the “My All” hitmaker, Aretha dutifully stretched her competitive side ― at least according to a New York Times review of the concert.

“When Ms. Carey zoomed upward, Ms. Franklin soared higher; when Ms. Carey delved downward, Ms. Franklin went lower. Ms. Carey has a big voice, but Ms. Franklin’s was bigger, warmer and sultrier, still champion.”

During “Natural Woman,” Franklin even allegedly sang over Celine as the Canadian vocalist tried to belt out her solo verse. “Celine definitely did her thing and held her own. I mean, she was amazing that night,” Randy Jackson said in a segment about the moment. But, “you’re talking about the gospel-church power of Aretha Franklin, one of the most legendary voices of all time.”

There, the diva-against-diva trope earned its wings.

The label only continued to cause rifts between female vocalists well into the 2000s. We saw Britney Spears vs. Christina Aguilera. Whitney Houston vs. Madonna. Avril Lavigne vs. Hilary Duff. We assumed the rivalries were good for their respective careers, even when they weren’t.

And we relished the ways divas seemed to emphasize the assumptions we had about them ― namely, that they were demanding. In a 2008 article in The New York Daily News titled “Celine: A World-Class Prima Dion-na,” sources listed her many on-tour demands, which apparently included a supply of Bavarian figs and French cherries in her dressing room, 11 onstage bodyguards, her own physiotherapist and a voice or throat specialist on call from 7 a.m. until 7 p.m., and, yup, a dentist. We lapped that right up.

It’s no wonder some fans assumed Streisand called out sick to the Grammys. Because ― maybe! just maybe! ― there was bad blood between her and Dion, like there was bad blood between every diva that had to fight her way to the top of a music industry controlled largely by men. (Currently, less than 5 percent of people who work in the production of music and media are women, according to Women’s Audio Mission. So just imagine how male-dominated the studios were in 1998.)

To this day, Dion denies any Streisand feud.

“First of all, Barbra is one of my idols in show business, and I love her voice, her music, her acting, and just about everything she does ... she’s amazing,” Dion told HuffPost. “I wasn’t upset at all that she canceled. She wasn’t feeling her best, and she wanted to give her best. I totally understand that. It happens to me; it happens to all of us.”

When we reached out to Streisand’s team for an interview, her longtime rep Guttman said she was “focused on a number of projects” and couldn’t chat but made it clear that the ladies were never enemies. “They were and remain close friends and mutual admirers,” Guttman said, confirming that Streisand was, indeed, very sick that night.

Celine Dion at the Grammys in 1998. TIMOTHY A. CLARY/AFP via Getty Images

Perhaps that’s the epitome of a diva. Despite all the speculation, despite fans’ desire to see them turn on each other, Dion and Streisand remain firm. Damned if they’re going to let other people write their story for them.

Today, Dion proves she’s better than ever at rewriting her own narrative ― even more so than when she turned a colleague’s sick day into a goosebump-inducing solo opportunity. (“My Heart Will Go On” dominated the 1999 Grammys.) Take, for example, her Parisian photoshoot for Vogue last summer. Dressed in head-to-toe couture, she frolicked around the City of Light in big, boisterous hats, see-through sequin skirts and floral appliqué gowns. She posed nude for the magazine’s social media accounts. Following the death of her husband and longtime manager, René Angélil, two years ago, Dion has emerged as a hellbent independent woman.

But Dion is still wary of the term “diva.”

“Some people say that being a diva isn’t such a good thing. Others say it is. All I know is that if my name is mentioned in the same company as Barbra Streisand, that’s a wonderful compliment,” she insisted.

This year’s Grammys night promises nominations for and performances by a roster of women who continue to write their own stories and endure in the industry because of it: Pink, Lady Gaga, Taylor Swift, Kelly Clarkson. As the landscape changes ― as RuPaul continues to redefine the parameters of diva and artists like Kesha speak out against the perils that threaten their careers ― divas certainly remain. Yet their world looks a little different. Sure there are squad allegiances and harsh Twitter digs, but most of the women once considered divas now rally around one another in the name of a more inclusive industry.Drew, Joyce and Logan Kesse at a news conference held by police on Jan. 24, 2018, marking 12 years since the disappearance of Jennifer Kesse. Orlando Sentinel via Getty Images

Jennifer Kesse’s family bore witness to another dismal milestone in Florida this week as the recurring date of her disappearance marked 12 years. However, unwilling to accept the fate of previous years – where meaningful breakthroughs have long been absent – they have a new plan to find their missing daughter.

“We’re fed up,” Jennifer’s father, Drew Kesse, told HuffPost. “We’re suing the Orlando Police Department. They’ve had probably 150 investigators look at Jennifer’s case. There’s been million-dollar rewards, the largest searches in the southeast, and yet we’re no further than we were on day three.”

The Kesse family made their intention public on Jan. 19, with the announcement that they are seeking a court order to compel authorities to open the case files. Kesse said the decision was made after the police department refused to cooperate with them.

“We have a team of investigators – former federal agents – who are willing to help and we’d asked [Orlando police] to please let us bring them in to look at the files,” Kesse said. “We explained that we simply want to find our daughter and they said they would not allow that.’”

In a statement to the media, the Orlando Police Department said, “If we were to release any active criminal investigative material to the Kesse family … it could jeopardize the investigation. That’s not something we want in this case or in any other active criminal investigation.”

Kesse argues the department is missing the point.

“I’m not interested in seeing [the files],” he said. “I’m not an investigator. All we want is one of our investigators to be able to go in and read the files. Do they hold any answers? I don’t know, but I think at this point we all know it’s a cold case. We don’t want to wait another 12 or even 20 years to find Jennifer.”

Jennifer was 24 years old when she vanished in Orlando on Jan. 24, 2006. On that day, her family was notified she’d not shown up for work at Central Florida Investments.

When calls to her phone went directly to voicemail, her family contacted Orlando police and made the two-hour drive from their home in Bradenton to Orlando.

Inside Jennifer’s apartment, the Kesses found nothing to indicate where she was. The shower had been used and a few items of clothes were laid out on the bed, but there were no obvious signs of foul play.

By 4 p.m. that day, family and friends of Jennifer were already searching the area surrounding her condominium, which was located next to Orlando’s Mall at Millenia

The most promising lead came two days later, when Jennifer’s car was found abandoned at a condominium complex roughly one mile from where she lived. Police bloodhounds tracked a scent from where the car was found to Jennifer’s condo, but that’s where the trail ended.

Surveillance cameras at the condo complex where the car was found captured an unknown person parking Jennifer’s car and waiting approximately 30 seconds before exiting the vehicle and walking away without looking back. Despite intense media coverage of the video, the identity of the driver remains a mystery.

The surveillance video was the last known break in the case.

Fast forward to 2018, whereupon the Orlando Police Department on Wednesday held a press conference about Jennifer’s case. The day marked not only 12 years since Jennifer’s disappearance, but the passage of just five days since her family had announced their intention to sue.

At the press conference, Orlando Police Chief John Mina announced that a detective had been assigned to “focus exclusively” on the case. He also unveiled a city bus with Jennifer Kesse’s photo on it and said the department was having Jennifer’s face displayed on 18 digital billboards throughout the region.

Jennifer’s brother, Logan Kesse, was visibly angry – the police chief’s words, in his mind, sowing the seeds of discontent. By the time it was over, those seeds had fully germinated.

“This is an absolute slap in the face,” Logan told reporters. “It’s been 12 years. Did they do this last year? No. The year before? No … This is only being done because … we are on their ass and they fucked up.”

Drew Kesse told HuffPost that promises made during the press conference, specifically that of a dedicated detective, were nothing new.

“This is the fourth time they’ve said that,” he explained. “Don’t get me wrong, the bus is beautiful – incredible – but at this point it feels like they’re an adversary. I mean, if this works and jerks somebody’s mind and this all comes to an end tomorrow, great. If that happens, I don’t give a crap if the chief of police snubs his nose in my face and says, ‘There, we found her. La, la, la, la, la.’ I’d kiss him. But I really don’t think that’s going to happen.”

Kesse suspects police are concerned the files contain mistakes that were made in the early stages of the investigation.

“We already know of verifiable mistakes, but we’re not interested in that,” he said. “We just want to find Jennifer. We all make mistakes. If we wanted to sue them for mistakes we would’ve done that years ago, but that doesn’t bring Jennifer back.”

Thanks to our friends at @lynxbusorlando this bus will be traveling the region spreading the word about the ongoing Jennifer Kesse investigation. pic.twitter.com/cML7aPoBzA — Orlando Police (@OrlandoPolice) January 24, 2018

Drew Kesse said his family suffered another blow after the press conference. Upon walking back to their vehicle, they’d discovered someone had broken in.

“It happened with the cops and the press right there,” he said. “A cellphone, wallet, credit cards, and money were gone. To top it, we waited around an hour and 53 minutes after we’d called police and they never showed up. I called them back and said, ‘I guess you just don’t really want to help the Kesses today. We’re leaving. Bye.’”

Kesse paused while recounting the incident and then chuckled.

“It’s just like holy shit,” he explained. “If I don’t laugh, I’ll cry in the corner.”

As of Friday, Orlando police have yet to be served with the lawsuit. According to Kesse, the legal action is in the works.

“Once you step in lawyer land it’s a whole different world,” he said. “It’s going to be a very uphill and expensive battle. Ultimately, we are her family and we are responsible for finding her. [The police] can quit at any time. It doesn’t matter to them. We can’t. We’ve already lost everything ― our careers and everything. All we have left is our house and we’re about to sell it. But we don’t care about that. Finding Jennifer is all that matters. It’s a shame they won’t help us do that.”

jenniferkessecom

At the time of her disappearance, Jennifer Kesse was 5 feet 8 inches tall and weighed 135 pounds. She had shoulder-length sandy blonde hair and green eyes.

Anyone with information in the case is asked to contact Orlando police detective Teresa Sprague at 407-246-3982. Tipsters may also call the crime line anonymously at 800-423-8477. Click here to listen to Unconcluded, a popular podcast on the case. Additional information can be found at jenniferkesse.com.

Advertisement