TRUMP SAYS HE’S ‘LOOKING FORWARD’ TO TESTIFYING UNDER OATH WITH SPECIAL COUNSEL ROBERT MUELLER His lawyer quickly tried to backtrack the statements, saying they were made off the cuff. [HuffPost] [Tweet | Share on Facebook]

LARRY NASSAR SENTENCED TO 40 TO 175 YEARS IN PRISON FOR SEXUAL ABUSE “I’ve just signed your death warrant,” Judge Rosemarie Aquilina said to the former USA Gymnastics doctor. The Michigan State University president resigned in the wake of the scandal. Take a look at 30 photos of Nassar survivors that “show the rage and resilience of women.” Rachael Denhollander was the first woman to go public with her accusations against Nassar. Read her statement in full. And the prosecutor on the case thanked the investigative journalists at the Indy Star who began investigating USA Gymnastics for policies that enabled rampant sexual abuse. [HuffPost]

HUFFPOST OPINION: THE 2018 DEMOCRATIC WAVE IS ABOUT MORE THAN CONGRESS “Come next year, newly elected public servants across the country will be getting to work building a more progressive future for their local communities and a more progressive Democratic party.” [HuffPost]

TRUMP HINTS AT DACA PATHWAY “We’re going to morph into it. It’s going to happen, at some point in the future, over a period of 10 to 12 years. I think it’s a nice thing to have the incentive of after a period of years being able to become a citizen.” [HuffPost]

CAPE TOWN IS ABOUT TO SHUT OFF ITS WATER Making it the first major city in the developed world to face such a water crisis. [HuffPost]

WHAT AMERICANS REALLY THINK AND KNOW ABOUT THE GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWN And what they don’t. [HuffPost]DAVOS, Switzerland (Reuters) - U.S. President Donald Trump threatened on Thursday to withhold aid to the Palestinians if they did not pursue peace with Israel, saying they had snubbed the United States by not meeting Vice President Mike Pence during a recent visit.

Trump, speaking after a meeting with Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu at the World Economic Forum, said he wanted peace. However, his remarks could further frustrate the aim of reviving long-stalled Israeli-Palestinian talks.

Palestinians shunned Pence’s visit to the region this month after Trump recognized Jerusalem as Israel’s capital and vowed to begin moving the U.S. embassy to the city, whose status is at the heart of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict.

Trump’s endorsement in December of Israel’s claim to Jerusalem as its capital drew universal condemnation from Arab leaders and criticism around the world. It also broke with decades of U.S. policy that the city’s status must be decided in negotiations between Israel and the Palestinians.

“When they disrespected us a week ago by not allowing our great vice president to see them, and we give them hundreds of millions of dollars in aid and support, tremendous numbers, numbers that nobody understands ― that money is on the table and that money is not going to them unless they sit down and negotiate peace,” Trump said.

The United States said this month it would withhold $65 million of $125 million it had planned to send to the U.N. agency that helps Palestinian refugees. The UNRWA agency is funded almost entirely by voluntary contributions from U.N. states and the United states is the largest contributor.

A spokesman for Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas said the United States had taken itself “off the table” as a peace mediator since it recognized Jerusalem as Israel’s capital.

“Palestinian rights are not up to any bargain and Jerusalem is not for sale. The United States can’t have any role unless it retreats its decision to recognize Jerusalem as Israel’s capital,” spokesman Nabil Abu Rdainah told Reuters by phone from Jordan.

Abbas has called Trump’s Jerusalem declaration a “slap in the face” and has rejected Washington as an honest broker in any future talks with Israel. Abbas left for an overseas visit before Pence arrived.

Abbas has said he would only accept a broad, internationally backed panel to broker any peace talks with Israel. The U.S. Ambassador to the U.N., Nikki Haley also criticized Abbas.

Israel’s government regards Jerusalem as the eternal and indivisible capital of the country, although that is not recognized internationally. Palestinians see East Jerusalem as the capital of a future Palestinian state.

Speaking in Davos, Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said only the United States could broker a peace deal.

“I think there’s no substitute for the United States. As the honest broker, as a facilitator, there’s no other international body that would do it,” Netanyahu said.

Trump said Palestinians had to come to the negotiating table.

“Because I can tell you that Israel does want to make peace and they’re going to have to want to make peace too or we’re going to have nothing to do with them any longer,” Trump said.

Trump said his administration had a peace proposal in the works that was a “great proposal forPalestinians” which covers “a lot of the things that were over the years discussed or agreed on”, without providing specifics.

Trump said his declaration on Jerusalem took it off the negotiating table “and Israel will pay for that”, adding “they’ll do something that will be a very good thing” without elaborating.

Earlier at the World Economic Forum, Jordanian King Abdullah said Jerusalem had to be part of a comprehensive solution.

He said Trump’s decision had created a backlash, frustrating Palestinians who felt there was no honest broker.

But he added: “I’d like to reserve judgment because we’re still waiting for the Americans to come out with their plan.”

King Abdullah’s Hashemite dynasty is the custodian of the Muslim holy sites in Jerusalem, making Jordan particularly sensitive to any changes of status there.

The last talks collapsed in 2014, partly due to Israel’s opposition to an attempted unity pact between Palestinian factions Fatah and Hamas, and because of Israeli settlement building on occupied land that Palestinians seek for a state, among other factors.

Palestinians want the West Bank for a future state, along with East Jerusalem and the Gaza Strip. Most countries consider as illegal the Israeli settlements built in the territory which Israel captured in the 1967 Middle East war.

Israel denies its settlements are illegal and says their future should be determined in peace talks.

The United States has said it would support a two-state solution if the Israelis and Palestiniansagreed to it.Immigration officials should not have put an asylum seeker through psychological tests to determine whether he was telling the truth that he was gay, the court ruled. Marko Djurica / Reuters

LUXEMBOURG (Reuters) - Hungarian immigration officials should not have put a Nigerian asylum seeker through psychological tests to determine whether he was telling the truth that he was gay, the EU’s top court ruled on Thursday.

Effectively barring use of sexual orientation testing as an invasion of “the most intimate aspects” of life, the Court of Justice found that the unidentified man from Nigeria should not have been pressured into examinations that included drawing a picture of a person in the rain and the Rorschach ink-blot test.

The unnamed man filed a request for refugee status in the Hungarian city of Szeged in April 2015. At the time Hungary was starting to face a surge in illegal migrants from Africa and the Middle East crossing the EU border from Serbia.

The man based his claim on the fact that, as a homosexual, he faced persecution in his home country.

The EU court ruled: “The performance of such a test amounts to a disproportionate interference in the private life of the asylum seeker.” The Luxembourg-based judges noted that the EU executive has disputed the reliability of such tests.

In the Rorschach test a participant’s perceptions of inkblots are recorded and are then analyzed for clues about his or her personality characteristics and emotional functioning.

On the basis of the tests, the Hungarian state-appointed psychologist concluded that the Nigerian man was not homosexual and his claim was rejected, prompting an appeal.

In responding to the Hungarian court which referred the case, the ECJ said it was acceptable to seek expert opinion but this must be obtained in ways consistent with human rights and should not be the sole basis of a ruling.

Hungary’s right-wing government has been in the forefront of efforts, particularly among ex-communist states in the east, to stiffen the European Union’s frontiers against asylum seekers.

It was among the first countries hit by a wave of more than a million people who entered the EU via Greece in 2015 after taking to flimsy boats crossing the Mediterranean from Turkey.WASHINGTON, Jan 25 (Reuters) - President Donald Trump arrived in Switzerland on Thursday to attend the World Economic Forum where he will push his “America First” agenda and seek fairer trade between the United States and its allies.

Trump arrived in Zurich en route to the Swiss ski resort of Davos for two days of events culminating in a speech on Friday to the forum of business and political leaders.

Trump, never invited as a businessman, will be the first U.S. president to attend Davos since Bill Clinton in 2000, giving him a chance to mingle with the same elite “globalists” he bashed in the 2016 election campaign.

“Will soon be heading to Davos, Switzerland, to tell the world how great America is and is doing,” Trump tweeted before departure. “Our economy is now booming and with all I am doing, will only get better...Our country is finally WINNING again!”

White House aides said Trump’s message would be the same that he has given during other trips aboard over the past year: The United States wants strong ties with its allies but wants to reduce chronic trade deficits with many of them.

“America first is not America alone,” said White House senior economic adviser Gary Cohn, who is traveling with Trump. “When we grow, the world grows; when the world grows, we grow. We’re part of it, and we’re part of a world economy. And the president believes that.”

In the run-up to his trip to Davos, Trump slapped a 30 percent tariff on imported solar panels, among the first unilateral trade restrictions imposed by the administration as part of a broader protectionist agenda.

Then on Wednesday in Davos, U.S. Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin said he welcomed a weakening in the dollar. Fears of protectionist trade policies by the United States had already pushed the greenback to a three-year low, and Mnuchin’s remark pushed it down further.

Trump will use his trip for some diplomacy. He has meetings with British Prime Minister Theresa May and Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu on Thursday and Rwandan President Paul Kagame, current chairman of the African Union, and Swiss President Alain Berset on Friday.

Kagame is a pro-American leader who went to the United States for training when he was in the Ugandan army.

Iran’s growing influence in the Middle East, North Korea’s nuclear challenge and the battle against Islamic State militants figured to be prominent topics of his meetings.

French President Emmanuel Macron told RTS channel that he had “strongly recommended” to Trump to attend the Davos forum during a recent phone conversation they had on Iran ... “because I think it’s a good thing for President Trump to explain his strategy for the U.S. and the world here in Davos.

“And that he encounters some form of confrontation and dialog,” Macron said.

Trump will host a small dinner for European business executives on Thursday night.

There is broad concern in European capitals that 2018 could be the year Trump’s bark on trade turns into bite, as he considers punitive measures on steel and threatens to end the 90s-era North American Free Trade Agreement with Canada and Mexico.Bloomberg via Getty Images

A little over a year ago, American commerce quietly passed a techno-dystopian landmark when IBM ― one of the most prestigious and storied computer companies ― undertook a new project: automating the revolving door between Wall Street and Washington.

IBM’s acquisition of Promontory Financial Group, a consulting firm recognized in Washington as a landing pad for top officials from the Federal Reserve, the Securities and Exchange Commission and other government agencies, went largely overlooked in the news churn surrounding the 2016 election. Promontory’s founder, former bank regulator Eugene Ludwig, pays top dollar to bring in public-sector talent and put it to work on behalf of the banking industry.

The company touts its expertise in helping firms navigate a complex regulatory landscape, but the business often has more to do with the mystical intangibles of corporate reputation than the technical precision of regulatory codes. Banks caught laundering money for dictators or illegally foreclosing on families call Ludwig, agree to pay him large amounts of money, and through the magic of Washington emerge with their prestige refreshed.

In the aftermath of the financial crisis, Promontory has had no shortage of clients. Ludwig reportedly pays himself more than $30 million a year, well ahead of what either JPMorgan Chase CEO Jamie Dimon or Goldman Sachs CEO Lloyd Blankfein take home.

IBM, which has been steadily expanding its corporate consulting business over the past decade, wanted to assimilate Ludwig’s operation into Watson, its flagship artificial intelligence system.

“Promontory’s experts are unsurpassed in this field,” IBM’s Bridget van Kralingen, a senior vice president, said when the deal was announced. “They will teach Watson and Watson, in turn, will extend and enhance their expertise.”

The good news for American democracy is that IBM made a mistake. Influence peddling is a uniquely robot-proof line of work. It relies not on hard data or generalizable patterns of thought, but on relationships and attitudes that no algorithm can emulate or predict.

The bad news is that Congress is already on corruption autopilot, even without machine learning. Beginning in 2015, a bipartisan coalition of ostensibly free-market Republicans, including Rep. Tom Emmer (R-Minn.) and Sen. Jerry Moran (R-Kansas), teamed up with social-justice Democrats, including Rep. Gwen Moore (D-Wis.) and Sen. Mark Warner (D-Va.), on legislation that would shower new riches on Ludwig’s influence empire and a few enterprises like it.

This year, similar legislation has the support of 10 senators from each party, almost guaranteeing passage. The proposal would override federal regulators on a complex deposit insurance rule, thus bringing more money into a niche market where Ludwig himself is the dominant player.

This congressional perk won’t spark the next subprime meltdown or erase anyone’s savings, but it will pad the profits of a prominent Washingtonian by making small banks a little bit riskier. For all the bitter partisan warfare over health care and taxes, Democrats and Republicans can still find common ground on some basic principles of American industry.

Eugene Ludwig, founder of Promontory Financial Group, at a Senate Banking Subcommittee on Financial Institutions hearing in 2011. Bloomberg via Getty Images

When Ludwig founded his consulting firm, he set up a side operation sharing key personnel ― the similarly named Promontory Interfinancial Network. The company makes it easier for rich people to take advantage of deposit insurance from the federal government, and harvests a small fee for its service. Deposit insurance is the reason you don’t lose money if your bank fails. Most families don’t have to worry about it, since the government automatically guarantees every penny of bank accounts up to $250,000, and very few Americans have more money than that lying around. More than half of Americans have less than $1,000 in their savings account, and the average checking account balance is about $3,600.

But if you have, say, $1 million that you don’t want tied up in the stock market, and you don’t want to spend your Saturdays working out four or five separate accounts with different banks, Promontory’s Certificate of Deposit Account Registry Service lets you deal with a single institution, which can spread your cash across a network of different banks on your behalf, while allowing you to maintain what looks to you like a single omnibus account.

There’s nothing inherently devious about the service. But federal regulators see it as a riskier way for banks to fund their operations. Banks can become dependent on the health of a complex deposit network, in which a single customer can instantly drain large accounts at several different institutions.

To protect taxpayers who are ultimately on the hook for deposits that disappear in a bank failure, federal regulators apply some restrictions on these so-called reciprocal deposits. Only banks with healthy capital cushions can rely on them, and there are limits to the interest rates banks can offer to attract them.

A few other firms exist in the reciprocal deposit space, but it’s really Promontory’s game. The company’s website touts 800,000 “bank-to-bank connections” each year, and more than 2,700 banks participate in its network, according to a company spokesman. Promontory doesn’t like the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. discouraging banks with capital troubles from using its product. And it is spending an enormous amount of money on Capitol Hill trying to get around them.

In 2016, according to federal lobbying disclosure forms, Promontory spent more than $1.5 million through eight different lobbying firms, followed by over $1.25 million in the first nine months of 2017. To put that in perspective, the National Bankers Association ― a trade group that also supports the bill ― spent a total of $95,000 on lobbying in 2017, on everything from the GOP tax bill to residual issues from the 2008 government bailout.

It’s a sophisticated lobbying operation. To woo Republicans, Promontory enlisted former Newt Gingrich aide Daniel Meyer, along with David Schiappa, a former aide to Senate Republican Leaders Bob Dole, Trent Lott, Bill Frist and Mitch McConnell. On the Democratic side, Promontory has enlisted Robert Raben, a former aide to Rep. Barney Frank (D-Mass.) and Christina Weaver, who was previously legislative counsel for Rep. Sheila Jackson Lee (D-Texas).

Promontory insists that all of this energy is going to help community banks and local small businesses. “It’s not just us who are working on the bill,” notes Promontory Interfinancial spokesman Phil Battey. “It is of great importance to community bankers.”

In September, National Urban League CEO Marc Morial sent a letter to the top Democrat and Republican on the Senate Banking Committee, urging both to support the Promontory legislation, arguing that the measure will help minority-owned banks access funding. The National Bankers Association, which represents banks owned by women and minorities, also argued the legislation would encourage economic growth in “economically distressed communities.”

For their troubles, Warner introduced legislation allowing banks that lose their official “well-capitalized” regulatory status to keep accepting reciprocal deposits, and easing restrictions on what interest rates they can pay. When Warner cut a deal with Republicans in the fall to loosen a slate of other rules on much bigger banks (those with up to $250 billion in assets), they included the Promontory bill in the package. With 10 Democrats and the Trump administration on board, it’s only a matter of time before the bill becomes law and Promontory’s business expands.

“This will help colleges and other nonprofits who want to invest in their communities by allowing them to keep more of their money in local community banks and credit unions,” Warner spokeswoman Rachel Cohen told HuffPost. “Smaller financial institutions are lifelines to Main Street businesses and families across rural America, which is the one and only reason Senator Warner is supporting legislation that will make it easier for them to lend while still making sure that big Wall Street banks remain subject to the Dodd-Frank regulations he helped write after the financial crisis.”

But increasing deposits at small banks ― particularly at banks with capital problems ― doesn’t do much to increase lending or investment, according to University of Georgia Law professor Mehrsa Baradaran, author of The Color Of Money: Black Banks And The Racial Wealth Gap.

“Deposits aren’t really the thing that make or break these communities,” Baradaran told HuffPost. “It’s really common to use community banks, minority owned banks, community development banks as a Trojan Horse for whatever the actual power brokers in Washington want to do.”

Moran, Moore and Emmer declined to comment. Promontory spokesman Battey told HuffPost the bill “would improve the ability of community banks to offer reciprocal deposits and thus to fund community-based local lending,” which is why it “has received broad bipartisan support and endorsements from community bankers and organizations across America.”

Battey added: “It would be a serious error of fact to say that Promontory Interfinancial Network is about to receive any sort of ‘windfall’ from the reciprocal deposits legislation.” He acknowledged the bill would bring more business Promontory’s way.Apologizing to people President Donald Trump has offended isn’t as easy as it may sound.

Just ask the four “Full Frontal with Samantha Bee” correspondents who attempted to do exactly that over a two-week period.

Ashley Nicole Black, Allana Harkin, Amy Hoggart and Mike Rubens have spent 14 days attempting to say sorry “for every garbage thing” Trump has done during that time.

On Wednesday, they reported back on their “Apology Race” tour ― and discovered that they just couldn’t keep up with Trump. Bee revealed that they’d only managed to apologize for 11 of the 61 “shitty things” that Trump had done.

As Hankin quipped, it was an “impossible mission.”

Check out the first part of the race above, and its conclusion below:Michigan State University President Lou Anna Simon, who presided during a massive sexual assault scandal, stepped down late Wednesday after a former employee, the disgraced physician Larry Nassar, was handed a sentence of up to 175 years imprisonment for molesting upwards of 160 young women and girls.

But more people may answer for MSU’s poor handling of Nassar’s case, as the school faces intense criticism and questions about its response to sexual harassment and assault complaints.

As dozens of young women stood up in court this month and blamed MSU for failing to take action against their abuser, The Detroit Free Press raised questions over what Simon knew, and what she chose to do with that information.

Past investigations have suggested a pattern of handling similar situations poorly.

Prompted by complaints, the U.S. Department of Education examined approximately 150 accusations of sexual harassment, sexual assault and sexual violence at MSU that were filed from 2011 to 2014. The department’s Office for Civil Rights is responsible for enforcing Title IX, the gender equality law covering educational institutions that receive federal funds.

The DOE review found “significant concerns” in 30 cases. Researchers uncovered a number of problems, including a sluggish response to complaints, sloppy documentation, and some cases where the school failed to take proper action.

A DOE report said a potentially “sexually hostile environment” existed “for numerous students and staff.” In the report’s “most troubling example,” MSU initially took no action against a counselor who allegedly sexually harassed students who sought help after experiencing sexual assault. It took multiple complaints to prompt a response, even while staff had noticed the counselor’s “inappropriate behavior” in the past, according to the report.

That was one of “a few instances” where MSU “failed to take sufficient action” against people accused of sexual misconduct who were “then accused of the behavior again,” the DOE said.

Following the report, MSU agreed to implement a number of changes in its handling of sexual misconduct. Those included outreach efforts to encourage staff and students to report incidents to a designated Title IX coordinator, who would also start regularly meeting with representatives from the student body and university faculty.

Shortly afterward, a Sexual Violence Advisory Committee was established and began issuing recommendations to the coordinator, Jessica Norris. The university also revised “dozens of policies” and “more than doubled” its Title IX staff after the DOE report, according to The Lansing State Journal.

Norris did not respond to HuffPost’s requests for comment. Neither did an attorney for MSU or the university’s public affairs department.

Nassar, who was the subject of multiple complaints, was fired in September 2016 ― almost one year after the report’s release ― when the Indianapolis Star broke the story on his behavior. Nassar was employed by MSU and USA Gymnastics as a team doctor and assaulted patients over several decades.

According to the State Journal, MSU’s Title IX investigator, Kristine Moore, allowed Nassar to choose at least one of the medical experts she consulted after a patient complained about his treatment methods in 2014.

A page on MSU’s website about the school’s “history of commitment” to preventing sexual harassment and assault does not include the 2015 DOE investigation. Another “commitment” page boasts a two-part external review conducted by the Missouri-based law firm Husch Blackwell. While the second part has yet to be published, the first part stated the university was doing a good job to create a safe campus environment.

“We acknowledge that there continues to be significant media attention around MSU’s Title IX efforts that may suggest its policies and procedures are out of compliance,” the report reads. “We disagree with this conclusion.”

The first part of the Husch Blackwell review was published in November 2017, the same month Nassar pleaded guilty to 10 counts of first-degree criminal sexual conduct.

Earlier in 2017, the university commissioned another independent report to analyze two separate incidents of sexual abuse, both involving MSU football players. Jones Day, a Cleveland-based law firm, conducted an investigation and concluded that head coach Mark Dantonio and his staff followed university procedure.

As the number of women speaking out against Nassar in court ticked well into triple digits on Monday, MSU trustee Joel Ferguson made a comment on a Michigan radio station that some took to illustrate school officials’ attitude toward sexual abuse at the school. Ferguson said he didn’t believe Simon should resign as MSU’s president because “there’s so many more things going on at the university then this Nassar thing.”The White House could have fired the aide who said that the opinion of Sen. John McCain (R-Ariz.) is meaningless because he’s “dying anyway.” Instead, press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders reportedly dressed down the White House communications team for leaking the remark to the press.

Then at least five White House staffers promptly leaked Sanders’ scolding to the media.

That likely came as no surprise to Sanders: “I am sure this conversation is going to leak, too. And that’s just disgusting,” a furious Sanders said, according to one of five people at the meeting who spoke with Axios. White House officials also leaked details of the meeting to ABC News.

The mess started Thursday at a communications team meeting when aide Kelly Sadler reportedly mocked McCain, who has brain cancer. Referring to McCain’s opposition to the nomination of Gina Haspel as CIA chief, Sadler reportedly said, “It doesn’t matter. He’s dying anyway.”

The comment was first reported by The Hill.

White House sources reportedly dismissed Sadler’s comment as a “joke,” and there has been no public mention of firing her. At Sanders’ briefing Friday, the press secretary refused to confirm or deny a “leak ... out of an internal meeting.”

A WH official confirms WH aide Kelly Sadler mocked John McCain’s cancer diagnosis saying “he’s dying anyway” in response to his opposition to Haspel nomination. The “joke... fell flat” the official said. — Jim Acosta (@Acosta) May 10, 2018SAN FRANCISCO ― An emotionally charged San Francisco Board of Supervisors meeting on Tuesday night ended with the naming of the city’s third, albeit interim, mayor in six weeks and set the stage for a chaotic election for a permanent leader in June.

By a contentious 6-3 vote, the board elected Supervisor Mark Farrell to serve as interim mayor for the next five months, following Mayor Ed Lee’s sudden death in December. The decision came after a 5-4 vote not to name board President London Breed, who had also been serving as acting mayor since Lee’s death, to the interim role. (Neither Farrell nor Breed voted.)

Breed announced her campaign for the June mayoral election earlier this month.

The optics of Tuesday’s decision were not good: Breed, who grew up in public housing in the city district she now represents, was serving as San Francisco’s first black female mayor. Farrell is a white male venture capitalist who represented one of the wealthiest enclaves in the city until Tuesday’s vote.

The progressive supervisors who led the charge against Breed, who is considered a moderate in left-leaning San Francisco, argued that naming her to the interim slot would give her an unfair advantage in the upcoming election and that the city needed a “caretaker mayor” who wasn’t gunning for the permanent job.

“The power of incumbency provides such an unfair advantage that I believe we must take this election out of the hands of the Board of Supervisors and allow San Franciscans to choose the next Mayor on a level playing field,” Supervisor Sandra Lee Fewer said in a statement after the vote.

Supervisor Aaron Peskin raised the issue that if Breed served as both mayor and president of the board, she would be the sole person in charge of filling several other vacant city government jobs.

Supervisor London Breed looks on during a memorial for the late Mayor Ed Lee. Justin Sullivan via Getty Images

They had good reason to think Breed might easily win the election from the mayor’s office. Lee, too, first served as interim mayor in 2011 when Mayor Gavin Newsom left mid-term to serve as California’s lieutenant governor. Although he had been the city’s less public-facing chief administrative officer until then and he promised not to run for mayor later that year, Lee campaigned and won.

Lee had aspirations of revitalizing the city’s most blighted areas. But critics said he gave too many financial breaks to Bay Area tech companies whose early 2000s’ influx of high-paid workers helped drive up housing prices and displace the city’s diverse residents.

With that housing crisis still in full swing, they said, the stakes were too high to give any candidate the advantage of the interim mayor role without challenging that person on affordability issues.

“I haven’t endorsed because I’ve yet to hear any of the mayoral candidates answer the questions that matter to the people of my district,” Supervisor Hillary Ronen, who voted for Farrell, said during the meeting. “How are you going to make housing affordable again? Where are the economic opportunities outside of the tech industry? How are you going to help keep teachers stable in our public schools? What are you going to do to solve the homeless crisis?”

Giving one candidate the boost of the mayoral post would be an “unethical silencing of the voters of San Francisco,” Ronen said.

But members of San Francisco’s black community, many of whom filled City Hall on Tuesday night to speak in support of Breed, said they’ve already been silenced for a long time.

“For the first time, I’ve seen somebody ... that actually looks like me and actually has my experience” sitting in the mayor’s office, said Angelique Mahan, a black native San Franciscan, during the public comment period.

Another black advocate for Breed, who did not give her name while speaking, suggested that the decision to replace Breed with Farrell was tinged with prejudice.

“Send a message to the world and to the national administration that we here in San Francisco will not allow racism and sexism to rear its ugly head, that although African-Americans make up less than 13 percent of the city population, although the school system is failing our African American children here in San Francisco ... and although African-Americans have been disproportionately displaced in this city, we deserve a leader like London,” she said.

Several people noted that the board had not removed Lee as incumbent mayor when he announced he was running for the permanent position.

Speaking to reporters after the vote, Breed declined to address the concerns of many of her supporters that racism played a role in her loss.

“I don’t want to dwell on that particular element because it has sadly brought out the worst in some people,” she said. “And so what I am trying to do as a leader in this city is bring out the best in people.”

The tense evening had at least one legislator second-guessing her vote. After an initial 7-2 count in favor of Farrell, Supervisor Katy Tang switched her vote to Breed.

AdvertisementElton John announced on Wednesday that he’s quitting the road after a massive farewell tour that’ll span some 300 shows across three years.

But he’s not planning to stop recording music.

“I definitely want to make a couple more albums,” the pop star said.

In the clip above, circa 1970 or 1971, watch as John explains how he comes up with his music, in this case using the lyrics of “Tiny Dancer” written by his longtime collaborator Bernie Taupin.

John is also known for working quickly ― so quickly that he once cooked up music to an oven manual on the spot:

He pulled off a similar feat on “Inside the Actors’ Studio,” turning part of Henrik Ibsen’s play “Peer Gynt” into a song:

AdvertisementThe office of Kansas Secretary of State Kris Kobach (R) posted forms online containing the last four digits of thousands of state employees and they were easily accessible to members of the public, Gizmodo reported on Thursday.

Kansas law requires candidates, lawmakers and state employees to submit a statement of substantial interest form to Kobach’s office, which includes information about assets and business interests. The form contains an optional field for people to disclose the last four digits of their Social Security numbers in order to avoid confusion with other state employees. Gizmodo reviewed the forms for 165 people in order to get a sense of the thousands of forms posted online and found the vast majority contained a Social Security number. Anyone could make a username and login to access to site, Gizmodo reported, but it was also possible to search the site without those credentials.

State law requires Kobach’s office to make the forms available to the public, but Kobach’s office had gone a step further and posted the forms for thousands of officials, including himself, online. After Thursday’s Gizmodo report, Kobach’s office removed the forms from the state website, but said they would continue to make them available to people who requested them in person.

The easy accessibility of the partial Social Security numbers is notable because Kobach has come under fire for his handling of sensitive personal information. As the vice chairman of the now-defunct Presidential Advisory Commission on Election Integrity, Kobach requested information on voters from all 50 states, including, if publicly available, the last four digits of their Social Security number. Several states refused to comply with the request ― some said they couldn’t by law ― and several groups sued the commission, alleging it wasn’t taking adequate steps to protect the privacy of Americans. Security experts warned that an attempt to create a single database containing voter information on millions of Americans was creating a “treasure trove” for hackers.

Kobach also runs Interstate Crosscheck, a system more than two dozen states use to verify people who may be on voting rolls in more than one place. Gizmodo has discovered security holes in the program and Florida recently accidentally provided the last four digits of Social Security numbers of 945 Kansas voters as part of a public records request into Crosscheck.

Samantha Poetter, a Kobach spokeswoman, said in a statement that Kobach was required to disclose the information in the statements of substantial interest to the public.

“The Kansas Governmental Ethics Commission has the authority over what information is requested and what is made public. The Kansas Secretary of State’s office is required by statute to make the information requested by the Ethic’s [sic] Commission publicly available,” she said in the statement. “Kansas Secretary of State Kris Kobach does not believe that the last four of a person’s social security number should be part of this publicly available information. However currently Kansas law requires the entire SSI (sic) to be released. Secretary Kobach has taken all statements off of the office website. The statements are still available for someone to request in person pursuant to Kansas statute.”

Mark Skoglund, the executive director of the Kansas Ethics Commission, said the panel would discuss changes to the form on Wednesday in response to the Gizmodo story and whether the partial social security numbers could be redacted. The commission’s “informal interpretation” was that the social security numbers could be blocked out.California Gov. Jerry Brown (D) in December 2017. Justin Sullivan via Getty Images

Delivering his final State of the State address on Thursday, California Gov. Jerry Brown (D) touted the state’s bipartisan commitment to working on issues that continue to divide lawmakers in Washington.

“Some American governments actually can get stuff done, even in the face of deepening party divisions,” the fourth-term governor said at the state Capitol in Sacramento, citing state lawmakers’ renewal of California’s landmark cap-and-trade program in July as an example.

The greenhouse gas-fighting legislation gained the support of eight Republicans ― an achievement former California Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger (R) said he could have only dreamed of when he signed the original program into place in 2006.

Brown, who first first assumed the governorship in 1975 and whose current term ends this year, hasn’t strayed far from the issues he said his administration would focus on, chief among them advancing California’s commitment to renewable energy.

President Donald Trump, who’s questioned the existence of man-made climate change, has given Brown a chance to show just how committed he is to keeping California on track with those goals, in spite of the president’s decision to pull the U.S. out of the Paris agreement on combating climate change.

Jerry Brown attends meetings during the Clean Energy Ministerial International forum in Beijing on June 6, 2017. WANG ZHAO via Getty Images

“Despite what is widely believed by some of the most powerful people in Washington, the science of climate change is not in doubt,” Brown said.

He later added: “All nations agree except one, and that is solely because of one man: our current president.”

Brown has volunteered himself as an unofficial ambassador abroad on climate change issues and was one of the first three governors to join the U.S. Climate Alliance, a coalition of states committed to the goals laid out in Paris. It has since grown to comprise 16 governors.

Late last year, Brown announced that California and the European Union would consider creating a common carbon market to cut greenhouse gas emissions. And later this year, Brown will host a global climate summit in San Francisco where he hopes to hammer out carbon emissions agreements between international leaders and U.S. states.

While he has emerged as an international leader on the issue, local environmental activists continue to clash with Brown on his decision not to entirely ban hydraulic fracking and for provisions in the cap-and-trade bill they say are too friendly to the oil industry.

Speaking Thursday, Brown also reaffirmed his belief that California must continue moving forward with its high speed rail plans, despite some legal challenges and mounting criticism of the rising cost.The NAACP is suing the Trump administration, accusing Homeland Security of discriminating against Haiti’s mostly black nationals in violation of the Constitution’s equal protection guarantee.

The lawsuit, filed Wednesday in U.S. District Court in Maryland, seeks to overturn the Department of Homeland Security’s November decision to cancel Temporary Protected Status for Haitians next year. TPS protects undocumented immigrants from deportation and allows them to work here legally because conditions in their home country are too dire to send them back.

The lawsuit, like other court challenges against Trump immigration policies, uses President Donald Trump’s own reported words against him, including recent comments to senators during an immigration negotiation deriding Haiti, El Salvador and some African nations as “shithole countries.” At the same meeting, Trump reportedly asked: “Why do we need more Haitians?”

Haitian immigrants mark Martin Luther King Day by attending a rally to protest against President Donald Trump's immigration policies on Jan. 15, 2018 in Times Square, New York City. Andrew Lichtenstein via Getty Images

The complaint, filed by one of the country’s most prestigious civil rights groups, also cites a December New York Times report that Trump said Haitians “all have AIDS.”

“In stark contrast, the President stated that immigrants from countries ‘like Norway’ were more desirable and should be admitted,” the complaint says. It adds: “President Trump has made clear that he wishes to reduce the number of immigrants of color to the United States.”

Haiti was granted TPS in 2010 after an earthquake that left hundreds of thousands of people dead and devastated the country’s already weak infrastructure. More than 1 million Haitians were left homeless in the immediate aftermath.

But DHS Acting Secretary Elaine Duke announced the cancellation of TPS for roughly 60,000 Haitians on Nov. 20, writing in a press statement that that a department review found “those extraordinary but temporary conditions caused by the 2010 earthquake no longer exist.”

“With this administration, you have to be skeptical of every decision they make ― especially decisions affecting people of color,” Raymond Audain, lead counsel for the NAACP Legal Defense and Educational Fund, which filed the lawsuit on behalf of the NAACP, told HuffPost. Audain, himself Haitian-American, called Trump’s reported comments “appalling.”

The lawsuit alleges Homeland Security violated the Fifth Amendment’s equal protection and due process guarantees, and departed from its normal procedure in reviewing Haiti’s inclusion in the TPS program.

Then-Homeland Security Secretary John Kelly asked his staff to review the criminal histories of thousands of Haitians with TPS ahead of the decision to boot them from the program, the lawsuit says. The NAACP’s membership includes Haitians who hold TPS.

“The Administration’s efforts to gather this data on Haitian TPS recipients trades on false anti-Black stereotypes about criminality and exploitation of public benefits, and suggests the effort to manufacture a public safety rationale for the planned rescission,” the lawsuit says.

While previous decisions to extend TPS for Haitians had been published in the Federal Register within days of their announcement, it took DHS two months to publish its rationale for the cancellation. Duke’s decision didn’t acknowledge ongoing problems that had led previous administrations to extend TPS for Haiti, including gender-based violence or lingering damage from Hurricane Matthew.

Kelly cited both issues in May, when he extended TPS for six months.

“Instead, DHS’s true motive for terminating TPS for Haitians reflects racial discrimination,” the lawsuit says.

The complaint also cites Trump’s negative comments about Mexicans, Central Americans, U.S. Hispanics, Africans and Arabs.

DHS did not immediately respond to a request for comment about the lawsuit.

Some of Trump’s harshest immigration policies have been halted or delayed by federal judges. The administration faces lawsuits challenging his restrictions on visitors from some Muslim-majority countries, and his abrupt decision to end Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals, or DACA ― the program that provides deportation relief and work authorization to undocumented immigrants who arrived as children.

Those lawsuits, like the one filed Wednesday, typically accuse Trump of discrimination. While the White House has vast power under U.S. law to change immigration policy, those changes could be invalidated if courts find the actions intend to discriminate on the basis of race, nationality or religion.The Detroit Free Press on Thursday dedicated its entire front page to honoring the 155 “courageous” women who have accused the now-disgraced Dr. Larry Nassar of sexually abusing them over the last two decades.

“These women bravely came forward with their heartbreaking statements making sure no one would forget what the monstrous doctor who worked at Michigan State University and for USA Gymnastics did to them,” read a short piece of text on the page.

Nassar, a former USA Gymnastics and Michigan State University team doctor, was sentenced on Wednesday to 40 years to 175 years in prison for molesting young girls under the guise of medical treatment. He is currently also serving 60 years on child pornography charges and awaits sentencing on three more counts of criminal sexual conduct in the first degree.

The Free Press on Wednesday also tweeted out the names of all the women who read impact statements during Nassar’s week-long sentencing in Lansing, Michigan. The publication used big, bold letters to thank them for their bravery.

To the brave survivors who came forward against Larry Nassar. pic.twitter.com/B2HKe2spxy — Detroit Free Press (@freep) January 24, 2018

A total of 169 survivors and family members read emotional victim impact statements in the courtroom. Their riveting statements forced the entire country to finally start listening to their stories of abuse.

“You took complete advantage of my innocence. Your kindness was simply a ploy to molest me every chance you got,” former national gymnastics champion Mattie Larson said in her statement. “I can’t even put into words how much I fucking hate you.”

Former gymnast Jeanette Antolin faced Nassar in court as she said, “Those little girls that you took advantage of so easily have now come back to haunt you, all the days of your life.”

Judge Rosemarie Aquilina, who presided over the sentencing, thanked each young woman for her powerful impact statement.Stephen Colbert thinks Emmanuel Macron has an ulterior motive in urging President Donald Trump to attend the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland.

On Wednesday’s broadcast of “The Late Show,” Colbert dissected reports that the French president gave his U.S. counterpart a “friendly nudge” about attending the conference this week.

“Macron is clearly just trying to embarrass Trump here, right?” asked Colbert.Half the survey's respondents said did not know the meaning of the term “LGBT.” CHAIDEER MAHYUDDIN via Getty Images

JAKARTA (Reuters) - Nearly 90 percent of Indonesians who understand the term LGBT feel “threatened” by the community and believe their religion forbids same-sex relations, a survey showed on Thursday.

Homosexuality is not regulated by law in Indonesia, except in Aceh province where Islamic law bans same-sex relations. But the world’s largest Muslim-majority nation has seen a rise in hostility toward the lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender community, with activists saying their rights are not being adequately protected by the state.

“The survey finds that, generally, the Indonesian public views the LGBT (community) negatively,” the Saiful Mujani Research Centre said on its website.

“But the public is also of the view that the LGBT community has the right to live in Indonesia and that the government should protect them like other citizens.”

There are sizeable minorities of Christians, Hindus, and those who adhere to native beliefs among Indonesia’s 250 million people.

Indonesian police have over the last few years stepped up raids targeting “spas” or what they call “gay sex parties” and charged many of those involved with violating strict pornography laws.

This has raised alarm bells among rights activists who say the law is being used to unfairly target LGBT individuals. More than 300 people were arrested in 2017 for alleged LGBT-behaviour, according to Human Rights Watch.

“The police should stop criminalizing LGBT individuals and... instead protect them principally in their private spaces from harassment and intimidation,” said Andreas Harsono of Human Rights Watch.

The Constitutional Court last month struck down a petition by a conservative group to ban all consensual extramarital sex including same-sex relations. But the group intends to lobby parliament as politicians deliberate revisions to the criminal code.

The pollster surveyed a total of 1,220 people of various religious backgrounds across Indonesia between March 2016 and December 2017 and found that 87 percent of them considered the LGBT community a “threat to private or public life”.

A similar proportion of people in the survey disagreed that an LGBT individual should be able to hold a leading public office, and said that they believed their religion prohibited LGBT activity.

The survey also found that around half the respondents did not know the meaning of the term “LGBT,” which was used in all survey questions. The results were based on those who did.

Half of those who were aware of the term said the government should protect the LGBT community. A Pew Research Center survey found in 2013 that around 93 percent of Indonesians believed society should not accept homosexuality.Piers Morgan is set to interview President Donald Trump at the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland, on Thursday.

But people online are already wondering whether the British media personality will be able to ask tough questions of the man he calls his “good friend.”

Or whether he’ll go all Jimmy Fallon?

*BREAKING NEWS*

I will sit down today in Davos with @realDonaldTrump for his 1st International TV interview since becoming President.

It will air exclusively on ITV, this Sunday night at 10pm. pic.twitter.com/GbOpzQfGJ4 — Piers Morgan (@piersmorgan) January 25, 2018

Morgan revealed the arrangement for Trump’s first international television interview since taking office via Twitter. Responses fell along the lines of this:

That Piers v Trump interview in full: "So Donald, how great are you?" "I'm the best, the greatest. You're pretty good too." "Thanks Donald, I am great aren't I?" "You're not as great as me." — fleetstreetfox (@fleetstreetfox) January 25, 2018

Piers Morgan, trying to steal Jimmy Fallon's "let's normalise the white supremacist bigot" crown by giving Trump a cosy PR opportunity. — Enough of That v2.018 (@AndyGilder) January 25, 2018

Piers, you spend every available opportunity supporting Trump, a man accused of sexual assault by 16 women and rape of a 13 year old. You’re just as bad. — Emma Kennedy (@EmmaKennedy) January 22, 2018

I think Piers Morgan and Donald Trump have a lot in common and will enjoy each other’s company. — Chris Hayes (@chrislhayes) January 25, 2018

Congratulations, Tubs. Great scoop. Will it also be the 1st international TV interview from inside the bowels of a US President? https://t.co/tyV8sHYbGL — Gary Lineker (@GaryLineker) January 25, 2018

Can't watch Piers Morgan interview Trump? Simply go to any pub and watch two drunk old men congratulate each other for being complete bastards to get the exact same experience. — TechnicallyRon (@TechnicallyRon) January 25, 2018

I wonder how much pushing and probing gossip columnist Piers Morgan will give Donald Trump. Very little, or not very much at all? 🤔 — Dave Jones 🏴󠁧󠁢󠁷󠁬󠁳󠁿🏳️‍🌈 (@WelshGasDoc) January 25, 2018

"Piers interviewed me great guy, great guy. Kissed my hand. Best interview ever, better ratings than the new sloppy production Apprentice. Sad!" — General Catton de Wiart (@CdWiart) January 25, 2018

Exclusive first look at Piers Morgan's interview with President Trump pic.twitter.com/IkbfZLBhxZ — Mark Grainger (@MarkGrainger) January 25, 2018

gonna sit down with a bowl of tide pods and enjoy this https://t.co/3IxpjIMeoz — Mollie Goodfellow (@hansmollman) January 25, 2018

pic.twitter.com/7Co55fjYr4 — l d l d n (@LDLDN) January 25, 2018

Morgan struck up a friendship with Trump after winning “The Celebrity Apprentice” in 2008. His Twitter account is only one of 45 that Trump follows.

Last year, Morgan said this of the president: “I genuinely like him.”

Following their 2016 interview in which Trump attacked London Mayor Sadiq Khan, Morgan defended his “friend.” He also congratulated Trump for his “astonishing” presidential election victory:

Congratulations to my friend @realDonaldTrump - an astonishing achievement. #President — Piers Morgan (@piersmorgan) November 9, 2016

Morgan has criticized Trump in the past, too.

He once described Trump as “President Paranoid Snowflake” in his column for The Daily Mail newspaper, and blasted the president for sharing anti-Muslim videos from a far-right group on Twitter.

Morgan’s interview with Trump in Davos will air on the United Kingdom’s ITV channel on Sunday night.Welcome. Ginnette Riquelme / Reuters

Tom Cruise’s next mission might be his most impossible yet: surviving Instagram.

Probably to his own benefit, the movie star is fairly inactive on social media ― he has a sparsely used Twitter account. But in preparation for the next installment in the “Mission Impossible” franchise, Cruise launched an Instagram account on Thursday, where he can scroll through his ex’s page, waste endless hours and become fluent in memes like the rest of us.

He has yet to follow anyone yet, but has already amassed more than 500,000 of his own in a matter of hours.

“Actor. Producer. Running in movies since 1981,” his bio reads.

A post shared by Tom Cruise (@tomcruise) on Jan 25, 2018 at 5:00am PST

Cruise took the opportunity to reveal the title of the new sequel, “Mission Impossible: Fallout,” as well as share a photo of himself performing a stunt from the movie, i.e., a causal helicopter ride.

“We’ve upped the ante for the sixth #MissionImpossible. I can’t wait for you guys to see more,” he wrote.

A post shared by Tom Cruise (@tomcruise) on Jan 25, 2018 at 5:03am PST

The next “Mission Impossible, which hits theaters this summer, has reportedly been a difficult one to film. Cruise was injured during a roof-jumping stunt in London in August, which resulted in a production shut-down.The new president of the National Rifle Association, Oliver North, compared advocates of gun control to civil terrorists in an interview last week. The father of a 14-year-old girl killed in the Parkland, Florida, school shooting in February has offered a powerful rebuttal.

“We’re not criminal civil terrorists,” Fred Guttenberg told Newsweek in response to North’s remarks. “We’re people with a broken heart.”

“The NRA and people like Oliver North, to them, it’s a job,” Guttenberg said as he discussed the gun control debate spurred by the shooting. “They could retire and go on with their life. I can’t, because my daughter isn’t here.”

Guttenberg’s daughter, Jaime, was among the 17 people killed in the February massacre.

North, named the NRA’s new president last Monday, told the conservative newspaper The Washington Times that the gun group had become the victim of “civil terrorism.”

Advocates for stricter gun control had launched a “cyberwar” against the NRA, he said, and threatened the group’s members. He gave the example of a protester charged with a misdemeanor after she sprayed fake blood on the home of an NRA lobbyist.

“They call them activists. That’s what they’re calling themselves. They’re not activists — this is civil terrorism. This is the kind of thing that’s never been seen against a civil rights organization in America,” North told the Times. “You go back to the terrible days of Jim Crow and those kinds of things — even there you didn’t have this kind of thing. We didn’t have the cyberwar kind of thing that we’ve got today.”

North ― a retired lieutenant colonel known for his role in the Iran-Contra scandal of the 1980s ― added that he did not believe that the shooting at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland in which 17 people died had “fundamentally changed” the national gun debate. And he said the young survivors of the shooting, some of whom have emerged as leaders of the recent national movement against gun violence, had been “swept up by a broader propaganda machine.”

“What they did very successfully with a frontal assault, and now intimidation and harassment and lawbreaking, is they confused the American people,” he said of the activists.

North has been widely criticized for his comments. Stoneman Douglas students Lauren Hoggs and Cameron Kasky used Twitter posts to lambast North and the NRA.

Never knew that not wanting to die by being shot by an AR-15 in my classroom was considered terrorism.

Thanks @NRA now I know. https://t.co/BdDIB2tt4a — Lauren Hogg (@lauren_hoggs) May 11, 2018

Go ahead, North.



It speaks so beautifully for the NRA’s true colors that they put this crook in charge. https://t.co/JWoDyeuIO8 — Cameron Kasky (@cameron_kasky) May 11, 2018

Guttenberg also posted on the social media platform to challenge the NRA president.

“My daughter was murdered by an AR 15 … so I do not care what you think of me,” Guttenberg said in a series of messages.

Oliver Noth, my daughter was murdered by an AR 15 in school and nothing changes that, and so I do not care what you think of me.https://t.co/nGIV8e55CH — Fred Guttenberg (@fred_guttenberg) May 11, 2018

Throughout this process I have refused to personally attack anyone. However, your ridiculous, hateful, shameful, cruel, stupid, pathetic remark has certainly tested me. So that we are clear, the other Parkland gun crime victims and I are not civil terrorists. We are a determined — Fred Guttenberg (@fred_guttenberg) May 11, 2018

group. We will end your reign of terror and we will pass common sense gun safety in this country. Your remarks sound like the remarks of a lobby that has already lost the argument and so you attack us. — Fred Guttenberg (@fred_guttenberg) May 11, 2018Bloomberg via Getty Images

When President Barack Obama reluctantly nominated Janet Yellen to the most powerful economic post on the planet in October 2013, Republican Party leaders, backed by much of the economics establishment, warned of looming economic ruin. As Federal Reserve chair, Yellen would lead the country into a hyperinflation calamity on par with Weimar Germany or, at least, a return to the misery and malaise of the Jimmy Carter years.

Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.) said he had “serious concerns” about Yellen’s interest in “maintaining the purchasing power of the dollar.” Sen. John Cornyn (R-Texas) declared Yellen “thought that the best way to handle to our nation’s fiscal challenges is to throw more money at them.” Sen. Richard Shelby (R-Ala.) envisioned “massive price increases on every single product that Americans buy.” Sen. Chuck Grassley (R-Iowa): “For an example of what Main Street could be in store for, one need look no further than the late 1970s.” Economist Kevin Hassett, now serving in the Trump administration: “Inflation could spin out of control.”

And yet these predictions of horror (generously compiled by Sam Bell, an adviser to the progressive economic advocacy group Fed Up) never materialized. Consumer prices rose by just 1.9 percent a year during Yellen’s tenure ― and only 1.3 percent if you include fuel and food in the calculations. The overall economy, meanwhile, has grown by nearly 9 percent since Yellen took office four years ago (adjusted for that barely existent inflation), while the unemployment rate has steadily declined from 6.6 percent to 4.1 percent and the interest rate on government debt is about where it was when Yellen was confirmed. The man President Donald Trump has selected to succeed her, Jerome Powell, has stated that he plans to continue her policymaking legacy, which of course makes one wonder why, exactly, the president felt compelled to replace her.

“Republicans have spent all year trying to take credit for the condition of the economy, as if a roaring stock market and low unemployment were all happening without any central bank activity at all.”

By any conventional metric of central bank success, Yellen’s tenure at the Fed has been a smash hit. Indeed, Republicans have spent all year trying to take credit for the condition of the economy, as if a roaring stock market and low unemployment were all happening without any central bank activity at all.

And that’s the problem. Because the current economy isn’t a smash hit. It is, at best, a mess. In important respects, it is in crisis. Inequality remains at or near record highs, an ongoing disaster that can’t be captured by monetary statistics ― American life expectancy has declined for two consecutive years. Our bridges collapse, our airports black out and our trains derail ― though we have both the financial means and the technological know-how to prevent all of these debacles.

Even the reality surrounding money and prices is more complicated than the stubbornly low inflation figures suggest. Food might be fine, but the crazy price of Bitcoin ― something with literally no intrinsic value ― suggests that at least some people have too much money on their hands and not enough productive economic activities to invest in. The stock market seems disconnected from the economic world most people experience day to day. The S&P 500 has rocketed up 55 percent since Yellen took over at the Fed ― six times the rate of improvement for the overall economy. At least some of that has to be the result of irrational overvaluation resulting from Fed policy.

Yellen didn’t miss any of this. The Fed has been raising interest rates in a deliberate attempt to arrest the increase of financial asset prices and fend off any serious asset bubbles. This may well be the responsible thing for a Fed chief to do at the moment. But if so, the implications are rather grim. Because a predictable consequence of raising interest rates ― increasing the cost of credit and restricting its availability ― is higher unemployment.

Congress, working with a different set of priorities, has decided to boost stock prices by providing a massive corporate tax cut, and accompanied this with much more modest short-term tax cuts for (most) working people, hoping to keep downward pressure on unemployment.

Yellen didn’t like the tax cut and said as much. She was particularly upset over the fact that it creates bigger deficits for the federal government in the face of a significant existing debt load. “I am personally concerned about the U.S. debt situation,” Yellen said at her final press conference, warning that “as population continues to age and the baby boomers retire” government debt “will continue to rise in an unsustainable fashion. ... And I think it does suggest that in some future downturn, which could occur for whatever reason, the amount of fiscal space that could exist for fiscal policy to play an active role will be limited.”

This was an extraordinary statement. It implied that economic conditions, at present, are about as good as we can ever hope for them to be. The Fed is already aiming for higher unemployment by raising interest rates, and any deficit-financed counter-measures, by Yellen’s logic, would just create more supposedly dangerous government debt.

Yellen is surely wrong to suggest that any additional deficits today will inevitably make things worse tomorrow. With interest rates and consumer price inflation near historic lows, now would be a great time to borrow money to rebuild American infrastructure or tackle poverty head-on. It wasn’t the price tag that made the Republican tax cut a bad idea ― putting a great deal of money in the hands of people who are already playing with Bitcoin by the billions, without directly addressing other pressing needs, just isn’t very smart. It offers timid economic expansion, but only by generating still higher inequality and creating greater financial market instability.

And this is the central dilemma of Yellen’s tenure at the Fed. Everything central bankers traditionally rely on to combat economic problems are much more likely to fuel dangerous asset bubbles under conditions of severe inequality. Yellen’s quantitative easing agenda was never going to create the hyperinflationary calamity Republicans predicted ― but giving stock prices a lift, whatever its other benefits, padded the portfolios of the already wealthy. You can’t use it to fix everything.

It is not obvious what exactly Yellen was supposed to do amid the steadfast refusal of a Republican Congress ― and, at times, President Obama ― to address inequality. Ben Bernanke and Alan Greenspan can attest that other Fed chairs have performed far, far worse.