Now that’s confidence in the underdog.

The casino’s Jay Rood wouldn’t divulge the gambler’s name or the exact amount of the bet. He said the person is a repeat customer, and made a “multimillion-dollar” wager on the Eagles. ESPN noted that the amount is one of the biggest reported Vegas sports bets in recent history.

Meanwhile, sports handicapper and Pregame.com founder RJ Bell tweeted early Thursday that a gambler known as Sir Let It Ride had plunked down $3 million on the Eagles in Vegas and was looking to wager more. That may give credence to the video report above that Sir Let It Ride planned to risk a total of $10 million on the Eagles.

Sir Let It Ride won $14 million on the World Series between the victorious Houston Astros and Los Angeles Dodgers, Sports Illustrated reported previously.

Sir Let It Ride’s identity isn’t known, but he’s reportedly younger than 30 and is Eastern European. And he appears to really like the Eagles in the big game.

As of Thursday morning, the Patriots were favored to win by 4.5 points or more at many sports books.Michelle Obama took a moment Sunday to celebrate her mom, Marian Robinson, on Mother’s Day.

In a photo and message post to Twitter, Obama said it was”impossible for any photo to capture” how much her mother has meant to her. She shared an adorable throwback picture of her mom, brother Craig and herself when they were kids.

It’s impossible for any picture to truly capture what my mother, Marian, has meant to me. Happy #MothersDay to all of the moms out there, and especially to my own. pic.twitter.com/GfJdJJ8oPR — Michelle Obama (@MichelleObama) May 13, 2018

Obama has often talked about her respect and love for her mother, who she’s described as “her rock.” Robinson, who turns 81 next month, moved into the White House to live with the first family and help care for granddaughters Malia and Sasha when former President Barack Obama took office in January 2009.

The former president also shared a Mother’s Day tribute on Sunday, celebrating the “remarkable moms” in his life, his wife Michelle and mother-in-law Marian.Rosemarie Aquilina, the judge who presided over the astounding sentencing hearing of former USA Gymnastics team doctor Larry Nassar this month, has emerged as a heroine for victims of sexual assault.

Her decision to allow 156 women and girls to address their abuser in court, with their emotional testimony streamed live across the nation, created an invaluable opportunity for catharsis, and directed vital attention to what is likely the worst sex abuse scandal in U.S. sports history.

But Aquilina’s manner during sentencing, in which she said she was honored to sentence Nassar to die in prison and suggested he deserved to be sexually assaulted himself, has raised questions about whether she overstepped her role as an impartial arbiter of justice.

It is not unusual for judges to use emotional language during sentencing, or to offer their frank opinion about what a heinous person they believe the defendant to be, based on their criminal conduct. That’s not inconsistent with impartiality, so long as the judge’s opinion is drawn from the relevant facts in the case, and not extraneous factors, such as the race of a defendant.

In 2013, when Judge Michael Russo gave Ariel Castro ― who kidnapped and sexually assaulted three women ― a sentence of life without parole plus 1,000 years in prison, he told Castro his crimes were so serious that he should never live among the general public again. “You don’t deserve to be out in our community,” Russo said. “You’re too dangerous.”

Judge John Cleland, who in 2012 sentenced Penn State football coach Jerry Sandusky to 30 to 60 years in prison for sexually abusing 10 boys, said that because of Sandusky’s age, he would be in prison for the rest of his life. “You abused the trust of those who trusted you. These are not crimes against strangers, they are much worse,” Cleland said. “The crime is not only what you did to their bodies, but your assault to the safety and well-being of the community in which we all live.”

But Aquilina’s remarks were unusual in how fiercely she championed the victims over the four-day sentencing hearing, emerging more as an advocate than a dispassionate judge.

“It is my honor and privilege to sentence you, because, sir, you do not deserve to walk outside of a prison ever again,” she told Nassar on Wednesday as she sent him to prison for 40 to 175 years. “I’ve just signed your death warrant.” She also went so far as to suggest that he deserved to experience the pain of sexual abuse himself.

On the first day of the hearing, she mused about allowing “many people” to sexually assault Nassar if she were permitted to.

“Our Constitution does not allow for cruel and unusual punishment,” she said. “If it did, I have to say, I might allow what he did to all of these beautiful souls ― these young women in their childhood ― I would allow some or many people to do to him what he did to others.”

Nassar’s case comes at a unique and fraught moment, which might explain Aquilina’s vehemence and bloodthirstiness, though not necessarily excuse it. The country is in the middle of a reckoning over sexual abuse and harassment, largely committed by men and against women, with the #MeToo movement dominating headlines and public discourse.

Charles Gardner Geyh, a law professor at Indiana University’s Maurer School of Law whose work centers on judicial conduct and ethics, was sympathetic to Aquilina’s experience, but said he believes her conduct set a poor example.

“The overarching principle, which is embedded in the code of conduct of literally every state, is that a judge shall act at all times in a manner that promotes public confidence in the impartiality, integrity and independence of the judiciary,” he said.

Suggesting that it would be fitting for Nassar to be sexually victimized, if only the law allowed it, was “a step too far,” Geyh went on. “She is the representative of the government here,” he said. “From the law’s perspective, we ought to be saying no sexual assault at all.”

Not OK with me. Giving the victims an open forum was incredibly powerful use of the courtroom. Holding Nassar accountable hugely important. But blood thirsty retribution undermines image of judicial impartiality. This line is just too much. https://t.co/SDwmHXGCV0 — Emily Bazelon (@emilybazelon) January 25, 2018

Brenda Smith, a law professor at American University in Washington, D.C., and a national expert on prison rape, said Aquilina’s comments on sexual abuse were shocking.

“They are unfortunate in the least, and could be perceived as an invitation at the worst,” she said, noting that offenders who are convicted of sex crimes face higher rates of sexual abuse behind bars. According to a 2011-2012 survey by the Bureau of Justice Statistics, incarcerated sex offenders reported being sexually victimized by other inmates at higher rates than those held for other offenses.

Aquilina’s comments send a mixed message about sexual abuse, Smith said.

“She’s saying that sexual assault is wrong... except as retribution,” she said. “The reality is that nobody deserves to be victimized. Her comments suggest that in these type of cases, it would be appropriate, in some way, for people like Nassar to be victimized in custody.”

Other legal ethics experts were split about the appropriateness of Aquilina’s conduct.

Robert Schuwerk, professor emeritus at the University of Houston Law Center, said he would not recommend that judges make comments like Aquilina’s. Still, he said, her remarks appeared to be an honest reaction to listening to the heart-wrenching testimony of so many women.

“The judge was clearly deeply moved by the stories she heard,” Schuwerk said. “She was very angry at Nassar by the time she had heard all that testimony, and she expressed that anger.”

He said he did not believe her conduct raised any legal issues.

Stephen Gillers, a professor at New York University and an expert in legal ethics, agreed. Aquilina’s comments on cruel and unusual punishment were inadvisable, he said, but not unethical or a basis for a resentencing.

“It was likely the product of the overwhelming evidence of Nassar’s depravity,” he said.

Gillers noted that in 1994, the Supreme Court recognized that a judge can, “upon completion of the evidence, be exceedingly ill disposed towards the defendant, who has been shown to be a thoroughly reprehensible person.”

“While what the judge said is quite strong, it is not improper,” Gillers said. “At sentencing, judges speak the conscience of the community on behalf of the victim. They are no longer umpires, which is their role during trials.”

Jonathan Jacobs, director of the Institute for Criminal Justice Ethics at John Jay College of Criminal Justice, said he was surprised by Aquilina’s remarks on the Eighth Amendment, given her lengthy legal experience. (She was elected to the 30th Circuit Court in Ingham County, Michigan, in 2008.)

Jacobs said her comments could be construed as showing a sort of animus toward the defendant, and speculated that Nassar’s attorneys might try to use the remark to get leverage in whatever appeal they make.

Punishments should not be “driven mainly by vengeance,” Jacobs said. While it’s unrealistic to expect judges not to have feelings, they shouldn’t be simply led by them.Taylor Weyeneth, a controversial member of the Trump administration who came under scrutiny in early January over his lack of qualifications, will resign his post later this month, The Washington Post reported on Wednesday evening.

“Mr. Weyeneth has decided to depart ... at the end of the month,” the White House said in a statement obtained by the Post. He had previously been reassigned to “administrative work” after questions arose about his background.

Weyeneth, a 24-year-old former Trump campaign worker, was appointed last year to be the deputy chief of staff at the Office of National Drug Control Policy, or ONDCP, the agency tasked with coordinating federal drug-control efforts. However, as the Post originally reported, Weyeneth had nearly no previous experience after he graduated college in May 2016, aside from working for Donald Trump’s presidential campaign and transition.

Questions quickly arose about his qualifications after multiple discrepancies popped up on several of his résumés and reports surfaced that another job he held at a New York law firm in 2015 ended after Weyeneth failed to show up for work.

He appeared to rise quickly at the ONDCP due to a high level of staff turnover and numerous vacancies at the agency. During the recent government shutdown, the Post noted, Weyeneth was one of three employees at the agency that continued to work after he was listed as essential.

News of his departure comes just a week after 10 Democratic senators expressed their displeasure with Weyeneth’s appointment. In a letter sent to the White House, the group accused Trump of failing to fill key roles at the ONDCP and the Drug Enforcement Agency and falling behind on promises to tackle the opioid epidemic.Let's hope Chrissy Teigen is relieved now. Axelle/Bauer-Griffin via Getty Images

Someone sound the alarm because supermodel, TV host and professional Twitter personality Chrissy Teigen is missing her toilet.

The 32-year-old, who is currently expecting her second child with husband John Legend, tweeted the strange tale on Thursday.

I got home today and ran to go peepee and you know when you’re so close to the bathroom so you kind of release because you know you’re about to pee, well I did that and my toilet was gone. — christine teigen (@chrissyteigen) January 25, 2018

Just in case you’re one of those people who need photographic proof, Teigen provided a picture of her bathroom.

“Like there was no toilet,” she tweeted.

like there was no toilet pic.twitter.com/CIn3Vdy1P9 — christine teigen (@chrissyteigen) January 25, 2018

Questlove even got involved in the case and tweeted, “Where’s @chrissyteigen’s toilet?” The supermodel quickly enlisted his services.

Chrissy Teigen

Despite the astonishing lack of clues or clarity, some Twitter users felt perhaps her husband had something to do with this.

John took your john? — Violet Greenswallow (@vgreenswallow) January 25, 2018

Legend might not have taken the toilet, but he did know why it was gone.

John Legend

And explain he did.

We’re upgrading our regular toilet to one of those fancy Japanese ones that opens itself and washes your butt. Apparently our contractor decided there should be a toilet-less transition period. — John Legend (@johnlegend) January 25, 2018Justina Machado attends Netflix's "One Day At A Time" season two event in Los Angeles, Jan. 24, 2018. Presley Ann/Patrick McMullan via Getty Images

“One Day At A Time” has not shied away from discussing the stigma around depression among Latinos, and actress Justina Machado recently spoke about the importance of addressing mental illness in the community.

Machado portrays military veteran and single mother Penelope Alvarez in the series. Her character works to support her family while coping with post-traumatic stress disorder, depression and anxiety.

The actress spoke with Variety about the importance of the Netflix show tackling mental illness during a screening of its new season on Thursday.

“Old school Latinos don’t really believe in depression,” Machado told Variety. “You work through it.” But she said she hopes her character’s journey will help change that attitude. “You don’t need a high power job to have anxiety. Sometimes you just have anxiety so it’s important to talk about those things.”

The stigma around mental illness affects hundreds of people within the Latino community. In 2014, 10.3 Hispanic men out of every 100,000 died by suicide, according to the National Institute of Mental Health. That figure has remained consistent going back to 1999. What’s more, according to a 2016 study in the International Journal of Health Services, only 2.3 percent of black or Hispanic young people saw a mental health specialist in a given year between 2006 and 2012, compared to 5.7 percent of white children and young adults.

Last season, Machado’s character struggled to take medication and seek help for her anxiety ― and she was particularly hesitant to open up to her mother and her kids.

Netflix dropped the trailer for the new season earlier this month, giving fans a taste of what’s to come when the series returns Friday. The two-minute teaser touches on Penelope’s battle with anxiety and depression, an LGBTQ love story arc for her daughter Elena, and her son Alex’s experiences with xenophobia.And the winner for most gracious response to an Oscar snub is ... Gal Gadot.

The “Wonder Woman” actress told “Entertainment Tonight” on Wednesday that she isn’t heroically ticked over the superhero hit being ignored in the Academy Award nominations, announced earlier this week.

“I was very moved and touched by the feedback of all the people that were disappointed that ‘Wonder Woman’ wasn’t nominated,” she said. “But we certainly never did the movie for that.”

Chances had leaned toward director Patty Jenkins perhaps getting a nod after the film’s critical and box office success. Or one of the technical categories.

But nope.

“I think that you can’t have it all,” Gadot added at the Revlon event in New York. “We’ve done this movie and it was received in such an amazing, wonderful way, and we want to stay humble and grateful, and we’re going to have another movie, so who knows? Maybe the next one!”

Perhaps an even better sequel can be the best revenge.Jessica Chastain and Octavia Spencer just took a giant step together in the fight for pay equity in Hollywood.

The Oscar-winning Spencer said Wednesday that Chastain insisted her former co-star from “The Help” get the same pay as her for an upcoming holiday comedy ― and she negotiated a raise for both that was much more than what they had originally sought.

“I love that woman,” an emotional Spencer said during the Hollywood Foreign Press Association’s Women Breaking Barriers panel at the Sundance Film Festival. (See the clip below.)

When Chastain approached her about doing another film together, Spencer said she told Chastain how black women were getting shortchanged in salary compared with white actresses. Chastain, who has become a prominent advocate for equality in the entertainment industry, took action.

“She’s walking the walk and she’s actually talking the talk,” Spencer said. “She said, ‘Octavia we’re gonna get you paid on this film. .... You and I are gonna be tied together. We’re gonna be favored nations, and we’re gonna make the same thing.’ ... Fast forward to last week, we’re making five times what we asked for.”If director Luca Guadagnino has his way, a “Call Me by Your Name” sequel ― actually, several ― could be on the way.

Guadagnino, who helmed the Oscar-nominated drama, says he hopes to expand the love story of Elio (Timothée Chalamet) and Oliver (Armie Hammer) into a “Before Sunrise”-like series that follows the characters over the years.

But purists needn’t fret: the director told The Hollywood Reporter that he plans to return to André Aciman’s 2007 novel to pick up exactly where the first film left off.

“The novel has 40 pages at the end that goes through the next 20 years of the lives of Elio and Oliver, so there is some sort of indication through the intention of author André Aciman that the story can continue,” Guadagnino said. “In my opinion, ‘Call Me’ can be the first chapter of the chronicles of the life of these people that we met in this movie, and if the first one is a story of coming-of-age and becoming a young man, maybe the next chapter will be, what is the position of the young man in the world, what does he want — and what is left a few years later of such an emotional punch that made him who he is?”

“Call Me by Your Name” has earned almost unanimous praise from critics and received four Academy Award nominations, including Best Picture and Best Actor for Chalamet. Still, a number of dissenting voices have called out the film for steering clear of references to politics and homophobia, as well as omitting explicit sex.

Guadagnino seemed poised to address such criticisms, saying he’d like a sequel to tackle the HIV/AIDS epidemic of the 1980s and ’90s head on.

“I think it’s going to be a very relevant part of the story,” the director said. “I think Elio will be a cinephile, and I’d like him to be in a movie theater watching Paul Vecchiali’s ‘Once More,’” he said. (Released in 1988, the French film made history as that country’s first to address AIDS.)

For his part, Aciman supports the idea of a “Call Me By Your Name” followup, though he told New York Magazine’s Vulture blog in December, “I’ve said what I had to say.”A Republican congressman called thousands of missing FBI text messages “the greatest coincidence since the Immaculate Conception,” then struggled to explain just what he meant.

The FBI said the messages were lost due to a technical glitch.

Rep. Matt Gaetz (R-Fla.) made the comments in a Fox News interview on Wednesday. Later, however, Gaetz stammered his way through a CNN interview when Chris Cuomo asked him to clarify.

“Where is the analogy?” Cuomo asked. “That’s what I don’t understand. What do you think happened with the Immaculate Conception?”

“Look, did you really bring me on to discuss my religious views, Chris?” Gaetz replied. “I’m a Christian. I believe that the Immaculate Conception was how Jesus was born.”

It was not, in fact, how Jesus was born and Cuomo quickly took Gaetz to church on this one.

See the full exchange above.

Leaving aside the fact that the Immaculate Conception refers to Mary’s conception without original sin (not the birth of Jesus), which he clearly doesn’t know — it sounds like he’s calling the Christian faith (the Virgin Birth) a lie, right? I mean what else could that even mean? — Jerry Dunleavy (@JerryDunleavy) January 25, 2018

I really wish @ChrisCuomo had pressed @mattGaetz a bit more precisely on his assertion that the Immaculate Conception was “an amazing coincidence,” rather than on the actually fairly common misconception about whose conception that doctrine covers. https://t.co/hfvqjoxNOK — Ron Hogan (@RonHogan) January 25, 2018

Was Rep. Matt Gaetz (R) implying that the immaculate conception was a cover story for a pregnancy? https://t.co/ha01Hq9HOh — Lindsay Beyerstein (@Beyerstein) January 25, 2018On the same morning James Franco was stiffed by the Academy Awards, almost certainly over allegations of sexual misconduct, a man once accused of hitting his wife in the face with a telephone receiver was nominated for an Oscar for best actor, for which he was quickly reckoned the prohibitive favorite. If you want to believe the depth and sincerity of Hollywood’s commitment to #MeToo and #TimesUp, a question you have to ask yourself is this: Why was James Franco snubbed but not Gary Oldman?

Or, more broadly, why are some famous men experiencing career ramifications as a result of the #MeToo movement while others are not?

Franco, who won best actor awards at both the Golden Globes and Critics Choice Awards this month, seemed like a front-runner in this year’s Oscars race for his performance as Tommy Wiseau in “The Disaster Artist.”

But on Jan. 11, Franco’s alleged history became a part of his awards season narrative. In a report published by the Los Angeles Times, five women came forward with allegations that Franco had been a sexual tyrant while working with them as an acting teacher and mentor.

Franco has disputed these claims and others, but his Oscar snub seemed like a sign of a new age of accountability, when professional honors are withheld on the basis of allegations of misconduct.

Well, some honors. Occasionally withheld. And maybe only on the basis of certain kinds of misconduct.

Consider Gary Oldman, who was nominated for his portrayal of Winston Churchill in “Darkest Hour.” In 2001, Oldman’s then wife, Donya Fiorentino, filed papers in L.A. Superior Court alleging that Oldman had assaulted her with a telephone. Per the New York Daily News, she wrote:

As I picked up the phone to call the police, Gary put his hand on my neck and squeezed. I backed away, with the phone receiver in my hand. I tried to dial 911. Gary grabbed the phone receiver from my hand, and hit me in the face with the telephone receiver three or four times. Both of the children were crying.

Oldman denied the allegations, saying at the time that they were “replete with lies, innuendos and half-truths.” Police investigated the claims. No charges were ever filed.

Or consider Kobe Bryant, who secured an Oscar nomination for a short film called “Dear Basketball.” In 2003, Bryant was accused of raping an employee at a hotel in Edwards, Colorado. In the runup to the criminal trial, the woman, 19 years old, was made to walk the Sex Crime Accuser Stations of the Cross. The case was dropped, but the woman sued Bryant. They eventually settled out of court, and Bryant apologized to the accuser without admitting guilt.

Or consider Kirk Douglas, who earlier this month got the grand-old-lion treatment at the Golden Globes, when he introduced the nominees for best screenplay. Douglas is long rumored to have raped Natalie Wood when she was 16 years old.

How do we reconcile the approbation these men have received with the Academy turning its back on Franco? Is it simply a matter of paying your dues? Oldman and Douglas were famous long before they were accused of any sort of transgression against women. Has Franco simply not garnered enough respect or clout in the industry for us to turn a blind eye to the allegations?

Is it reputation? Is Franco’s alleged conduct held to be more offensive because of his self-branding as a sort of sexual maverick? Does Oldman, in a strange way, benefit from the expectations created by his illiberal politics, which will never put him in the position of being a hypocrite on the subject of gender?

Or is it just a question of timing? The fresher the allegations, the more likely we are to make an example of the alleged miscreant. Have men like Oldman or Johnny Depp or Casey Affleck, men who were accused of things long before #TimesUp, been “grandfathered” in, as it were? It seems reasonable to think that Oldman, had he found himself in the midst of a fresh round of allegations this awards season, might have also been snubbed.

If time were truly up, these questions would be irrelevant. It isn’t, and they’re not, and right-wing commentators want to see the asymmetries in Hollywood’s response as evidence of a disqualifying hypocrisy. But the larger folly is in thinking Hollywood could ever be anything but short-memoried, selective and situational in its moral judgments when the star-making and -breaking machinery around it — the media and the courts, among other institutions — operate in the same way.

Gary Oldman is an Oscars favorite because whatever happened in 2001 left no mark on his record, legal or otherwise. Hollywood wasn’t going to make an example of someone whose example was scarcely even known.

Kobe Bryant got an Oscar nomination because the dark parts of his past had long ago been boxed out of the public narrative about him. Hollywood wasn’t going to cut against a consensus about Kobe it had no role in creating.

There are many Francos and many Oldmans across the country. They are not all glamorous movie star actors, but they are all men who have used their power and professional reputations as currency for getting away with “it,” however heinous or relatively harmless “it” may be. These Francos and Oldmans are tenured professors, CEOs, restaurant owners, construction site supervisors, retail store managers. And like Franco and like Oldman, these men have faced consequences for their actions arbitrarily, unpredictably, and with varying degrees of severity.

Maybe “Why Franco and not Oldman?” is the wrong question. Maybe asking Hollywood alone to smooth out these contradictions, to adjudicate solely by way of an awards ballot the cases that neither the courts nor the media were eager to take on in the first place, is a pointless endeavor.

Maybe a better question is whether Hollywood is really snubbing Franco at all. As of Jan. 18, he has 14 movie projects in various stages of development, films that he is starring in, producing, directing. Losing an Oscar is one thing. Losing a lucrative career in Hollywood is quite another.Marc Randazza (above) represents Andrew Anglin, the mind behind America’s biggest neo-Nazi website, The Daily Stormer. Marc Randazza

It was late on Saturday when I learned that Marc Randazza, attorney to the trolls, might be flying to Columbus, Ohio. Randazza would be leaving New York on Monday, I’d heard. On some flight. Any flight. I didn’t know the details. But I was intrigued.

For the past few months, I’ve been tracking Randazza’s most notorious client, Andrew Anglin, the deranged mind behind America’s biggest neo-Nazi website, The Daily Stormer. And Anglin is from Columbus. His Nazi business is based there. He’s registered to vote there. His family lives there. But Anglin himself is in hiding.

He had gone on the lam in an attempt to avoid a lawsuit brought against him in Montana federal court by Tanya Gersh, a Jewish real estate agent in Whitefish whom Anglin had attacked on his site last winter after Gersh became embroiled in a property dispute with the mother of Richard Spencer, a leader of the “alt-right” white supremacist movement. For weeks, Anglin’s army of troll readers bombarded Gersh with hateful, threatening messages, many of them referencing the Holocaust. To defend his client, Randazza had gone low, arguing that Anglin shouldn’t be held responsible for any of his followers’ threats because the Nazi doesn’t believe the genocide happened. (“Wow, just wow,” white supremacist attorney Kyle Bristow tweeted in apparent admiration of Randazza’s defense strategy.)

But the lawyerin’ didn’t stop there. Randazza is also asserting that the federal court has no jurisdiction over Anglin because, he claims, his client is domiciled overseas in an undisclosed location as a “stateless citizen.” Anglin might be living in Nigeria, Randazza has suggested ― or Russia, or Cambodia, maybe. A week ago, Anglin submitted a sworn declaration — complete with passport stamps — stating that in July 2013 he left Ohio and the greater United States “for the last time,” never to return.

Andrew Anglin

That struck me as hooey for several reasons. While reporting on Anglin, I’d interviewed Robert “Azzmador” Ray, one of Anglin’s Nazi flunkies. I asked Ray, who lives in Texas, if he’d ever met Anglin in person. Ray told me he had. “Sometime in 2015,” he said. “He was visiting somebody in Houston and he asked me to drive down and we met in person.”

Last February, I’d almost cornered Anglin in a Columbus courthouse after he showed up for a mandatory in-person hearing to expunge a criminal record. A court clerk told me I’d missed him and his local attorney by a few minutes. Anglin later admitted on The Daily Stormer that he’d been at the courthouse.

And then there was the Columbus process server who’d been hired to find Anglin. The process server told me that in December he’d spotted Anglin in a Columbus-area grocery store. My report enraged Anglin and he told his readers that I’d fabricated the process server, only to have the man, Jeff Cremeans, come forward and submit a sworn declaration to the court two days later. Randazza dismissed Cremeans’ account as a “fantastic tale.”

How curious, then, that the attorney to the trolls was traveling to Anglin’s hometown of Columbus.

On Monday, Randazza settled into his seat on Delta 6016 and swiped through his Twitter feed. What a weekend he’d had. On Saturday, he’d partied in Hell’s Kitchen at the “Night for Freedom” bash thrown by another client, the far-right propagandist and PizzaGate pusher Mike Cernovich. Some big pro-Trump “free speech advocates” were there, speechifying about “brown people” and “faggots” and the genitalia of transgender women. The next day, Randazza met up with family members at Professor Thom’s, a sports bar in the East Village, to watch his Patriots win the AFC Championship.

Solid weekend. Real solid.

From his plane seat, Randazza banged out a few quick tweets, including a response to a friendly white supremacist who wanted to know whether he was in New York. Yes, Randazza told him. “My drone told me your whereabouts,” the white supremacist joked. Randazza didn’t have time to respond again. His plane was leaving.

I’d found out which flight the lawyer was on by comparing New York departure times to his Twitter activity. Randazza tweeted until Delta 6016 took off, then stopped. When the plane landed, he started tweeting again, responding to the friendly white supremacist’s drone joke. “Then where am i now?” Randazza tweeted, doing his best Jason Bourne impression.

Cremeans was already waiting for him at gate C56.

I’d called Cremeans earlier that day to ask if he’d heard anything about Randazza coming to town. He hadn’t, so I told him about Delta 6016. Cremeans decided to post up at the airport in “the hopes of trying to get Andrew Anglin served.” He told me he didn’t bother to hide as Randazza strutted out of the gate. The two made eye contact. “He was pissed,” Cremeans said. He filmed Randazza walking to baggage claim.

Oh, look. It's Andrew Anglin's attorney Marc Randazza arriving in the Columbus airport: pic.twitter.com/uBAgyakimo — Luke O'Brien (@lukeobrien) January 25, 2018

He filmed Randazza fidgeting.

Randazza tried to lose the process server by going into a bathroom. When he emerged, he hid behind a pillar. Then he took a photo of Cremeans, still unsure of who was following him.

This guy was following me around the Columbus, OH airport yesterday and taking pictures. It was sorta funny how inept he was at keeping it on the DL. Dude, next time, just come up and say hi. pic.twitter.com/gnfGFRuT1d — Marc J. Randazza (@marcorandazza) January 23, 2018

Randazza made his way to an elevator. Cremeans took an escalator. The escalator, however, went down two levels, and by the time Cremeans had raced back to Randazza’s floor, the attorney had left the airport.

Randazza strives to create the appearance of distance between himself and his far-right clients. “I am a pretty far left-wing guy,” he told me in October. “Mr. Anglin and I certainly don’t see eye-to-eye on much.” But there is no little troll in Randazza, and he has more recently written that “those who are sometimes called ‘alt right’ are some of the most open and accepting of diverse views people I’ve met in politics.”

Views such as:

Andrew Anglin

And:

Andrew Anglin

A few hours after Randazza gave Cremeans the slip, he couldn’t resist tweeting a photo of the ceiling of an unnamed Columbus restaurant.

Impressive. This restaurant’s ceiling is amazing. pic.twitter.com/edJzWKDHZV — Marc J. Randazza (@marcorandazza) January 22, 2018

I’d already called local hotels and learned that Randazza was staying downtown at the Westin in room 319. When I noticed his ceiling tweet, I looked for a restaurant match nearby and found one: Mitchell’s Steakhouse, a white-tablecloth, leather-booth joint. I called Cremeans. He was 30 minutes away. Randazza had been at Mitchell’s for over an hour by then. Cremeans figured the lawyer would be gone and decided to head home.

But an hour later, some locals I know opted to swing by the steakhouse and called me.

“He’s here!”

“Randazza?” I said.

“Anglin! He’s here right now!”

The locals had walked past a window of the steakhouse and spotted a small bald man who matched Anglin’s description. The man sat near the window, his back to the street. He wore a blue shirt, a red tie and hipster glasses with black rims, the locals said. He was at a table with another person, a man in his 30s with black hair wearing a blazer. Randazza was nowhere to be seen.

The locals held up their phones and tried to get a photo of the bald man through the blinds, but his companion noticed and nodded at the window to warn him. The bald man didn’t turn around to look, according to my sources. He seemingly knew better and twisted his body away from the cameras.

Andrew Anglin

I called Cremeans. Aghast, he jumped in his car and gunned it for Mitchell’s, blowing through red lights. A few minutes later, my source outside Mitchell’s told me that the bald man had vanished. My source thought he’d seen the man and his companion rush out of the restaurant, across the street and into a bar attached to the Renaissance hotel.

“How certain are you that it was Anglin?” I asked.

“I’m 75 percent certain based on appearance, 90 percent certain considering his behavior.”

But was it? On Monday, Anglin’s normally prolific posting on Gab, a far-right social media platform, had dipped considerably. Was the Nazi distracted by his legal affairs?

By the time Cremeans arrived on the scene, he was too late. The process server searched for Anglin in the bar and the common areas of the Renaissance hotel without luck. There was, however, another surprise: Cremeans had brought a Vice News camera crew with him, the same one that had been in Charlottesville, Virginia, for the white supremacist riot last August. Elle Reeve and her producer, Josh Davis, had been following Cremeans around Columbus, piggybacking off my reporting and hoping to get the million-dollar shot of Anglin being served. On Monday night, the TV journalists stood outside the Renaissance hotel, helpless.

I called Randazza at his hotel room. He didn’t answer. I sent him an email and told him I’d be putting up a story about his being in Columbus and wanted to give him a chance to comment. On Tuesday, he emailed back. What follows is a rough transcript of our conversation, with some less-relevant questions and answers omitted:

Randazza: “Mitchell’s Steak House is supposed to be the best steakhouse in Columbus. I found it rather uninspired. The bone in filet was fine, but the sides were really bland. I think I’m spoiled after my years in Vegas.” HuffPost: “Who’d you eat with? And what brought you to Columbus?” Randazza: “I ate with a very nice person who believes in the First Amendment. I’m surprised that the crack squad of private investigators don’t have a photo of us. I’m here for work.” HuffPost: “You in town for Anglin?” Randazza: “Nope. What would give you that idea?” HuffPost: “If you’re in Columbus for work but not for Anglin, just what are you up to? Columbus is Anglin’s hometown. People say they’ve spotted him there. So not crazy to think you might be there on Anglin-related business.” Randazza: “Columbus is a rather large city ― there are a lot of reasons to be here outside of Andrew Anglin.” HuffPost: “Can you give me a specific ‘work’ reason why you’re in Columbus that is not Anglin-related? (Bonus question: Were you at Professor Thom’s on Sunday to watch the Pats game?)” Randazza: “I’m not disclosing why I’m here. Wtf does where i watched the patriots game have to do with this story?”

That night, he emailed to tell me he was in Chicago.

Trolls will troll.

On Wednesday, Anglin himself couldn’t resist chiming in on Gab to announce that he’d spoken to Randazza and was running low on funds to pay him. (Anglin, who has taken in hundreds of thousands of dollars in Bitcoin, often cries poor to sucker gullible readers into sending more money.)

Andrew Anglin

Then Anglin revealed what might be Randazza’s fee. If accurate, the attorney is raking in the Reichsmarks.

Andrew Anglin

And then Anglin posted this:

Andrew Anglin

On Thursday, I heard from another set of local Columbus sources. People who had been inside Mitchell’s that night. I’d shown them photos of Randazza and Anglin. Both men, the sources said, had been in the steakhouse on Monday.Tomi Lahren, the descendant of immigrants from Russia, Germany and Norway, thinks the arrival of non-English speakers is "not what this country is based on." Joshua Blanchard via Getty Images

Conservative pundit Tomi Lahren attempted on Saturday night to defend controversial remarks from White House chief of staff John Kelly by rewriting American history to claim low-skilled immigrants have no place in the U.S.

“You don’t just come into this country with low skills, low education, not understanding the language and come into our country because someone says it makes them feel nice. That’s not what this country is based on,” Lahren said in an appearance on Fox News, adding: “We don’t believe in importing poverty.”

In fact, the historic waves of immigration that created modern America included many low-skilled non-English speakers ― whether from southern and eastern Europe, or from Asia, Africa and South America ― whose descendants are now integral parts of U.S. society.

.@TomiLahren: "You don't just come into this country with low skills, low education, not understanding the language and come into our country because someone says it makes them feel nice. That's not what this country is based on." @WattersWorld pic.twitter.com/Dux0cABHar — Fox News (@FoxNews) May 13, 2018

Research shows that today’s immigrants are more likely to have advanced degrees, less likely to commit crimes, and are good for the economy in general ― including by raising wages for the native-born.

Kelly, formerly Trump’s homeland security secretary, sparked debate over the issue of immigrants’ abilities earlier this week when NPR released a transcript of an interview in which he argued that most people moving into the U.S. illegally are not capable of becoming part of American society:

The vast majority of the people that move illegally into United States are not bad people. But they’re also not people that would easily assimilate into the United States into our modern society. They’re overwhelmingly rural people in the countries they come from ― fourth, fifth, sixth grade educations are kind of the norm. They don’t speak English, obviously that’s a big thing. They don’t speak English. They don’t integrate well, they don’t have skills. They’re not bad people. They’re coming here for a reason. And I sympathize with the reason. But the laws are the laws.

Kelly’s remarks came days after the Trump administration further tightened immigration law enforcement by canceling deportation protections for Hondurans who fled a 1998 hurricane. That move pushed the number of immigrants formerly under temporary protected status and now in jeopardy to over 1 million. Days later, Attorney General Jeff Sessions announced that the U.S. would adopt an official policy of criminally prosecuting people trying to enter the country illegally, meaning parents would be separated from their children on a large scale.

“The children will be taken care of — put into foster care or whatever,” Kelly told NPR.

Immigrant rights advocates slammed Kelly’s comments, and The Washington Post noted that he is personally descended from Irish and Italian immigrants, some of whom didn’t speak English for years while living in the U.S.

“Kelly somehow nonetheless wound up as the top aide to the president of the United States,” the Post’s Philip Bump wrote.

Lahren herself appears to be the descendant of an immigrant born in the Russian Empire who forged an immigration document to try to secure his status.In September 2016, Rachael Denhollander was the first woman to go public with accusations of sexual abuse against former USA Gymnastics and Michigan State University team doctor Larry Nassar. Since then, she has endured character assassinations from Nassar’s defense attorneys, a constant onslaught of victim-blaming, and the inevitable isolation of being the only woman to publicly accuse him for six months.

On Wednesday, she was the last of 169 survivors and family members to give her victim impact statement in court after a week-long sentencing hearing for Nassar. Her words were comprehensive, powerful and full of resilience.

“You started the tidal wave. You made all of this happen. You made all of these voices matter. Your sister survivors and I thank you,” Judge Rosemarie Aquilina said in response to Denhollander’s impact statement.

Nassar, who is accused of sexually abusing over 140 women, was sentenced to 40 to 175 years in prison on Wednesday afternoon on seven counts of criminal sexual conduct in the first degree. He is already serving 60 years in prison on child pornography charges and awaits sentencing on three more counts of criminal sexual conduct in the first degree.

Denhollander’s statement is so all-encompassing, HuffPost decided her story should be read in her own words.

Below is her powerful statement in full, lightly edited for clarity.

****

I do want to thank you, first, Judge Aquilina, for giving all of us the chance to reclaim our voices. Our voices were taken from us for so long, and I’m grateful beyond what I can express that you have given us the chance to restore them.

There are two major purposes in our criminal justice system, Your Honor: the pursuit of justice and the protection of the innocent. Neither of these purposes can be met if anything less than the maximum available sentence under the plea agreement is imposed upon Larry for his crimes. Not because the federal sentence he will already serve is lacking, but because the sentence rendered today will send a message across this country, a message to every victim and a message to every perpetrator.

I realize you have many factors to consider when you fashion your sentence, but I submit to you that the pre-eminent question in this case as you reach a decision about how best to satisfy the dual aims of this court is the same question that I asked Judge Neff to consider: How much is a little girl worth? How much is a young woman worth?

Larry is a hardened and determined sexual predator. I know this first-hand. At age 15, when I suffered from chronic back pain, Larry sexually assaulted me repeatedly under the guise of medical treatment for nearly a year. He did this with my own mother in the room, carefully and perfectly obstructing her view so she would not know what he was doing. His ability to gain my trust and the trust of my parents, his grooming and carefully calculated brazen sexual assault, was the result of deliberate, premeditated, intentional and methodological patterns of abuse ― patterns that were rehearsed long before I walked through Larry’s exam room door and which continued to be perpetrated, I believe, on a daily basis for 16 more years, until I filed the police report.

Larry’s the most dangerous type of abuser. One who is capable of manipulating his victims through coldly calculated grooming methodologies, presenting the most wholesome, caring external persona as a deliberate means to insure a steady stream of children to assault. And while Larry is unlikely to live past his federal sentence, he is not the only predator out there, and this sentence will send a message about how seriously abuse will be taken.

“How much is a little girl worth? How much is a young woman worth?”

So, I ask, how much is a little girl worth? How much priority should be placed on communicating that the fullest weight of the law will be used to protect another innocent child from the soul-shattering devastation that sexual assault brings? I submit to you that these children are worth everything. Worth every protection the law can offer. Worth the maximum sentence.

The second aim of this court and our criminal justice system is to pursue justice for the victims that have already been harmed. And this aim too can only be realized by imposing the maximum sentence under the plea agreement, and in reaching this decision too, we also must answer the question, how much was a little girl worth? How much were these young women worth? This time, however, the little girls in question are not potential victims. They are real women and children, real women and little girls who have names and faces and souls. Real women and children whose abuse and suffering was enjoyed for sexual fulfillment by the defendant.

I believe sometimes, your honor, that when we’re embroiled in a legal dispute, the words of our legal system designed to categorize and classify and instruct can inadvertently sterilize the harsh realities of what has taken place. They can serve as a shield against the horror of what we are really discussing. And this must not ever happen. Because the truth about what Larry has done must be realized to its fullest depth if justice is to ever be served.

And so, for a moment, your honor, I, like every woman who’s come before you, want to take a moment to drop that shield. Larry meticulously groomed me for the purpose of exploiting me for his sexual gain. He penetrated me, he groped me, he fondled me. And then he whispered questions about how it felt. He engaged in degrading and humiliating sex acts without my consent or permission. And Larry enjoyed it. Larry sought out and took pleasure in little girls and women being sexually injured and violated because he liked it. And as I and so many other women and little girls were being violated, Larry found sexual satisfaction in our suffering. As we were being sexually violated even as very young children, as young as 6 years old, Larry was sexually aroused by our humiliation and our pain. He asked us how it felt because he wanted to know. What was done to myself and these other women and little girls, and the fact that our sexual violation was enjoyed by Larry, matters. It demands justice, and the sentence you impose today will send a message about how much these precious women and children are worth. You have seen our pictures, your honor ― moments in time captured when they were young and vulnerable and violated.

I think of the young girl that I was and the little girls and young women all of these survivors were every day. I feel like I see them in the faces of my two precious daughters. When I watch my daughters’ eyes light up as they dance to “The Nutcracker,” I remember the little girl that I and all of these women used to be. The sparkle their eyes must have had, as mine did, before their innocence was taken. I watched my daughters love and trust unreservedly and I remember the long road that it has been to let myself love and be loved without fear. I think of the scars that still remain for all of us.

One of the worst parts of this entire process was knowing, as I began to realize what had happened to me, how many other little girls had been left destroyed, too. I was barely 15 when Larry began to abuse me, and as I lay on the table each time and try to reconcile what was happening with the man Larry was held out to be, there were three things I was very sure of. First, it was clear to me this was something Larry did regularly. Second, because this was something Larry did regularly, it was impossible that at least some women and girls had not described what was going on to officials at MSU and USAG. I was confident of this. And third, I was confident that because people at MSU and USAG had to be aware of what Larry was doing and had not stopped him, there could surely be no question about the legitimacy of his treatment. This must be medical treatment. The problem must be me.

And because I had friends who were physical therapists who practiced legitimate internal pelvic floor techniques, I also knew at 15 that to practice this, you must have specialized training and certification. Surely anyone who had heard that Larry was penetrating little girls would have demanded to know where he got his training, and if there was any question, he would’ve never been allowed near me.

And so, I lay still and on the first two points, I was right. It was something he did often. And others had described Larry’s treatment before. In fact, though I didn’t know it at the time, four girls and women had described in detail to three different athletic departments at MSU what he was doing and his penetration and their belief that they had been sexually assaulted. It was reported to Kathie Klages, MSU’s head gymnastics coach, to a track coach and to multiple athletic trainers and supervisors years before I walked into Larry’s door.

But I was wrong in my third belief. I was wrong that surely, if someone had been made aware of what Larry was doing, they would report it and ensure it was legitimate before ever allowing him near another child. I did not know when I was 15 that in 1997, three years before I walked into Larry’s exam room, that MSU’s head gymnastics coach, Kathie Klages, had waved a report form in front of Larissa Boyce after being told by two separate gymnasts of what Larry was doing and told Larissa there would be consequences for her if she reported.

I did not know that Tiffany Thomas Lopez had reported the penetration and sexual assault to athletic trainer Destiny Teachnor-Hauk and to other athletic trainers and supervisors two years before I walked into Larry’s door.

I did not know that Christie Achenbach had reported the penetration and sexual assault to her track coach and her athletic trainers and had also been silenced a full year before I walked into Larry’s door. I did not know that Jennifer Bedford had also reported to Destiny Teachnor-Hauk and asked if she could file a report that Larry’s treatment made her feel uncomfortable and that she had also been silenced.

I believed the adults at MSU surrounding Larry would do the right thing if they were aware of what Larry was doing, and I was terribly wrong. And discovering that I could not only not trust my abuser but I could not trust the people surrounding him has been devastating. It is part of the consequences of sexual assault, and it needs to be taken seriously.

I did not know that at the same time Larry was penetrating me, USAG was systematically burying reports of sexual assault against member coaches in a file cabinet instead of reporting them, creating a culture where predators like Larry and so many others in the organization, up to the highest-level coaches, were able to sexually abuse children, including our Olympians, without any fear of being caught.

I did not know that, contrary to my belief, the elite gymnasts whose pictures were plastered on Larry’s wall were far from protected. That USAG, rather than supervising Larry, was allowing him to treat these girls in their own beds without even having a medical license in Texas.

“My misplaced trust in my physician and my misplaced trust in the adults around me were wielded like a weapon, and it cost me dearly. And it follows me everywhere.”

I did not know any of these things, and so as Larry was abusing me each time, I assured myself it must be fine because I thought I could trust the adults around me. My misplaced trust in my physician and my misplaced trust in the adults around me were wielded like a weapon, and it cost me dearly. And it follows me everywhere.

I would like to take a moment now to address both organizations whose failures led to my sexual assault, because it is part of the consequences that I now carry. ... MSU, we have been telling our stories for more than 18 months, and you have yet to answer a single question I have asked. Every time I repeat these facts about the number of women who reported to employees at MSU and were silenced, you respond the exact same way. You issue a press statement saying there is no cover-up because no one who heard the reports of assaults believed that Larry was committing abuse.

You play word games saying you didn’t know because no one believed. I know that. And the reason everyone who heard about Larry’s abuse did not believe it is because they did not listen. They did not listen in 1997 or 1998 or 1999 or 2000 or 2004 or 2014. No one knew, according to your definition of know, because no one handled the reports of abuse properly.

Victims were silenced, intimidated, repeatedly told it was medical treatment and even forced to go back for continued sexual assault. You have stated in a motion to dismiss our civil suit that, ironically, is being heard right now in court as I am speaking, that the reports that were given in 97, ’98, ’99 and 2000 to track coaches, head gymnastic coaches and athletic trainers and supervisors don’t, quote, count as notice because these teenagers didn’t report it to the right official. The 14-year-old didn’t go to the right person.

You have stated that no reports of sexual assault count as notice unless it is reported to a person who is capable of firing the alleged perpetrator. This entirely contradicts the letter that president Simon sent all 11,000 MSU employees in 2012, reminding them that MSU policy requires them to report any suspected child abuse and any allegations of sexual assault against someone at MSU. So, MSU, which is it? Do your employees have a duty to protect children or not?

It has been 18 months, and I am still asking the same questions, hoping that the little girls that come after me will have adults that they can trust. And I’ve been getting the same answer for a year, and so I am asking point-blank again, when Kathie Klages humiliated Larissa Boyce and the second gymnast, greatly compounding the trauma of their sexual assault, and waved the report form in front of her telling her there would be consequences if she reported.

Is this the right way or the wrong way to handle sexual assault allegations on MSU campus? When Tiffany Thomas Lopez reported her abuse to athletic trainers and supervisors and the trainers used the emotional pain Tiffany was in after her father’s death to convince her it would be too exhausting and painful to bother filing a report, was it the right way or the wrong way to handle a report of sexual assault on MSU campus?

When Christie Achenbach reported the sexual assault to her track coach and athletic trainers and was also silenced, was it the right way or the wrong way to handle the report of sexual assault on MSU’s campus?

When Kyle Stevens’ parents reported Larry’s sexual abuse of their daughter to a MSU psychiatrist and he brought Larry in to talk to her parents instead of reporting, as he was mandated to do by law, was it the right way or the wrong way to handle a report of sexual assault on MSU’s campus?

When Amanda Thomas Shaw reported to the Title IX office, and Larry could hand-pick the four colleagues to be interviewed to determine whether his treatment was legitimate, was that the right way or the wrong way to investigate a claim of sexual assault on MSU’s campus?

And after all this, when I came forward in 2016, I brought an entire file of evidence with me. I made a police report and a Title IX report, and I brought with me to those reports my medical records showing that Larry had never tried pelvic floor techniques. I brought medical records from a nurse practitioner documenting my graphic disclosure of abuse way back in 2004. I had my journals showing the mental anguish I had been in since the assault. A catalog of national and international medical articles showing what real pelvic floor treatment looks like. I brought a letter from a neighboring district attorney vouching for my character and truthfulness and urging detectives to take my case seriously.

I brought a cover letter going point by point through Michigan law and case law, explaining how every element of first-degree criminal sexual assault was met and could be proven.

I brought a witness I had disclosed it to in 2004. I brought evidence of two more women unconnected to me who were also claiming sexual assault. And I have the names of three pelvic floor experts willing to speak on my behalf. And the MSPD handled it beautifully, but MSU officials were a different story, because the response of Dean William Strampel was to send an email to Larry that day and tell him, quote, good luck, I am on your side. And when my video testimony to the IndyStar came out, graphically describing the abuse that Larry perpetrated, disclosing horrific details to the world that no one was ever supposed to know, that I had never told anyone, even my own husband, until that point, Dean Strampel forwarded that video testimony to the MSU provost, and he mocked it.

He called it the cherry on the cake of his day. President Simon and board of trustees, is this the right way to handle disclosures of abuse on MSU’s campus?

When Brooke Lemmen, one of the doctors Larry was allowed to hand-pick to clear himself in 2014, was interviewed for my investigation, she said I hadn’t really been penetrated ― I only thought I had, because, quote, when I am a 15-year-old girl, I think everything between my legs is my vagina. I only thought Larry had put his fingers in me for up to 40 minutes at a time for a full year. I was just confused. Sounds eerily familiar to what Amanda Thomas Shaw was told in 2014 that she, quote, didn’t understand the nuanced differences between sexual assault and a medical exam.

It sounds eerily familiar to what every single woman was told all the way back to 1997. We were all wrong. We were all just confused. Board of trustees, is this the right way to handle disclosures of sexual assault on MSU’s campus? And if that were not bad enough, when I finally joined the civil suit five months later, after waiting for almost half a year for MSU to do the right thing, the vice president of the board of trustees, Joel Ferguson, went on television and gave a press interview in which he claimed those of us who have filed lawsuits were ambulance chasers who were looking for a payday.

In fact, I know that at least one other high-ranking MSU official has specifically called me out by name and said I’m in it for the money. This has never been contradicted, retracted or refuted. MSU, you need to realize that you are greatly compounding the damage done to these abuse victims by the way you are responding. This, what it took to get here, what we had to go through for our voices to be heard because of the responses of the adults in authority, has greatly compounded the damage we suffer. And it matters.

“MSU, you need to realize that you are greatly compounding the damage done to these abuse victims by the way you are responding.”

We have waited 18 months to be told no, this is not how we handle this on MSU’s campus. But instead, everyone has doubled down on the claim that nothing was done wrong and the only conclusion that can be reached is that no one truly sees anything wrong with any of this. And that is terrifying. And it leaves me terrified for the little girls of the future, who we are here to protect. And because of this willful ignorance, victim silencing and mishandling of sexual assault reports against Larry in ’97, ’98 and ’99, I walked through Larry’s door in 2000 and never walked out the same.

Not long after I stopped seeing Larry, I transitioned from athlete to coach. And every day that I nurture those baby gymnasts, I wondered if any of them would find their way into his exam room.

When one of my little girls was finally referred to him, I took a chance and I spoke up and I was kindly cautioned for my own sake to remain silent. My little baby gymnast was sent to Larry before I even knew a decision had been made to do so. Her family moved away almost immediately thereafter and I wept for that little girl and I prayed to God that she was under the age range that Larry preferred. She was 7. But when I filed my police report, Kyle Stevens came forward, and she was 6 ― a year younger than my little girl. And I cried in my kitchen, and I don’t know yet if that little girl walked out the same that she walked in.

I transitioned from coaching to working in public policy, and I fought fear every time I had to commute or work close quarters with my male colleagues. I dreaded working on current event or legislation on sexual assault because I knew the memories that would come with it. I still watched gymnastics, but I looked away whenever the cameras panned to the sidelines in case Larry would be there.

I wondered almost daily if there was ever a chance my voice would be heard. I began law school was I was 19. And I wrapped up in blankets every time I studied torts or crimes related to sexual assault and I hoped my face wouldn’t betray me in classroom discussions.

I researched internal pelvic floor procedures and I tried to find out what had happened to me, and I watched for any sign that I would ever be believed.

I met my future husband and I told him what I never wanted to tell anyone, and I wondered if he would walk away, and he didn’t. But I couldn’t even hold his hand or look up at him, because closeness wasn’t safe and trust wasn’t safe. We got married, and my 25th birthday came and went, and I sat up for nights before, believing my ability to file a police report would end on that birthday. I didn’t know the statute of limitations had been lifted.

“I wondered almost daily if there was ever a chance my voice would be heard.”

I woke up the morning I turned 25, and instead of feeling joy at a milestone, I only felt hopelessness and grief, because I thought my chance to stop this man was over. I thought daily about all the little women and girls walking in his office and I wondered if it would ever, ever end.

I became a mother three times over, and the fear that hung over each birth, knowing I would be vulnerable in a medical setting, cast a horrific shadow over what should have been an occasion of pure joy.

And I watched for a chance to be believed and I waited. I held my firstborn and then my two daughters, and each time I did, Larry, I remember the day you brought [your daughter] into your office so that I could hold her. You knew how much I loved children and you used your own daughter to manipulate me.

And every time I held my babies, I prayed to God you would leave your abuse in the exam room and not take it home to the little girl born with black hair just like her daddy. And then the IndyStar story came out about the rampant cover-up at USAG, and I knew this was the chance and I wrote them immediately.

But because of what Larry did, the cost of making it end has been incredibly high. And the effects of Larry’s abuse has been redoubled in the effort that I took to stop him.

Choosing to live those moments over and over, daily, releasing every shred of privacy that I had, living with the reality that not only didn’t I get to choose what you did, but now I didn’t get to choose who knew about it.

Even my status as a sexual assault victim has impacted or did impact my ability to advocate for sexual assault victims, because once it became known that I too had experienced sexual assault, people close to me used it as an excuse to brush off my concerns when I advocated for others who had been abused, saying I was just obsessed because of what I had gone through, that I was imposing my own experience upon other institutions who had massive failures and much worse.

My advocacy for sexual assault victims, something I cherished, cost me my church and our closest friends three weeks before I filed my police report. I was left alone and isolated. And far worse, it was impacted because when I came out, my sexual assault was wielded like a weapon against me. Often by those who should have been the first to support and help, and I couldn’t even do what I loved best, which was to reach out to others. I was subjected to lies and attacks on my character, including very publicly by attorney Shannon Smith when I testified under oath.

I was being attacked for wanting fame and attention, for making up a story to try to get money. Your Honor, since these attacks were made on my character very publicly on public record, I would like to take an opportunity briefly now to correct them. Out of the two women in question that day, Ms. Smith and I, who were attempting to communicate through either questions or answers, I would like to note that only one of us was taking pictures of the courtroom on her cell phone. Only one of us posed for the press and said, quote, I feel like I should say cheese. And out of the two of us, only one of us was making money off her court appearance that day. I don’t feel the need to say anything else. I think I’ve communicated completely.

The cost, emotional and physical, to see this through has been greater than many would ever know. And Larry, I don’t need to tell you what the cost of your abuse has been to me, because you got to read my journals, every word of them. Because those had to go into evidence to make this happen.

I want you to understand why I made this choice, knowing full well what it was going to cost to get here and with very little hope of ever succeeding. I did it because it was right. No matter the cost, it was right. And the farthest I can run from what you have become is to daily choose what is right instead of what I want.

You have become a man ruled by selfish and perverted desires, a man defined by his daily choices repeatedly to feed that selfishness and perversion. You chose to pursue your wickedness no matter what it cost others, and the opposite of what you have done is for me to choose to love sacrificially, no matter what it costs me.

In our early hearings, you brought your Bible into the courtroom and you have spoken of praying for forgiveness. And so it is on that basis that I appeal to you. If you have read the Bible you carry, you know the definition of sacrificial love portrayed is of God himself loving so sacrificially that he gave up everything to pay a penalty for the sin he did not commit. By his grace, I, too, choose to love this way.

You spoke of praying for forgiveness. But Larry, if you have read the Bible you carry, you know forgiveness does not come from doing good things, as if good deeds can erase what you have done. It comes from repentance, which requires facing and acknowledging the truth about what you have done in all of its utter depravity and horror, without mitigation, without excuse, without acting as if good deeds can erase what you have seen in this courtroom today.

If the Bible you carry says it is better for a stone to be thrown around your neck and you thrown into a lake than for you to make even one child stumble. And you have damaged hundreds.

The Bible you speak carries a final judgment where all of God’s wrath and eternal terror is poured out on men like you. Should you ever reach the point of truly facing what you have done, the guilt will be crushing. And that is what makes the gospel of Christ so sweet. Because it extends grace and hope and mercy where none should be found. And it will be there for you.

I pray you experience the soul crushing weight of guilt so you may someday experience true repentance and true forgiveness from God, which you need far more than forgiveness from me ― though I extend that to you as well.

Throughout this process, I have clung to a quote by C.S. Lewis, where he says, my argument against God was that the universe seems so cruel and unjust. But how did I get this idea of just, unjust? A man does not call a line crooked unless he first has some idea of straight. What was I comparing the universe to when I called it unjust?

Larry, I can call what you did evil and wicked because it was. And I know it was evil and wicked because the straight line exists. The straight line is not measured based on your perception or anyone else’s perception, and this means I can speak the truth about my abuse without minimization or mitigation. And I can call it evil because I know what goodness is. And this is why I pity you. Because when a person loses the ability to define good and evil, when they cannot define evil, they can no longer define and enjoy what is truly good.

When a person can harm another human being, especially a child, without true guilt, they have lost the ability to truly love. Larry, you have shut yourself off from every truly beautiful and good thing in this world that could have and should have brought you joy and fulfillment, and I pity you for it. You could have had everything you pretended to be. Every woman who stood up here truly loved you as an innocent child, real genuine love for you, and it did not satisfy.

I have experienced the soul satisfying joy of a marriage built on sacrificial love and safety and tenderness and care. I have experienced true intimacy in its deepest joys, and it is beautiful and sacred and glorious. And that is a joy you have cut yourself off from ever experiencing, and I pity you for it.

I have been there for young gymnasts and helped them transform from awkward little girls to graceful, beautiful, confident athletes and taken joy in their success because I wanted what was best for them. And this is a joy you have cut yourself off from forever because your desire to help was nothing more than a facade for your desire to harm.

I have lived the deep satisfaction of wrapping my small children up in my arms and making them feel safe and secure because I was safe, and this is a rich joy beyond what I can express, and you have cut yourself off from it, because you were not safe. And I pity you for that.

“You have fashioned for yourself a prison that is far, far worse than any I could ever put you in, and I pity you for that.”

In losing the ability to call evil what it is without mitigation, without minimization, you have lost the ability to define and enjoy love and goodness. You have fashioned for yourself a prison that is far, far worse than any I could ever put you in, and I pity you for that.

And this is also why in many ways, your honor, the worst part of this process was each name, each number who came forward to the police with each Jane Doe, I saw my little girls and the little girls that were. The little girls who walked into Larry’s office that I could not save because no one wanted to listen. And while that is not my guilt, it is pain I still carry and pain I share with them.

I cried for them, and with every tear that fell I wondered who is going to find these little girls, who is going to tell them how much they are worth, how valuable they are, how deserving of justice and protection?

Who is going to tell these little girls that what was done to them matters? That they are seen and valued, that they are not alone and they are not unprotected? And I could not do that, but we are here now, and today that message can be sent with the sentence you hand down, you can communicate to all these little girls and to every predator to every little girl or young woman who is watching how much a little girl is worth.

I am asking that we leave this courtroom ... knowing that when Larry was sexually aroused and gratified by our violation, when he enjoyed our suffering and took pleasure in our abuse, that it was evil and wrong.

I ask that you hand down a sentence that tells us that what was done to us matters, that we are known, we are worth everything, worth the greatest protection the law can offer, the greatest measure of justice available.

And to everyone who is watching, I ask that same question: How much is a little girl worth? Larry said in court that he hoped education and learning would happen from this tragedy, and I share that hope, and this is what we need to learn.

Look around the courtroom, remember what you have witnessed these past seven days. This is what it looks like when someone chooses to put their selfish desires above the safety and love for those around them, and let it be a warning to us all and moving forward as a society.

This is what it looks like when the adults in authority do not respond properly to disclosures of sexual assault.

This is what it looks like when institutions create a culture where a predator can flourish unafraid and unabated, and this is what it looks like when people in authority refuse to listen, put friendships in front of the truth, fail to create or enforce proper policy and fail to hold enablers accountable.

This is what it looks like. It looks like a courtroom full of survivors who carry deep wounds. Women and girls who have banded together to fight for themselves because no one else would do it. Women and girls who carry scars that will never fully heal but who have made the choice to place the guilt and shame on the only person to whom it belongs, the abuser. But may the horror expressed in this courtroom over the last seven days be motivation for anyone and everyone no matter the context to take responsibility if they have failed in protecting a child, to understand the incredible failures that led to this week and to do it better the next time.