This is a whopper of a pro-net neutrality advertisement.

On Wednesday, Burger King released a new commercial that uses their famed Whoppers to explain to unsuspecting customers what a world without net neutrality would look like if it were food at stake instead of the internet. And they deliciously took a jab at Federal Communications Commission Chairman Ajit Pai in the process.

At the end of 2017, the FCC voted to repeal net neutrality despite mass opposition. The repeal rolls back Obama-era provisions called “Title II” regulations. These rules made the internet a public utility, requiring internet service providers to treat all the data on their networks the same.

Critics say the repeal could allow internet service providers to speed up or slow down internet usage based on a pay structure. An example would be a provider like Verizon, which owns HuffPost’s parent company Oath, deciding that its wireless customers can view HuffPost content without data charges.

This is the concept Burger King taught a few infuriated customers who simply wanted a Whopper. The Burger King “employees” in the ad explained to hungry patrons that if they wanted a sandwich, they’d have to wait or pay $25.99 for faster service.

“Burger King corporation believes that they can sell more and make more money selling chicken sandwiches and chicken fries, so now they’re slowing down the access to the Whopper” one of the employees said.

The result is angered customers who called the system both a “bad dream” and the “worst thing I’ve ever heard of.”

Luckily, none of the patrons had to actually pay the fake premium for faster service as Burger King revealed that the entire thing was a setup, but the mealtime lesson did teach them all a few things. One previously upset man said that he “didn’t think that ordering a Whopper would really open my eyes up to net neutrality.”

“A Whopper taught me about net neutrality. It’s stupid, but true,” another said.

If you stick around to the end of the ad, you can spot the Burger King mascot drinking from an oversized Reese’s Peanut Butter Cups mug ― the same sort of cup Pai is known for using.

Bloomberg via Getty Images

Fernando Machado, Burger King’s global chief marketing officer told Recode that they created the ad because “we believe the internet should be like BURGER KING® restaurants, a place that doesn’t prioritize and welcomes everyone. That is why we created this experiment, to call attention to the potential effects of net neutrality.”

The video’s tagline is also: “The BURGER KING® brand believes the internet should be like the WHOPPER® sandwich: the same for everyone.”

The future of net neutrality is currently in Congress’ hands, it has the power to reverse the FCC’s vote. Perhaps Burger King’s advertisements will sway individuals to talk to their lawmakers.Like many other bartenders with 17 years of experience, Kara Coley is used to giving advice beyond which drinks to try.

But Coley never had a question like the one she received Friday while working at Sipps, a gay-friendly bar in Gulfport, Mississippi.

Out of the blue, Coley got a call from a mother whose son had just told her he’s gay and she needed some help.

“My son just came out to me and I don’t want to say anything that may mess him up in the head,” the woman confided.

Coley was surprised by the apparent randomness of the call, since the woman didn’t sound like a local.

“She had a Northern accent,” the bartender told HuffPost. “I have had a few people that I grew up with ask advice when they found out their child or child’s friend was gay, but never as random as this phone call.”

Still, Coley was glad to help a stranger who wanted to do the right thing for her son.

“I wish more people were eager to just ask questions,” she said. “That is how you learn!”

Coley wrote up the whole exchange in a Facebook post, and the key takeaway was this bit of wisdom she gave to the mom.

“You should definitely let him know that you love and accept him,” Coley told the mother. “I think everything will be OK from there!”

Coley is pleased by the reaction to her post, but admits being surprised as well.

“I’m shocked and excited,” she said to HuffPost. “Although I still don’t get it because I was just being honest and compassionate.”

Coley’s post can be seen below:

Coley doesn’t know if she’ll ever meet the mother or the son, but knows what would happen if they showed up at Sipps.Gina Rodriguez at the 2018 Screen Actors Guild Awards. Axelle/Bauer-Griffin via Getty Images

Gina Rodriguez refuses to say quiet about the lack of Latino representation in Hollywood.

The “Jane the Virgin” actress wrote a poignant essay about the importance of seeing more Latinos on-screen for Variety on Wednesday ― the latest in a series of public remarks she’s made this week on the subject.

“To be seen and heard is a simple human need,” the Puerto Rican star wrote. “To be invisible in a world of loud voices is heartbreaking and dehumanizing. The under-representation of Latinos in Hollywood both on and off screen is not just a feeling; it’s a sad reality.”

“Latinos are not only prominent and loyal in the consumer market but also make up one of the largest demographics at the box office every opening weekend,” she continued. “The fact that we are not seen on screen despite our vast contributions is devastating.”

Rodriguez also pointed out the need to represent the true diversity of the Latino community, including Afro-Latinos. “It is our responsibility as an industry to give this entire generation positive representation so that no one feels invisible,” she added.

For years the Chicago-born actress hasn’t just preached about Latino representation in television and film, she’s also been trying to be a part of the solution. Rodriguez spotlights actors of color on social media with her #MovementMonday posts and is working on bringing diverse projects to television with her production company I Can & I Will.

“To our beautiful community, let’s unite and use one of our greatest strengths, our buying power to finally be heard,” Rodriguez tweeted on Wednesday with a link to her Variety essay. “They say were a risk - so let’s prove them wrong. It’s up to us to create the Latino presence on screen that reflects our world. It’s time to take back our power.”

To our beautiful community, let’s unite and use one of our greatest strengths, our buying power to finally be heard. They say were a risk - so let’s prove them wrong. It’s up to us to create the Latino presence on screen that reflects our world. It’s time to take back our power. https://t.co/uVHU0IFv11 — Gina Rodriguez (@HereIsGina) January 25, 2018

“Guardians of the Galaxy” star Zoe Saldana responded to the tweet with a message in Spanish: “Thank you @HereIsGina. Your words serve me like a breath after so much evaporated sacrifice in a white and empty desert.”

Mil gracias @HereIsGina . Tus palabras me sirven como aliento después de tanto sacrificio evaporado en un desierto blanco y vacío. https://t.co/6UY00jZMot — Zoe Saldana (@zoesaldana) January 25, 2018

Rodriguez called out Hollywood for the lack of Latino leads in film during a red carpet interview with E! News at Sunday night’s SAG awards, pointing to the community’s consumer power as avid moviegoers and the fact that the Latino population in the U.S. is more than 55 million strong.

The actress also expressed disappointment via Twitter after the 2018 Oscar nominations were announced Tuesday, with Latinos missing from all four acting categories.

AdvertisementA heartbroken mother in Virginia is desperate for answers in the disappearance of her daughter, a 16-year-old honor student who was last seen 12 days ago.

“It’s a nightmare I can’t wake up from,” Syreeta Steward told HuffPost. “That’s the best way I can describe it.”

Stewart’s daughter, Jholie Moussa, was last seen leaving their Alexandria home on the afternoon of Jan. 12. Prior to leaving, Jholie had reportedly been Snapchatting with an unknown individual. She told her twin sister, Zhane, that she was stepping out and would be right back.

Jholie failed to return home, and no one knows what happened to her after she left.

“We just want her home. That’s it. Whatever it takes.” - Syreeta Steward

Later that night, at about 8 p.m., Zhane received an unusual text message from her sister saying she was heading to a party in Norfolk, Stewart said. Norfolk is approximately 190 miles from Alexandria. While the teen’s mother said the message was sent from Jholie’s phone, it’s unclear whether it was Jholie or someone else who sent it.

When Jholie failed to return home, her mother filed a missing person report with the Fairfax County Police Department. Contacted by HuffPost on Wednesday, officer Kent Bailey said Jholie has been entered into the National Crime Information Center database as a runaway juvenile.

Stewart does not agree with that designation.

“Just because she voluntarily left her home does not mean she voluntarily left her block,” Stewart said. “Labeling her a runaway takes away a sense of urgency. Basically, we were told to do our own thing, look for her, and if we see anything to let them know.”

Bailey declined to share additional information in the case. Stewart said her daughter, a 10th-grader at Mount Vernon High School, does not have a history of running away.

“It would be completely out of character for her,” she said. “She’s never broken curfew and is an honor roll student. This week she was supposed to go take the test for her driver’s permit and she was excited about that. It’s just odd that they would consider her a runaway.”

Syreeta Steward, center, is pictured with twin daughters Zhane (left) and Jholie Moussa. Jholie has been missing for nearly two weeks. Syreeta Steward

Stewart described her daughter as a timid young woman who doesn’t easily take to strangers.

“She wouldn’t get into a car with anyone or speak with anyone she doesn’t know,” Stewart said. “She’s quiet and a not a social butterfly. She’s also short and skinny. If you didn’t know her, you wouldn’t think she is 16. She looks to be about 13 or 14.”

Zhane was unavailable to talk about her missing twin Wednesday. They look alike and share the same tattoo ― an infinity symbol with their names. Their mother said she can’t recall a single time before now that the twins were apart for more than 24 hours.

“Their personalities are different, but they’re extremely close,” said Stewart. “Zhane is taking this very hard ― very hard. We’re trying to make sure she gets up, showers, gets out of bed and eats. She’s having a hard time doing any of those things.”

Stewart said the family has received little information from police. However, the department did notify the family that they’ve enlisted the help of the FBI.

An undated photo of Jholie Moussa that was released by the FBI. FBI

For now, Jholie’s family has no choice but to wait for the answers they desperately seek.

“We have no clue what’s going on,” Stewart said. “Obviously, the detectives can’t tell us everything and we understand that, we just want them to bring her home.”

Jholie’s mother also said that no one should be afraid to come forward with information.

“I urge whoever knows the whereabouts of Jholie to not be fearful,” Stewart said. “If you have her, please take her to any high school and let her walk in. You can be anonymous. And while I highly doubt Jholie is a runaway, I want her to know that if she decided to leave for whatever reason, she can come home. She’s not in trouble and we will get help and get through this together. We just want her home. That’s it. Whatever it takes, we can work it out.”

An undated photo of Jholie Moussa that was released by the Fairfax County Police Department. Fairfax County Police Department

Jholie Moussa is described as 5 feet, 2 inches tall and approximately 104 pounds. She has brown eyes and black hair, which had blonde braids at the time of her disappearance. She has a tattoo on her right shoulder of an infinity symbol with her name and her sister’s name.

The teen was last seen wearing blue jeans that were torn in the front, a black-and-white plaid shirt, a black puffy jacket with brown fur on the collar and black Ugg boots.

Anyone with information on the whereabouts of Jholie Moussa is asked to call the Fairfax County Police Department at 703-691-2131 or the FBI at 202-278-2000. Her family also has set up a “Bring Jholie Home” Facebook group to help share information about the search.An FBI official bought calendars featuring “beefcake” photos of Vladimir Putin for the early Russia probe team. AFP via Getty Images

WASHINGTON ― It was hours after Donald Trump became the president-elect, and two FBI officials, like many of their fellow citizens, were flabbergasted. Peter Strzok and Lisa Page ― both of whom had worked on the FBI investigation into Hillary Clinton’s emails, which the former secretary of state would blame for her loss ― were worried about the future of their country and their agency.

One text that Page sent Strzok early on the morning of Nov. 9, 2016, has dominated the conservative media world this week, serving as a springboard for a Republican conspiracy theory suggesting that the nation’s premier law enforcement organization was plotting a coup against Trump within hours of his stunning victory.

“Are you even going to give out your calendars? Seems kind of depressing,” Page, a FBI lawyer, wrote in the text to Strzok from her FBI-issued phone. “Maybe it should just be the first meeting of the secret society.”

Republican lawmakers seized upon the “secret society” reference this week, claiming to see sinister motives, and it started popping up all over cable news chyrons. But, in fact, it was almost certainly a joke, a bit of gallows humor after an election that featured Russian interference.

So what was that “calendars” reference all about? Out of context, it’s a bit confusing. But the backstory is actually kind of funny. The New York Times first reported that the “calendars,” which the Times said had a “Russia theme,” were a gag gift for those working on the early Russia probe.

A source familiar with the text messages filled HuffPost in on the details. It turns out that, as a joke, Strzok had purchased calendars featuring “beefcake” photos of Vladimir Putin doing manly, tough-guy things like riding a horse.

Russian President Vladimir Putin carries a hunting rifle on a trip in August 2007. DMITRY ASTAKHOV via Getty Images

It’s unclear precisely which Putin calendar Strzok bought for the team or whether it was from 2016 or 2017. A 2016 calendar featured photos of the Russian president in camouflage, lighting a candle for Christmas, standing next to a horse, smelling a flower, working out in a gym, hugging a dog and fishing without a shirt. A 2017 calendar, per a CNN report, was available by mid-October 2016 at kiosks around Moscow.

What’s remarkable about the “secret society” text message is that it has been available to reporters for more than a month, as it was included in a first set of texts that the Justice Department sent to Capitol Hill (and allowed reporters to view) in December. But it wasn’t picked up, even by Fox News (which had access to the texts), because it seemed like such an obvious joke.

That changed this week, when lawmakers began highlighting the one text on television.

Sen. Ron Johnson (R-Wis.), a prominent promoter of the “secret society” text, admitted Thursday there’s a “real possibility” that it was just a joke.

But given how the “secret society” story dominated the news for days, that was kind of like closing the barn door after the president of Russia had stripped off his shirt, jumped on top of your favorite horse, and ridden off into the sunset.

Putin Being Putin See GalleryIf a picture is worth a thousand words, what’s the going price for a knowing smirk?

That’s the response porn actress Stormy Daniels gave to “Inside Edition” when reporter Jim Moret asked her point-blank whether she had a “sexual affair” with President Donald Trump.

Daniels (real name Stephanie Clifford) has stayed out of the public eye since allegations broke in The Wall Street Journal that a lawyer for Trump paid her $130,000 in hush money before the 2016 presidential election to prevent her from revealing an alleged affair. Trump and the White House denied that he had any relationship with Daniels.

In advance clips for Thursday’s “Inside Edition,” it appears she won’t be answering the question that’s on everyone’s mind: Did she indeed have an affair with Trump?

Stormy Daniels on "Inside Edition." Inside Edition

The alleged affair reportedly took place in the summer of 2006, a year after Trump married his third wife, Melania Trump, and just months after she gave birth to their son, Barron Trump.

Some are speculating that the reports of the affair between Trump and Daniels contributed to Melania’s decision to not accompany her husband to the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland, this week.

Daniels, so far, is not talking Trump. She did, however, reveal to Moret how it felt to be portrayed on “Saturday Night Live” by Cecily Strong: “Terrifying!”Most drivers know the importance of checking tires regularly to see how worn down they are ― if you don’t, your car is an accident waiting to happen. But have you ever thought about where the worn-down stuff actually goes?

About 10-30 percent of the rubber from car tires is lost as they wear out, a European Commission review reports. The majority of that material ends up on, or at the side of, the road, but most of us don’t realize that tiny tire wear particles small enough to be inhaled are also mixed into the air we breathe.

While a number of scientific studies have found tire dust has adverse health effects, the tire industry ― and studies it has commissioned ― suggests otherwise.

The Utah Capitol is shrouded in smog in downtown Salt Lake City, Utah, in December. George Frey/Reuters

Air pollution in the U.S. causes as many as 200,000 premature deaths each year. Motor vehicles are a major source of this pollution. Exposure to pollutants from motor vehicles can cause lung and heart problems and early death, according to the Environmental Protection Agency.

Although significant work has gone into researching the contribution of emissions from exhaust pipes to air pollution, emissions such as those produced by tire wear have been largely overlooked, professor Frank Kelly, chair in environmental health at King’s College London, told HuffPost.

There is much that needs to be investigated, not only when it comes to the potential health effects but also around what actually goes into tires.

Since the recipes manufacturers use for their tires are generally kept under wraps, exactly what these tire wear particles contain is “a bit of a black box,” said Kelly, who provides policy support on air pollution to the World Health Organization.

The findings of a study co-authored by the academic in 2013 suggest that reducing exposure to tire dust would likely lead to improvements in health. But more research is needed to better understand the health effects of tire wear particles, Kelly said, especially as non-tailpipe emissions ― from brake pads and road surfaces as well as tires ― become increasingly important while exhaust emissions are brought under control.

The tire industry, however, has pushed back on suggestions that tire wear particles have health effects. The Tire Industry Project ― an industry body chaired by the three biggest tire manufacturers, Michelin, Bridgestone and Goodyear ― says it is working to develop a better understanding of the possible health and environmental effects of tire and road wear particles (TRWP).

As part of this ongoing work, it has commissioned a series of peer-reviewed publications. “The key takeaway from TIP’s research so far has been that the presence of TRWP presents no significant risk to humans and the environment,” Philippe Fonta, the managing director of TIP, told HuffPost by email.

Cyrille Roget, global head of scientific and innovations communications at Michelin Group, told HuffPost: “All the studies that we have been looking at indicate that those particles in fact do not present any danger.”

Despite repeated requests, Michelin did not provide HuffPost with these studies. Michelin did say it is developing a tire with a biodegradable tread made from material such as hay or beets.

Traffic makes its way through Times Square in New York City. Michael Nagle/Getty Images

Concerns over tire particle pollution also raise questions about frequently cited ideas for tackling vehicle-related pollution, such as electric cars.

Electric vehicles (EVs) are being touted as one of the most promising solutions to the air pollution crisis, especially in cities. But while they can significantly reduce tailpipe emissions, they won’t tackle the effects of non-tailpipe emissions from the likes of tire waste.

Jonathan Grigg, professor of pediatric respiratory and environmental medicine at Queen Mary University London, told HuffPost that cities should go further than just promoting EVs and genuinely rethink urban transport to move away from private car use.

“Yes, we can achieve a lot with EVs, but we shouldn’t lose sight of the fact that we need to be able to move around our cities in different ways than just individual cars,” said Grigg, whose research focuses on air pollution and health.

Cities around the world are experimenting with ways to get vehicles off the streets. Los Angeles is phasing out heavy-duty diesel trucks from its port and overhauling the mass transit system, while Norway is replacing car parking spaces with bike lanes and closing certain streets to private traffic in its capital city, Oslo. Brussels and Ghent in Belgium have also been experimenting with car-free initiatives, with mixed success. In Paris, major intersections are being redesigned to prioritize pedestrians and cyclists over vehicle traffic.

There’s a long way to go, however, not least of all in America. “In the current anti-regulatory political climate of the U.S., government officials are attempting to downplay the health impacts of poor air quality,” Natalie Nava, project leader at the environmental group Greenpeace USA, told HuffPost. “But don’t be fooled ― the air we breathe is important. If the government and companies fail to take action to improve our air, we will be dealing with a global health catastrophe.”

CORRECTION: A previous version of this story indicated Los Angeles is phasing out diesel trucks. In fact, it is the port of Los Angeles that is doing so.

For more content and to be part of the “This New World” community, join our Facebook Group.Adult Video News says porn star Ron Jeremy has been banned from attending its porn expo and awards this year at the Hard Rock Hotel and Casino in Las Vegas.

Organizers for the AVN Adult Entertainment Expo and Awards, which started Wednesday and will end Saturday, made the decision in November following a Rolling Stone report that detailed allegations of sexual assault against Jeremy, Brian Gross, the event’s publicist, told HuffPost on Thursday. News that the porn industry news site was banning Jeremy from its event was first reported Wednesday by The Blast.

In the Rolling Stone report, Jeremy denied raping anyone and said all “serious allegations” had been investigated by police and dismissed.

“As for the charges of Groping, I say yes, I AM A GROPER,” Jeremy told the outlet. “And by groper, I mean I get paid to show up to these shows, events, and photo shoots and touch the people and they touch me.”

Jeremy’s admission of sexual misconduct violated the event’s “zero tolerance harassment policy,” which has been in effect since Jan. 1, 2017, Gross said.

The code of conduct must be signed by all of the event’s attendees and prohibits “disrespectful and non-consensual behavior,” including physical assault, stalking and any unwelcome physical contact.

The policy is in place “to protect everyone in attendance ― male and female ― who attend the show,” Gross said. “It’s just important to create an environment for everyone to feel safe.”

In a statement to HuffPost, Jeremy said he hadn’t planned on attending this year’s awards anyway.A coalition of animal welfare groups has released horrific footage of dogs being bashed to death and blowtorched in so-called “extreme markets” in Indonesia.

Dog Meat Free Indonesia ― formed by the Indonesian groups Animal Friends Jogja and Jakarta Animal Aid Network, the United Kingdom-based Change for Animals Foundation, and Australia’s Humane Society International ― shared 12 minutes of graphic footage from a December visit to so-called “extreme markets” in North Sulawesi, a province of Indonesia.

The group filmed the video at Tomohon Extreme Market and Langowan Market, where vendors sell fruit and fresh produce alongside dogs and cats that are brutally killed on-site. Though different types of animals can be seen in the footage, the video focuses on dogs.

“It was like walking through hell. The dogs huddled together in cages, trembling with fear as they watched others being killed around them, waiting their turn,” said Dog Meat Free Indonesia campaign coordinator Lola Webber in a statement.

“The sight of absolute terror in their eyes, the thumping of the club as they were bludgeoned, their screams of pain, and the smell of burning hair and flesh, were appalling and unforgettable.”

Warning: The following video includes extremely graphic footage that viewers may find disturbing.

“Most Indonesians don’t eat dogs and cats, and this extreme cruelty tarnishes our global reputation,” said Bobby Fernando of Animal Friends Jogja. “The tourist board’s slogan of a ‘Wonderful Indonesia’ rings hollow when you’ve gazed into the eyes of a dog spattered with blood and shaking with fear.”

Nicola Beynon, head of campaigns for Humane Society International, estimates that only around 7 percent of Indonesia’s population eats dog and cat meat. She added that many animals killed and sold in these markets were strays, but some were also stolen household pets.

“There’s no need to go undercover to film. The brutality is quite open. The markets are even marketed to tourists as a tourist attraction,” she said.

“The footage my colleagues came back with was horrific. It’s an everyday event; thousands of dogs and cats are killed every week.”

The video shows dogs held in tiny, cramped wire cages. In the footage, several men can be seen roughly poking dogs toward a hole in the cage, bludgeoning them on their heads with a wooden plank, then pulling them out of the cage by their legs. The men then lay the dogs on the concrete floor of the market and bash them again. Almost immediately, they begin to blowtorch the animals with a gas flamethrower to crudely cook them.

At least one of the dogs appears to be twitching while the blowtorch is applied, suggesting it may still be alive.

Dog Meat Free Indonesia called the video “the worst animal cruelty footage our team of campaigners have ever witnessed.” The coalition is urging the Indonesian government to crack down on the dog meat industry, which is legal in the country.

Campaigners say the dog meat trade could easily spread rabies and other diseases due to the dirty conditions in the markets.

“It’s not like industrial farming, with regulations around it. You see how the dogs are treated. There is no empathy for their well-being at all. They’re pulled out of trucks, chucked on the ground, huddled in cages, then thrown on the ground. You can’t believe how callous it is,” Benyon said.

“Consider the trust dogs place in us, and the betrayal of that, especially considering many of them are stolen pets,” she continued. “The cruelty is horrendous, but it’s also a serious public health risk. Indonesia is working hard to combat rabies, and this is a major risk for rabies with dogs being moved from province to province.”

Benyon said the coalition was seeking meetings with national and provincial governments to shut down the trade and enforce existing laws to protect public safety. Humane Society International is also hosting a petition calling for the trade to be outlawed.A French family had a very close call when the parents foolishly exited their car with their young son to take photos of a group of cheetahs at a safari park in the Netherlands.

Terrified park witnesses filmed the encounter from the safety of their own car, exclaiming: “Oh, my God,” “Jesus!” and “No, no, no!”

The cheetahs can be seen on the video moving quickly toward the family. The man begins to run to the car. One of the cats appears to get into position to pounce on the mother as she carries her son to the vehicle. The woman seems to be trying to wave off the stalking cheetah as she hurries to the car.

It was the family’s second time getting out of their vehicle to photograph the cheetahs. The first time occurred without incident. The family then drove a short distance and tried again to photograph the animals. The park has signs in several languages informing visitors they must not exit their vehicles, according to National Geographic.

Cheetahs are the world’s fastest land animal, with the ability to quickly reach speeds of up to 70 mph.

Visitors are warned never to leave their cars as they drive through the park.

Niels de Wildt of the Beekse Bergen park noted that cheetahs prey on small game, so the family’s young son could have been at risk. He was incredulous that the family left their car. “The family thought it was a good idea to take photos and make films,” he told the BBC.

“These people have been incredibly lucky,” he said. “Yeah, so stay in the car.”Australia is gearing up to celebrate its national holiday this week amid growing calls for the date of the celebration to be changed out of respect for the country’s Aboriginal people.

The country celebrates its national holiday ― Australia Day ― on Jan. 26, the anniversary of the day in 1788 when British settlers arrived in Sydney to establish a prison colony. The date is commonly recognized as the birth of modern Australia, but it also marks the beginning of more than a century of trauma for the Aboriginal inhabitants of Australia, who were dispossessed of their lands, murdered by settlers and decimated by European diseases. Even today, people of indigenous heritage are subject to social, health and employment outcomes far below those of the wider Australian population.

Calls to change the date of Australia Day have existed for years, with organized protests existing since at least 1938. But a recent groundswell of support from the entertainment industry and a growing base of political support have amplified the calls for changing the date.

“Australia Day will always be known as a day of mourning for our community,” said Nathan Moran, CEO of Sydney’s Metropolitan Local Aboriginal Land Council, and a man of Thungutti and Biripai Goori heritage.

Australia Day has only been held as a nationally-recognized and consistent public holiday on Jan. 26 since 1994, but individual states have held their own formal or informal celebrations since soon after the 1788 landing.

Critics say this short history as a national holiday means it can and should be changed to a more inclusive date that all Australians, including the nation’s first people, can celebrate.

But even before its designation as a national holiday, the date was controversial. The first ‘day of mourning’ march was held in Sydney in 1938 to mark 150 years since the British arrival, with posters at the time saying the protest was against “the whitemen’s seizure of our country” and “the callous treatment of our people.” And in past years, as other Australians hold barbecues, go to the beach, or host a party, thousands of indigenous and non-indigenous people have upheld the tradition to participate in ‘Day Of Mourning’ protest marches in major cities nationwide.

“Lots of people have spoken to the sadness and inappropriateness of the 26th for a long time. It’s not something that’s come up recently,” said Moran.

An elder protester speaks during a demonstration on Australia Day on Jan. 26, 2017. Anadolu Agency via Getty Images

Calls For Change

Public support for a change of the date has increased in the last several years. A recent poll released by The Australia Institute found that 56 percent of citizens didn’t care which day the holiday is marked, and 49 percent said the holiday should not be on a day that is offensive to indigenous Australians, but only 37 percent thought Jan. 26 was an offensive day for indigenous people.

After deciding not to host Australia Day celebrations last year, several local councils announced plans to move citizenship ceremonies traditionally held on Jan. 26 day to a new date. But the federal government swiftly stepped in and stripped two of those councils of the right to host citizenship ceremonies.

But other segments of Australian society have embraced change.

Richard Di Natale, leader of the Australia Greens party ― the third-largest voting bloc in the Australian parliament ― announced last week that his party would launch a national campaign in support of changing the date of Australia Day.

“We need to acknowledge that there are people who see Jan. 26 as a day that represents pain and suffering, the ongoing effect of which can still be felt today,” he said at a press conference last week.

Members of the entertainment industry have also taken up the fight.

Triple J, Australia’s popular national youth radio station, has for many years run an annual ‘Hottest 100’ countdown on Australia Day of the top 100 songs of the previous year. However, following an online poll of its listeners, the station announced it would hold the countdown on another day this year, saying “it should be an event that everyone can enjoy together.”

The reform was in no small part due to campaigning by A.B. Original, the popular indigenous rap act. The duo are known for their politically-charged songs, which often focus on issues like racism and police brutality. Lyrics from their song “January 26,” which was voted the 16th most popular song in Triple J’s 2016 countdown, compare commemorating the date to celebrating “on your nan’s grave” and having people “piss on her face.”

“I don’t think you can find a more concise analogy. We don’t want to piss on your nan’s grave but that’s what it means to us. It’s a slap in the face,” A.B. Original member Briggs told HuffPost in 2016.

But supporters of Australia Day in its current format ― which include Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull, federal opposition leader Bill Shorten and many powerful media figures ― argue that Jan. 26 has been celebrated, formally or informally, in some way since the British settlers first arrived in 1788. They have accused those arguing for change of being motivated by political correctness or a desire to cause political division.

“I’m disappointed by those who want to change the date of Australia Day, seeking to take a day that unites Australia and Australians and turn it into one that would divide us,” Turnbull said in a Facebook video on the topic. “A free country debates its history, it does not deny it. It builds new monuments as it preserves old ones, writes new books not burn old ones.”

But Amanda Kearney, an associate professor in anthropology at the University of New South Wales, told HuffPost that it is wrong to ask Aboriginal people to simply forget the traumas of the past, as some politicians and others have suggested. Kearney, whose work focuses on Australia’s Aboriginal people, specifically studies a concept she calls “cultural wounding,” which looks at how past trauma or violence experienced by people of a certain culture can leave lasting effects that carry on far into the future for members of that culture.

“[British colonization] was an exercise in attempting to erase a rich culture. It’s a huge event in time and space, and it’s a very naïve attitude that this can go away with the passage of time, that the effects dissolve and people move on,” she said.

“The idea of celebrating Australia Day is a clear statement about what’s important to remember. It’s a celebration of an attempt to erase a whole range of diverse cultures, and ways of being.”

Therefore, Kearney argues, changing the date would be a powerful symbol that Australia wants to atone for past injustices against indigenous people.

Moran, from the Metro Local Aboriginal Land Council, agreed. He told HuffPost his heritage traces back to people from the very clans who lived on the land where British settlers first set foot in Sydney. As a result, he has strong opposition to celebrating Australia Day on Jan. 26.

“The emergence of Jan. 26 as some national patriotic day ― it’s quite sickening and appalling for our community. It’s celebrating the invasion of someone’s country. That’s not about celebrating for us,” he said. “It’s never been a day of celebration. It’s forever the day foreign invaders arrived.”

“It’ll always be a day of significance, and we’ll never forget it, don’t you worry. But I don’t think it’s a day of patriotism or celebration,” he added.

Not everyone in the indigenous community shares Moran’s commitment to changing the date. A counter-campaign to preserve the holiday on Jan. 26 counts Aboriginal woman and Alice Springs local councillor Jacinta Price as one of its major spokespersons.

“For Aboriginal people, in order to actually really grow and move forward we need to do a bit of soul-searching within ourselves and not have this expectation that everyone else around us has to change in order to make us feel better about who we are within ourselves,” Price said in an interview on ABC radio last week.

“I don’t see how the date (of Jan. 26) itself denies parts of our history. I think it’s actually significant for our history to recognize that.”

Kearney, the anthropologist, said there appears to be a generational gap among indigenous people when it comes to the date change. Older people, she noted, generally feel it is not a priority issue for Aboriginal people, while many younger people support a change.

Linda Burney, a federal member of parliament and the first indigenous woman to be elected to the House of Representatives, told HuffPost that while she acknowledged Jan. 26 was a “difficult and painful day for many First Australians,” her community had bigger issues to deal with.

“[Jan. 26] marks the usurpation of Aboriginal sovereignty. I’m not sure this ought to be the most defining moment in our nation’s history. I don’t see the date of Australia Day changing any time soon, and I don’t propose changing it,” she said in a statement.

“But I do think that we should use this day as an opportunity to reflect on the pain of the past as well as on how we can improve the lives of First Australians.”

“I think above all else, Aboriginal people are most concerned about the more concrete issues that affect their lives – like, jobs, housing, health care and education.”

A protester holds a banner during a demonstration on Australia Day 2017. Anadolu Agency via Getty Images

Moving Foward

Despite the growing support for changing the date of Australia Day, change on a political level seems out of reach for at least the near future.

While altering the date of the national holiday would realistically only require a simple decree and decision from the government, the leading two major parties support keeping the day as it is, positions that are unlikely to change in the near future. And though the Greens announced their support for a shift, the party’s position remains as the distant third party in government.

But even if political change is slow to come, the national conversation about the date has nonetheless pushed into Australian mainstream.

The simple fact that Australia Day sparks a debate each year means that this process will continue into the future.

“You either change the date or you rename it, you repackage it like you were at an ad agency. Both require fairly progressive and provocative moves by government and business and everyday people. Changing the date is probably more likely to happen, it doesn’t require an ideological shift to rename or reshape the day,” Kearney said.Protesters hold a sign reading "Stop the AfD. No Nazis in the German Parliament" in Hanover, Germany, December 2, 2017. Fabian Bimmer / Reuters

A leading member of Germany’s far-right Alternative for Germany party, known for lamenting “Islamization” of the country, has stepped down following his conversion to Islam, according to multiple reports.

Arthur Wagner resigned from his position in the German state of Brandenburg on Jan. 11 for “personal reasons,” party spokesman Daniel Friese said Wednesday. Friese added that the party has no issue with Wagner’s decision.

It’s unclear what prompted Wagner’s religious conversion. Alternative for Germany, or AfD, rose to prominence beginning in 2015 with the influx of refugees and migrants into Europe. The party worked to appeal to mainstream Germans by stoking fear of a cultural overhaul and a threat to the German lifestyle.

“What they’ve done is create this extraordinary newspeak where all of their positions are justified in terms of liberal arguments about right to an identity, right to a separate culture ― arguments about how far a Western culture can absorb a non-Western culture,” Roger Griffin, an expert on fascism and modern history at Oxford Brookes University, told HuffPost last year.“When Mossad reported that Arafat was flying more commercial flights, with the PLO often buying the entire first-class or business-class cabin for him and his aides, Sharon decided that such flights would be legitimate targets. The plane would have to be shot down over the open sea, far from the coast, so that it would take investigators a long time to find the wreckage and establish whether it had been hit by a missile or had crashed because of engine failure.

“Deep water would be preferable, to make recovery even more difficult.”JALALABAD, Afghanistan (Reuters) - Four gunmen stormed an office of the Save the Children aid agency in the Afghan city of Jalalabad on Wednesday and battled security forces who surrounded the building, killing at least one person and wounding 11, officials said.

The attack began with a suicide car bomb outside the office, followed by gunmen entering the compound and fighting Afghan special forces, a spokesman for the government in the eastern province said.

“There was a blast and the target was Save the Children,” said spokesman Attaullah Khogyani. “Attackers entered the compound and the fight is going on.”

Some witnesses said the attackers appeared to have been wearing a police uniform, a commonly used tactic, but there was no immediate official confirmation.

The director of the provincial health department said 11 wounded people had been taken to the hospital.

Smoke rises from a blast near the office of the Save the Children aid agency in Jalalabad, Afghanistan, on Wednesday. Reuters TV / Reuters

As security forces fought their way in, they recovered one body inside the compound but the person’s identity was not clear. At least one gunmen was still fighting, Khogyani said.

“An explosion rocked the area and right after that children and people started running away,” said Ghulam Nabi, who was nearby when the bomb exploded. “I saw a vehicle catch fire and then a gunfight started.”

Islamic State claimed responsibility for the attack, according to the militant group’s news agency Amaq, though it did not provide immediate evidence for the claim.

Vehicles are seen on fire after a blast in Jalalabad. Parwiz Parwiz / Reuters

There are several other aid groups and government offices in the immediate area, and security forces evacuated people from surrounding buildings while they exchanged fire with the militants.

Jalalabad is the capital of Nangarhar province, on the porous border with Pakistan.

The province has become a stronghold for Islamic State, which has grown to become one of Afghanistan’s most dangerous militant groups since it appeared around the beginning of 2015.

Backed by intensive U.S. air strikes, Afghan forces have claimed growing success against the Taliban and other militant groups, including Islamic State, but militant attacks on civilian targets have continued, causing heavy casualties.

The attack in Jalalabad came just days after Taliban militants attacked the Hotel Intercontinental in the capital, Kabul, killing at least 20 people, including 13 foreigners.

The attack underlined how difficult operating in Afghanistan has become for humanitarian aid organizations which have faced heavy pressure from armed groups and kidnappers.PORTO ALEGRE, Brazil, Jan 24 (Reuters) - A Brazilian appeals court upheld the corruption conviction of former President Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva on Wednesday, a major blow to the plans of the country’s most influential politician to run for the presidency again this year.

The first two of three judges voted to uphold Lula’s convictions on taking bribes and money laundering and agreed with the prosecutors’ request to lengthen the prison sentence of Brazil’s first working-class leader, who remains free pending future appeals.

Lula, 72, could now be ineligible to stand for election under Brazil’s “Ficha Limpa” or “Clean Record” law, which bans political candidates whose convictions are upheld by an appelate court. However, an electoral court must make the final ruling on a candidacy, and would only do so once a candidate had registered.

Lula can appeal Wednesday’s decision to higher courts to delay a final decision, possibly avoiding jail and stringing the process out long enough to register his candidacy by the Aug. 15 deadline.

Lula is one of scores of powerful politicians and businessmen caught up in sweeping corruption probes that have wracked the Brazilian establishment since 2014.

His exclusion from the election would radically alter the political landscape ahead of a campaign in which Lula is the early favorite, with 36 percent of voter preferences according to pollster Datafolha. That is double the percentage of his nearest rival, the far-right congressman and former army captain Jair Bolsonaro, who has been energized by anti-Lula sentiment.

Brazil’s benchmark Bovespa stock index has risen 8 percent so far this year, propped up by expectations Lula will be barred from the election, clearing the way for a more market-friendly candidate who would stick to Brazil’s austerity agenda.

The Bovespa hit an all-time high on Wednesday as the first of three judges on the court began reading his decision, dismissing a series of arguments presented by Lula’s lawyers.

Brazil’s currency, the real, firmed 1.6 percent against the U.S. dollar, leading gains in Latin America.

MORE CASES

Lula faces six other indictments in corruption cases ranging from receiving bribes from engineering firm Odebrecht to obstructing justice and trafficking his influence to obtain government decisions favoring the auto industry. He is among over 100 people convicted in the “Car Wash” investigation, the most sprawling of Brazil’s numerous probes, focused on graft involving oil firm Petroleo Brasileiro and other state-run companies.

Speaking at a union rally on the outskirts of Sao Paulo on Wednesday, Lula told the crowd, “I committed no crime.”

“The only fair decision today would be a 3-0 ruling that I was wrongly convicted and sentenced,” Lula said

BEACHSIDE APARTMENT

Lula was convicted of corruption and money laundering last year for accepting a beachside apartment from an engineering firm vying for contracts with the state oil company known as Petrobras.

Prosecutors said the apartment and its refurbishing was a bribe worth 3.7 million reais ($1.1 million). Lula maintains he never owned the penthouse apartment, criticizing prosecutors for relying on the plea bargain testimony of one witness, businessman Leo Pinheiro.

“His word is not enough to incriminate Lula,” Lula’s lawyer Cristiano Zanin told the appeals court.A prominent, decades-old U.K. charity known for its annual, men-only fundraising dinners announced that it will close following reports that some of its guests groped and sexually harassed hostesses hired for an event last week.

The announcement comes a day after the Financial Times published a bombshell article on Tuesday detailing misogyny and abuse at what the Presidents Club Charitable Trust’s host proudly proclaimed to be “the most un-PC event of the year.”

The newspaper sent two female reporters to the club’s charity dinner, both of whom posed as waitresses to get a behind-the-scenes look at the black-tie event.

“All of the women were told to wear skimpy black outfits with matching underwear and high heels,” FT reporter Madison Marriage wrote. “At an after-party many hostesses — some of them students earning extra cash — were groped, sexually harassed and propositioned.”

In the wake of the report, the charity announced that it would close; businessman David Meller, one of the event’s organizers, stepped down from his position on the board of the Department for Education. Several of the children’s hospitals that have received funds from the charity said they would return all donations raised at the event.

Over the more than 30 years that the annual dinners have taken place, the charity has raised nearly $30 million for nonprofits supporting children.

“The trustees have decided that the Presidents Club will not host any further fund-raising events,” the charity said in a statement to The New York Times. “Remaining funds will be distributed in an efficient manner to children’s charities and it will then be closed.”

More than 300 tycoons of business, politics and finance attended the event, FT reported, which took place on Jan. 18 at The Dorchester hotel in London. Roughly 130 women were hired to be hostesses for the event and were reportedly warned that the men at the event might be “annoying.”

In an appearance on BBC’s Newsnight on Tuesday, Marriage said she was groped several times and heard the same from other hostesses.

“It is hands on skirts, hands on hips, on stomachs, arms going around your waist unexpectedly,” the reporter said.

Marriage recounted one of the worst stories she heard from other women that night, saying that one hostess claimed a guest had exposed his genitals to her during the course of the dinner. Another said a man told her to “down her glass of champagne, rip off her knickers and dance on the table.”

A spokesperson for Great Ormond Street Hospital Children’s Charity, which had received over $750,000 from the Presidents Club between 2009 and 2016, responded to the reports.

“We are shocked to hear of the behavior reported at the Presidents Club Charitable Trust fundraising dinner. We would never knowingly accept donations raised in this way,” the spokesperson said.

Several members of Parliament also expressed their outrage over the report, with some calling for tougher workplace equality laws to prevent future abuse.The Post, citing several unnamed former U.S. officials, said it was supposed to be a “get-to-know-you meeting” after Trump had fired former FBI Director James Comey, which left McCabe, the deputy director at the time, in charge of the bureau.

McCabe told Trump that he did not vote, according to the Post, which said the incident left McCabe feeling “disturbed.”

The newspaper also said Trump had “vented” about nearly $500,000 in donations McCabe’s wife, Jill, had received during her failed 2015 Virginia state Senate bid from a political action committee controlled by former Virginia Gov. Terry McAuliffe, a friend of Bill and Hillary Clinton.

McCabe has since returned to his role as deputy director, following Christopher Wray’s confirmation as new director in August. Wray reportedly threatened to resign when Attorney General Jeff Sessions pressured him to fire McCabe.“Late Night with Seth Meyers ” resurrected the spoof segment in which Trump’s inner monologue has its say during important encounters.

Check out Trump’s verbal stream of consciousness as he stood next to Vice President Mike Pence above, and other world leaders below:Sen. Bernie Sanders’ televised town hall on Tuesday night to promote single-payer health care, or “Medicare for all,” drew a live audience of about 1.1 million people ― all but a few hundred of whom viewed the event online.

For Sanders, whose single-payer health care legislation elicited the support of over one-third of the Senate Democratic Caucus, the 90-minute broadcast at the U.S. Capitol visitors center was an opportunity to promote a top policy priority while thumbing his nose at the “corporate media.”

“This is the first Medicare for all town meeting held in our nation’s capital. This is the first nationally televised town meeting on Medicare for all,” Sanders said in his introductory remarks. “And very importantly, this is the first nationally televised Senate town meeting that is taking place outside of corporate media.”

Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.) relished making his case that the United States should follow other countries that treat health care as a right. Bloomberg/Getty Images

The Vermont senator is a frequent critic of mainstream news outlets for their alleged focus on superficial political matters and failure to entertain narratives that threaten their corporate owners. Although Sanders has participated in more than one live health care debate on CNN, he told The Washington Post earlier this month that a large media network failed to respond to his inquiries about a broadcast solely on the topic of government-provided health care coverage.

But Sanders’ town hall, which was co-hosted by the left-leaning online video news outlets The Young Turks, NowThis and ATTN, demonstrated that a lengthy seminar on the complicated topic of single-payer health care can draw a crowd as large as many primetime cable news shows.

The auditorium itself was packed to capacity with some 450 attendees. And together, the live audiences on the senator’s Facebook and YouTube pages, the the three news sites and some other outlets that picked up the stream added up to about 1.1 million people.

The event consisted of three expert panel discussions moderated by Sanders: the first discussing problems with the current American health care system; the second on the potential economic impact of a “Medicare for all” program; and the third comparing the American health care system with those in other countries. Each of the three segments also featured questions from the live audience and video queries submitted online.

Since revealing his new single-payer bill in September, Sanders has doggedly promoted it. In October, he even toured top-flight health care facilities in Toronto to showcase the achievements of the single-payer system in Canada.

Some of Sanders’ guests on Tuesday, including Richard Masters, the pro-single payer CEO of MCS, a Pennsylvania-based picture frame maker, and Dr. Claudia Fegan, chief medical officer for the Cook County Health and Hospital System in Chicago, were veterans of his legislative rollout and his Canada trip, respectively.

Other guests were new ― like Dr. Donald Berwick, a Harvard medical school professor who led the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services in the Obama administration ― reflecting the steady progress of Sanders’ cause into the mainstream. As one of the Democratic Party’s premier health policy experts and technocrats, Berwick’s imprimatur is a major asset.

“You can stand up for people. Why wouldn’t we do that for all Americans, not just people over 65?” - Dr. Don Berwick, Harvard

When Sanders asked whether there was any good reason not to expand Medicare, Berwick replied, “No, there’s no reason. It’s just will.”

Berwick described how Medicare’s public mission and centralized bargaining power, as the insurer for some 55 million Americans, allowed him to easily troubleshoot problems like the over-sedation of nursing home patients.

“You can stand up for people,” Berwick recalled of his position at Medicare’s helm. “Why wouldn’t we do that for all Americans, not just people over 65?”

Sanders relished the opportunity to tee panelists up with knowing questions that knocked down conservative straw man arguments against single-payer health care.

The exercise was likely most useful for hardened single-payer advocates looking for a pep rally and for center-left Americans concerned about health care affordability who haven’t settled on a policy framework to explain the system’s problems. It is less predictable how Sanders’ pitch would fare with more skeptical health care consumers.

As Sanders is fond of noting, polling shows that a majority of Americans support single-payer health care.

But nearly half of Americans get health coverage from an employer, and they’d be forced to give up what they have and pay higher taxes for an expanded version of Medicare that might not produce promised cost savings overnight. The passage of the Affordable Care Act provoked hysteria through its cancellation of some 400,000 individuals’ health care plans; there is no telling how people would react to a forced transition of much greater proportions.

But Sanders, who has been campaigning for single-payer health care since he first entered Congress in 1991, is betting that the movement is finally accelerating. What makes the current moment different, he argued, is that the same digital revolution that made his campaign possible also allows progressives to communicate directly with the public.

“The reason we’re doing this program tonight is you don’t see this stuff,” he said in his concluding remarks. “It ain’t gonna be on CBS. It ain’t gonna be on NBC.”NEW YORK― Planned Parenthood President Cecile Richards is planning to leave the organization after heading it for more than a decade, she confirmed in a statement.

Richards said that leading the organization “has been the honor of my lifetime.”

“Together, we have made real progress in this country, expanding access to services and making reproductive rights a central priority of our nation’s health care system,” she said. Richards added that she would continue to advocate for “the basic rights and health care that all people deserve.”

“I’ve been an activist my entire life — and that won’t stop any time soon,” she said. Planned Parenthood has not provided details on who might take Richards’ place.

Richards, the 60-year-old daughter of the late Texas Gov. Ann Richards (D), has been the iconic face of Planned Parenthood since 2006, during which time she transformed the family planning provider into a massively influential political force for abortion rights.

Each time Republicans in Congress have tried to defund the organization since taking over the House of Representatives in 2011, Planned Parenthood has bounced back stronger, gaining tens of thousands of new members and huge fundraising spikes. The group now has 11 million supporters ― with 1.5 million having joined in the past year.

Planned Parenthood flexed its political muscle last year after Donald Trump became president. Two of the main campaign promises made by Trump and Republican leaders in Congress were to defund Planned Parenthood and to repeal the Affordable Care Act. But despite having control of the House, Senate and White House, Republicans failed at both missions.

Richards attributes that failure to the groundswell of support for Planned Parenthood and its mission.

“If you had told me a year ago that we could block the defunding of Planned Parenthood and the repeal of the Affordable Care Act, the two signature things Republicans promised ... no one would have believed it,” she told HuffPost last week. “It happened because you couldn’t go to a single town hall meeting without facing angry women in pink hats and T-shirts.”

House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi (D-Calif.) commended Richards’ work in a statement.

“As an organizer, activist, and leader, Cecile has helped launch a nationwide movement to defend and advance women’s rights, and in doing so, she has inspired countless women to march, vote, run, and win,” Pelosi said. “Her leadership will be deeply missed, but I am confident that Cecile will continue to be a warrior for all women as she begins the next chapter of her journey.”

“Cecile has shown what it means to be a true fighter for the rights of women,” Sen. Kamala Harris (D-Calif.) said in a statement. “In the face of unprecedented attacks, she has never backed down from a fight and always stood strong for the patients and doctors at Planned Parenthood and women across America. She put inclusive access to reproductive health care at the forefront of the political conversation and has shown it is not only key to women’s well-being, but also to true equality.”