Policemen and emergency responders stand in a blocked street in Paris near the site of Saturday's knife attack. THOMAS SAMSON via Getty Images

A man wielding a knife was shot dead in central Paris on Saturday evening after killing one person and injuring several others, sources close to the investigation told France’s AFP news agency.

The man attacked five people, French police said on Twitter, leaving two in serious condition and two in fair condition.

The Islamic State’s news agency said a “soldier” of the extremist group carried out the attack, and AFP reported that authorities have launched a terror probe.

The incident took place in the city’s 2nd Arrondissement near the Palais Garnier opera house, an area packed with shops and tourists.

Witnesses described a scene of chaos in which people ran to hide in restaurants and cafes. Some dove to the floor.

Personnel are seen at the scene of a knife attack in Paris on May 12 in this still image obtained from a video. Reuters TV / Reuters

“Tonight, our city is wounded,” Paris Mayor Anne Hidalgo said in a tweet, which has been translated from the French. “My first thoughts are with the family of the victim who lost their life. I am also thinking about the wounded and their loved ones. I want to tell them that all Parisians are at their side.

Police guard the scene of a knife attack in Paris on May 12. Reuters TV / Reuters

French Interior Minister Gerard Collomb praised the “cool” response of emergency responders.

French President Emmanuel Macron, a centrist elected last year over a controversial far-right opponent, also tweeted his response.

“All of my thoughts go to the victims and the wounded of the knife attack perpetrated this evening in Paris, as well as to their loves ones,” Macron said. “On behalf of all the French people, I salute the courage of the police officers who neutralized the terrorist.”

“France once again pays a price in blood, but does not cede an inch to the enemies of liberty,” he said.

Authorities are warning the public not to spread rumors about the attack.CIA Director Mike Pompeo has been interviewed in Special Counsel Robert Mueller’s investigation into President Donald Trump’s campaign’s ties to Russia, NBC News reported Wednesday.

The report, which doesn’t specify when Pompeo was questioned, also says Mueller’s office spoke to Director of National Intelligence Dan Coats and National Security Agency Director Mike Rogers last year.

A source told NBC the three men were questioned about former FBI Director James Comey’s firing. Trump dismissed Comey in May and later publicly admitted that the Russia investigation was a factor in that decision.

Mueller’s questioning of officials about Comey’s firing suggests he’s looking into obstruction of justice allegations, The Washington Post noted on Tuesday.

The New York Times reported on Tuesday that Mueller’s team has also spoken to Comey and to Attorney General Jeff Sessions, who recused himself from the probe because of conversations he’d had with Russia’s U.S. ambassador. According to the Times, Comey was questioned about memos he had written during his time as FBI director about his interactions with the president.

The Justice Department confirmed on Tuesday that Sessions was interviewed in the probe. According to NBC, “numerous members of Trump’s campaign and White House inner circle” have also been questioned.

NBC’s report shows that Trump Cabinet members were involved with Mueller’s investigation far earlier than previously known. Until Wednesday, Sessions was the only member of Trump’s Cabinet known to have been questioned by Mueller’s team.

Former White House strategist Steve Bannon has indicated he will cooperate with Mueller’s team. It’s unclear if Trump himself will be interviewed.Joshua Roberts / Reuters

Last weekend’s shutdown didn’t help the image of anyone in Washington, a new survey finds, although it’s less clear how much of the public really cares — or knows — about three days worth of Capitol Hill skirmishing.

Polls on who bears the most responsibility for the shutdown vary, in part based on which groups respondents are given the option to blame. But in a HuffPost/YouGov poll, Americans have plenty of reproach to go around.

Congress as a whole gets the worst marks, with 61 percent disapproving of the legislative body’s handling of the shutdown. Both congressional Democrats and Republicans get negative ratings from a majority of the public. Smaller pluralities also disapprove of the role played by President Donald Trump, and by their own congressional representatives.

HuffPost

But only about 9 percent of the public say they were in some way personally affected by the shutdown. And even that number probably overstates the share who faced any concrete harm — for some of them, the impact was, to put it charitably, nebulous. “Democrats are cry babies and I had to hear about it during this time,” one respondent said, while another explained that the whole thing had made him sad.

Some, however, said they’d faced furloughs or job-related uncertainty, or a lapse in services over the weekend.

“I am a government contractor who was furloughed, and will not be paid for the time off, unlike government employees who inevitably will be paid,” one Nevada man wrote. “It also dragged out some old memories of ... government shutdowns in the past [that] affected me and my troops when I was still active-duty military.”

Among the small group of respondents who said they’d been affected, more than 80 percent report following the shutdown closely, with a plurality considering it a very serious problem.

But among the full public, it’s a different story. Although 64 percent of the public said the shutdown was at least a somewhat serious problem, just 29 percent considered it very serious. Just under a quarter report following the shutdown very closely, with another third saying they paid somewhat close attention to it. Only 30 percent said they have a very good understanding of what caused the showdown.

Other survey results suggest that some of the complicated political dynamics of the shutdown eluded many: while 43 percent knew that Republicans in Congress were divided during the closure, 23 percent thought they were united, with the rest unsure. A plurality weren’t sure how much immigration advocates had been asked to compromise to resolve the shutdown, or to what extent they’d gotten what they wanted from the debate.

As part of the survey, we asked some of respondents who said they’d paid at least a little attention to the shutdown to explain, in their own words, exactly what happened.

“Republicans don’t have enough votes in the Senate to invoke cloture without some Democratic support,” one man, who followed the news online and on the radio, wrote. “The Democrats used what little leverage they had as the minority party to get concessions on the [Children’s Health Insurance Program] and to get a vote on immigration.”

Of those who answered the question, under half mentioned immigration, the dispute over the Deferred Action got Childhood Arrivals program, or the border wall.

About a quarter had only a vague impression of government dysfunction (“A bunch of politicians would rather shut down the government than compromise”), or, in some cases, not even that (“I honestly don’t know why the government shut down but I’m guessing it did for an important reason or maybe Donald Trump ordered for it to happen? I have no clue”).

Even among those following the matter more closely, answers varied widely along political lines.

“Democrats voted to shut down the government despite the fact they disapproved of nothing” in the funding bill, summarized one Republican-leaning independent, who said she’d learned about the closure from watching local television and Fox News. “It was posturing on their part to distract from Trump’s first year anniversary in office.”

“Democrats voted against passing the budget because they want funding to go towards illegal aliens and DACA,” another Republican wrote. “There’s more to it I’m sure, but that is the underlying reason. People that don’t enter our country without taking the proper steps and following the law are more important to far left liberals than actual tax paying US citizens, no matter how they spin it.”

Those across the aisle offered rather different explanations.

“Moderates on both sides had come to an agreement, but hardliners on immigration like Stephen Miller blew it up,” one Democrat said, referring to the White House aide known for his restrictionist immigration views. “Now we wait until February to go through this all over again.” (On that point, Americans as a whole are similarly pessimistic: 60 percent think it’s at least somewhat likely that, within the next month, the government will shut down again.)

“Democrats wanted a deal on [DACA],” wrote another Democrat, who said he stayed up-to-date on the shutdown by watching MSNBC. “Republicans wanted their boss to have his wall, and don’t care if hundreds of thousands of children, and law-abiding people have their lives ruined to get that done. Republicans shut down the government. Dems caved. Government re-opened.”

He wasn’t the only one to appear unimpressed with his party’s handling of the situation. Congress’ lousy numbers for handling the shutdown are driven largely by the fact that, while Democrats and Republicans are likely to lay more blame at the feet of one another, neither side seems overwhelmingly thrilled with their own leaders, either.

Just two-thirds of Republicans and Republican-leaning independents say they approve of the GOP’s handling of the shutdown, while fewer than half of Democrats approve of the Democratic Party’s approach. Unusually, Democrats even say by a two-to-one margin that they disapprove of their own representatives’ performance.

“Democrats and Republicans refused to deal with issues that they knew were coming until the budget and public pressure drove them to it,” griped one Michigan Democrat, who said she disapproved of every group’s handling of the shutdown. “It is not like the budget does not come around every year, and this continued drama is ridiculous.”

Just 9 percent of Democrats and Democratic-leaning independents think their party got everything or most of what it wanted from the shutdown, while 43 percent think it got only some of what was sought, and 24 percent said it got nothing. Just over three in 10 say the party compromised too much.

Republicans and Republican leaners perceive their leaders as faring somewhat better: 36 percent think the GOP got most or all of what it wanted, another 36 percent that it got some, and just 4 percent that it didn’t get anything. Just 16 percent think the GOP compromised too much.

More shutdown polling:

YouGov: “No gains from the shutdown, just lots of blame to go around”

Quinnipiac: “Dems, Trump Share Blame For ‘Unnecessary’ Shutdown”

NBC/SurveyMonkey: “Poll: Democrats, Trump to blame for government shutdown”

Washington Post: “Who do Americans blame for the shutdown? The people they already hate.”

Fox News: “Voters spread the blame for government shutdown”

Use the widget below to further explore the results of the HuffPost/YouGov survey, using the menu at the top to select survey questions and the buttons at the bottom to filter the data by subgroups:

The HuffPost/YouGov poll consisted of 1,000 completed interviews conducted Jan. 22-23 among U.S. adults, using a sample selected from YouGov’s opt-in online panel to match the demographics and other characteristics of the adult U.S. population.

HuffPost has teamed up with YouGov to conduct daily opinion polls. You can learn more about this project and take part in YouGov’s nationally representative opinion polling. More details on the polls’ methodology are available here.The second season of HBO’s “Big Little Lies” will up the ante on star power, thanks to the presence of none other than Meryl Streep.

The three-time Oscar winner has signed on to play Mary Louise Wright, the mother of Perry Wright (Alexander Skarsgård) in the acclaimed series. Following Perry’s death in the show’s first season finale, Wright arrives in Monterey concerned for the well-being of her grandchildren and searching for answers, Variety reported Wednesday.

HBO welcomed Streep, who received her 21st Academy Award nomination Tuesday for “The Post,” to the cast on Twitter.

Streep will join returning stars Reese Witherspoon and Nicole Kidman in Season 2, which has been greenlit for seven episodes. The rest of the cast are still negotiating deals.

“Big Little Lies” is expected to return in 2019.Jodie Whittaker, who portrays the 13th Doctor on “Doctor Who,” just scored a major victory for pay equality.

Speaking backstage at Britain’s National Television Awards on Tuesday, Whittaker said she will receive the same salary as her predecessor, Peter Capaldi, on the BBC series, Digital Spy reported.

The BBC came under intense criticism after a report last year found women at the network were paid significantly less than men. The network has since promised pay equality by 2020.

“It’s an incredibly important time and the notion should be supported,” Whittaker said at Tuesday’s event, per the Telegraph.

Last year, Tony Hall, director general of the BBC, also said Whittaker would be paid the same as her predecessor, the Evening Standard reported.

According to the Radio Times, Capaldi was paid somewhere between $280,000 and $350,000 for his work on the show. He likely received additional amounts from BBC Worldwide for overseas broadcasts and the cult show’s extensive merchandising. Those payments aren’t reported by the BBC.

AdvertisementScott Pruitt, head of the Environmental Protection Agency, claims his limitation on scientific advisers will "strengthen member independence." Aaron Bernstein / Reuters

The Environmental Protection Agency has been sued over an October directive issued by Administrator Scott Pruitt prohibiting scientists who receive funding from the agency from serving on its advisory boards.

In a lawsuit filed Wednesday, the Union of Concerned Scientists, a nonprofit advocacy group, and Dr. Elizabeth “Lianne” Sheppard, a professor at the University of Washington School of Public Health and a member of the EPA Clean Air Scientific Advisory Committee, argue that the agency’s directive is “arbitrary” and “an attempt to delegitimize science.”

The directive “is an attack on science itself, as it portrays legitimate, independent scientists ― who provide accurate, evidence-based information backed by verifiable, peer reviewed research in order to inform environmental policy ― as just another interest group seeking to advance an agenda,” the lawsuit claims.

The suit contends that Pruitt’s directive violates the Federal Advisory Committee Act, a 1972 law that requires such committees to be fairly balanced and “not be inappropriately influenced by the appointing authority or by any special interest.”

“I am committed to serving on federal advisory committees because I believe this is one of the most effective ways for me to use my scientific expertise to promote public health,” Sheppard said in a statement Wednesday. “This directive forces me to choose between my own work and my commitment to the public.”

In order to keep her seat on an advisory committee, Sheppard told HuffPost, she chose to walk away from a $3 million grant her university recently received from the EPA. The funding would have allowed her to continue studying how air pollution affects the cardiovascular system.

“I’ve been working on the study for over 10 years,” Sheppard said. “So, yeah, I would like to continue to work on that study ― absolutely. ... The EPA already has good processes in place to review and manage conflicts of interest, and I don’t think this directive contributes to that.”

For many scientists, funding from the EPA or other government agencies is one of the few financial resources available. While Pruitt claimed the ban would “strengthen member independence,” critics said the move would clear a path for industry-friendly advisers to gain more influence within the agency.

“Anti-democratic governments thrive on obfuscating truth and seeking to suppress scientists.” - Jamila Benkato, counsel at Protect Democracy

In a statement Wednesday, Joshua Goldman, senior legal analyst for the Union of Concerned Scientists, called the directive “an abuse of power and an affront to the scientific integrity of the EPA and the federal government.”

The nonpartisan legal advocacy nonprofit Protect Democracy and the law firm Jenner & Block filed the suit for the plaintiffs in the U.S. District Court for the District of Massachusetts.

“Anti-democratic governments thrive on obfuscating truth and seeking to suppress scientists and other authoritative voices that offer accurate information,” said Protect Democracy counsel Jamila Benkato. “The EPA’s directive is one more example of the administration’s assault on facts.”

Under Pruitt, a Trump appointee and longtime fossil fuel proponent, the EPA has taken a more industry-friendly approach to regulations and rolled back a number of environmental protections. Several veteran EPA officials have quit since Pruitt came on board, while dozens of other people have been booted from their positions on the agency’s scientific advisory boards.

Michael Abboud, press secretary for the EPA, told HuffPost he could not comment on pending litigation. But Liz Bowman, associate administrator for the agency’s Office of Public Affairs, said Pruitt’s statement from an October press release about the directive spoke “directly” to the claims in the lawsuit.The world where Olivia Pope and Annalise Keating collide is sure to be extremely badass and this photo is proof.

A shot of the special was given exclusively to Entertainment Weekly and we are so freakin’ excited:

A post shared by Entertainment Weekly (@entertainmentweekly) on Jan 24, 2018 at 5:57am PST

All that’s currently known is that Annalise will appear on “Scandal” and then Olivia, President Mellie Grant’s chief of staff, will appear on “How to Get Away with Murder.” It’s still unclear as to how the two women will cross paths, but, if nothing else, it’ll definitely be dramatic.

Viola Davis told Entertainment Weekly that filming “was black girl magic on steroids!”

“Me and Kerry dancing to ‘Rock the Boat’? Hey, it can’t get any better,” she added.

AdvertisementJoel Taylor, the star of Discovery Channel’s “Storm Chasers,” has died at age 38, according to friends and associates.

“I am shocked and absolutely devastated by the loss of my incredible, caring friend,” “Storm Chasers” co-star Reed Timmer wrote on Twitter.

RIP my best friend and storm chasing partner, Joel Taylor. I am shocked and absolutely devastated by the loss of my incredible, caring friend. We chased so many intense storms, and I wish we could have just one more storm chase. I'll miss you forever, Joel. We lost a legend pic.twitter.com/htN45t8wik — Reed Timmer (@ReedTimmerAccu) January 24, 2018

The Team Western OK Chaser Facebook page in Taylor’s native Oklahoma mourned his passing, calling him an “inspiration.”

“He didn’t chase for the glory he chased because he had a true passion for storms,” the passage said. “In the last few years he’d load up with his dad and go chase and not even take a camera.”

A cause of death had yet to be determined, according to the entry.

Taylor, who studied meteorology at the University of Oklahoma, joined “Storm Chasers” in 2008, tracking twisters up close behind the wheel in Tornado Alley with Timmer, a college buddy who led the show’s team from TornadoVideos.Net.

According to Discovery’s bio on Taylor, the two had a professional falling-out over their “scientific mission” at some point. Taylor quit the team to pursue real estate and then returned again to serve as Timmer’s wheelman. The show was canceled in 2012.

Taylor was born in Elk City, Oklahoma, and was living in Norman, Oklahoma, his condolence-filled Facebook page noted.

On Jan. 15 he gleefully announced, “My first niece arrived this morning!”Veteran U.S. diplomat and former New Mexico Gov. Bill Richardson abruptly resigned on Wednesday from an international panel established to advise Myanmar on its explosive Rohingya crisis, decrying the country’s lack of “moral leadership” in a scornful letter.

“It appears that the Board is likely to become a cheerleading squad for government policy as opposed to proposing genuine policy changes that are desperately needed to assure peace, stability, and development in Rakhine State,” he wrote. “In initial meetings with members of the Advisory Board and [Myanmar’s civil leader Aung San Suu Kyi], it has become clear that I cannot in good conscience serve in this role.”

Richardson, who served as the U.S. ambassador to the United Nations under President Bill Clinton, told Reuters that the panel had become “a whitewash.” A scheduled trip by its members to Myanmar’s border “just seemed like a big photo-op,” he said in an interview with the Associated Press.

His remarks come as Suu Kyi has faced mounting international criticism as hundreds of thousands of Rohingyas have fled Myanmar to seek refuge in neighboring Bangladesh. Suu Kyi, a Nobel laureate and former political prisoner, has actively denied and downplayed damning reports of state-sanctioned abuse against the minority Muslims.

Many of these reported assaults by state officials ― including rape, arson, shootings, beatings and torture ― amount to ethnic cleansing and crimes against humanity, according to international rights organizations.

Richardson said that in the advisory panel’s initial meeting with Suu Kyi, “I was taken aback by the vigor with which the media, the United Nations, human rights groups, and in general the international community were disparaged.”

Richardson, who noted that he has known Suu Kyi for decades and visited her when she was a political prisoner, also lambasted her “furious response” to his concerns about two journalists who have been detained in Myanmar for more than a month.

Reuters reporters Wa Lone and Kyaw Soe, who both covered the Rohingya crisis extensively from within the country, were taken into custody in December for allegedly intending “to send important security documents regarding security forces in Rakhine State to foreign agencies abroad,” according to Myanmar’s information ministry. They face charges under the colonial-era Official Secrets Act, with a maximum jail sentence of 14 years.Hey, Super Bowl, you may have some unfriendly visitors coming your way.

A video of abusive Philadelphia Eagles fans taken Sunday by a Minnesota Vikings supporter has gone viral. The footage shows the home team faithful hurling F-bombs and raising middle fingers in 80 seconds of sheer ugliness before the Eagles prevailed in the NFC Championship to reach the big game.

“A short snippet of what we walked through to get into the stadium!” Vikings fan April Thomas said of the video, which she posted Sunday. She tagged it #phillyfansshouldbeashamed. The clip has been viewed millions of times.

If there were a Super Bowl for swearing, these folks would have advanced to it, so consider yourself warned:

Thomas didn’t immediately respond to a request for comment.

At least this group didn’t pelt the Vikings’ team bus with beer cans afterward as another did ― reinforcing the Philly loyalists’ notorious reputation.

Here’s more reported beer can-throwing ― at Vikings fans this time:

Remember, this is the same fan base that legendarily booed Santa Claus and pelted him with snowballs at an Eagles game.

And they’re all yours, Super Bowl.Payton Bradley now attends college in Denver. Outsports

This story originally appeared on Outsports.

I grew up playing sports, but golf was always special. My dad loved the sport, and taught me how to play from a very young age. We had years of great bonding that I’ll never forget, memories I carried with me until high school.

I had gone to golf camps every year, competed in different kid’s league tournaments, and had enough practice that I made it on the team my freshman year of 2011-12. I was very excited to do something I truly enjoyed on a high school level, and I practiced with my dad the summer before school.

Things did not go very well, though. Early in the school year, I was outed as gay by a guy I had trusted and thought would keep my secret. The news spread quickly in my small high school, and within a few days everyone knew.

The response was harsh. People would make fun of me, call me names and tell me I was too ugly to be gay. Guys would yell profanities at me in the hall and threaten to beat me up for no reason.

It was traumatizing to have something so private and scary suddenly released to everyone. I had known I was gay for years at that point, but had no intention of being out. Growing up in the small farm town of Plainview, Texas, was not the most acceptable place for a gay person to fit in.

I felt completely alone and devastated. I hated myself for being gay, and wanted to just be normal more than anything. I tried so hard to convince other people, and myself, that I wasn’t gay, that it was just a rumor. Nobody believed me. They just kept laughing.

During this time, members of the JV golf team at Plainview High School instantly descended on me. A sport that once made me feel calm, relaxed, and at home now gave me painful knots in my stomach.

Every day after school, five or six guys would yell “FAGGOT!” and tell me to go home. They would threaten me and tell me I wasn’t allowed to be there. They would grab my hat or glasses and throw them on the ground, or run at me somewhere on the course, push me to the ground and yell in my face.

After a few weeks, they started grabbing my clubs out of the locker room and throwing them, scattering them all over the ground, down a hill, into bushes. I bought a padlock and started locking my clubs into the locker just so no one could get to them, but they still managed to grab something from my bag, because there were five of them against me. My golf balls were thrown into ponds, sometimes my hat or sunglasses; anything they could do to harass me, they did.

I hated my life. I hated myself. I hated going home because I knew I’d have to wake up and go to school. Guys in my class would take pictures of me and write “faggot” under the photo and send it to people. After school, the team would yell, steal my things or push me to the ground. Even the kids and parents in my youth group would tell me I wasn’t welcome.

I don’t know how many times I was told to get lost, and that I was going to hell. I couldn’t have gone to my coach because telling him would have made my situation worse. He likely would have gone to those team members and maybe punish them, but ultimately make them resent me more. If they knew I told our coach, they would have harassed me even more, possibly even at school and not just practice. Out of fear, I just didn’t tell anyone.

Youth group leaders didn’t talk to me, and I never told my parents what was going on because I was completely mortified. My family life was good, but the thought of telling my mom and dad that I was being bullied made me feel horrible. I was totally alone in this struggle, and I had no idea what to do. I wanted them to know as little as possible of my situation because I was so embarrassed.

I was completely rejected by my peers, my church family and my golf team, all within a few months. I stopped trying at practice, and quickly lost my JV spot. I stopped talking to people and trying to make it better. I gave up, and started to resent myself for being gay. At the end of my freshman year, I had lost any feeling I had for golf, and gave up hope on ever receiving a scholarship. I never stepped back onto the golf course and kept to myself for the next three years.

The day-to-day harassment finally ebbed, and I was eventually able to go to class without people asking me why I liked guys, calling me names and telling me I was wrong. It still happened, but not every day. Unfortunately, the damage was already done, and I hated myself for being me.

My depression turned severe by my senior year, and all I wanted to do was move far, far away from town. People from all around told me I wasn’t welcomed and that I was wrong for being myself, so I left. I applied to only one college and moved by myself to Denver, Colorado, in hopes of starting over.

My depression and self-loathing didn’t go away, because moving doesn’t simply fix that, and after a year of suicidal thoughts and generally despising myself, I finally sought help at my school’s counseling center.

Counseling completely changed my life, something I never thought would be possible. I started going weekly, but after 11 months, I was able to go every other week. I still battle depression and dark thoughts, but I am slowly getting better. I might one day start playing golf again, although I’m probably going to be pretty rusty.

The only thing that helped me through the darkest time of my life was a tiny sliver of hope that I could one day change it. Removing myself from a toxic environment was only the first step, but I couldn’t stop there. One thing that helped was my family, which now knew I was gay and that made a very good relationship even stronger.

I hope by sharing this that I can possibly help someone who has also felt worthless, unloved, and hopeless. Fighting depression is an incredibly hard battle, but taking small steps every once in a while is better than nothing. Reaching for help is not shameful, and mental illness is not bigger than you. Just like a sport, it can be conquered.

Payton Bradley, 21, is studying English and Sociology at Metropolitan State University of Denver. He can be reached at: paytonbradley17@gmail.com or on Instagram: payton_co

Story editor: Jim BuzinskiStreamline recommends “Moonrise Kingdom” as the movie you should watch on Hulu this week. The service adds this on Sept. 16.

“Moonrise Kingdom” stars two unknown child actors ― Kara Hayward and Jared Gilman ― along with a notable cast of adults that includes Tilda Swinton, Edward Norton, Bill Murray, Frances McDormand and Bruce Willis. Wes Anderson directed this and co-wrote the screenplay with Roman Coppola.

The two children run away and try to make a life for themselves together ― a very twee life. Then the adults start looking for them ― in a very twee way.

Although the Anderson aesthetic is kind of out right now during this more hardened, ultra-cynical Donald Trump era, I still love this movie. I think you’ll find much to enjoy whether you’re revisiting it or watching for the first time.The world is full of realists and romantics. Romantics get one day a year to indulge their sentimental sides with candy hearts, long-stemmed roses, giant teddy bears and other cheesy gifts.

Unfortunately, there’s no Realist Appreciation Day, but anti-Valentine’s Day gifts come pretty darn close to the spirit. That’s why we’ve rounded up some painfully-accurate, too-real gifts to give the folks in your life who really don’t want to be caught in Cupid’s line of fire.

Below are 33 anti-Valentine’s Day gifts perfect for people who despise Valentine’s Day:

1 "Happy Capitalistic Couple's Day" card Etsy Get it here 2 Mediocre Valentines Etsy Get it here 3 Carbs shirt Etsy Get it here 4 Nope stamped ring Etsy Get it here 5 Anti-Valentine's Day Conversation Hearts banner Etsy Get it here 6 Anatomical Human Heart pin Etsy Get it here 7 "These Taste Terrible" Anti V-Day card Etsy Get it here 8 "Only Cats" temporary tattoo Etsy Get it here 9 Conversation Hearts t-shirt Etsy Get it here 10 "Nope" candy heart coffee mug Etsy Get it here 11 Happy "Manipulating People To Spend Money To Prove Love With Shallow Romantic Gesture" Day card Etsy Get it here 12 Anti-Valentine's Day cookies Etsy Get it here 13 "Vodka Is My Valentine" card Etsy Get it here 14 "Drop Dead" phone case Amazon Get it here 15 "Not Today, Satan" instant download wall art Etsy Get it here 16 "Nah, I'm Good" Anti-Valentine's Day soap Etsy Get it here 17 "V Is For Vodka" t-shirt Etsy Get it here 18 "Fuck Valentines" banner Etsy Get it here 19 "Love Bites" sweatshirt Etsy Get it here 20 Anti-Valentine's Day candy hearts mug Etsy Get it here 21 "Love Blah Blah Blah Drink" tank Etsy Get it here 22 "So Did Satan" coffee mug Etsy Get it here 23 "Anti V-Day" temporary tattoo Etsy Get it here 24 Anti-Valentine's Day stickers Etsy Get it here 25 "If You See Cupid" card Etsy Get it here 26 Anatomical human heart necklace Etsy Get it here 27 "Valentines Schmalentines" button pin Etsy Get it here 28 "Nope" name plate Etsy Get it here 29 Anti-Valentine's Day candy heart necklace Etsy Get it here 30 "I Love That We Hate The Same Things" card Etsy Get it here 31 "In Case Your Valentine Is Crappy" gag gift Etsy Get it here 32 "No Bae, No Problem" party headband Etsy Get it here 33 "Meh" embroidered heart clip Etsy Get it hereScientists and space enthusiasts are preparing for a lunar event so rare that it only happens once in a blue moon ― or, to be more specific, once in a super blue blood moon.

People living in certain parts of the Western Hemisphere will be able to see a reddish and unusually large moon glowing on the celestial stage early in the morning on Jan. 31. NASA is calling it a “lunar trifecta,” since it’s a combination of three distinct events.

An illustration of a super blue blood moon from NASA. NASA

First, the moon that morning will be a “supermoon,” since it’s occurring near a perigee, or a time in the moon’s orbit when it is closest to the Earth. This means that the moon will be about 14 percent brighter than usual, according to NASA.

Secondly, it is the second full moon of the month. Full moons are typically separated by 29 days. Usually, every calendar month only has one full moon, but sometimes, a second one squeezes in. When this happens, as it will on Jan. 31, the event is commonly referred to as a “blue” moon.

But what will really make the Jan. 31 moon spectacular for some viewers is the fact that it will be happening during a total lunar eclipse. That means the moon will pass through the Earth’s shadow and take on a reddish glow ― which gives it the nickname “blood moon.”

This is the second supermoon to light up the sky this January. The first occurred on Jan. 1, and was the biggest Americans will see year.

The last time people in North America were treated to a blue moon occurring simultaneously with a total lunar eclipse was over 150 years ago, according to Space.com.

A NASA graphic showcases a timeline for the upcoming eclipse. NASA

The “super blue blood moon” will be most visible to people on western part of North America, Alaska, and the Hawaiian islands, according to Gordon Johnston, program executive and lunar blogger at NASA. People on the East Coast will not have as great a view, since the eclipse begins just as the moon is about to set and the sky is getting lighter.

Johnston advises East Coasters who want to give moon viewing a chance to be outside at about 6:45 a.m. EST. It’s best to head to a viewing point at a higher elevation, with a clear line of sight to the horizon toward the west.

Americans living in the Central time zone will have a better view. The Earth’s reddish shadow will be noticeable on the moon by about 6:15 a.m. CST.

The best viewing will be on the West Coast, Hawaii and Alaska. The eclipse begins at 3:48 a.m. PST and will reach a peak between 5:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m.

“Weather permitting, the West Coast, Alaska and Hawaii will have a spectacular view of totality [the eclipse] from start to finish,” said Johnston.

While the Jan. 31 lunar eclipse will be tough to see from some parts of the United States, there are other spectacular heavenly displays in store for Americans in the future. Johnston said another lunar eclipse will occur on Jan. 21, 2019, that will be visible throughout the country. Although that one will be a supermoon, it won’t be a blue moon.

A super blood moon rises over the spires of the House of Parliament on September 28, 2015, in London, United Kingdom. Joseph Okpako via Getty Images

So if you’re on the West Coast, the “super blue blood moon” may be worth waking up early for.

“Set your alarm early and go out and take a look,” Johnston said.

Use this site to see when and how long the upcoming super blue blood moon will be visible near you.A British music festival’s women problem is hidden in plain sight on its promotional poster. Wireless shared the lineup for its three-day July shindig in Finsbury Park, London, to Twitter on Monday.

But as journalist Luke Bailey noticed, only three of the 40-odd acts are female.

Bailey edited the names of the male artists out of the lineup to prove his point. British pop star Lily Allen later shared his handiwork to Twitter.

The struggle is real pic.twitter.com/R58zKuCaK2 — Lily (@lilyallen) January 23, 2018

“The struggle is real,” Allen captioned the post, which has now gone viral.

Fellow British singer Ellie Goulding was among people on Twitter who reacted negatively to the festival poster:

What the — Ellie Goulding (@elliegoulding) January 23, 2018

a 3 day festival. and 3 female acts. the shortsightedness of this is staggering. how did the organisers not think this could be an issue? especially when there is SO many brilliant female rap and grime artists coming through? Where is Stefflon Don? Where is IAMDBB? MsBanks? — Annie Mac (@AnnieMac) January 23, 2018

this can’t be fr — MNEK (@MNEK) January 23, 2018

Wireless ― which in its press release boasts of bringing “the biggest names in hip-hop, grime and rap music” to its stage ― did not immediately return HuffPost’s request for comment.

The poster says more acts are “to be announced” later, and that may well include more female artists. British singer Ray BLK revealed via Twitter on Wednesday that she’d turned down the chance to perform.

For all of you saying I should be there, I was asked to do wireless festival and chose not to this year x — #DoingMe (@RayBLK_) January 24, 2018

The issue of women being underrepresented on stage at music festivals is hardly new.Stephen Colbert thinks President Donald Trump should be worried about the latest signals coming from Washington.

The “Late Show” host connected the dots between new reports of Robert Mueller’s investigation into the Russia scandal and a mysterious tweet sent out last year by former FBI director James Comey.But if he’s sick, why would I be angry with him? The people who got hurt, I feel so bad for them. I want them to feel better, too. But sick people do evil things; hurt people hurt people.

I know I could be crucified for saying that, because I’m supposed to be on the purple team or the green team. I’m not trying to rebel against what everybody’s saying, but maybe I want to measure it.Erica Garner, who passed on Dec. 30, had grown tired of dealing with the bureaucracy surrounding her father's death. Andrew Burton via Getty Images

The video is a sort of bookend to the one captured three years earlier, showing officer Daniel Pantaleo killing Eric Garner using an illegal chokehold.

If the 2014 footage of Garner’s death shows a shocking episode of police aggression, this video shows the bureaucratic end of state violence ― with officials in suits giving earnest assurances to family members that an investigation is proceeding “expeditiously” and that they will soon reach a “decisional point.”

The footage, shot in secret by Garner’s daughter, Erica, shows a June 21, 2017, meeting of DOJ representatives talking with Erica Garner, along with her mother Esaw Snipes, grandmother Gwen Carr and the Rev. Al Sharpton.

It emerged Tuesday on her Twitter feed, which is run by her close friend, nearly a month after the 27-year-old’s untimely death due to heart failure.

The video begins with unidentified officials giving the family only vague responses to pointed questions about exactly when federal investigators would release information, reiterating that they’ll know something soon.

“I think that we’ll be at a decisional point within the next several months,” an official tells the family, adding: “We’re not talking about no decisions being made on this case in 2018. That is not where we’re at.”

Sharpton apparently mentioned the case against North Charleston Police officer Michael Slager, who shot and killed Walter Scott in 2015, most likely commenting on the Slager’s indictment and subsequent guilty plea to a federal civil rights offense. DOJ officials are heard responding to this case in the recording.

“You reference Slager’s case and why did that one move faster than this particular case,” one unidentified man says, addressing Sharpton. “Each case is dealt with on its own individual merits.” He goes on to say that the “most important thing” is that investigation is even active.

The Justice Department declined to comment to HuffPost on the video.

Erica Garner, according to Rolling Stone, was planning to release the video. She died Dec. 30.

In one of the last essays she wrote before her passing, Erica Garner expressed her frustration with the meeting and the pace of the investigation. She described her family’s desire for answers and how the officials involved were willing to use her father’s life for political gain while leaving justice out to dry.

“Many elected officials have said my dad’s name but aren’t fighting tooth and nail as I’ve done in the last three years for justice,” wrote Erica Garner. “Our city’s mayor initially blocked the Right To Know Act, the release of Daniel Panteleo’s complaint records and refused to stand with the family during this year’s anniversary commemoration of my father’s death. In previous years, he stood in a black church in Staten Island and said my father’s life mattered and that a full investigation into his death will be done.”

“Not only did he not stand with my family this year on the day of my dad’s death, but, to add insult to injury, he helped open a new police precinct on Staten Island,” she added.

Erica Garner recalled a small glimmer of hope, back in 2015, when Gov. Andrew Cuomo announced that a special prosecutor would be assigned to Eric Garner’s case. But to her dismay, the special prosecutor was temporary, and Erica Garner, tired of broken promises, couldn’t muster much hope when new federal investigators were called in.In a clip of his trip to Haiti that he shared on Tuesday’s “Conan,” the late-night host rocked his fish-out-of-water persona in a Port-au-Prince classroom.

He attempted to speak in a hilariously horrible Creole accent and got the students to join along in a desk-percussion riff. A young girl gave him a high-five at the end, prompting the comedian to say, “Finally, someone gets me.”

Nah, fans have been getting you for a while, Conan.Raisman revealed in November that Nassar sexually abused her during her time on the USA Gymnastics Olympic team.

“I was just so scared and nervous about what people were going to think,” Raisman said in a November interview. “I was a textbook victim, brainwashed to believe I was fine.”

Many of Nassar’s victims told how the abuse has affected them, with stories of PTSD, family issues, anxiety, depression, eating disorders, intimacy issues, a distrust of men, a distrust of doctors, shame, guilt and suicidal thoughts.

“I was a carefree silly little girl until this happened, and afterwards there was a cloud and the cloud has followed me into every relationship in my life, especially the most important ones,” survivor Lyndsy Carr said in her statement.

Dancer Jessica Smith told of debilitating migraines she experiences because of the trauma from Nassar’s abuse.

“Since being victimized, I suffer from a rare form of extreme migraines that no neurologist has been able to fully understand or diagnose,” Smith said in court. ”... These migraines begin with half of my body going numb, including my tongue, causing me to be unable to speak. I also lose basic functioning skills such as fine motor and even gross motor. The effects of my migraines can cause me to be confused and unable to think straight for up to days after the initial searing headaches. This in addition to my anxiety and inability to sleep leaves me in an unhealthy state both physically and emotionally.”Ann Curry weighed in Tuesday on Megyn Kelly’s attack against Jane Fonda — and the former “Today” co-host was really not a fan.

On Monday, Kelly had spent some time slamming Fonda on her talk show after the actress threw shade at Kelly’s interviewing skills.

The next day, Curry offered her opinion when “The View” co-host Sunny Hostin commented that she had “never seen a journalist do something like that.”

“The reason you don’t see it is because journalists aren’t supposed to be the story,” said Curry, who was guest co-hosting “The View.”

“We’re supposed to be humble. We’re supposed to use whatever time we’re given to shine a light on other stories. There are so many stories that we’re not covering, and to take time with this … is not journalism,” she said.

Back in September, Fonda, then a guest on Kelly’s show, was notably dismissive when Kelly asked her about her plastic surgery. Last week, Fonda publicly made fun of that question on live TV and later defended herself while speaking to Variety, saying that she’d found the question “inappropriate.”

“It showed that she’s not that good an interviewer,” Fonda told the magazine.

This prompted Kelly to take a few minutes out of her show on Monday to attack Fonda by comparing her own plastic surgery question to Fonda’s Vietnam War politics.

“Look at her treatment of our military during the Vietnam War,” Kelly said. “The moral indignation is a little much. Honestly, she has no business lecturing anyone on what qualifies as offensive.”

During Tuesday’s discussion on “The View,” co-hosts Whoopi Goldberg and Joy Behar mentioned that Fonda has apologized numerous times for her anti-Vietnam War activism. This provoked Goldberg to bring up an incident in 2013 when Kelly, then on Fox News, adamantly insisted that both Santa Claus and Jesus were white while attacking a lighthearted Slate piece that suggested Santa needed a makeover.

“Megyn,” Goldberg began. “If I can forgive you for telling all my friends’ black children that Santa’s only white, you can step back because you made a mistake.”

“We all make mistakes,” she continued. “You gotta lighten up, babe. Jane made a mistake and she’s copped to it.”

Watch the full clip below:President Donald Trump said he would be willing to speak with special counsel Robert Mueller under oath regarding the ongoing Justice Department investigation into his presidential campaign’s ties with the Russian government, multiple media outlets reported on Wednesday.

“I’m looking forward to it, and I would like to do it as soon as possible,” Trump told reporters at the White House as he was preparing to leave for the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland. “I would do it under oath, absolutely.”

When asked if he would appear in front of Mueller under oath, The New York Times noted that Trump first responded by asking if his former presidential rival Hillary Clinton had spoken under oath as part of an FBI investigation into her use of a private email server. Clinton submitted to a voluntarily interview about the server in 2016, although, as is typical, it was not under oath as lying to the FBI is already a crime.

“She didn’t do it under oath, but I would do it under oath,’’ Trump said, according to The Washington Post.

Trump’s White House lawyer, Ty Cobb, told the Times the president’s comments were made off-the-cuff and tried to downplay the gravity of the statements.

“He’s ready to meet with them, but he’ll be guided by the advice of his personal counsel,” Cobb told the outlet.

Once again, the president also upheld his innocence in the probe and said that there was no collusion with Russia “whatsoever.” Trump also denied that he had moved to obstruct justice, something Mueller’s recent interviews suggest he may be looking into.

“Here’s the story, just so you understand,” Trump said during the unplanned briefing with reporters. “There’s been no collusion whatsoever. There’s been no obstruction whatsoever, and I’m looking forward to it.”

Not shocking at this point, but White House people did not plan, or script, Trump's remarks -- and were as startled as reporters. Had to first read quotes on Mueller/obstruction, etc. to one source to get reaction. "When did he say that?" person said. — Josh Dawsey (@jdawsey1) January 25, 2018

Mueller’s probe has rapidly expanded its scope in recent days to include members of the president’s inner circle, including Attorney General Jeff Sessions, who was interviewed last week. The Times reported on Tuesday that Mueller’s team had told Trump’s lawyers it hoped to ask the president about his firing of former FBI Director James Comey and his employment of Michael Flynn, his former national security adviser.

Trump said he would look to speak with Mueller sometime in “about two to three weeks,” but he has made similar pledges before. Last June, the president said he was “100 percent” willing to testify under oath in front of Congress regarding his interactions with Comey.

AdvertisementHow excited should you be? Amazon doesn’t have as many British crime shows as Netflix, so adding this highly stylized detective thriller should be a welcome move for fans of that genre. Malkovich elevates everything he stars in (even with a ridiculous accent this time around) and Grint looks nothing like Grint in this role, so that’s kind of fun. Although this show wallows in grimness, clever moments of humor peek through occasionally.

Any reasons to be skeptical? This show plods along at a glacial pace. During multiple scenes, I wondered if my internet had slowed down and I was watching this at half-speed. The poor direction and dialogue make this hard to get through, so you really have to love detective thrillers to find enjoyment here. Sometimes I watch shows with hourlong episodes that feel too long, but it’s hard to say what should have been cut. That’s not the case here, as the show decides to spend a laughable amount of time focusing on shots of sinks and typewriters and other uninteresting inanimate objects.Melania Trump won’t be attending the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland, and some are speculating that her cancellation is a “subliminal message” to her husband, Donald Trump.

For one thing, it came on their 13th wedding anniversary, and Inside Edition notes that the first lady has kept a low profile since the allegations that her husband paid $130,000 in hush money to a porn actress who uses the name Stormy Daniels.

Historian Kate Andersen Brower, who specializes in America’s first ladies, told CNN that Melania Trump’s decision to cancel a major trip is unusual for a variety of reasons.

“It’s pretty unusual, but in modern history, we haven’t seen a couple like this,” she told CNN’s Wolf Blitzer. “I’m thinking back to Hillary Clinton, when she famously went with President Clinton to Martha’s Vineyard at the height of the impeachment trial and all the controversy surrounding it.

“It’s a kind of a bit of power that the first lady can wield over her husband. And we haven’t had a relationship this fraught since, I think, the Clintons, even going back and looking at someone like Eleanor Roosevelt or Jackie Kennedy, where there were lots of rumors surrounding their relationship.”

Blitzer pointed out that on the anniversary of Trump’s inauguration, the first lady posted a picture that didn’t feature her husband. He also wondered if there was any meaning in the fact that Melania did not mention the president by name in a statement saying the past year has been filled with many wonderful moments.

This has been a year filled with many wonderful moments. I’ve enjoyed the people I’ve been lucky enough to meet throughout our great country & the world! 🇺🇸 pic.twitter.com/MMRi72ENd0 — Melania Trump (@FLOTUS) January 20, 2018

“This a first lady we don’t hear from a lot,” observed CNN White House reporter Kate Bennett, “but she is A-plus at subliminal messaging, if you want to take it that way: not a mention of her husband; of the thousands of pictures taken of the two of them this year, interesting that she picked that picture; and the ‘wonderful moments’ doesn’t mention the president.”Nikita Richards

WASHINGTON ― If there’s one area where President Donald Trump has been effective, it’s at inspiring women to run for office to fight against everything he represents.

A staggering number of first-time female candidates has emerged over the past year. More than 26,000 women have reached out to EMILY’s List, an organization that recruits and trains pro-choice Democratic women, about launching a campaign. Just 920 female potential candidates contacted the group in 2015 and 2016 combined. Run for Something, which trains young Democrats to run for local and state seats, has recruited 15,000 people since its launch in late 2016. The vast majority of them are female.

HuffPost met several women last year who were either thinking about running or who did run for the first time, and we got to thinking: What happened to them? Did they follow through with it? Did they win? If they lost, what are they doing now?

We tracked down six of these women from around the country to see where they landed and what their plans are for 2018. They’ve taken different paths, but all said they are committed to pushing back on Trump’s rhetoric and polices however they can.

Nikita Richards of Bloomington, Illinois

Nikita Richards. Nikita Richards

Nikita Richards was one of a few dozen attendees of Build the Bench, an all-day boot camp last February designed to train Democrats on how to run for local office. Rep. Cheri Bustos (D-Ill.) organized the event, which offered nuts-and-bolts details on how to run a successful campaign. By the end of it, the 35-year-old single mom was raring to go.

“I was scared,” Richards said at the time. “Now I’m ready.”

A year later, Richards is a candidate for McLean County Clerk in Illinois. She doesn’t have a primary challenger, but she’s going up against a Republican in November who has held the seat for two terms. If Richards wins, she will be the first African-American elected to the position and the first Democrat in 40 years.

Richards said she’s been focused on talking to people about what a clerk actually does and raising concerns with the current clerk’s plan to remove three polling places and consolidate them. Those stations are based in largely minority and low-income neighborhoods that don’t run along bus lines, she said, so removing them would make it difficult for people there to vote. Richards successfully fought to keep one of those polling places where it is, but two were removed and consolidations are moving forward.

“Ultimately, it’s a voter suppression technique,” she said. “I’m having people question the clerk’s claims that this isn’t happening.”

Kelly Gonez of Los Angeles, California

Kelly Gonez. Kelly Gonez campaign

The day after Trump became president, students in Kelly Gonez’s seventh-grade science class told her they felt scared. Gonez, 29, had just started teaching at a Los Angeles school after serving as an education policy advisor in the Obama administration. She worried that Trump was planning to undo the policy work she’d done to protect kids like her students, some of whom had undocumented family members.

She decided to run for a board seat on the Los Angeles Unified School District.

“I looked at the country, in terms of who is running for office, and reflected on my experience in D.C. and thought, ‘Why not me?’” Gonez said in May.

She won. In the months since then, Gonez, who lives with her husband in Sylmar, said it’s been “infuriating” to see Trump ramp up immigration enforcement efforts in her community, where students have been missing school because they have family members who are undocumented and afraid to drive them there. Gonez said she is determined to proactively fight Trump’s policies in her school district, versus being reactive.

“We launched a campaign, We Are One, highlighting that our schools are safe places and providing immigration resources to families,” she said. “I also have students who are [undocumented] who tell me they are worried about going to college. We’re partnering with advocacy organizations so undocumented students can have careers.”

“All of this,” Gonez added, “is very personal to me.”

Alyse Galvin of Anchorage, Alaska

Alyse Galvin. Alyse Galvin

HuffPost crashed a lunch Alyse Galvin was having with her kids at a cafe in Anchorage in September. Galvin, an undeclared voter, shared her thoughts on Sen. Lisa Murkowski (R-Alaska) for a story we did and talked about leading a letter-writing campaign to urge the senator to oppose Education Secretary Betsy DeVos’ confirmation.

Galvin, 52, was clearly engaged in policy matters at the time ― she’s a co-founder of a public education advocacy group ― but she didn’t say anything about a potential run for office. But lo and behold, she just announced she’s running for Congress as an independent against Rep. Don Young (R). She’s got a campaign up and running, she’s got consultants in Alaska and in Washington, D.C., and she has raised $70,000 in six days.

“It was not on my radar that day, I can tell you that,” Galvin, a mom of four, said of her political plans during our last meeting. “I am not a politician. But I’ve run into so many Alaskans who are feeling like Washington is not connected to what the people are hoping for from their leaders. So I decided to step up.”

It won’t be an easy race for Galvin. Young has held this seat since 1973, and two Democrats are running. But she’s inspired by the people she talks to who are frustrated with Trump and desperate for civil discourse and positive leadership in politics, which, unlike Young, she thinks she can bring.

“Trump has let a lot of people down,” she said. “We have a citizen government, true, but a citizen government needs to be respectable.”

Shanna Shipman of Peoria, Illinois

Shanna Shipman. Shanna Shipman

Shanna Shipman also participated in Build the Bench in February, despite being unsure of how she could manage a potential campaign while raising four kids and working full time. The 38-year-old single mom figured she might not run for office right away, but she wanted to be prepared for when she did.

“I look at my 14-year-old, who knows that I’ve been upset about how certain things are happening, and I would like, rather than her impression be that mom is complaining … that mom’s acting. You know?” she said at the time.

These days, Shipman has been relishing her time with her family and still thinks about running for office. But the timing just isn’t right.

“I am not quite there yet, but increasingly feel that I will run in some capacity. I love my life. I savor my time with my family ... and I value my privacy,” she said. “Eventually, I think I will sacrifice some of that for an opportunity to represent some of those who don’t feel represented. That is an honor I could never take lightly.”

Despite staying out of the races, Shipman said the line between her efforts to be a good parent and stay active in civic matters is blurring. Trump’s presidency has been “horrifying,” she said, in part because of his “completely base rhetoric that insults people near and dear to me.” The reason she’s not running for office now could very well be the reason she ends up doing it later: her kids.

“My political involvement is growing as my children grow older,” Shipman said. “Ultimately, the need to create positive conditions for my and all children ... that is the point of it all.”

Haley Stevens of Rochester Hills, Michigan

Haley Stevens. Haley Stevens campaign

Haley Stevens, 34, jumped into her race against Rep. Dave Trott (R-Mich.) last spring. That’s early in the campaign season, but Stevens had personal reasons: She led Obama’s task force that oversaw the 2009 financial bailout of the auto industry, and was preoccupied by the thought of Trump’s budget cuts destroying her state’s innovation economy. She said Trott wasn’t doing anything about it, so she decided to take him on.

“The guy I’m looking to run against … he’s putting forward legislation to make it easier to collect on debts. Are you kidding me?” Stevens, who lives in Rochester Hills, said in May. “You can bring together people in really amazing ways. I’m a doer; we can do big things.”

Since then, Trott has announced he’s not running again and six other GOP candidates have jumped into the race. It’s a Republican-leaning district, but Stevens says Democrats have the momentum in this election cycle and the fact that Trott dropped out shows he didn’t want to go up against her.

“You have an incumbent who looked at me as a competitive challenger,” she said. “I was meeting with coalitions of people in the district and there was this palpable energy and excitement. I kept hearing, ‘I can’t wait to volunteer on your campaign in 2018.’”

If she wins, Stevens said one of her priorities will be holding the president accountable when he tries to undermine institutions of government, particularly the Constitution, or when he is flat-out racist. She criticized Trott last summer for staying quiet about Trump’s “both sides” response to white supremacist violence in Charlottesville, Virginia.

“We’re going to continue to do that,” she said. “I tell everyone I’m campaigning on a return to common sense in the nation’s capital.”

Hannah Risheq of Chantilly, Virginia

Hannah Risheq. Hannah Risheq

When Hannah Risheq was a kid, the Ku Klux Klan burned down her parents’ restaurant near Asheboro, North Carolina. When the Risheqs opened a new one in Greensboro, customers stopped coming after the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks because they knew her dad was Muslim. They lost friends, closed the restaurant and eventually moved to Chantilly, Virginia, where, at last, they felt welcomed as a multicultural, multi-religious household. (Risheq’s mom is Jewish.)

So when Trump became president, Risheq worried that his divisive rhetoric would erode the goodwill in her town. She decided last March, at the age of 25, that the best way to protect her community was to represent it. She announced a bid for a state House seat against Republican Rep. James LeMunyon, who had held the seat since 2009.

“I want to make sure that everyone, especially children of nontraditional backgrounds or identities, feels comfortable and accepted being who they are,” Risheq said at the time. “I’m running because I want to give a voice to everyone.”

A year later, she’s not in the Virginia House ― she lost in the primary ― but says she’s proud of what her campaign accomplished. She has since gotten married, adopted a dog named Snowy and became a health care analyst at a D.C. consulting firm. She’s also been doing a lot of yoga “to cope with the never-ending news alerts from our ridiculously unqualified and delusional president/his administration. Namaste!”

Risheq isn’t done with politics, either. She joined Emerge Virginia, which recruits and trains Democratic women to run for office, and is sorting out her next steps in public service. She continues to advocate for Medicaid expansion in the state.