HuffPost Illustration

The effects of climate change and specifically air pollution are very real and are being harshly felt across the world. Cape Town, South Africa, and many other leading cities around the world have risen to the task of tackling the problem head-on. A key action is our efforts to clamp down on air pollution.

In Cape Town, we are experiencing what scientists call the worst drought in a hundred years due to the effects of climate change.

For this reason, the city of Cape Town is overlaying all the decisions we make on a daily basis by taking the effects of climate change into consideration. It has the ability to compound existing challenges in urban environments.

We cannot plan anything without factoring in climate change.

This is also true in our efforts to ensure generations of Capetonians have access to clean air and other natural resources.

Cities such as Cape Town cannot wait for national governments and large corporations to act. We are responsible for addressing urbanization and ensuring the well-being of our local economies and our residents.

We therefore need to see the opportunities presented by climate change and in specific air pollution and factor it into all the work we do so we can build more resilient cities.

Cape Town is overlaying all the decisions it makes on a daily basis by taking the effects of climate change into consideration. Patricia de Lille

Cape Town’s work to drive down air pollution in our city includes:

Reducing the city’s reliance on coal as a source of energy and favoring renewable energy,

Supporting the installation of grid-tied small-scale embedded generation, particularly in the form of rooftop PV panels,

Investing in monitoring and enforcing air polluters,

Making government buildings more green,

Working with communities to install thermal insulated ceilings and green infrastructure to reduce reliance on open fires and other energy

Educating the next generation about climate change and air pollution,

Working to influence motor vehicle driver behavior to reduce the time cars spend on the road and contribute to air pollution.

Cape Town’s Climate Change Policy focuses on both climate change mitigation and adaptation and aims to address these both in an integrated and innovative way.

Cape Town is a member of the C40 Cities Climate Leadership Group and the Global Covenant of Mayors for Climate and Energy.

As such, the city is committed to reporting its energy and climate data to the Carbon Disclosure Project annually. In 2016, Cape Town was named one of the top five reporting cities out of the 533 participating cities globally.

Also that year, I was invited to become a member of the Global Commission on the Economy and Climate.

Among other things, this initiative has a strong emphasis on encouraging compact, connected and coordinated development, which aligns well with the new strategic priority of the city of working to achieve dense and transit-oriented growth and development.

A key part of our climate change action is our energy goals, which model a more resilient, resource-efficient and equitable future for Cape Town and commit the city to diversifying its energy supply and reducing carbon emissions.

Central to this will be the ability to source 20 percent of Cape Town’s energy from renewable sources by 2020. This requires a significant shift in the city’s approach and control over energy supply sources.

We will no longer merely just be distributors of electricity but we will also generate our own clean energy.

We want Capetonians to have a greater choice over how they consume energy and the price they pay for it.

We have taken South Africa’s national minister of energy to court to fight for our right to purchase renewable energy directly from independent power producers as we are currently not allowed to do this.

We are promoting the responsible installation of grid-tied, small-scale, embedded generation, particularly in the form of rooftop photovoltaic panels.

Cape Town has also made substantial gains in energy efficiency and now, relative to other South African cities, uses significantly less electricity per unit of production and per person.

But it is not just about big plans, the city is taking the lead on the ground.

We have retrofitted thousands of ceilings in poorer households with thermal insulation to improve the air quality and temperatures in these homes, which were built by national government without proper ceilings and insulation giving rise to damp conditions and poor air quality. Due to the city’s retrofitting project, these residents also spend significantly less on electricity to heat or cool their homes, which also assists in reducing emissions.

Our education and awareness projects focus on our next generation of clean air warriors with young preschool and primary school students learning and advocating for clean air.

All 1,500 traffic lights now have efficient LED bulbs and more than 25,000 streetlights have been retrofitted.

Our Air Quality Management Unit is doing crucial work to ensure residents and visitors to Cape Town enjoy the right to clean air.

In the past 12 months, the city tested nearly 8,000 diesel vehicles for dark smoke emissions, with only 68 failures.

Our dedicated Air Quality Practitioners conduct regular inspections to assess and hold industries accountable for their atmospheric emissions.

Cape Town also promotes a tall stack policy for industrial emission sources to reduce the ground level concentration of air pollutants.

The city has a network of 13 ambient air quality monitoring stations to measure ambient air quality. We are building a new air quality monitoring laboratory for our scientific services.

The city has introduced flexi-time and encourages all sectors to enable staff to work from home when possible, to start lift clubs or commute outside peak hours.

Through this we are reducing congestion and the number of private cars on our roads and cutting down on air pollution.

We are also investing in clean transport with the procurement of our first fleet of electric buses for our bus rapid transit system, making us the first city in Africa to use electric vehicles for our public transport system.

Cape Town is drawing advice and best practices from like-minded cities and partners from around the world, Africa and locally to provide the best future for its residents.

We also firmly support American cities for their action in effectively addressing climate change despite President Donald Trump’s stance on this global challenge.HuffPost Illustration

Improving air quality in a big city like Rome is a goal that will pose a challenge to the habits of every resident of one of the most fascinating and historic cities in the world. Rome has some particular characteristics that need to be addressed specifically: It has one of the most extensive historical city centers in the world, arising from being an ancient city with a very large number of architectural and monumental assets. It has over 2,770 years of history that have changed and molded the city’s design, buildings, roads and infrastructure.

It is a magnificent urban conglomerate that has barely been touched by the previous century’s great revolution of public transport. Some facts might help to appreciate how Rome stands out in this regard: It has one of the largest urban surface areas among Europe’s capitals, a minimal metro network, and one of the highest ratios of cars to inhabitants in the world.

In fact, in Rome there are, on average, more than 70 cars per 100 inhabitants. This number does not tally with other large European cities: Paris has 46, Barcelona 41, London stands at 36, Berlin at 35, and Madrid at 32. Several systems have been tried out over the years, such as alternate-day driving restrictions based on license plate numbering (only odd or even numbers could circulate on restricted days) and complete restrictions based on vehicle type (the highest pollutants were banned). All these actions did not actually solve the problem; planning is required.

However, there are some hopeful facts. This year’s data from monitoring units highlights that air pollution has loosened its stranglehold on the city. Good news for Roman lungs and most of all for our children, who are more vulnerable to respiratory illnesses.

In Rome, there are, on average, more than 70 cars per 100 inhabitants. TIZIANA FABI/Getty Images

Particulate matter and nitrogen dioxide continue to be the most hazardous and insidious air pollutants for the capital. In both cases, the number of occasions on which target limits have been exceeded have been under the number allowed by law. As of Dec. 14, levels in particulate matter had exceeded target limits on 21 of the 35 occasions allowed per year. Nitrogen dioxide measurements showed concentrations above target levels for 12 hours of the maximum 18 per year permitted by anti-pollution regulations. These are better figures compared to last year, and we want to continue improving them.

The latest air quality report released by the European Environment Agency delivers an alarming fact: In Europe, nitrogen dioxide air pollution is responsible for 78,000 premature deaths every year. Italy holds first place in the tragic league of air pollution deaths, with over 17,000 per year. Air pollution is responsible for respiratory illness, cardiovascular disease, diabetes and cancer.

In Rome, there is a permanent driving ban on the oldest and highest-polluting vehicles within the so-called Anello Ferroviario (Railway Ring), a wide city area extending to the suburbs on the periphery of the city. During the year, there have been Sunday driving bans within the so-called Fascia Verde (Green Belt), an area of 154 square kilometers (about 95 square miles). Also, emergency driving restrictions on the highest-polluting vehicles have been put in place during peaks in pollution levels flagged by the city’s monitoring system.

Some of the things Rome is doing to reduce vehicular traffic is providing for electric rail mobility, replacing high-polluting public transport, and developing bicycle lanes. FILIPPO MONTEFORTE/Getty Images

But we cannot settle for day-to-day management. We need a view for the city’s future. We need to plan it and implement it while we go on tackling actual day-to-day issues. The biggest particulate and nitrogen dioxide emitters are car traffic and heating systems. They are the sources of pollution that need to be countered immediately.

On Sept. 18 we launched PUMS, Piano Urbano della Mobilità Sostenibile (Urban Plan for Sustainable Mobility), to work on vehicular traffic. Providing for electric rail mobility, replacing high-polluting public transport, and developing bicycle lanes are some of the directions we will be moving in the following years to help Rome transition into a new sustainable mobility model.

This vision is already leading to concrete decisions. Planning for the GRAB, Grande Raccordo Anulare delle Biciclette (Great Bicycle Link Ring), project is already underway: 44 kilometers (about 27 miles) of bicycle lanes throughout the city for cross-city travel, with tourism in mind as well, as the lanes are included in the most beautiful parts of Rome. A new plan has been put in place limiting tourist bus access to the historic city center, which will mean less bus transit and less traffic.

We have approved a plan to install at least 700 electric car recharging stations throughout the city by 2021; we are working on projects for new bicycle paths and lanes and pinpointing pedestrian areas, even provisional ones.

On Nov. 14, the Council Assembly approved Rome signing up to the Covenant of Mayors for renewable energy and climate. We have signed up for a major, ambitious commitment with the first citizens of Europe: a 40 percent reduction in emissions responsible for global warming and climate change by 2030.

We are aiming for a reduction in fossil fuel burning, which releases both climate-damaging carbon dioxide as well as pollutants that are hazardous to people’s health. Increased building energy efficiency, beginning with public buildings, and more use of renewable energy, such as photo-voltaic, mean cleaner air to breathe.

Finally, to help Rome breathe clean air, we have begun planting new trees, launching a participatory forest program that started on Nov. 19, National Tree Day. It has been scientifically proved that trees are able to capture polluting dust and other pollutants from the air, thus also contributing to atmospheric pollution mitigation.HuffPost Illustration

The fight against climate change is no longer a matter of grand strategies, a matter of the agendas of large and seemingly impersonal international agencies. The battle against climate change is a challenge that concerns every one of us: It is a matter of public health and preservation of the planet. For this reason (and here is where hope takes root), we have begun to see how the concept of sustainability has made its way onto the agendas of every administration, organization and social agency, and is also permeating the consciousness of citizens.

Pollution and global warming are everyone’s problems, and their solutions have to come with everyone’s involvement. The role of supranational institutions and agencies will only be strengthened by national and local policies. These are within the geographical and managerial scope where municipal governments are of indisputable importance. Their actions have a more immediate impact in cities’ current situations and are determining factors in their future design. This is a task that Madrid shares with the world’s major cities through the C40 network and the Global Network of Cities that accepted the commitments adopted at the Climate Change Conference held in Paris in October 2015.

Denis Doyle via Getty Images

Madrid’s City Council, which I preside over, has made sustainability the focus of its strategy. It isn’t by chance that we’ve linked environment and mobility together into a single area of focus. From the moment of its creation, work began on the development of a Plan A for Air Quality and Climate Change that, with a cross-sectional and integral view, frames every action that summarizes that bet for the future.

It’s a Plan A because, as I have said many times, there is no good Plan B. As with every major challenge, courageous and determined actions that establish a before and an after will be needed. Resignation has no place in politics. It has been two years now since we adopted a new Protocol for Episodes of High Nitrogen Dioxide (NO2) Pollution. The traffic restrictions that this guideline involves have been applied eight times for varying lengths of time, the last of which happened this past December.

I spoke of courage before. Now I add imagination, the search for new formulas, and a commitment to innovation. They are prerequisites to a much bigger challenge: changing the model of a city that in the last few decades has dedicated 70 percent of its public space to 30 percent of its citizens: those who use private vehicles. This proportion had to be reversed because it was unsustainable. We established a goal: to ensure that all EMT buses have low emissions by 2020. For the time being, 77 percent of them are already part of this green fleet. Soon we will see 18 electric minibuses and 15 electric buses in our streets, and we want to increase this number to almost a hundred by that 2020 horizon. Late last year, we introduced five of these electric buses, which shows our commitment to innovation. They are the only ones in Spain with an induction system that allows them to charge their batteries while they are waiting at the beginning of a line, via electromagnetic plates installed in the pavement.

A traffic policeman wears a mask while directing traffic in Madrid on Dec. 29, 2016. Paul Hanna / Reuters

During the search for new alternatives, we have improved other forms of mobility. For example, Madrid now has an electric bicycle rental service (BiciMad), recently taken over by the Municipal Transport Company, which offers 2,500 vehicles at some 200 stations spread across the city. Our city also has electric cars for rent, with three companies operating more than 1,600 cars, which are used by about 357,000 people a year. This green fleet has recently added four electric motorbike rental companies, which offers another innovative way of getting around the city.

The remodeling of Gran Via will also mark a before and after. This remodeling will reduce the number of lanes for vehicles and prevent some of them from going through this artery in the heart of the city, which translates to giving more space and more importance to the citizen. Madrid is perfect for walking, appreciating the beauty of its streets and monuments, shopping, or going to the movies. And walking, in addition to its personal health benefits, facilitates friendships and meeting neighbors.

We want to give citizens their deserved and necessary importance. Deserved, because they are the ultimate recipients of any political decision. Necessary, because the fight against climate change will never succeed if we do not have an aware and involved citizenry to provide the small, daily gestures that make up great actions.HuffPost Illustration

In South Africa, air pollution is more severe in urban areas, and the city of Johannesburg is no exception.

The majority of our country’s population migrates to the cities from rural areas for economic reasons, attracted by employment opportunities available in the urban centers. This results in the mushrooming of dense, low-income, informal settlements –– which are mostly under-resourced and do not have access to basic amenities, including electricity supply.

The city completed a baseline assessment of its air quality, which identified that the city’s air pollution emanates from domestic fuel burning, vehicle emissions, industries, biomass burning and mine storage facilities.

The city has a network of nine ambient air-quality monitoring stations that include stations in Alexandra, Ivory Park, Diepsloot, Jabavu, Orange Farm, Buccleuch, Davidsonville, Delta Park and Newtown. Seven of the stations are in residential areas, and two are traffic-emission stations. The data from these monitoring stations is compared to the national applicable standards, which are set to protect the public’s health and well-being.

Unfortunately, the city’s poorest communities often bear the brunt of higher levels of poor air quality. Over time, the monitoring stations located in the city’s residential areas have observed record pollution levels higher than the national standard, especially during the cold winter months, when most people still use fossil fuel for heating.

It is the city of Johannesburg’s priority to improve the city’s air quality –– to ensure pro-poor development that addresses inequality and poverty, and provides meaningful redress. Unfortunately, air pollution affects more of our poor communities in the city because of inequality and years of poor infrastructure planning.

Johannesburg's approach to dealing with air pollution involves programs that respond to specific pollution sources. VW Pics via Getty Images

To improve the city’s air quality, we have completed a review of our air quality management plan and our air pollution control bylaws. The plan provides the city’s vision and goals for the next five years. A regulatory framework has been developed to manage other sources of air pollution in the city. The two documents are in the final stage of completion, and public consultations will take place prior to their finalization.

In terms of the national Air Quality Act 39 of 2004, the city is responsible for air quality management ― both in terms of regulations and compliance enforcement. In terms of the city’s regulatory function, all the industrial activities that are identified in the act as significant emitters that contribute to poor air quality are licensed, and a total of 37 such facilities exist in the city. These facilities are issued with atmospheric emission licenses, which set out emission limits that are regularly monitored for compliance. Those that are found to be noncompliant are subject to enforcement actions.

The interventions that deal with emissions from domestic fuel burning are complex and require a multifaceted approach. Materials used for domestic fuel are often not by choice, since in many cases people don’t have access to electricity –– and even when it is available, they can’t afford it.

To mitigate against this, the city has prioritized the upgrade of informal settlements, which includes the provision of electricity and other amenities for those registered on the city’s indigent register. The interventions are aimed at improving our communities, while simultaneously improving the quality of air. Additionally, the city has allocated budget for new housing units that are insulated and require less energy for interior heating, and are fitted with solar water heaters.

The city’s approach to dealing with air pollution involves programs that respond to specific pollution sources. Small industries and vehicles are included in our draft bylaws to ensure control, and they set out appropriate operational conditions to ensure the reduction of emissions in these sectors over time. These measures include permits and the creation of smoke-free zones in an attempt to reduce the city’s air pollution. The city is also collaborating with other spheres of government to deal with issues such as dust from mine storage facilities.

Domestic waste burning is a result of illegal waste dumping. Although the city has various programs and interventions to resolve illegal dumping, our most significant intervention is the city-wide A Re Sebetseng monthly cleanup campaign. This monthly campaign is a ward-based cleaning initiative on the last Saturday of every month that encourages residents and communities to reduce their communal carbon footprint.

The project enhances the city’s investment of 50 million rand into Pikitup for a third cleaning shift within the city. This investment is expected to grow to 82 million rand in the medium term. A Re Sebetseng is modeled on the Rwanda Umuganda, which is also a monthly campaign where all residents come together to clean Kigali. Through this campaign, the city of Kigali is now known as the cleanest city in Africa.

The city of Johannesburg held their first city-wide cleanup campaign on September 30th. City of Joburg

On Sept. 30, Johannesburg held its first city-wide cleanup campaign supported by councilors and ward committees and businesses. Plastic bags and gloves were distributed at walk-in centers, clinics, libraries and participating businesses.

As part of the A Re Sebetseng campaign, Pikitup will also initiate a program of engaging with schools and private stakeholders to involve learners in preserving the environment for their future. We believe the reduction of illegal dumping contributes to a reduced level of waste burning, which will improve air quality.

The A Re Sebetseng campaign is the city’s initiative to make residents more environmentally aware, and a conscientious intervention to create behavioral change and an environment in which people police their own interactions with their natural environment.

Furthermore, the city is further prioritizing the monitoring air pollution by reviving the monitoring network, which involves financing both the procurement of new monitoring instruments and facilitating adequate maintenance, to ensure that the monitoring stations are in optimal operational condition. The monitoring stations’ data is used for planning and decision-making, and assists in identifying those areas that experience poor air quality and the related sources that contribute to the poor state of air.HuffPost Illustration

Around the world, air pollution is a major public health issue, responsible for the premature deaths of millions of people each year. This statistic is devastating, but it should not deter us. In fact, it should motivate us all more than ever to take bold action to clean the air we breathe.

The good news is that mayors of the world’s cities have the power to drastically reduce that number.

By 2050, more than two-thirds of the world population will live in cities. As mayors, it is our responsibility to protect the health, safety and well-being of all our citizens ― with public health a top priority. As dangerous fossil fuel emissions from cars, trucks, trains and buses accelerate climate change and create a dire public health crisis, cities around the world are taking a stand to implement policies to create a greener and healthier future for all citizens.

It is critical that leaders take initiative to face these complex issues with innovative policy solutions, especially as new research continues to show the measurable negative effects of air pollution and fossil fuel emissions on human health.

That’s why we ― alongside mayors from 11 powerful and global cities around the world ― have come together to sign the C40 Green & Healthy Streets Declaration, a commitment to reduce the number of fossil fuel-powered vehicles on the streets, and most importantly, put people at the center of our city planning policies by making walking, biking and use of public transportation the most convenient and desirable option for all citizens.

Paris is among the cities that has joined the C40 Green & Healthy Streets Declaration. Gonzalo Fuentes/Reuters

Twelve C40 cities have already risen to the challenge: London; Los Angeles; Mexico City; Milan; Paris; Seattle; Auckland, New Zealand; Barcelona, Spain; Cape Town, South Africa; Copenhagen, Denmark; Quito, Ecuador; and Vancouver, Canada. If all C40 cities were to meet the commitments outlined in the declaration, we could potentially prevent more than 45,000 premature deaths globally per year.

In Paris alone, C40 research shows that our commitments to the Green & Healthy Streets Declaration will literally save lives. Taking the concrete and measurable actions outlined in the declaration ― including only procuring zero emissions buses starting in 2025 and ensuring that at least a major area of the city is zero emission by 2030 ― will avoid an estimated 400 premature deaths per year and add 21 days to the average life expectancy of every Parisian.

And while reducing air pollution alone can have far-reaching effects on the health and well-being of city dwellers, we must also encourage and incentivize people to actively commute to work or school. By creating public spaces and streets that are friendlier to pedestrians and cyclists, city leaders will help improve health outcomes for their fellow citizens, reducing risk of heart disease, stroke, diabetes and various types of cancer by up to 23 percent.

From left: Tokyo Gov. Yuriko Koike, Los Angeles Mayor Eric Garcetti, Paris Mayor Anne Hidalgo, New York Mayor Michael Bloomberg, Barcelona Mayor Ada Colau and Milan Mayor Giuseppe Sala pose during C40 Cities Climate summit in Paris on Oct. 23, 2017. PATRICK KOVARIK/Getty Images

This is a new and groundbreaking vision for public health in the 21st century. Protecting public health means not only addressing the health of the individual citizen, but also addressing our collective health as a city ― including our environment.

And cities are wholeheartedly seizing the opportunity to tackle climate change and public health hand in hand. Electric buses are becoming the norm rather than the exception, city planners are creating more green spaces and making the roads safer for cyclists, and entire sections of cities are being designated as off-limits to fossil fuel-burning vehicles, creating green, pedestrian-friendly islands of the natural world in the middle of our busy cities.

Policies already implemented in C40 cities such as Seattle, London, Vancouver, Mexico City, Milan and the other signatories of the Green & Healthy Streets Declaration offer an important blueprint for the rest of the world to follow as we grapple with the challenges of global climate change, air pollution and the effect of fossil fuel emissions on public health. These cities have demonstrated the importance of thinking outside the box and refusing to accept the status quo.

They’ve dared to imagine urban spaces without noisy traffic, congestion, smog and dirty air, devoting time, effort and resources to develop policies with the power to make their dreams into reality. I know that these unique, impactful solutions will make our cities better places to live, save many lives and provide a stable and comfortable environment in which people can live up to their greatest potential.Pakistani activists hold signs demanding "Justice for Zainab" after the 7-year-old was raped and murdered in Kasur. Pacific Press via Getty Images

Police in Lahore, Pakistan, have arrested a man for the rape and murder of 7-year-old Zainab Ansari, officials said on Tuesday.

Chief Minister Shahbaz Sharif identified the suspect as 24-year-old Mohammed Imran, who confessed to killing Ansari and at least seven other children, according to The Associated Press. Local news outlets reported the suspect was known to Ansari’s family.

Sharif said at a news conference that a forensics lab had processed over 1,000 DNA samples linking Imran to a string of child slayings before making the arrest.

“The beast has confessed to have committed the past such crimes,” the official told reporters. “His DNA was matched 100 percent with samples collected from crime scenes.”

Ansari was reported missing in early January after leaving her aunt’s house to walk to a Quran class in Kasur, a city in the Pakistani province of Punjab on the border with India. Police recovered her body from a garbage dumpster several days later.

The child’s murder sparked protests around Pakistan, forcing schools and stores in Kasur to close for several days as outraged residents took to the streets. Two people were killed in the fray when police fired at the crowd.

Pictures of Ansari, smiling and dressed in a pink jacket, circulated in news reports and on social media, contrasting with the particularly gruesome details of her rape and death. The tragedy attracted international attention and incited calls for the government to take action.

Her death also brought renewed attention to the abductions and rapes of seven other children in Kasur. Only one of the victims, a 6-year-old girl, was not killed, and all of them were found to have Imran’s DNA on them.

But Ansari’s father, Mohammed Amin Ansari, suggested it’s not enough to point the finger at one serial predator, saying police should have done more to warn the public.

“People don’t talk about sexual abuse,” he told the AP.

There have been at least 20 cases of children abducted, raped and killed in the Kasur district in the last year, according to local lawyer and activist Waqas Abid. Pakistan’s Senate committee tasked with overseeing policing recently launched an inquiry into the sexual assaults in Kasur.

But activists say a larger culture of shaming rape victims is partly to blame. In Pakistan, rape victims are sometimes punished for their own assaults and jailed for adultery. Tribal councils, a traditional justice system, have sentenced women and girls to be raped as punishment for crimes committed by their male relatives.

Pakistani fashion designer Maheen Khan, who has spoken openly about her own sexual abuse as a child, said she hoped Ansari’s death would effect a change in culture.

“What disturbs me the most is the silence when a little girl gets raped,” Khan told the AP. “It has to do with the honor of family. Parents tell their daughters: ‘Don’t talk about it. Don’t tell anyone.’ Our silence is saying it is all right to sexually molest a child.”Female journalists who traveled around the world to report on Vice President Mike Pence’s trip to Israel this week were literally blocked from doing their jobs on Tuesday morning.

Instead of watching and snapping photos of Pence, who was praying at the Western Wall in the Old City of Jerusalem, this is what they saw:

The women were led to a fenced off area behind their male colleagues, which obstructed their vantage point and prompted many to decry the segregation on social media with the hashtag #PenceFence.

Men and women are customarily separated during prayer at the Western Wall, which is under the authority of the ultra-Orthodox Jewish Western Wall Heritage Foundation.

“It was the same situation during President Trump’s visit to the Western Wall in May 2017,” the foundation said in a statement issued to The Washington Post. “We reject any attempt to divert the discussion from the important and moving visit of the U.S. Vice President and his wife at the Western Wall.”

Tal Schneider, a political correspondent with business newspaper Globes, said she felt like “a second-class citizen” from behind the fence at the wall.

“I find it offensive,” she told HuffPost. “The discriminatory treatment of women is infuriating and inappropriate for a modern state [like] Israel.”

Reporter Noga Tarnopolsky called the situation “a disgrace.”

“I have covered many visits; this was an aberrant first,” she tweeted.

The outrage adds tension to a visit already shadowed by controversy. Last month, President Donald Trump sparked massive protests and international condemnation when he officially recognized Jerusalem as the capital of Israel ― a move that upended decades of American foreign policy and threatens to stall the Israeli-Palestinian peace process.

Pence also faced angry protests during his two-day trip in response to the contentious shift in U.S. policy.Will Smith enjoyed quite the wild ride to win his starring role on hit 1990s sitcom “The Fresh Prince of Bel-Air.”

And the Hollywood actor explains exactly how he became the iconic character in a new YouTube video that is now going viral.

Smith’s inspiring story involves his failed second album, an ex-girlfriend, unpaid taxes and the IRS, a drunk Quincy Jones as his record producer, a hastily-conducted audition and contracts that were drawn up in a limo.HuffPost Illustration

Air quality has always been one of Montréal’s preoccupations. Already by 1872, when coal combustion was at its peak and black smoke shrouded the city, Montréal had adopted a bylaw aiming to reduce air pollution, thus becoming the first Canadian city to regulate on the matter.

Since then, the black smoke subsided, giving way to hydroelectricity, and air quality improved in our metropolis. However, we are far from having won the battle, and today’s issues are more complex than ever before. This is why my administration is firmly committed to fighting greenhouse gas emissions, a battle we will fight on every front.

Mobility is not only at the heart of my preoccupations, but will also be at the very heart of our fight against air pollution. Transportation alone produces nearly 40 percent of all greenhouse gas emissions in Montréal. If we want to reach our 30 percent reduction objective by 2020, compared with the greenhouse gas emission levels in 1990, we must improve mobility in Montréal.

Mobility in Montréal will be at the heart of its fight against air pollution. Nicolas Kipourax Paquet via Getty Images

Several options must be considered to fulfill our commitment. Thus, we must offer a more effective, more comfortable and quicker public transit system, to encourage Montrealers to use it. Active transportation will also have to be put forth, namely by offering safe biking and pedestrian infrastructures, thus converting more people to biking and walking. We will also have to make solo driving less attractive, namely by promoting carpooling, so as to reduce the number of vehicles on our city’s streets. Our program is an ambitious one, but we have the willpower to reach our goals.

But that’s not all. To reduce the population’s needs in terms of mobility, we must take a look at urban planning on our territory. Urban sprawl has generated considerable transportation needs, too often met by solo driving. Over the course of the next few years, we will have to revise how we build our neighborhoods and our city, so as to densify our territory but also to offer all of our city’s households access to local services within their own neighborhoods, thus reducing the cost of their mobility needs.

Montréal will have to revise how it builds its neighborhoods and its city to reduce the cost of mobility needs. Tom Szczerbowski via Getty Images

Greenhouse gas emissions produced by the vehicles on our streets will also have to be reduced. Renewable energy sources will have to be introduced, and the efficiency of freight transportation will have to be improved, so the air we breathe no longer bears the brunt of our transportation habits.

These goals are not just wishful thinking on our part. Shortly after being sworn in, I, like so many other North American mayors, signed the Chicago Climate Charter. Under this agreement, all participating cities must offer safe and accessible active transportation and public transit to their citizens. Moreover, the charter requires that municipal administrations invest in their public transit networks and in their vehicle fleet, so as to reduce their carbon footprint. We are deeply committed to keeping our promises, to remaining proactive and to providing future generations with improved air quality.

Our work is actually already in progress. For more than 50 years now, Montréal has been measuring air quality through 15 different monitoring stations strategically located on the island. This allowed us to record a steady improvement in air quality since the year 2000.

Thus, the carbon monoxide present in the air was reduced by 53 percent, hydrogen sulfide was reduced by 75 percent, benzene levels went down 90 percent, nitrogen dioxide is 77 percent lower, and sulfur dioxide was reduced by 81 percent from 2000 to 2016. In addition, fine particle concentrations in the air were also 38 percent lower in 2016 than they were in 2009. Since 2014, the average yearly fine particle concentration is even lower than the norm suggested by the World Health Organization.

However, we are still far from having won the battle. This is why the city has decided to adopt the bylaw concerning solid-fuel-burning devices and fireplaces. These devices are responsible for 39 percent of fine particle emissions, second only to transportation, responsible for 45 percent of those emissions. Our administration also wishes to invest in the greening of our city, by increasing the number of trees on its territory. This will not only improve air quality, but also fight against heat islands.

Société de transport de Montréal is hoping to expand its network of hybrid buses, such as those above, and also electric buses. STM

A few days ago, we also launched a call for tenders that will allow the Société de transport de Montréal (STM) to purchase 300 new hybrid buses, whereby we will considerably increase the quality of the network’s services, all while reducing our carbon footprint. Furthermore, 40 electric buses will be added to the STM’s fleet over the next few years. Our objective is clear, and we will not lose sight of it.

In the short term, Montréal has earmarked an additional contribution of about 28 million Canadian dollars ($22.5 million) for the STM in 2018. This amount will allow the STM to increase metro frequency outside of rush hour, and to add buses to less-serviced neighborhoods, such as Griffintown and Rivière-des-Prairies, for instance.

Air quality is every Montrealer’s business. Although the situation is improving across the island, every neighborhood and every household still plays a role in reducing air pollution, if only by their chosen method of transportation or the greening of their streets.HuffPost Illustration

In New York City, we are fighting the climate crisis as though our lives depend on it, and we are fighting inequality with the same sense of urgency. We have to do both at the same time. In fact, the very process of addressing our environmental challenges is part of how we are making New York City the fairest big city in America.

You can see that clearly — and you’ll see it even more clearly as time goes on — when it comes to our air.

Air might seem like a resource that is distributed evenly, but all too often where you live determines the cleanliness of the air you breathe. If you want evidence, just pay a visit to hospitals around town. The rate of emergency room visits due to pollution-related asthma is three times higher in lower-income neighborhoods than more affluent areas.

So, we’re cutting greenhouse gasses, not just to preserve our planet, but also to ensure that our air is clean in every zip code. Our goal is bold. President Donald Trump may have started the process of removing the United States from the Paris Agreement, but in New York, we are meeting the stretch goal of the Paris agreement of not allowing a temperature increase of more than 1.5 Celsius.

Lucas Jackson / Reuters

We’re committed to cutting emissions 80 percent by 2050. We are committed, by 2030, to having the best air quality of any city in this nation. If you lived through the 1960s and 1970s, that’s a hard vision to believe in, but we’re using every tool we have to get there.

We are working toward zero waste in our landfills. We are compelling landlords to make energy efficiency retrofits to the 14,500 large buildings that contribute the most pollution of any local source. This fix alone will be the equivalent of removing 900,000 cars a year from our roads. We are accelerating a shift to electric vehicles by building charging stations and adding more than 1,000 electric vehicles to the city government fleet.

We also signed a sweeping update of the city’s air pollution laws, which hadn’t changed markedly since 1975. The new rules target cooking emissions from commercial charbroilers, outdoor boilers and mobile food trucks, and other pollutants like fireplaces.

We are already seeing real success, and achieving that success in the face of an increasing population. Greenhouse gas emissions are down 15 percent since 2005. Between 2009 and 2015, citywide levels of dust, dirt and other liquids and solids in the air have declined an average of 18 percent, while nitrogen dioxide is down 23 percent. We have also seen an incredible 84 percent decline in sulfur dioxide levels over that same stretch.

We are proud that some of the largest declines are taking place in some of the city’s lowest-income neighborhoods.Justice Department headquarters in Washington. Ryan J Reilly

WASHINGTON ― For weeks, President Donald Trump and his supporters on Capitol Hill have attempted to undermine Robert Mueller’s special counsel investigation by claiming that the FBI was working behind the scenes during the 2016 campaign to stop Trump from winning.

To back up this theory, the president’s allies have cited text messages exchanged by Peter Strzok and Lisa Page, two FBI employees who worked on the Hillary Clinton email investigation and had an affair. The first batch of texts, released last month, revealed that neither was a big fan of Trump or an array of Democratic politicians and figures. An additional set of text messages sent to Congress in recent days has set off a new round of stories.

For some Republicans, the latest texts confirm everything they’ve always suspected.

“Peter Strzok and Lisa Page believed that then-candidate Donald Trump was a threat to this country and appeared to be taking steps, as sworn members of law enforcement, to subvert the will of the American people,” Rep. Andy Biggs (R-Ariz.) said in a press release Monday.

The idea that the FBI sought to undermine Trump during the 2016 election was unlikely on its face. The bureau’s handling of the investigation into Clinton’s emails produced a slew of negative headlines for her and provided plenty of fodder for Trump and his allies to attack their Democratic opponent. And if FBI officials really were trying to get Clinton elected, they did a terrible job: Trump won.

But one previously unreported Strzok-Page exchange, from the eve of Election Day, does even more to undercut the GOP’s “deep state” narrative. In it, the two FBI employees discuss James Kallstrom, a former bureau official who headed the FBI’s New York field office a couple of decades ago. During the 2016 campaign, he endorsed Trump, called the Clintons an “organized crime family” and was making the rounds on TV airing what he said were complaints from within the bureau about then-FBI Director James Comey’s management of the Clinton probe.

The bureau had been taking a lot of heat from the right for its handling of the Clinton investigation, and much of the criticism seemed to be emerging from the FBI field office in New York. According to a later report in Vanity Fair, Comey’s concerns about a leak from that office even played a role in his decision to send a letter about the Clinton investigation to Congress 11 days before the election, which set off a media firestorm that Clinton later blamed for her Electoral College loss.

Strzok and Page’s election eve texts discuss a conversation Strzok had with a woman both of them knew. The woman, whom HuffPost has been told does not work at the FBI, was critical of the bureau’s handling of the Clinton investigation. She thought the bureau should’ve publicly undermined people like Kallstrom and gone after agents who were leaking to the press. Here’s the exchange, which was included in the first set of text messages that the Justice Department provided to Congress last month:

Page: Oh god █████

Page: What is she saying?

Page: She does realize you’ve been in EVERY conversation that has been had about this case, right?

Strzok: That we should have gone on the record saying Kallstrom and others are not credible (which may be valid), but then saying we could pull his tolls if we wanted to. Because she knows all about our policy regarding investigations of members of the media.

Strzok: Yes but she’s an expert who knows everything. I’m telling you, it’s wildly infuriating. She has good points but then assumes wildly impossible understanding of things to make groundless assertions.

Strzok: Told her twice she was either calling me stupid or a liar.

Page: Uh, what crimes are we investigating? And I’m sorry, that’s a terrible idea. Going to war with the formers?

Page: Jesus, █████. I’m sorry. That would make me blind with rage.

Strzok: Leaking information about ongoing investigations. Which is incorrect information. By agents who don’t know about things talking to him. See? That’s the thing. Her initial point, that we should have gone after the agents talking harder and sooner, is not unreasonable. But the subsequent discussion falls into uniformed assertions.

“Pulling his tolls” is FBI-speak for using an administrative subpoena to obtain phone records. If they were part of a “deep state” operation to keep Trump from being elected, weaponizing government power to target a critic of the FBI and root out anti-Clinton forces within the bureau would’ve been a pretty solid move.

Yet both Page and Strzok recoiled at this suggestion. Strzok found the criticism and the woman’s suggestion “wildly infuriating.” Page, an FBI lawyer, said that the criticism would’ve made her “blind with rage” and wondered what possible legal basis there could be for obtaining Kallstrom’s phone records. The texts make clear that both Strzok and Page were frustrated by stories that reflected poorly upon the FBI’s handling of the Clinton probe and elsewhere suggest that Page may have spoken with a reporter, evidently in defense of the bureau’s actions in the Clinton Foundation investigation. But in their texts on the eve of Trump’s election, both seem to recognize that obtaining phone records of a former FBI official to hunt down his anti-Clinton sources within the bureau was a pretty bad idea.

Those who believe the FBI was plotting to stop Trump from taking office have also focused on a text in which Strzok compares the investigation into Trump’s ties to Russia with an “insurance policy.” But as The Wall Street Journal reported, that text message was meant only to suggest that FBI agents couldn’t delay the investigation simply because they thought Trump was unlikely to get elected.

Still, the “deep state” theory doesn’t seem likely to die anytime soon. In a letter to Congress, the Justice Department said the FBI hadn’t retained the texts between Strzok and Page from Dec. 14, 2016, through May 17, 2017. The news that the bureau didn’t keep those messages has already churned up more anti-FBI criticism this week, with Republicans claiming to see nefarious motives.

Not long after a “Fox & Friends” segment focusing on the texts Tuesday morning, Trump tweeted about the story, inaccurately stating that the FBI had lost “perhaps 50,000” texts that Strzok and Page exchanged in five months. If that were true, the pair would have done an incredible amount of texting: more than 320 messages per day. The 50,000 figure actually refers to all of the texts between the two, over a much longer time, that the FBI found. Trump called the news “one of the biggest stories in a long time.”

In one of the biggest stories in a long time, the FBI now says it is missing five months worth of lovers Strzok-Page texts, perhaps 50,000, and all in prime time. Wow! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) January 23, 2018

It’s quite possible the missing texts will be recovered through other means, and Attorney General Jeff Sessions vowed to take disciplinary action if any wrongdoing was behind the gap.

“We will leave no stone unturned to confirm with certainty why these text messages are not now available to be produced and will use every technology available to determine whether the missing messages are recoverable from another source,” Sessions said in a statement Monday night. “If we are successful, we will update the congressional committees immediately.”

The Justice Department’s decision to allow reporters to view the text messages released last month came under scrutiny and resulted in a Freedom of Information Act lawsuit seeking records about the decision. So the department is not giving reporters access to the latest batch of text messages it sent to Congress.

That means that members of Congress control which messages are revealed to the public. Republicans have recently made vague references to texts the pair reportedly exchanged the day after Trump’s election that referenced a “secret society.” Sen. Ron Johnson (R-Wis.), who chairs the Senate homeland security committee, focused on just a few exchanges, including one in which Strzok said the timing “looks like hell” after then-Attorney General Loretta Lynch said she would accept the recommendations of the FBI and career prosecutors in the Clinton investigation. Page sarcastically wrote that Lynch’s announcement was “a real profile in [courage], since she knows no charges will be brought.”

Meanwhile, as first reported by The Daily Beast, the FBI said that House Republicans have refused to show the bureau a copy of the memo Republican staffers prepared alleging that the bureau abused the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act during the 2016 campaign.

“The FBI has requested to receive a copy of the memo in order to evaluate the information and take appropriate steps if necessary,” FBI spokesman Andy Ames said in a statement also provided to HuffPost. “To date, the request has been declined.”It’s the day you, movie fans everywhere and Meryl Streep’s Oscar shelf, have been waiting for.

“Girls Trip” star Tiffany Haddish ― yes, she got snubbed, and we’re still not over it ― and professional chameleon Andy Serkis announced the nominations for the 90th annual Academy Awards bright and early Tuesday morning. Special guests, including Salma Hayek, Priyanka Chopra, Rosario Dawson, Gal Gadot, Michelle Rodriguez, Molly Shannon, Rebel Wilson, Michelle Yeoh and Zoe Saldana, joined the pair in the pre-taped segment.

“The Shape of Water” led the pack with an impressive haul of 13 nominations; the polarizing “Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri” and “Dunkirk” were not far behind. “Get Out,” the breakout thriller from director Jordan Peele, also picked up a few nods. And yes, Greta Gerwig did break through in the typically all-male category for Best Director (we might have Natalie Portman to thank for that).

Will Frances McDormand get a new “doorstop” for her performance as a grieving mother? Can Netflix secure its first big win with “Mudbound” over the studios? Or should we just call the whole thing off and give all the awards to Meryl?

Check out the list of nominees below:

Best Picture

“Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri”

“The Post”

“Call Me by Your Name”

“Darkest Hour”

“Dunkirk”

“Get Out”

“Lady Bird”

“Phantom Thread”

“The Shape of Water”

Best Actress

Sally Hawkins, “The Shape of Water”

Frances McDormand, “Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri”

Margot Robbie, “I, Tonya”

Saoirse Ronan, “Lady Bird”

Meryl Streep, “The Post”

Best Actor

Timothée Chalamet, “Call Me by Your Name”

Daniel Day-Lewis, “Phantom Thread”

Daniel Kaluuya, “Get Out”

Gary Oldman, “Darkest Hour”

Denzel Washington, “Roman J. Israel, Esq.”

Best Supporting Actress

Mary J. Blige, “Mudbound”

Allison Janney, “I, Tonya”

Lesley Manville, “Phantom Thread”

Laurie Metcalf, “Lady Bird”

Octavia Spencer, “Shape of Water”

Best Supporting Actor

Willem Dafoe, “The Florida Project”

Woody Harrelson, “Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri”

Richard Jenkins, “The Shape of Water”

Christopher Plummer, “All the Money in the World”

Sam Rockwell, “Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri”

Best Director

Christopher Nolan, “Dunkirk”

Jordan Peele, “Get Out”

Greta Gerwig, “Lady Bird”

Paul Thomas Anderson, “Phantom Thread”

Guillermo del Toro, “The Shape of Water”

Best Original Screenplay

“The Big Sick,” Emily V. Gordon and Kumail Nanjiani

“Get Out,” Jordan Peele

“Lady Bird,” Greta Gerwig

“Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri,” Martin McDonagh

“The Shape of Water,” Guillermo del Toro and Vanessa Taylor

Best Adapted Screenplay

“Call Me by Your Name,” James Ivory

“The Disaster Artist,” Scott Neustadter and Michael H. Weber

“Logan,” Scott Frank, James Mangold and Michael Green

“Molly’s Game,” Aaron Sorkin

“Mudbound,” Virgil Williams and Dee Rees

Best Animated Feature

“The Boss Baby”

“The Breadwinner”

“Coco”

“Ferdinand”

“Loving Vincent”

Best Animated Short Film

“Dear Basketball”

“Garden Party”

“Lou”

“Negative Space”

“Revolting Rhymes”

Best Live Action Short Film

“DeKalb Elementary”

“The Eleven O’Clock”

“My Nephew Emmett”

“The Silent Child”

“Watu Wote/All of Us”

Best Documentary Feature

“Abacus: Small Enough to Jail”

“Faces Places”

“Icarus”

“Last Men in Aleppo”

“Strong Island”



Best Documentary Short Subject

“Edith+Eddie”

“Heaven is a Traffic Jam on the 405”

“Heroin(e)”

“Kayayo: The Living Shopping Baskets”

“Knife Skills”

“Traffic Stop”

Best Foreign Language Film

“A Fantastic Woman” (Chile)

“The Insult” (Lebanon)

“Loveless” (Russia)

“On Body and Soul (Hungary)

“The Square” (Sweden)

Best Cinematography

“Blade Runner 2049”

“Darkest Hour”

“Dunkirk”

“Mudbound”

“The Shape of Water”

Best Film Editing

“Baby Driver”

“Dunkirk”

“I, Tonya”

“The Shape of Water”

“Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri”

Best Sound Editing

“Baby Driver”

“Blade Runner 2049”

“Dunkirk”

“The Shape of Water”

“Star Wars: The Last Jedi”

Best Sound Mixing

“Baby Driver”

“Blade Runner 2049”

“Dunkirk”

“The Shape of Water”

“Star Wars: The Last Jedi”

Best Production Design

“Beauty and the Beast”

“Blade Runner 2049”

“Darkest Hour”

“The Shape of Water”

“Dunkirk”

Best Original Score

“Dunkirk,” Hans Zimmer

“Phantom Thread,” Jonny Greenwood

“The Shape of Water,” Alexandre Desplat

“Star Wars: The Last Jedi,” John Williams

“Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri,” Carter Burwell

Best Original Song

“Mighty River” from “Mudbound”

“Mystery of Love” from “Call Me by Your Name”

“Remember Me” from “Coco”

“Stand Up for Something” from “Marshall”

“This Is Me” from “The Greatest Showman”

Best Costume Design

“Beauty and the Beast”

“Darkest Hour”

“Phantom Thread”

“The Shape of Water”

“Victoria and Abdul”

Best Makeup and Hairstyling

“Darkest Hour”

“Victoria & Abdul”

“Wonder”

Best Visual Effects

“Blade Runner 2049”

“Guardians of the Galaxy Vol. 2”

“Kong: Skull Island”

“Star Wars: The Last Jedi”

“War for the Planet of the Apes”The Oscar nominations “Mudbound” received Tuesday mark a monumental achievement for Netflix.

The narrative film about two families ― one black, one white ― living in Jim Crow-era Mississippi is the first non-documentary work from the streaming service to receive any nods from the Academy.

“Mudbound” received four in total, walking away with nominations for Best Adapted Screenplay, Best Original Song (“Mighty River”), Best Supporting Actress for Mary J. Blige and Best Achievement in Cinematography for Rachel Morrison.

The latter two nominations are significant for several reasons.

For one, Blige, who wrote the song “Mighty River,” is now the first person ever to receive an acting and songwriting nomination within the same year. She’s also the first actor to be nominated for a film directed by a woman of color.

"It was all I could do to not look back." @MaryJBlige's incredible performance as Florence Jackson earns her an Academy Award nomination for Best Supporting Actress. pic.twitter.com/aBl1AgmIsq — Mudbound (@mudboundmovie) January 23, 2018

Meanwhile, the nomination for Morrison marks the first nomination for a female director of photography in the Best Cinematography category.

Many were upset to see that “Mudbound” director Dee Rees did not receive a nomination in her own right, particularly when the category has a history of nominating so few women.

Same! I was also hoping that Dee Rees would be recognized for her excellent direction of MUDBOUND but TK TK TK. https://t.co/eZraLwBq9q — Saeed Jones (@theferocity) January 23, 2018

Good morning. I hope "Mudbound" will get some Oscar noms, particularly for Dee Rees. Even if it doesn't happen, her brilliance and talent will not be denied. I'm so excited for her future. Let's always keep her in the conversation of women directors. Always. pic.twitter.com/Pa1vyM1ZUd — ReBecca Theodore-Vachon (@FilmFatale_NYC) January 23, 2018

Greta Gerwig, who directed “Lady Bird,” scored a nomination, but was only the fifth woman in the history of the award show to do so.Greta Gerwig became only the fifth woman in history to be nominated for Best Director at the Academy Awards.

Gerwig’s nomination for “Lady Bird” was announced on Tuesday morning and met with much happiness on social media:

Greta Gerwig is the fifth woman ever to be nominated for Best Director! If she wins, she'll be the second ever. Go Academy! Finally changing things. (Jordan Peele too!) — Alicia Malone (@aliciamalone) January 23, 2018

Greta Gerwig gets her nomination! The fifth woman in ninety years. ✨✨✨ pic.twitter.com/4ciuBNF3KK — ⭐ amy o'connor ⭐ (@amyohconnor) January 23, 2018

that's "Oscar Nominated Director Greta Gerwig" to you pic.twitter.com/sT35TOMsgd — hattie (@hattiesoykan) January 23, 2018

The previous four female directors to have been nominated by the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences are Lina Wertmuller in 1977, Jane Campion in 1994, Sofia Coppola in 2004, and Kathryn Bigelow in 2010. Bigelow notably won for “The Hurt Locker,” and is the only woman to have won the category.

“Lady Bird” was not just a massive success in the Best Director category, but took home five nominations in total, getting the nod for Best Picture, Best Original Screenplay, Best Actress (for Saoirse Ronan) and Best Supporting Actress (for Laurie Metcalf).

Despite “Lady Bird” being a widely celebrated film that won Best Motion Picture, Musical or Comedy at the Golden Globe Awards, Gerwig herself was left out of the Globe’s directing category ― a dig that led Natalie Portman to make a sassy comment at the show about the category being dominated by men.WASHINGTON ― In 2013, Leah Phifer was, like hundreds of thousands of other federal workers, furloughed without pay because of a government shutdown that lasted 16 days.

An employee with the Department of Homeland Security, Phifer had second thoughts about her dream of pursuing a career in public service. She was in the process of buying her first house when the shutdown hit, and she didn’t know how long it would continue ― and when she would finally get paid again. She had to retract her mortgage application and lost the house that she really wanted.

When HuffPost spoke to her at that time, she was frustrated and seriously thinking about changing her plans.

“I have student loans to pay back. I want to buy a house. I want a life that doesn’t include biannual panic attacks over arbitrarily losing my job. So you asked if I’m considering leaving public service,” she said. “In this climate, I ask you: How could I consider staying?”

Phifer did stick it out in government a few years, moving on to a job at the FBI. But in May, three days after President Donald Trump fired her boss, FBI Director James Comey, she quit.

Now, Phifer is hoping to be part of the solution to the dysfunction.

Leah Phifer, a former federal government worker, is now running for Congress. Leah Phifer for Congress

Phifer, 33, is running for Congress in Minnesota’s 8th District, challenging Rep. Rick Nolan (D) for their party’s nomination. On Monday, she said it was disappointing that so many federal workers were once again stuck in the middle of Congress’ problems.

“It really takes a huge toll on our public servants and people’s willingness to go into public service when their livelihood is treated as expendable,” Phifer said.

Part of the wave of Democratic women who rose up after Trump’s election to run for office, Phifer was recently featured on the cover of Time magazine with others in the movement.

An incredible honor to join @IlhanMN among the ranks of DFL women on the cover of Time magazine! This is a seminal moment in American history and @MinnesotaDFL women are leading the way! 💙 pic.twitter.com/gr7Ih1Myip — Leah Phifer (@Phifer4Congress) January 18, 2018

“Sometimes you feel alone in your district. You’re one of 435 races across the nation. It can sometimes feel like you’re going up against this machine,” Phifer told HuffPost. “But when you see yourself amongst a sea of other first-time female candidates, you don’t feel so alone. And you know that you’re in amazing company. So it was really, really inspiring.”

“I firmly believe that I wouldn’t be running right now if it had gone a different way. If Hillary Clinton had been elected president, I would still be with the FBI,” she added. “But I feel so strongly that the policies that President Trump is pushing, like travel bans and border walls, are not what keeps us safe.”

The most recent government shutdown lasted just three days, far shorter than the one Phifer went through in 2013. But the measure Congress approved provides funding only until Feb. 8, so there’s a chance the government could shut down again, especially if Democrats don’t believe that Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.) has kept his end of the deal by holding a vote on an immigration bill to protect the young undocumented immigrants known as Dreamers.

For many federal workers, this ongoing uncertainty over whether the government may shut down is the new normal. While Trump and his administration are part of the problem, Phifer said they’re not completely to blame.