Illustration: Gabriela Landazuri Saltos/HuffPost Photo: Getty Images

Late in “Girls Trip,” when the central Flossy Posse is squabbling at a New Orleans hotel, the impulsive merrymaker Dina hurls a slew of expletives at her friends ― about “raggedy fake-asses” and the clap.

Tiffany Haddish, the scene-stealer behind it all, storms off in stilettos afterwards, torso thrusted forward as if it’s dragging her down the hall. Within milliseconds, she turns back in fury, slamming her friend’s (Regina Hall) credit card into her palm. But those heels she’s wearing are only a hindrance, and her wobbly legs propel her torso even farther toward the ground. After another failed attempt to bolt, she lumbers away, mumbling a deep-throated stream of invective about “stupid-ass bitches.” Before rounding the corner, Dina’s rage disappearing and a melancholic bearing taking its place, she trips ― twice.

It’s a sensational moment, at once uproarious and bittersweet. It’s also a transcendent bit of acting. Remove the humorous epithets, have Haddish tear up a little, and her outburst would yield the perfect sizzle-reel clip for the Oscars.

But because it’s ribald and unrefined, Haddish remained a wish-list candidate throughout awards season. Universal Pictures, the studio that released “Girls Trip,” didn’t mount a robust campaign for the breakout star, despite the gargantuan attention she received for this performance. Given the Oscars’ spotty track record in feting performers of color, prognostications were divided on whether a rookie from a broad, mainstream comedy could make the ballot.

Tiffany Haddish in "Girls Trip." Universal Pictures

On Tuesday morning, our prayers were ignored. Despite those stiletto theatrics (and the grapefruit-assisted fellatio and the absinthe-induced bar brawl), Haddish’s name was left off this year’s Oscar nominees, providing cause to barnstorm the Academy’s offices in protest. The media’s grassroots bid on Haddish’s behalf, which included a prize from the New York Film Critics Circle, failed. And that begs a question, especially relevant amid Hollywood’s ongoing identity crisis: Why did anyone need to be convinced that Haddish, who appeared on countless lists of 2017′s best performances, was worthy of prestigious accolades? Why are the same types of performances nominated for Oscars year after year?

There’s no one answer to these queries, but Oscar history leaves little to the imagination. As it currently stands, the Academy is a roughly 8,000-member hive mind dominated by older white men. Despite the group’s recent diversification, 90 years’ worth of ceremonies tell us what characteristics rule these awards: serious, often important-seeming dramas that feature big, transparent acting and characters with vivid struggles.

Saying the Oscars sideline comedic work because it isn’t emotive enough is an age-old generalization. Had Haddish received a nomination, she would have had few precedents: Melissa McCarthy in “Bridesmaids,” Robert Downey Jr. in “Tropic Thunder” and Marisa Tomei in “My Cousin Vinny.” Even Katharine Hepburn, one of the sharpest screwball actors who’s ever lived, was nominated almost exclusively for her heady dramatic turns.

But Oscar voters’ fixed conceptions of who’s deserving of their awards stretches into dramatic terrain, too. Hence why films’ marketing tactics favor the same buzzwords. The Academy wants performances that are “transcendent,” “transformative,” “revelatory” and “full-bodied.” Haddish is just as full-bodied in “Girls Trip” as Best Actor frontrunner Gary Oldman is playing the sputtering Winston Churchill in “Darkest Hour.” However, a key difference is that Oldman is coated in heavy makeup, meaning he “disappeared” into the role. (Plus, Hollywood loves seeing historical figures on the big screen ― it’s acting at its most tangible.)

Oldman is effective in “Darkest Hour,” but his would be among the most typical wins in recent memory. Of the last 10 Best Actor champions, almost all of them suffer an ailment: Leonardo DiCaprio’s arctic muteness in “The Revenant,” Eddie Redmayne’s neurological condition in “The Theory of Everything,” Matthew McConaughey’s AIDS frailty in “Dallas Buyers Club,” Daniel Day-Lewis’ hunched gait in “Lincoln,” Colin Firth’s stutter in “The King’s Speech,” Jeff Bridges’ alcoholism in “Crazy Heart.” Oldman sports heavy affectations, a portly belly and a conflicted character arc.

In the age of multimillion-dollar campaigns, pioneered by savvy publicists in the 1970s and made into to a cottage industry in the 1990s by the likes of Harvey Weinstein, narratives about who wins Oscars have grown even more static.

Beyond the snubbed Haddish there were other less conventional performances deserving of recognition this year. What about Betty Gabriel, a linchpin in the cultural phenomenon “Get Out,” who nailed a pivotal scene in which her robotic smile faded to reveal teary-eyed repression? That, my friends, is acting built from the ground up, without the advantage of a historical correlative to imitate ― but her name barely registered on the awards circuit.

Or what about Adam Driver, who brought new layers to what could have been an archetypal villain in “Star Wars: The Last Jedi”? Nah, too blockbuster-y for the stuffy Academy.

Or if you want to talk about thick makeup, how about Doug Jones, who brings soul to the monsters he inhabits, as evidenced in “The Shape of Water”?

What about the subtle nuances Beanie Feldstein brought to her BFF role in “Lady Bird”? (Too sidekick-ish.)

Or Andy Serkis’ motion-capture feat in “War for the Planet of the Apes”? (Too invisible.)

Or Aubrey Plaza’s desperate hunger for attention in “Ingrid Goes West”? (Too Instagram-y.)

Adam Driver in "Star Wars: The Last Jedi." Disney

Not only were those folks not nominated ― they weren’t even part of the conversation, which started during autumn’s Toronto, Telluride and Venice film festivals, the annual Oscar springboards.

Your opinions will vary on which of 2017′s performances were overlooked (mine are mere suggestions), but there’s no arguing that the Oscars campaign bible is far too cemented for its own good. Dictums about who is “overdue” for awards steer the conversation (see: Sam Rockwell), an affecting crying scene offers an instant boost (see: Margot Robbie in “I, Tonya”), and a little manipulation ― also known as category fraud ― repositions contenders in competitive races (see: Sony Picture Classics pushing “Call Me by Your Name” co-lead Armie Hammer in the supporting field, where he was snubbed).

Maybe change is coming. That “Get Out” managed four nominations ― including Daniel Kaluuya’s Best Actor nod ― despite being a genre-bending crowd-pleaser with massive profits to its name shows that some of the tired adages about what constitutes Oscar-caliber material have faded. (No horror-comedy hybrid has ever been recognized, and the last traditional horror flick to earn top-tier nods was “The Sixth Sense,” released in 1999.)

But as silly as it is to put too much stock in the Academy Awards, which have never been a true meritocracy, the nature of their monthslong campaigns and tried-and-true performance hallmarks are staid. Maybe next year we can shine a light on fewer Winston Churchills and more Dinas.Stephen Colbert has connected the dots on the relationship between Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer (D-N.Y.) and President Donald Trump.

Colbert noted that the pair met last week to talk about the budget over one of Trump’s favorite meals: cheeseburgers.

“That’s smart,” Colbert cracked. “Get him all burgered up first.”

But if the two shared burgers, that could mean they shared something else as well.A Michigan man was arrested by federal authorities after he allegedly made phone calls to CNN employees threatening to kill them because they are “fake news.”

“I am on my way right now to gun the fuckin’ CNN cast down,” Brandon Griesemer told a CNN operator over the phone, according to an arrest affidavit unsealed by the FBI on Friday.

It was one of nearly two dozen phone calls placed by Griesemer to CNN on Jan. 9 and 10, according to the affidavit. In one call, a male voice was heard saying he was “coming to gun you all down” because CNN is “fake news.” The calls were placed to CNN’s Atlanta, Georgia, headquarters.

In another call just 30 minutes later, a male voice whispered to an operator: “I’m coming for you, CNN. I’m smarter than you. More powerful than you. I have more guns that you. More manpower. Your cast is about to get gunned down in a matter of hours.”

An investigator working for CNN was quickly able to trace the call back to Greisemer and spoke to him over the phone while recording the conversation. The caller identified himself as “Brandon,” and the investigator said it sounded the same as the voice making threats.

In total, Greisemer made 22 calls to CNN’s Atlanta offices. In the calls, he allegedly made disparaging remarks about black and Jewish individuals.

The suspect’s father told The Washington Post that his son “didn’t mean any of it.”

“He didn’t know what he was saying, the seriousness of it,” the father told the Post on Monday. “We’re not even gun owners or anything like that. We don’t have any, neither does he.”

The suspect’s use of “fake news” was likely taken directly from President Donald Trump, who has emboldened and baited his base into seeing news outlets as enemies of the country. So obsessed Trump is with calling his critics “fake news” that he created a “Fake News Awards” that included a poll to vote on which outlet is the most dishonest. CNN was nominated, as was HuffPost.

On Tuesday, a day after news first broke that a man threatened to kill CNN employees, Trump again tweeted about “Fake News CNN.”

Even Crazy Jim Acosta of Fake News CNN agrees: “Trump World and WH sources dancing in end zone: Trump wins again...Schumer and Dems caved...gambled and lost.” Thank you for your honesty Jim! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) January 23, 2018

“We take any threats of CNN employees or workplaces, around the world, extremely seriously,” CNN said in a statement. “This one is no exception. We have been in touch with local and federal law enforcement throughout, and have taken all necessary measures to ensure the safety of our people.”

Along with his call to CNN, Griesemer previously threatened a mosque over the phone, according to officials. In September of last year, Griesemer called the Islamic Center of Ann Arbor where he “made derogatory comments relating to the mosque and Muslims,” the affidavit says. He later admitted to police he placed the call because he was “angry,” officials said.The man who played Tinky Winky on the iconic children’s TV show “Teletubbies” has died at the age of 52.

Actor Simon Shelton, also known as Simon Barnes, died last Wednesday, according to the BBC.

Shelton was a ballet dancer and choreographer before he was cast on “Teletubbies” as purple, purse-carrying Tinky Winky in 1998. He was the second actor cast in the role; the original actor, Dave Thompson, was canned in 1997.

“I didn’t know it would be as big as it was, but I did know as soon as I started working on it, that it had something special,” he told the BBC in 2008. “It was like being the Beatles, it was wonderful!”

But like the Beatles, the Teletubbies were occasionally controversial.

In 1999, conservative televangelist Jerry Falwell accused Tinky Winky of “modeling the gay lifestyle,” because the character carried a purse, was purple and had a triangle-shaped antenna.

Although Thompson admitted to playing the character as gay (a claim that got him cut from the show), Shelton dismissed the question as irrelevant, according to Variety.

“People always ask me if Tinky Winky is gay,” Shelton told reporters. “But the character is supposed to be a 3-year-old, so the question is really quite silly.”

Shelton is survived by three kids.

News of his death inspired tributes from co-workers and family members.

A post shared by Emily Atack (@emilyatackofficial) on Jan 19, 2018 at 4:33am PST

Very sad to hear that actor Simon Shelton, who played Tinky Winky in the late 90’s, has sadly passed away. Our thoughts are with his family and friends. Big hugs. pic.twitter.com/nBofxSYFLd — Teletubbies (@TeletubbiesHQ) January 23, 2018Paige Patterson, president of Southwestern Baptist Theological Seminary, is a leading figure among Southern Baptists. The Washington Post via Getty Images

Leaders in the Southern Baptist Convention are seeking to clear the air as a prominent Baptist’s past remarks about women, abuse, and divorce come newly under scrutiny.

Paige Patterson, president of Texas’ Southwestern Baptist Theological Seminary and a major figure in America’s largest Protestant denomination, admitted Thursday that his description of a teenage girl’s body as “nice” in recently resurfaced footage of a 2014 sermon had “obviously been hurtful to women.”

“I wish to apologize to every woman who has been wounded by anything I have said that was inappropriate or that lacked clarity,” Patterson wrote in a statement on his seminary’s website.

In his 2014 talk, Patterson appeared to condone the objectification of a 16-year-old girl’s body. To illustrate how God “beautifully and artistically” created women, he recalled a time when he saw “a very attractive” 16-year-old walking by after he’d preached at an event.

“She was nice,” Patterson reminisced in the clip, remarking that another man had described her as “built.” He has used the same story more than once over the years.

On Thursday, Patterson apologized for his words.

“Please forgive the failure to be as thoughtful and careful in my extemporaneous expression as I should have been,” the pastor wrote in his statement.

Patterson’s apology did not directly address another remark he’s made that has been causing controversy within Southern Baptist circles. He was captured on tape in 2000 advising physically abused wives to avoid divorce whenever possible and to “be submissive in every way.” He’s clarified since that he has counseled women to leave ― albeit not to divorce ― their abusive husbands.

In his apology, Patterson did not address the possibility of divorce as an option for women in abusive relationships. He did, however, explicitly condemn all forms of abuse.

“I utterly reject any form of abuse in demeaning or threatening talk, in physical blows, or in forced sexual acts,” he wrote in his statement on Thursday. “There is no excuse for anyone to use intemperate language or to attempt to injure another person.”

Patterson’s earlier statements have caused some division within the denomination in recent weeks. Patterson is a prominent figure within the church. As a former president of the entire denomination, he’s credited with leading it toward greater conservatism.

Some Southern Baptists are calling for Patterson to resign from his seminary position and withdraw from other duties, such as delivering the sermon at the denomination’s annual meeting in Dallas this June. A petition condemning Patterson’s “damaging, sinful” comments has gathered over 3,000 signatures, mostly from evangelical women.

Others are offering their support for Patterson. Female professors and students at Southwestern Baptist Theological Seminary say he has been a champion for women at their school.

Paige Patterson, pictured in 1985, apologized Thursday to women who have been "wounded" by his comments. Shelly Katz/Getty Images

Samuel Schmidt, a pastor from Kentucky and a graduate of Southwestern Baptist Theological Seminary, has organized a petition to defend Patterson.

He claims the leader is being targeted by a “witch-hunt” carried out by “culture warriors, for the sake of political correctness at the expense of the glory of the Gospel.” His letter supporting Patterson has gained over 450 signatures.

Amid the tension, Steve Gaines, current president of the Southern Baptist Convention, released a statement on Friday about Patterson. Gaines said he disagreed with the advice Patterson gave abused women (although he also did not address the possibility of divorce). Gaines also said he felt Patterson’s remarks about the teenage girl’s body were “improper.”

He asked for forgiveness from women who have been hurt by Patterson’s comments and called on all Southern Baptists to pray for the church. He encouraged them to speak “positively and constructively” about the issue online.

“Every word we speak, in private or public conversation, even on social media, should be Christlike and filled with grace,” Gaines wrote in his statement. “Far better to be wronged than to participate in an ungodly exchange of words before a lost world that is listening and watching.”

Karen Swallow Prior, a professor of English at the evangelical Christian Liberty University, was one of the Southern Baptist women who signed the petition denouncing Patterson’s past remarks. She told HuffPost that Patterson’s apology appeared to be a step in the right direction. However, she said, repentance is shown “not through words, but through actions.”

Prior said she is waiting to see whether Patterson’s seminary will take a stand on the issue. The seminary’s board of trustees is scheduled to meet on May 22 in light of recent events.Because this is what a good friend does.

Actress Busy Philipps posted a picture Monday of her providing a shoulder to lean on for Michelle Williams on the 10th anniversary of Heath Ledger’s death.

“It’s OK,” Philipps wrote on Instagram.

A post shared by Busy Philipps (@busyphilipps) on Jan 22, 2018 at 10:27pm PST

People saved another shot of the two that Philipps posted.

Instagram

Philipps appeared to go the extra mile for her hurting friend. She shared a sunset photo she took from a plane with a red-heart emoji before she and Williams were pictured together.

A post shared by Busy Philipps (@busyphilipps) on Jan 22, 2018 at 5:49pm PST

Williams and Ledger fell in love on the set of “Brokeback Mountain” and had a daughter Matilda in 2005. They broke up as a couple just months before his death on Jan. 22, 2008, from an accidental overdose at age 28. In 2009, he posthumously won a Best Supporting Actor Oscar for playing the Joker in “The Dark Knight.”

AdvertisementSen. Tammy Duckworth (D-Ill.) announced Tuesday that she is pregnant with her second child ― news that’s expected to secure her a place in the history books.

Duckworth let the world know that she’s six months pregnant with her second daughter, and that she expects to soon become the first sitting senator to give birth in U.S. history. The Purple Heart recipient and Iraq War veteran has been through this once before, as she gave birth in 2014 to her daughter Abigail while serving in the House of Representatives.

“Parenthood isn’t just a women’s issue, it’s an economic issue and an issue that affects all parents ― men and women alike,” Duckworth said in her statement. “As tough as juggling the demands of motherhood and being a Senator can be, I’m hardly alone or unique as a working parent, and Abigail has only made me more committed to doing my job and standing up for hardworking families everywhere.”

NEW: Sen. Tammy Duckworth's office announces she is pregnant with her second child, "will become the first Senator to give birth while in office." https://t.co/NkJuIoyFEp pic.twitter.com/RrAcT3TwCj — ABC News (@ABC) January 23, 2018

Only 10 women have given birth while serving in Congress, including Duckworth. The senator told the Chicago Sun-Times that for her and her husband, Bryan, the journey to a second child has been challenging.

“I’ve had multiple IVF cycles and a miscarriage trying to conceive again, so we’re very grateful,” Duckworth told the Sun-Times.

The senator had to wait over a year to try again after her first daughter’s cesarean birth, and had a miscarriage in 2016 during her Senate campaign. She has since worked with fertility specialists at Northwestern University’s Feinberg School of Medicine to try again.

AdvertisementFormer national gymnastics champion and Olympic hopeful Mattie Larson delivered a powerful victim impact statement in court on Tuesday to the disgraced physician Larry Nassar.

“I was at the height of my career at 19, and the Olympics were just one year away, and I couldn’t take any more of the abuse. I was broken,” Larson said. “Larry, my coaches and USA Gymnastics turned the sport I fell in love with as a kid into my personal living hell.”

Larson was one of the last women to read her victim impact statement during a week-long sentencing hearing for Nassar on seven counts of criminal sexual conduct in the first degree. The former USA Gymnastics and Michigan State University doctor has been accused of sexually abusing over 140 women ― many of whom were top-tier athletes ― under the guise of medical treatment. Sentencing is set to finish Wednesday morning.

“No matter what Larry was supposed to be treating on me over the years, usually my ankles or my knees, his fingers always seemed to find their way inside of me,” Larson said to the courtroom. “Never once wearing gloves.”

Larson articulately laid out the culture of elite gymnastics that allowed a predator like Nassar to thrive for so long. She pointed to the isolation of the infamous training center, the Karolyi Ranch (which USA Gymnastics recently cut ties with amid the Nassar scandal), as one factor that allowed Nassar’s abuse to continue.

“There is an eerie feeling as soon as you step onto the Karolyi Ranch. It is completely removed from all civilization,” Larson said. “In the case of an emergency, the closest hospital is so far away you’d need to be helicoptered there. To get to the ranch, you must drive up a dirt road for what seems like an eternity. And the closest civilization is a high-security prison 30 miles away. On top of that, there’s no cell service. It’s completely isolated, and that is no mistake. That is how the Karolyis wanted it.”

Survivor Mattie Larson delivers her victim impact statement to Larry Nassar in court on Jan. 23, 2018. Brendan McDermid/Reuters

Larson described the grueling seven-hour practices six days a week that she and her teammates endured at the Karolyi Ranch, saying she “dreaded” going back every summer. After spiraling into a deep depression and “destructive” eating disorder at 15, Larson said she deliberately hit her head on a bathtub to get out of going back to the ranch.

“One time, I was so desperate not to go, I thought faking an injury bad enough was the only way out,” Larson said as she began crying. “I was taking a bath when I decided to push the bath mat aside, splash water on the tiles, get on the floor and bang the back of my head against the tub hard enough to get a bump so it seemed like I slipped.”

She added that this isolated environment allowed Nassar to prey on children for years.

“The complete detachment from the outside world, on top of careless and neglectful adults, made the ranch the perfect environment for abusers and molesters to thrive,” Larson said. “But thanks to the women who have spoken here, that horrible place has been closed.”

She also called out multiple people who enabled Nassar’s abuse, including current USA Gymnastics trainer Debbie Van Horn, Karolyi Ranch owner Marta Karolyi and Michigan State University President Lou Anna Simon.

“Marta, did you keep Larry around because he was a good doctor?” Larson asked. “Or did you really keep him around because he let us compete when we were injured and was willing to keep your secrets?”

Simon said she learned about Nassar’s abuse in 2014 when a Title IX complaint and a police report were filed against an unidentified doctor. “I was informed that a sports medicine doctor was under investigation,” Simon said Wednesday after she appeared in court for Nassar’s sentencing hearing. “I told people to play it straight up, and I did not receive a copy of the report. That’s the truth.”

Neither Van Horn or Karolyi have issued responses to Larson’s statement.

Larson said she’s currently working on legislation with Sen. Dianne Feinsten (D-Calif.) that would make it a federal crime for Olympic organizations not to report child sexual abuse allegations.

As the sentencing phase of Larry Nassar's trial continues, Mattie Larson today called on @SpeakerRyan to pass our bill to require mandatory reporting of abuse allegations. Get the bill on the floor @GOPLeader! https://t.co/5UUpfRQj1r — Sen Dianne Feinstein (@SenFeinstein) January 23, 2018

Larson concluded her statement by addressing Nassar in court: “You took complete advantage of my innocence. Your kindness was simply a ploy to molest me every chance you got. I can’t even put into words how much I fucking hate you.”

Larson’s former teammate, Olympic gymnast Aly Raisman, responded to Larson’s powerful impact statement on Twitter. Raisman says Nassar also molested her under the guise of medical treatment, and has publicly criticized USA Gymnastics for its mishandling of Nassar’s behavior.

“You inspired me and you still do to this day,” Raisman wrote to Larson. “And I know SO many others are inspired by your iconic floor routines and your bravery in speaking out. You are a true role model and that is far more valuable than any medal you could ever win.”

My words to Mattie Larson.... pic.twitter.com/VV2mExlDr8 — Alexandra Raisman (@Aly_Raisman) January 23, 2018undefined undefined via Getty Images

The human trafficking industry is booming, according to a newly released report that indicates thousands of modern-day slaves are forced to work in plain sight in every U.S. state.

Polaris, a nationally known anti-human-trafficking organization, released the results of a three-year study this week that identified more than 9,000 illicit massage parlors in America. The report, “Human Trafficking in Illicit Massage Businesses,” claims there is substantial evidence of workers being victimized.

The business is so prolific, according to the report, that it’s second in prevalence only to trafficking in escort services.

“This is the first comprehensive analysis of these particular businesses,” Polaris CEO Bradley Myles told HuffPost. “I don’t think anyone had an idea there is that many of them. The sheer volume of these businesses is astounding.”

Also astounding are the profits. Polaris’ research estimates that these businesses, which more often than not are part of an organized criminal network, generate revenue of about $2.5 billion a year.

Human trafficking expert Kerry Ward said she’s not surprised by the number of illicit massage parlors Polaris identified.

“Their methodology is reliable and there’s not really an equivalent in my opinion,” said Ward, a Rice University associate professor of history whose main area of research is human trafficking.

“It’s impossible to get 100 percent accurate numbers ― it’s crime,” Ward explained. “But I think everybody involved in looking at sex trafficking recognizes that there are unknown victims and that there’s probably even more of these [illicit establishments] out there.”

“I think it’s under-counted,” Mehlman-Orozco said. “It’s a clandestine crime that’s able to flourish because of how they operate.”

Polaris

While not every illicit massage parlor is staffed by trafficking victims, many apparently are.

The report indicates that women working in establishments where trafficking occurs are often from China or South Korea. They speak little or no English and are typically in their mid-30s to late 50s. They’re recruited to satisfy an apparently increasing demand.

“Women are rarely locked or chained inside massage parlors, but this does not mean they feel empowered to leave,” said Esther Lai, a Polaris consultant on survivor experiences. “They are mentally trapped. Traffickers recruit vulnerable women and control them through debt bondage, shame and by manipulating the cultural background they bring with them to America.”

Victims reportedly said they’ve faced violence or the threat of violence and have had travel documents confiscated.

Polaris identified California, Florida, New Jersey, New York and Texas as the states with the highest number of establishments that masquerade as legitimate massage parlors. Instead of providing therapeutic massage services, the illegitimate parlors offer a variety of sexual favors, for a price ― everything from “hand relief” genital stimulation to intercourse.

“There is a very proud, strong, legitimate massage profession, and people across the country love to get legitimate massages,” Myles said. “The legitimate businesses are very frustrated that these imposters that have nothing to do with actual massage have weaved their way into the industry and sell sex by exploiting vulnerable women.”

The distinction, Myles said, is not always clear. Illicit operations often set up shop in urban business districts, where some will go so far as to secure permits and licenses to conceal what they’re doing.

There are indicators that a massage parlor is engaging in commercial sex with potential human trafficking. Some, according to the report, include services priced significantly below market levels, services offered primarily or only to men, locked doors with buzzers, covered windows and evidence women are living at the establishment.

However, not all of them hide. Some have suggestive names or blatantly advertise “Asian gals.”

The illicit parlors also provide customers with a built-in cover story for sex-buyers — that they just wanted a massage.

“This type of trafficking is unique, because it’s so publicly observable,” said Myles. “There’s a misconception that these places are harmless, and so they fall lower and lower on the priority list of all the things law enforcement has to deal with.”

PeskyMonkey via Getty Images

When police do make arrests, according to the report, the workers are often charged with prostitution, but the traffickers and sex-buyers often go free or remain unmentioned in press accounts.

“A lot of the women are working as a subcontractor, so when police come in and catch them attempting to provide erotic services, the proprietor will blame the woman ― ‘I didn’t know she was doing that, go ahead and arrest her,’” Mehlman-Orozco explained. “Because of deception, indentured servitude and the fear of being deported, the victims typically won’t cooperate with law enforcement. Even if the proprietor is charged, they’ll plead down to tangentially related crimes, which result in a slap on the wrist.”

In January, the “Stop Enabling Sex Traffickers Act,” which was proposed by Sen. Rob Portman (R-Ohio), cleared the Senate Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation.

The bill is aimed at holding websites that knowingly facilitate sex trafficking ― including ones that promote illicit massage parlors ― liable for those crimes. While the bill might sound good on the surface, Mehlman-Orozco said its passage would make it even more difficult to identify and rescue trafficking victims.

“What they don’t understand is that even if they get rid of these websites, sex trafficking will still exist,” she said. “It will just push these crimes further underground and inhibit the ability of law enforcement to intervene. That is not a fix. The best thing we can do is keep it above ground.”

Washington state Attorney General Bob Ferguson said he’d like to see a strategic and coordinated effort between law enforcement, state and local regulating agencies, and community-based organizations.

“We must shift to a victim-centered response, emphasizing our efforts to target exploiters and empower survivors,” Ferguson said.

To that end, Polaris is launching a national campaign to enact stricter state and local laws.

“It boggles the mind why this hasn’t been done,” Myles said. “Since starting this project, we’ve seen a very positive response from police, prosecutors and [politicians], so there is a hunger out there to approach this problem differently. We plan to spend the next three years engaging states as they improve their efforts.”

Myles added, “What an amazing heist they’ve been getting away with ― $2.5 billion every year ― all the while pulling the wool over everybody’s eyes. That’s about to change.”

People can receive help or report a tip of suspected human trafficking in the United States by calling the National Human Trafficking Hotline at 1-888-373-7888 or by sending a text to Polaris at “BeFree” (233733).Rich Polk via Getty Images

PARK CITY, Utah ― Peter Dinklage and Reed Morano are great friends. In fact, they are not at all competitive when it comes to their respective, massively popular prestige TV shows. No siree.

I met the pair at the Grey Goose Blue Door pop-up on Main Street Sunday (yes, a heavily branded press lounge dedicated to premier vodka), shortly after the Sundance Film Festival debut of their new film, “I Think We’re Alone Now.”

Over perfectly crafted bloody marys (Grey Goose, is this how I get free premier vodka?), we talked about their new movie, which revolves around a solitary man Del (Dinklage) as his post-apocalyptic life is disrupted by a carefree young woman named Grace (Elle Fanning), whose past is as mysterious as how she arrived in Del’s small, dead town. Morano, now of “Handmaid’s Tale” fame, took on the dual role of director and cinematographer after “Game of Thrones” standout Dinklage personally requested her to shoot the project.

We also talked about the cutthroat rivalry behind television’s favorite auteur and everyone’s favorite Lannister. Or, at least, the rivalry we tried half-heartedly to stoke.

How many Sundances have you both attended?

Peter Dinklage: Ahhh. This is like my fifth.

Reed Morano: I don’t know, it was 2008 to 2014 pretty much, so probably my fifth or sixth.

What makes this one particularly special? It’s apparent you have a nice friendship going here, so making this movie together was probably a great experience.

PD: Yeah, that’s what makes it special.

RM: This movie’s basically the reason why a person would make movies, just because of how fun it was for us to make it.

PD: And we just want to share it.

Well, this is cool for me because my two favorite shows are colliding on this couch. Peter, how did it feel when “Game of Thrones” lost out to “The Handmaid’s Tale” at the Golden Globes?

PD: Oh, whatever. I got one already, it’s fine.

RM: He’s got all the awards.

PD: You gotta share the wealth, you know?

RM: They’re just being polite and making room for other losers.

Peter, you approached Reed to be involved in this project. How did you come across the script?

PD: Yeah, but without Reed this project would’ve never happened. It’s not a fascinating story ― my agent gave me the script and said, “I think you’d really like this.” And I said, “Yeah, I would if we got the right director and the right actor to play Grace.”

[My agent] brought Reed to my attention. I hadn’t seen “Meadowland” [her directorial debut]. I watched “Meadowland” and immediately set up a meeting with her and we met in my neighborhood in Brooklyn, and she just inspired me. That’s all it took. And it was a lot of fun, we had some laughs, and it was a very easy decision.

Peter Dinklage, Elle Fanning and Reed Morano at the IMDB Studio at Sundance on Jan. 21. Tommaso Boddi via Getty Images

When did filming start?

RM: Um, February? Did we shoot in January?

PD: March [of last year]. It was really early spring because I remember snow was an issue.

RM: Yes, and we pushed a little.

PD: So it was like March-April.

Was it difficult to nail down a time, since you’re both so busy with other projects?

RM: That’s why I think the timing was so particular, because it was the one window that Pete had. Also, I think it coincided with my window, too. Or I kind of pushed something because this was so ready to go, and I just knew it was going to be great and I wanted to do it so bad.

PD: Not to be a hippie, but everything happens for a reason, and I think both Reed and I had other things that were looming and they kind of fell apart for whatever reason. And this was never the backup plan, but it really all came together very quickly and happened perfectly.

Being so busy with “Game of Thrones,” what about the script spoke to you and made you want to do the project?

PD: I just like the original take on the apocalypse genre ― if it even is a genre. We’re so used to getting the same sort of well-done version of it ― because I love John Carpenter and George Miller and all those films set in an apocalypse ― but this was actually more of a personal version of that. A personal, modern take on what it would be like for one individual who isn’t a criminal, isn’t a scientist, doesn’t have explanations for it, and is not so devastated by the loss of everyone, or he doesn’t think he is.

As Elle Fanning said onstage following the film’s premiere, there were no zombies, no big action sequences on why the apocalypse happened, it was more of a human story. Sometimes, though, in the back of your mind, you’re wondering, “Wait, how did everyone die? I want to know!”

RM: Yeah! I mean, that’s how I kind of felt too when I first read the script, like, “Wait, I want to know. But do I need to know?” Here’s the thing: Whenever we see movies there’s a formula that they predominantly adhere to, and they answer questions and there’s a lot of exposition ― rightfully so, because people want to know answers. But every person is individual, every viewer, every audience member, and some people are going to not be satisfied that they don’t find out why that happens, but every other movie about the apocalypse is why it happens.

This movie is about if you were really in the apocalypse, you don’t have a means to find out why. Instead of searching endlessly for a reason, why don’t we make it about what really matters at the end of the world, which is if you’re all that’s left, how do I exist with you? To me, it’s a particular angle to take on it and people never do that with the apocalypse, which is the exact reason why I liked it.

"I Think We're Alone Now." Courtesy of Sundance Institute

Did that visually inspire you, too? Because the visuals and sound design truly encompass the story and immerse you in this world.

RM: I think it’s restraint ― not in the sound of the music [the movie was given a Dolby Sound grant] ― but there’s restraint in the storytelling in the fact that we’re not giving all the information. And the way you learn about Grace and Del’s lives before, it’s only given to you in little dribs and drops everywhere, and I liked that in the story. But because there is restraint [in the story], you can kind of go a little crazy with the visuals and sound.

PD: Obviously, one of the reasons Reed is so inspiring is because she’s also a cinematographer and the world around Elle and I is basically the third character in the movie ― this isolation, this landscape that’s so well shot and slowly coming back to life. I like that we shot it in the spring because nature is still OK, and let’s face it I’m a big eco-friendly person ― if we were all gone tomorrow the world would be a much better place. But then I love that element of the movie and Reed really captured it so well visually. The expansiveness of it all.

Where did you shoot?

PD: Upstate New York.

How did you find that perfect setting for the movie? Did you know you wanted to have a certain feel to the town?

RM: I was just Googling “library big windows” ― I found the library [that’s featured predominately in the film]. Originally, when I was visualizing the project, I imagined a dark wood library, and this was a more modern library and there were interesting lines. I was thinking “Ex Machina,” lines and windows, and I knew I was going to shoot it very naturalistically. And I thought, if we’re going to be in this library for such a long amount of time, we’re going to want a beautiful view.

PD: And as much light as possible.

RM: Exactly, that was the big debate. But, we got the library in Hastings-on-Hudson and the actual main street of town was in Haverstraw, which we love. We looked at Nyack and Congers, but in Haverstraw the street was so amazing ― that main street.

Last question: If you had to go to a Walmart with a couple hundred bucks before the apocalypse, what would you buy?

RM: Batteries, wine and gasoline.

PD: Wine. Bloody mary mix.

RM: Batteries, wine, gasoline, vodka and bloody mary mix.

PD: Yeah, that’s all you need.

RM: Coolers. A lot of coolers.

PD: And ranch dressing.Geddert celebrates with USA Gymnastics team after the U.S. won gold for the artistic gymnastics event during the London games on July 31, 2012. THOMAS COEX via Getty Images

UPDATE: 3:45 p.m. ― Former women’s Olympic coach John Geddert is retiring from gymnastics, he announced Monday in an email to athletes who train at his Michigan gym and their families.

He sent the email, which was obtained by the Lansing State Journal, shortly after USA Gymnastics announced his suspension.

“At a time when we should only be paying attention to the courageous young women who have demonstrated their commitment to the truth, the governing body of our sport is doing everything to upstage their victim statements,” he wrote.

Geddert wrote in the email that he was “not perfect” but said he was “deeply committed to protecting the safety and well-being” of his athletes.

“Most of you have noticed that I have been taking a back seat this year,” Geddert wrote. “This has been party of my exit strategy to retire at age 60. Well 60 is here... Gymnastics has been my life for 45 years. I really know nothing else. I have poured every ounce of my being into creating a place where aspiring kids could be challenged and directed towards their goals.” (Read the full email here.)

PREVIOUSLY:

USA Gymnastics has suspended former women’s Olympic gymnastics coach John Geddert, who reportedly was close to former team doctor Larry Nassar, the organization said Monday night.

Geddert was the head coach for the women’s gymnastics team during the 2011 World Championships and the 2012 London Olympics, and was personal coach to Olympic champion Jordyn Wieber. He reportedly was close with Nassar, who awaits sentencing in Michigan on sex crimes charges, and owned two training centers where Nassar worked as team doctor for USA Gymnastics and Michigan State University.

“John Geddert has been suspended under the interim measures provisions of Section 10.5 of USA Gymnastics’ Bylaws. USA Gymnastics is unable to comment further as this is a pending matter,” the organization said in a statement.

Neither Geddert nor USA Gymnastics immediately responded to HuffPost’s requests for comment.

Three USA Gymnastics directors resigned on Monday amid criticism that the organization failed to protect its athletes from Nassar.

According to USA Gymnastics bylaws, Section 10.5 states that interim measures “may be imposed to ensure the safety and well-being of the gymnastics community or where an allegation is sufficiently serious that an Adverse Party’s continued participation could be detrimental to the sport or its reputation.”

Geddert with Wieber at the 2012 Summer Olympic Games in London on Aug. 7, 2012. Kansas City Star via Getty Images

Nassar, accused of sexually abusing more than 140 girls and women, is sitting through a sentencing hearing on charges of first-degree sexual misconduct in Lansing, Michigan. The hearing, which began last week, is continuing this week as 144 women are set to read victim impact statements.

According to a recent investigative report from Outside the Lines, Geddert and Nassar “were all but inseparable, professionally and socially,” and some people questioned whether Geddert knew about Nassar’s predatory behavior.

At least one athlete said in her victim impact statement during that Geddert walked into the room while Nassar was molesting her.

Geddert and Nassar first began working together at the Great Lakes Gymnastics Club. Later, in 1996, Geddert brought Nassar on to work at the gym he currently owns, Twistars USA Gymnastics Club. According to court documents, several young women say they were sexually abused by Nassar at Twistars.

Geddert was competitive and was borderline abusive, verbally and physically, to gymnasts, according to Outside the Lines.

“John’s very good at emotional manipulation. He can make you feel like nothing very quickly,” former office manager at Twistars, Priscilla Kintigh, told Outside the Lines. “Larry was the one to calm the girls down when they had a practice with John.”Chris Cuomo and Kellyanne Conway have taken their act to the next level.

The CNN anchor and advisor to President Donald Trump went toe-to-toe on live TV Monday night, arguing about everything from immigration policy to the government shutdown to whether or not Cuomo wore khakis.

They even argued over grammar. Conway accused Cuomo of trying to hijack both the questions and the answers.

“So which role is whom?” she asked.

“Which role is whom?” Cuomo fired back. “What is that, is that Trump English? We each have a role to play here.”

A few minutes later, as Cuomo attacked Trump’s proposed border wall, Conway went after his language.

“I don’t even hear a question in there. There’s not possibly a question mark coming on,” she said as Cuomo spoke. “There’s not even a semicolon, let alone a question mark.”

Cuomo persisted, but Conway kept hammering at him.

“Is this a question?” she asked. “Is this a question? I stopped conjugating it about 10 sentences ago, Christopher.”

Cuomo later explained on Twitter that he’d prefer do less talking during his interviews.

AdvertisementWe’d imagine waking up as Meryl Streep feels pretty good on most mornings, but nothing compares to the day Oscar nominations are announced.

Hollywood tuned in bright and early on Tuesday and ― hold your shock and awe ― Streep walked away with yet another nod (this time for her performance in “The Post”), breaking her own record for the most acting nominations.

The Steven Spielberg-directed drama about the publishing of the Pentagon Papers also picked up a nomination for Best Picture, but failed to gain much traction in other categories.

“I am honored beyond measure by this nomination for a film I love, a film that stands in defense of press freedom, and inclusion of women’s voices in the movement of history,” she said in a statement. “Proud of the film, and all her filmmakers. Thank you from a full heart.”

We’re not going to list all of Streep’s nominations here, but some greatest hits include “Kramer vs. Kramer,” “Sophie’s Choice,” “Out of Africa,” “One True Thing,” “The Devil Wears Prada” and “August: Osage County.”

Katharine Hepburn and Jack Nicholson trail Streep in a two-way tie for second place with each scoring a dozen nominations over their career.

Streep has won three Academy Awards, most recently in 2012 for her performance as former Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher in “The Iron Lady.”

The actress’ competition is stiff this year with front-runners Frances McDormand and Saoirse Ronan in her category ― McDormand is steadily in the lead scoring a Screen Actors Guild award over the weekend ― but the timely nature of “The Post” could rule in her favor.

And if it doesn’t, we fully expect Streep to be back here next year, because she’s what? The Greatest of All Time.A video reportedly showing Customs and Border Protection agents demanding proof of citizenship from Greyhound bus passengers in Florida last week has sparked fresh outrage over the Trump administration’s hard-line immigration policies.

“If I haven’t committed a crime why do I have to show you ID?” one passenger can be heard saying.

A second video shows agents escorting a woman off the bus, her suitcase in tow. Customs and Border Protection said a woman was detained because she overstayed her tourist visa, though they did not specify if it was the same person shown in the viral video.

“While performing an immigration inspection at a Ft. Lauderdale bus station, Border Patrol agents identified a passenger who was illegally residing in the United States,” the agency told HuffPost in a statement. “The subject was an adult female that had overstayed her tourist visa. She was arrested and transported to the Dania Beach Border Patrol station for further investigation and later turned over to the Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE), Enforcement Removal Operations (ERO) for removal proceedings.”

.@CustomsBorder got on a Greyhound bus yesterday at 4:30pm in Fort Lauderdale and asked every passenger for their papers and to prove citizenship. Proof of citizenship is NOT required to ride a bus! For more information about your rights, call our hotline👉 1-888-600-5762 pic.twitter.com/rWJn61o8VP — FLImmigrantCoalition (@FLImmigrant) January 20, 2018

The woman was Jamaican and had been visiting family, according to the Florida Immigrant Coalition, an advocacy group.

“My mother-in-law came to visit me last week,” the woman’s daughter-in-law told the coalition. “She’s my daughter’s grandmother and this was the first time meeting each other. I dropped her off at the Greyhound bus stop Friday morning and never got word of her arrival. I’m very concerned about these officers questioning her without a lawyer present.”

Greyhound said it’s investigating the incident, and said it’s at the mercy of law enforcement agencies.

“W e are required to comply with all local, state and federal laws and to cooperate with the relevant enforcement agencies if they ask to board our buses or enter stations,” the company said Monday in a statement. “Unfortunately, even routine transportation checks negatively impact our operations and some customers directly.”

Customs and Border Protection said its agents routinely patrol transportation hubs “as part of a layered approach to preventing illegal aliens from traveling further into the United States.” Such enforcement operations “serve as a vital component of the U.S. Border Patrol’s national security efforts,” the agency said.

More footage from the @CustomsBorder immigration raid in the @GreyhoundBus. It shows the lady who was escorted out of the bus being detained outside. She is currently being held by @ICEgov and her family has not been able to contact her. The deportation force at work. pic.twitter.com/NJC1834f92 — FLImmigrantCoalition (@FLImmigrant) January 22, 2018

The Fourth Amendment of the Constitution protects people from arbitrary stops and searches, but federal law allows this to be overlooked in areas within 100 miles of U.S. borders. Florida lies entirely within that scope.

According to the American Civil Liberties Union, Border Patrol “cannot pull anyone over without ‘reasonable suspicion’ of an immigration violation or crime,” nor can it search vehicles within that 100-mile zone without a warrant.

“In practice, Border Patrol agents routinely ignore or misunderstand the limits of their legal authority in the course of individual stops, resulting in violations of the constitutional rights of innocent people,” the ACLU said.

President Donald Trump has hardened the U.S. stance on illegal immigration, widening the mandate with more frequent raids and arrests, stoking fears of deportations. From the time Trump took office until the end of September, ICE removals that resulted from arrests increased by 37 percent over the previous year, the Department of Homeland Security said.

Meanwhile, Customs and Border Protection recorded a 23.7 percent decline in apprehensions in fiscal 2017 from the year before. Apprehensions along the Southwest border began to increase in May, the agency said.Before the hour was over, Farrow had fired back, using an of-the-moment example to illustrate the phrase for the “Filthy” singer.

“The saying means, for example... You can’t retain your credibility as an activist (i.e. - retain the cake) and, at the same time, praise a sexual predator (i.e. - eating the cake),” she tweeted.Jim Young / Reuters

A broad progressive coalition is spending millions of dollars to oust hard-line prosecutors around the country and replace them with criminal justice reform advocates.

Soros, the ACLU, the two PACs and a constellation of allied state-level groups hope that by organizing activists, educating voters and dumping money into district attorney races across the country, they can slowly start to replace more of the country’s 2,400 top prosecutors with reformers like Krasner. They also aim to change the way the public views elections for district attorneys, who are some of the most powerful people in the criminal justice system. The groups have targeted races in about a dozen counties that collectively contain around 5 percent of the U.S. population.

Real Justice endorsed Krasner in the Philadelphia DA election last year. The group works to elect reform-minded prosecutors around the nation and is hoping to be deeply involved in about 15 races in 2018, activist and writer Shaun King, the group’s co-founder, told HuffPost last week.

This year, Real Justice has raised about $1 million in funding, according to the Federal Election Commission; King said he expects the group to use every dollar and staff member it has in those 15 races. Real Justice has already announced endorsements for six district attorney candidates — four in California and two in Texas. The political action committee arm of Color of Change, the longtime civil rights advocacy group, has raised about $2 million, according to the FEC, and has announced endorsements for three district attorney candidates.

One of the reformers’ favored candidates has already lost. Both Real Justice and Color of Change backed Judge Elizabeth Frizell, who was running for district attorney in Dallas County, Texas. She came in second in the county’s Democratic primary in March, and has since filed a lawsuit alleging that voter fraud cost her the win.

But Tuesday night, two black, reform-minded candidates in North Carolina ― former criminal defense attorney Satana Deberry in Durham County and former Assistant District Attorney Faris Dixon in Pitt County, both of whom are backed by Color of Change ― won their Democratic primary elections.

“We’re starting to send a message. We’re starting to get phone calls from DAs around the country asking us about our demands. We’re getting calls from candidates,” said Rashad Robinson, executive director of Color of Change’s nonprofit civil rights organization and spokesman for the group’s political action committee arm. “And as an organization that couldn’t get DAs to return our calls, this is the power of actually being engaged in the democracy this way.”

The political action committee expects to be involved in five to seven more races in various states this election cycle, Robinson said.

“There’s a lot more to come,” Robinson said. “Part of our work is building the kind of long-term cultural power and conversation around this office so that DAs know that, all over the country, people are watching, and that communities have the power to turn out and kick them out if they aren’t serving them. It’s also an opportunity for DAs who do want to do the right thing, want to be reform-minded, to actually be on the right side of history.”

Real Justice selects candidates to support based on a questionnaire. The first question uses a five-page guidance memo Krasner distributed to his office in February as a litmus test. It asks the candidates to list the policies from that memo they would not implement during their first 100 days in office. The dozens of other questions ask for the candidates’ stances on mass incarceration, the drug war, the death penalty, police accountability and corruption. Color of Change has six national demands it expects district attorneys to support — end money bail, stop putting children in adult jails and prisons, stop unnecessary prosecutions of low-level offenses, stop anti-immigrant prosecutions, hold police accountable and practice transparency about their offices.

But the groups have ambitions far beyond simply endorsing candidates. They want to educate and change minds. Color of Change is doing voter outreach in local communities, telling people about the role a district attorney plays and the records and campaign platforms of various candidates ― all in an effort to get black voters to turn out in DA elections. Real Justice, meanwhile, is in the process of building out regional volunteer teams in all 2,400 districts that elect their top prosecutors. Building that new system out will take a big chunk of this year, King said.

“Ultimately, what we’re trying to do is have a massive educational effort so people know that the DA is really, really important,” King said. “The role of prosecutors is really important. We have to say it over and over again.”

King sees reform of local prosecutor offices as integral to the broader criminal justice reform movement.

“We often think of bad cops, horrible incidents of police brutality, but at the heart of all of it is 2,400 district attorneys,” King said. “Most local people can’t describe their DA or its functions. It’s a system that operates in the shadows. And they have sweeping powers to run the local justice system.”

King is right: Prosecutors are among the most powerful government agents in the American criminal justice system. They have complete and unrivaled access to the evidence that can determine a person’s guilt or innocence. They have broad powers over how seriously to take a charge against an individual and how aggressively they are willing to pursue a case. They can cut deals with witnesses, co-conspirators and defendants, and they can pile on charges to produce sentences to strong-arm someone into taking a plea deal. Prosecutors determine the charges a defendant will ultimately face and set the parameters for the eventual punishment a person might receive.

America’s elected prosecutors do not reflect the diversity of the jurisdictions they serve. Ninety-five percent of elected prosecutors are white, and 79 percent are male. Only 1 percent of prosecutors are women of color. And the majority of prosecutors — 85 percent — run for election unopposed.

Prosecutors are also rarely punished for misconduct. The cases that have led to disbarment, or even criminal charges, are few and far between. And in the end, they are largely shielded from any liability that might result from their actions thanks to a Supreme Court ruling granting them absolute immunity from civil suits.

Progressives’ efforts in 2018 prosecutorial elections could represent a turning point, said Miriam Krinsky, a former federal prosecutor and executive director of Fair and Just Prosecution, a group that works with more than a dozen recently elected reform-minded prosecutors to help them accomplish the goals they campaigned on.

“We’re watching this election season closely because we know that this group of new elected DAs with a different vision for the justice system is likely to expand in number,” Krinsky said.

“We know in the past that most DAs are not just re-elected, they often have no opposition at all ― so there’s not even an airing of critical issues for the public,” she added. “That’s changing. Given the enormously influential role of prosecutors in controlling the front door to the justice system, this degree of scrutiny is helpful, healthy and necessary.”When a beloved Taco Bell in Montgomery, Alabama, burned down last week, a lot of locals were shellshocked.

Others, like Katie James, saw an opportunity to pay tribute.

Her roommate, Russell Dowis, eats a lot of fast food, so when he told her he was sad the local Taco Bell had burned to the ground, James decided to bust his chops.

“I said, ‘We should hold a memorial for it.’ He said, ‘Oh my gosh, we should do a candlelight vigil.’ And then he moved on about his life, and didn’t think nothing about it,” James told the Montgomery Advertiser.

“I, in about 10 minutes after that conversation, made a Facebook event, and titled it ‘Candle light vigil for Taco Bell,’” she added.

Luckily, no one was injured in the fire. Investigators told local NBC affiliate WSFA that the blaze began in a small room holding “electrical distribution equipment.”

The vigil was held Sunday and there was no hotter ticket in town: About 100 people came to remember “the okay customer service and long wait line for the oh so delightful baja blasts and 5 dollar quesadilla box,” according to the Facebook event page.

James knows why the event appealed to so many people.

“It just gave people something to talk about other than all the negativity that’s going on right now,” she told AL.com.

The owners of the Taco Bell plan to rebuild, but they were grateful for the vigil.

AdvertisementMontana just became the first state to establish its own net neutrality rules since the Federal Communications Commission ended the popular policy in December.

Montana Gov. Steve Bullock (D) signed an executive order on Monday that requires all internet service providers (ISPs) seeking to renew or acquire new state contracts to abide by net neutrality. In essence, these companies will be barred from blocking websites or charging more for faster delivery of websites.

“If you want to do business with Montana, there are standards on net neutrality you will have to follow,” Bullock said.

Bullock signed the order in front of a high school computer class in Helena, reported the Billings Gazette.

Montana state, county and local governments have about $50 million worth of contracts with ISPs, including national companies like Verizon, AT&T, Charter and CenturyLink, per the Gazette.

When the FCC repealed its net neutrality rules earlier last year, “it said consumers should choose,” Bullock added. “The state of Montana is one of the biggest consumers of internet services in our state. We’re making our choice clear: We want net neutrality.”

Now Bullock is encouraging other governors and state legislators to follow his example.

“This is a simple step states can take to preserve and protect net neutrality,” Bullock stated. “We can’t wait for folks in Washington to come to their senses and reinstate these rules.”

Attorneys from more than 20 states and the District of Columbia have sued to block the federal repeal. State legislatures in California, New York and other areas have also introduced net neutrality bills. But Bullock is the first governor to taken action, The Associated Press reported.

An unidentified spokeswoman for the National Cable & Telecommunications Association and USTelecom, which represents the broadband industry, complained about the executive order, saying Congress and not individual states should write the rules.

Advertisement