WASHINGTON ― After Senate Democrats voted for a three-week government funding extension Monday, Republicans and liberal progressives seemed to agree about one thing: Democrats had caved.

Senate Democrats had, after all, voted to reopen the government without a legislative fix on the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) immigration program, and they had essentially accepted a deal that Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.) was willing to give Democrats on Friday ― the soft promise of a vote on a DACA bill and a three-week government funding extension, not four.

But the truth is more complex than a winners and losers post. Yes, the liberal base may be upset that Democrats took less than a DACA fix in exchange for ending a shutdown, but that’s only relevant if you actually think Democrats could have gotten a DACA bill as a result of this shutdown ― and that the shutdown wasn’t hurting Democrats at all.

Republicans were happy to claim throughout this three-day government funding lapse that Democrats had made a strategic error in blocking a government funding bill, so it’s odd that, in GOP eyes, Democrats had also made an error in ending the shutdown. How is it that a shutdown was bad for moderate Democratic senators up for reelection and that ending a shutdown is also bad for those lawmakers?

It’s also inaccurate to say Democrats didn’t get anything over the last couple of days. McConnell made stronger statements in support of an open debate on a DACA bill on both Sunday night and Monday morning, making it more difficult for him to wriggle out of not putting forward an immigration bill that has Democratic support or controlling the amendment process so that Democrats don’t have a chance to change the bill.

If ― as progressives were happy to tweet Monday ― Democrats shouldn’t trust McConnell, forcing him to make more explicit promises on the Senate floor, promises that will surely be thrown back in his face should he fail to live up to them and there is another shutdown, that isn’t to be taken for granted. And if the Senate were able to pass a bipartisan DACA bill, while also demonstrating that a more conservative DACA bill currently making its way through the House doesn’t have the votes in the Senate, they make it much easier to argue that it’s Republicans like Speaker Paul Ryan (R-Wis.) who are shutting down the government by not giving Democrats a vote in the House.

The Democratic position of not voting for a government funding bill until there’s a DACA deal seems much more reasonable if there’s actual legislation that’s passed the Senate and is being ignored in the House. You’d be certain to hear the words, “Give us a vote, Mr. Speaker!”

The reality of this shutdown standoff is that it’s hardly over. Democrats agreed to a continuing resolution that will keep the government open for 17 days. They took the Children’s Health Insurance Program off the negotiating table with a six-year extension of the program. And they gave up hardly any leverage to do so.

Republicans and Democrats still don’t have a spending agreement to raise caps lawmakers set in 2011. Without that agreement, the Pentagon would be forced to live with a sequestration spending number that Republicans hate. And the threat that Democrats will shut down the government without an agreement seems more serious now that they’ve actually done that.

Democrats don’t like to admit they had any part in shutting down the government. But their position was that they wouldn’t accept a government funding bill because of what wasn’t included, not what was actually in the bill, though Democrats have pointed out there are some provisions they don’t support and that funding the government through stopgap measure after stopgap measure is not a responsible way to govern.

Some of the most disappointed groups after this shutdown, understandably, are Dreamers, the undocumented immigrants who came to the United States as children. But a prolonged shutdown could have seriously damaged public opinion on the Dreamers. Currently, Dreamers enjoy massive support. A Washington Post-ABC poll in September revealed that 86 percent of the public supported Dreamers staying in the U.S. A long shutdown over immigration could have poisoned public opinion on the issue and driven people into their familiar partisan foxholes, as well as made it difficult for more moderate Republicans to actually negotiate a DACA bill.

“It [an unresolved shutdown] can only hurt the Dreamers and only piss off potential Republican allies,” a senior Democratic aide told HuffPost Monday, adding that protecting public opinion on Dreamers ― particularly when government shutdowns are so unpopular ― was a consideration for Democrats.

So Democrats staved off the worst effects of a government shutdown. They prevented a turn in public opinion against their party for this shutdown, as well as Dreamers. They got CHIP. They got a commitment from McConnell to bring up immigration legislation. And they gave up none of their leverage.

It may be tempting to insist that Democrats should have pressed on with the shutdown strategy until they got everything they wanted. But Congress works slowly ― barely ― until the moment that it all comes together in an instant.President Trump's decision to impose a 30 percent tariff on imported solar equipment marks his most striking blow to renewable energy yet. Kevin Lamarque / Reuters

For the past five years, the solar industry in the United States has boomed, becoming a reliable employment engine and giving hope to policymakers seeking to stave off the worst effects of climate change.

But late Monday afternoon, President Donald Trump approved import fees that analysts say will send the price of solar panels surging and halt hiring in an industry that has grown 17 times faster than the U.S. economy.

“It’s political fodder to make the United States look like it’s tough on China, and it’s protecting American jobs,” Noah Ginsburg, a director at a New York-based nonprofit that helps low-income communities install solar panels, told HuffPost. “But the reality on the ground is deploying these tariffs will destroy American jobs and negatively impact anyone who wants to participate in and benefit from clean energy.”

Solar companies created 1 in 50 new jobs in the U.S. in 2016, with the help of imported solar panels that drastically reduced prices. (The Solar Foundation projects that number will be even higher for 2017; its report on last year’s figures is due out in a few weeks.) Most of those jobs are at companies that install solar panels on rooftops and build large solar farms for utilities and big corporations.

At the same time, domestic solar panel manufacturers have suffered, unable to compete with cheaper rivals from abroad. Last year, Suniva, a Georgia-based manufacturer owned by a Chinese company, filed a trade complaint with the U.S. International Trade Commission (ITC) after declaring bankruptcy, arguing that it’s impossible to compete with cheap imports. In May, SolarWorld, the Oregon-based subsidiary of a German panel maker, joined the complaint. The companies requested that the White House impose fees on imported panels under the 1974 Trade Act that would more than double the price of solar cells from about 33 cents to roughly 78 cents per watt.

This chart — from the nonprofit Solar Foundation’s National Solar Jobs Census report last year — counted any job that required 50 percent or more of a worker’s time to be devoted to solar energy. Solar Foundation

Instead, Trump approved a 30 percent fee on all imported solar panels, decreasing by 5 percent per year over four years. The decision is in line with what the ITC recommended in October, a proposal Suniva called “disappointing.”

About half of all solar equipment used in the U.S. this year is projected to come from overseas.

The fees are forecast to reduce solar installations by 10 percent over five years, according to new calculations by GTM Research, a renewable energy market data firm. The Solar Energy Industries Association, a trade group, said the tariffs would lead to 23,000 job losses this year alone in both the solar installation and manufacturing sectors.

“While tariffs in this case will not create adequate cell or module manufacturing to meet U.S. demand, or keep foreign-owned Suniva and SolarWorld afloat, they will create a crisis in a part of our economy that has been thriving, which will ultimately cost tens of thousands of hard-working, blue-collar Americans their jobs,” Abigail Ross Hopper, SEIA’s chief executive, said in a scathing press release.

In a joint statement, Suniva and SolarWold “applauded” Trump, but urged him to increase the first-year tariff to 50 percent.

“Our companies and workers are grateful to hear the President understands the seriousness of the problem facing our solar manufacturers in Michigan, Georgia, Oregon and across the country,” said the statement, signed by SolarWorld Americas Inc. CEO Juergen Stein and Suniva executive vice president Matt Card. “Now the President can save and rebuild this great American industry and create thousands of jobs by immediately imposing 50 percent tariffs ― the strongest tariffs possible.”

Their complaint marked the first major trade case before the Trump administration, and offered a fascinating test of the president’s “American First” nationalist agenda, which has pushed fossil fuel production as its primary energy policy. The president, who has railed against renewable energy and dismissed climate change as a hoax, had significant discretion over Monday’s decision, which loomed over the industry for months.

The precise impact of the tariffs remains difficult to assess. Up to three-quarters of the solar projects scheduled for construction this year could be exempted, in part because companies already stockpiled imported equipment, Ethan Zindler, a Washington, D.C.-based analyst at Bloomberg New Energy Finance, told HuffPost.

“But the 2019 build could be a very different story,” he said.

The tariffs appear targeted to Chinese solar equipment, but the wording of the announcement was unclear, making it difficult to gauge how it will affect imports from Southeast Asia and Mexico.

“It’s not great news for the industry,” Zindler concluded. “But it certainly could have been worse.”

The White House’s announcement came as a relief to cynics who expected the president to impose the sort of draconian tariffs Suniva and SolarWorld proposed.

“It’s not great news for the industry. But it certainly could have been worse.” - Ethan Zindler, Bloomberg New Energy Finance

That would have cost the industry 88,000 jobs nationwide, about 34 percent of the 260,000 Americans employed in solar in 2017, according to calculations released last June by SEIA. At risk would be 6,300 jobs in Texas, 4,700 in North Carolina “and a whopping 7,000 in South Carolina,” the group said.

Utility-scale projects, which, because of their size, are more sensitive to hardware price fluctuations, would face the biggest slowdown. That leaves the Southeast, where utilities have commissioned a massive surge of solar projects since 2015, particularly vulnerable to higher tariffs.

“Those plants haven’t been built yet, they’re just planned,” MJ Shiao, a solar analyst at GTM Research, told HuffPost ahead of Monday’s announcement. “The price of these plants won’t be able to pencil out, and they will be canceled.”

Wind energy developers could see a major benefit as states seeking to increase renewable energy capacity bolster incentives to build new turbines in place of solar farms. Natural gas, already the primary fuel of electricity in the U.S., would likely see a boost, too. Coal, the country’s second-biggest source of electricity, would be unlikely to see a major impact because its main competitor for market share remains natural gas. Despite its recent gains, solar makes up just a fraction of renewable energy’s 15 percent share of U.S. electricity generation.

“More good-paying jobs will be jeopardized by today’s decision than could possibly be saved by bailing out the bankrupt companies that petitioned for protection,” said Clark Packard, trade policy counsel at the R Street Institute, a conservative think tank that advocates for climate change action. “Today’s decision also will jeopardize the environment by making clean energy sources less affordable.”

Employees from a Radian Generation's operations and maintenance team change out a faulty solar inverter along a row of solar panels on Dec. 4, 2017, at the family-owned Knowlton Farm in Grafton, Massachusetts. Robert Nickelsberg via Getty Images

Solar installation companies warned that tariffs could cost manufacturing jobs, too, as an industry tide pulled by cheap imports recedes and lowers all ships. Still, despite its struggles with cheap imports, the manufacturing sector saw a few bright spots before Trump decided to impose tariffs.

In June, Chinese-owned Seraphim Solar announced plans to double the workforce at its Jackson, Mississippi, module-making plant. In August, Tesla’s SolarCity division began producing solar cells at its new factory in Buffalo, New York. And trade disputes between countries have made manufacturing giants in Asia look abroad for new options.

“There are spats between the European Union and China and India and China,” Zindler said ahead of the announcement. “A lot of Asian manufacturers are already looking to diversify where they are manufacturing.”

“But it takes a few years,” he added. “So it’s not like immediately you’d have a flood of factories in the U.S. owned by the Chinese. That won’t happen overnight.”

While Monday’s announcement marks the White House’s most significant blow to renewables yet, the Trump administration has consistently fought clean energy policies.

Last year, Trump proposed a 2018 budget that slashed funding for the Energy Department’s Office of Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy by 71.9 percent. The administration pushed a proposal designed by coal baron and Trump ally Bob Murray to bail out coal and nuclear power plants with a plan that would add $10.8 billion in ratepayer costs. The Environmental Protection Agency moved to repeal the Clean Power Plan, the nation’s only major federal program to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and incentivize utility-scale clean energy investments.

The White House also illegally withheld $91 million in funding to ARPA-E, an experimental energy research program responsible for “holy grail” breakthroughs in battery storage technology.

“If Trump really wants to put America first, he should reduce our reliance on polluting energy sources that fuel climate change,” said Howard Crystal, a senior attorney with the environmental nonprofit Center for Biological Diversity. “Instead, this profoundly political move will make solar power more expensive for everyday Americans while propping up two failing, foreign-owned companies.”“Any suggestion that the university covered up Nassar’s horrific conduct is simply false,” MSU spokesperson Jason Cody told HuffPost earlier this month. “Nassar preyed on his victims, changing their lives in terrible ways. ... MSU is truly sorry for the abuse all victims suffered, the pain it caused, and the pain it still causes.”

Amid the criticism of USAG, three members of its board of directors ― including Chairman Paul Parilla ― resigned, effective on Sunday

In her statement, Miller urged Nassar to “do the right thing” by writing down a list of all the times officials with MSU, USAG or Twistars, a local gymnastics club, might have stopped him.

“Tell us who knew what and when,” she said. “Tell us about the signs MSU, Twistars, USAG should have seen but didn’t.”

She added that while doing so might not affect his sentence, “it may just start you down on your road of reformation.”

“Just remember, Larry, it’s never too late to do the right thing.”

Alanna Vagianos contributed to this report.Reuters/Carlo Allegri

President Donald Trump is colonizing our brains with his drumbeat of repetitive words and phrases, an American linguist warns.

According to George Lakoff, an emeritus professor of cognitive science and linguistics at the University of California, Berkeley, constant repetitions actually create physical changes in our brains by forging stronger connections in our neural pathways,

“Language activates an idea and a circuitry in your brain. Every time a circuit is activated, its synapses get stronger,” Lakoff told Deutsche-Welle in an interview published Sunday.

In other words, the more you hear things — and say things — the stronger the circuitry becomes.

Plus, the absorbed words can begin to reframe our perception of the world. Lakoff pointed to President George W. Bush’s constant use of “tax relief,” which essentially defines taxes as an affliction. Soon Democrats and the media were also using the phrase, and in essence, changed their perception of reality.

Even if you disagree with an idea and contradict it, the words still worm their way into your head.

“Every time you deny something overtly using the language of the person you are trying to contradict, you are actually helping that person,” Lakoff said.

Besides repetitions of his pet phrases, Trump also uses other language-distorting strategies in his tweets. He frames situations in his own terms. He diverts attention from issues he wants to be ignored. He attacks the messenger or blames someone. Finally, he launches a trial balloon by saying something outrageous.

What to do?

“You are not puppets,” Lakoff said. “Cut the strings.” Don’t use the same language Trump uses.

AdvertisementIt was confirmed back in December that director Quentin Tarantino was developing a “Star Trek” film, which will be written by “The Revenant” screenwriter Mark L. Smith.

Something that at one time might have sounded like an “Saturday Night Live” sketch will soon become a reality. But what would a Tarantino-style “Star Trek” film even look like?Sophia started using Uber soon after it was founded in 2009. She doesn’t even remember agreeing to, much less reading, the fine print in the app’s terms of service. This would only become important in hindsight.

Last December, the 26-year-old San Francisco Bay Area native took her final Uber ride. It should’ve been a forgettable 12-minute trip from her company’s holiday party to her home, but it turned into something terrible.

When the car pulled up in front of her apartment building, Sophia’s driver asked if he could walk her inside. She said no. Then, just as she was keying in the code to open the front door, he snuck up behind her, pushing her into the foyer.

He grabbed her up into a bear hug and groped her. She got away, briefly, fleeing up the stairs to her apartment. He followed. In front of her apartment door, he again squeezed her tightly, putting his hand up her dress. Luckily, she made it inside her apartment and locked him out.

Later, after reporting her assault to the police, Sophia learned that her driver was a registered sex offender. How could Uber have allowed this man to drive for the company? she wondered.

Sophia, who does not want to publicly reveal her last name, is one of nine women suing Uber for fraud, misleading advertising about its level of safety, and assault, battery and rape. The women are demanding that the ride-sharing company truly reckon with what they say is a widespread sexual assault issue.

The details of Sophia’s attack are documented in the lawsuit, where she is identified as Jane Doe #3. The case was filed in 2017 and updated in March when Sophia and six other women joined the suit.

While a few of the other women suing have shared their stories publicly, Sophia is only now coming forward to HuffPost to share her experiences.

“Uber’s terms of service, which, let’s admit, most people don’t read, require all customers to settle disputes ― even over sexual assault and rape ― in private arbitration.”

The women want Uber to fix what they see as its “flawed” background check system, the lawsuit says. Because the system is designed to quickly approve drivers, Uber skips steps that would screen out sex offenders like the one who assaulted Sophia, according to the suit. Though Uber has recently announced changes to its system, these women say they’re insufficient.

The women say the only way they can force Uber to improve its standards is if they bring their case into a public courtroom ― and this highlights a second, possibly even larger issue with Uber: When users download the app, they unwittingly click away their right to file a lawsuit against the company.

Uber’s terms of service, which, let’s admit, most people don’t read, require all customers to settle disputes ― even over sexual assault and rape ― in arbitration. These are private courtrooms, outside the public justice system, that notoriously favor big companies.

Uber has already filed a motion in court arguing that these women have no right to make their case in a public courtroom. That spurred action from the nine women and a few others, who penned an open letter to the company’s board of directors urging Uber to reconsider.

“Secret arbitration takes away a woman’s right to a trial by a jury of her peers and provides a dark alley for Uber to hide from the justice system, the media and public scrutiny,” the women wrote.

Uber defended its use of arbitration in a statement in March when the case expanded, but has since changed its tune somewhat. During a Twitter exchange with Susan Fowler, a former Uber employee who famously shared her story of workplace sexual harassment and discrimination, Uber CEO Dara Khosrowshahi said he would look at the issue.

“Sexual assault has no place anywhere and we are committed to doing our part to help end this violence,” the company told HuffPost in a statement. “As we prioritize safety at Uber, we are taking a hard look at these important issues.”

Uber CEO Dara Khosrowshahi tweeted that Uber would take a closer look at its arbitration policy but has to "take all of our constituents into consideration." Denis Balibouse/Reuters

In arbitration, each woman would have to fight her case alone, on an individual level. The best outcome would be, maybe, a cash settlement. Often, such settlements are kept private through nondisclosure agreements, so other assault victims wouldn’t learn about women who’ve gone through similar experiences. The chances that the company would be forced to re-examine the way it does business are nil.

Sophia told HuffPost she’s not doing this for money, but to effect change. “The only thing I can really do is help others,” she said. “I think it’s stronger to join others so we can help others not have this happen to them.”

Publicly embarrassed by the letter ― with Khosrowshahi getting called out on Twitter ― the company asked for more time from the court to consider the women’s plea. Uber now has a court-sanctioned deadline of May 17 to formally decide if its sexual assault issues get a public airing out.

At a time when women are increasingly unwilling to stay silent about sexual abuse, the idea that a company can keep its problems private through arbitration has become harder to defend.

There are bills at both the federal and state level to stop companies from forcing women into arbitration in sexual harassment and assault cases. Microsoft announced earlier this year that it would no longer force harassment cases filed by its employees into arbitration. Orrick, a major law firm, made a similar announcement in March.

“At a time when women are increasingly unwilling to stay silent about sexual abuse, the idea that a company can keep its problems private through arbitration has become harder to defend.”

Uber has said it has no issue with these women telling their stories in public. But news stories alone can’t always bring justice or closure to victims. There’s a particular power in letting rape survivors bring their stories into a public courtroom ― and to have other women join them and say “me too.”

Anyone who watched the victims of Larry Nassar confront their disgraced abuser in a Michigan courtroom in January knows this. We saw the power of a public trial again in the Bill Cosby case.

“Having public disclosure in a courtroom about what happened, that’s part of the public record. There’s a real power in that,” said Hannah Brenner, a professor at California Western School of Law who researches the intersection of law and gender, focusing specifically on sexual assault, institutions and disparate power dynamics.

That these women have banded together is particularly powerful. “There’s a tendency for us to dismiss sexual violence as a one-off,” Brenner said. Collectively, these women are a force more difficult to ignore.

How Bad Is Uber’s Sexual Assault Problem?

Citing hundreds of media reports about Uber-related sexual assault, the women suing the company say it has a systemic problem on its hands.

Jeanne Christensen, the lawyer representing the nine women, has been representing rape and assault victims in cases against Uber since at least 2014. She’s negotiated privately with Uber, case by case, but said that last year she grew fed up with the one-off system and became determined to push the company to do more.

“The stories are always the same,” she told HuffPost. Christensen’s clients typically said they hailed an Uber ride after a night of drinking, and that their driver then assaulted and, in some cases, raped them. She couldn’t go into more detail, citing confidentiality.

Many of her clients are living in fear, she said, afraid their attacker will come after them again. “It’s very common for clients to move apartments. They break leases. That’s how frightened they are,” she said. “They get new phones, change their numbers.”

Yet it’s hard to know the real scope of Uber’s sexual assault problems. The company does not release information about reported incidents, police departments don’t track rape data that way ― and sadly, most women do not report sexual assault to anyone at all.

The company said it is looking at ways to better track assaults.

While rapes and assaults that take place in Uber cars do get a lot of media attention, they are just a small percentage of sexual assaults in the U.S.

Strangers aren’t the biggest danger when it comes to rape.

“While the Uber assaults are scary, women are still most at risk of being assaulted by someone they know,” said Melissa Morabito, a professor at the School of Criminology and Justice Studies, Center for Women & Work, at the University of Massachusetts Lowell.

What Is Uber Doing About Background Checks?

Earlier this spring, Uber announced a host of changes meant to strengthen its background check process for drivers, as well as several new safety features. And Khosrowshahi has said publicly that safety is his No. 1 priority.

The Uber app will now be better integrated with 911, making it easier for emergency services to find you on the road. The company said it would re-run background checks on all drivers each year to make sure no new incidents have cropped up ― something it did inconsistently in the past. Uber also said it would begin using a technology that would alert them when Uber drivers were arrested in real time.

The company “offers features that ensure every trip is GPS tracked, 24/7 response from our safety team, and the ability to share your trip with loved ones in real time, and we’re committed to doing more,” it said in a statement.

Uber also announced it was bringing on former U.S. Secretary of Homeland Security Jeh Johnson as chairman of Uber’s safety advisory board.

But Christensen says these moves are not enough. Uber’s checking process isn’t much different than the credit check you’d have to go through if you were trying to rent an apartment, she told HuffPost. The check only goes back seven years, according to the women’s lawsuit. (Uber says that its checks can extend beyond that period depending on the database the company is searching.)

The company needs to run driver’s fingerprints through the FBI and Department of Justice’s databases, the suit says.

Uber says that the fingerprint system is not a panacea and comes with its own set of flaws. There are concerns, for example, that some people ― who haven’t been convicted or who’ve had their charges dismissed ― get inaccurately labeled as criminals. The company cites data that show hundreds of thousands of Americans can’t get jobs because of flaws and inaccuracies in the system.

Uber argues that “While no background check is perfect, our process is robust, fair and relevant to the work at hand.”

“The predominance of regulators believe that our screening processes are appropriate,” Khosrowshahi told The Washington Post recently. “I don’t think fingerprints would substantially change what happens with human behavior. … The predators in life look for dark corners. Our job is to tell the world that Uber has its lights on.”

‘You’re In A Constant State Of Panic’

“Sexual assault is about a predator stealing a part of you that you will never get back. I fight unceasingly against the shame, the loss of feeling safe, and the debilitating anxiety,” Sophia wrote in a statement she shared with HuffPost (read it in full below). “If Uber had done their due diligence, my devastation could have been avoided.”

For now, Sophia is trying to find another place to live. She will only stay the night at home if her roommates are around, she said. She fears that the Uber driver who assaulted her might come look for her again.

Sophia fought her attacker off that December night in a struggle that lasted minutes, but that she said felt infinite. “I don’t know if you’ve ever been in a car accident where time is moving extremely slow. You’re trying to make the best decisions you possibly can, but if you’re in the state too long, your brain can’t handle it,” Sophia told HuffPost. “You’re in a constant state of panic. It’s like going in and out of consciousness.”

She said she punched the Uber driver in the stomach and ran into her apartment, locking the door and windows.

The morning after the attack, she opened her Uber app and reported the incident.

“I think I was still in shock. I didn’t think about the right way to do this,” Sophia said. She figured since she had a problem with the service, she should start there. “It seemed like the right move. Very quickly I realized it was not the right move.”

“Sexual assault is about a predator stealing a part of you that you will never get back.” - Sophia, 26

A customer service rep called Sophia back and she told the woman what happened.

“She said she’d reimburse me for the ride and that they take this seriously and she’d follow up again soon. It was a very short call,” Sophia said, estimating that the conversation probably took less than five minutes. The representative wasn’t particularly empathetic. Sophia compared her demeanor to that of a barista taking your coffee order.

“My $17 back was just not what I was going for. It didn’t make me feel safer; that was the main thing,” she said. “I didn’t feel any safer, and it was a pointless call.”

Sophia walked to her local police department after that. The cops talked to her for hours, she said.

Uber eventually got back to her and told her that her driver was no longer working for the company and that he’d been warned by the police not to come near her. “I don’t know what happened to him,” she said.

The company didn’t respond to specific questions about Sophia’s allegations.

Sophia doesn’t use the Uber app anymore, but said that living in San Francisco, it’s impossible not to be reminded of the service every day. “Every time I have a noxious reaction,” she said, adding that she now feels like she had blinders on when it came to using the app.

She figured Uber was a strong business and had naturally figured this safety thing out, she said.

“I got a little bit fooled by that. I didn’t think enough through about what they were doing. I don’t think they did either.”

Read Sophia’s full statement below.

Sexual Assault is about a predator stealing a part of you that you will never get back. There is no settlement amount or number of criminal convictions that can replace what has forever been lost. To me, this is the most painful aspect of being a sexual assault survivor. I’ve been given a life-sentence of battling the excruciating psychological effects of being violated; I fight unceasingly against the shame, the loss of feeling safe, and the debilitating anxiety. While I am strong and resilient, while I do not want to victimize myself, I want to be transparent and honest about the reality of surviving trauma, as I do not know how else to protect others. If Uber had done their due diligence, my devastation could have been avoided. They hired a man whose personal information and picture are the exact match of a registered sex offender; the same man I accurately identified in a photo-lineup. This is the Uber driver who drove me home after a work event, followed me into my apartment building, and assaulted me. Uber is neglecting to acknowledge the severity and frequency of the sexual assault crimes being committed by asking for arbitration. By the same token, Uber is missing my purpose, and that of many other women, in joining this class-action. This is not for me, this is for every person reading this; for anyone who wants to strive for a world that does not turn a blind eye to acts of sexual violence. It’s too late for me, I am striving for it to not be too late for you. As for Uber, I’d appreciate it if you stopped saying that “you take these allegations very seriously”. While the intention may be genuine, the lack of action proves otherwise. According to Uber’s website, there are approximately 15 million Uber rides daily and 75 million monthly users. For each day that you continue to put an incredible number of passengers at risk, for each day that you seek profit over safety, for each day that you try to silence women—I will not be able to conceive how that statement could possibly be true.Football fans were utterly distressed Sunday night as the New England Patriots secured a spot in yet another Super Bowl.

The Patriots scored in the last quarter of the AFC championship against the Jacksonville Jaguars in a 20-24 win. Jacksonville was leading for the majority of the game and was up by 3 points in the fourth quarter when Patriots receiver Danny Amendola scored with less than 3 minutes left in the game.

This marks the eighth Super Bowl appearance for the team since 2000, and while Patriots fans are rejoicing, quite a few football fans are tired of the team’s repeated arrival to the biggest game in the NFL.

Twitter was overrun with disapproval and despair.

Ugh, I'd rather eat a tide pod than watch another Patriots Superbowl. — Ms Impeccable Timing (@AshleyMClark92) January 21, 2018

wife: how do the patriots keep doing this?

Me: because we live in a fallen world where evil must exist to facilitate an appreciation of joy. this too shall pass

Wife: ...ok take it easy on the bourbon champ — NebFBCommenter (@NebFBCommenter) January 21, 2018

Anooooother patriots super bowl. Fuck this is lame. Not that I even hate the patriots. Just tired of seeing the same team in there year after year. It’s boring... unless you’re a pats fan I guess — Aaron (@AaronBoyd) January 21, 2018

I can't express how strongly I feel about this but I'll try...



FUCK THE PATRIOTS. — chio (@la_xxio) January 21, 2018

O great. The Patriots are in the Super Bowl again. Just kill me now pic.twitter.com/MckFAw5cGH — Mike Colucci (@Colucci715) January 21, 2018

The fact that we have to watch another Super Bowl with the fucking Patriots. I’m done, kill me now, I’m over ittt. — Leah❂ (@leahcrick) January 21, 2018

I don’t even care about the patriots winning or losing, I just think it’s boring to watch the same team there all the time. — Crendor (@crendor) January 21, 2018

Another rigged game pic.twitter.com/1ept50eXKU — Resign Juice-Draft a QB (@PhinsCuseYanks) January 21, 2018

Reading my twitter feed's got me like...@Patriots suck pic.twitter.com/TQqNzSOJMR — Askthe BeerGuys (@askthebeerguys) January 21, 2018James Bond fans have wanted actor Idris Elba to play the next 007 for quite a while. But in a recent interview, the British actor said that he doesn’t think he’s the right man for the job.

“I would be interested in having a Bond character other than being a male,” he said in a video shared by Variety on Facebook. “It could be a woman, it could be a black woman, it could be a white woman. But I think that character, everyone would like to see [filmmakers] do something different with it, you know. Why not?”

Potential female Bonds would have to wait a bit to play the iconic spy, however. Daniel Craig is doing at least one more sequel that is expected to come out in 2019.Last year saw the biggest increase in the number of billionaires in history, with one more added every two days, according to a new Oxfam report. This grotesque wealth comes at a price.

“All over the world, our economy of the 1 percent is built on the backs of low paid workers, often women, who are paid poverty wages and denied basic rights,” the report reads.

As political, business and civil society leaders congregate in the Swiss town of Davos for the annual World Economic Forum (WEF), we’ve selected some key stats from Oxfam’s report to help you get to grips with this billionaire bonanza and what it means for workers around the world.

1. Rich Men Get Richer

Bill Gates, Warren Buffett and Jeff Bezos (L-R), the three richest people in the U.S. Jim Tanner / Reuters

There are now 2,043 dollar billionaires worldwide. Nine out of 10 of them are men.

In 12 months, the wealth of this elite group of 2,043 has increased by $762 billion — enough to end extreme poverty seven times over.

In the period between 2006 and 2015, ordinary workers saw their incomes rise by an average of just 2 percent a year, while billionaire wealth rose by nearly 13 percent.

Bill Gates, Jeff Bezos and Warren Buffett, the three richest people in the U.S., own the same wealth ($248.5 billion) as the bottom half of the U.S. population.

2. Wages Of The Working Poor Stagnate

Wage theft has been found to be rampant in the U.S. poultry industry. roibu via Getty Images

Around 56 percent of the global population lives on between $2 and $10 a day, including the majority of the world’s workers and small-scale food producers.

While the value of what workers produce has grown dramatically, wages have not. The International Labour Organization found in its annual report that, between 1995 and 2014, wages in 91 of 133 rich and developing countries did not keep pace with increased productivity and economic growth.

Many countries still have no minimum wage or collective bargaining. Of those with wage policies, many fail to enforce them, depriving workers of their legal entitlements and reducing take-home pay. Oxfam has found wage theft to be rampant in the U.S. poultry industry, with companies refusing to cover overtime.

3. Women Lose Out

Workers pluck tea leaves in Sylhet, Bangladesh. Barcroft Media via Getty Images

At current rates of change, the global economic gender gap at work (considering disparities in pay and employment opportunities) will not be closed for another 217 years.

Women’s choices and decision-making abilities can often be constrained by their unequal responsibility for unpaid care work. Roles considered “women’s work,” such as cleaning or nursing, are often valued and paid less.

Gender inequality has been worsened by increased outsourcing led by economic strategies that prioritize cheap and precarious work, most of which is done by women.

4. Booming Gig Economy Linked To Ill Health

A bike messenger rides through New York. Bloomberg via Getty Images

The informal economy accounts for a significant percentage of jobs and GDP, especially in poorer countries. In Latin America, the informal economy — jobs not regularly protected by labor laws — accounts for an estimated 40 percent of regional GDP. In countries including Sudan and Tanzania, up to 90 percent of workers have informal jobs.

Wages tend to be much lower than for workers in formal sectors — in Mexico and Brazil, for example, wages for informal workers are around half the national average for formal work.

In developed countries such as the U.S., there’s been a rapid rise in less secure jobs, something the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development has linked to rising inequality. The lack of a predictable income for those working in the “gig economy” has been linked to increased stress and ill health, due to factors including low control, physical isolation, toxic exposure or physically demanding workloads.

5. But There Is Another Way

Park Slope Food Coop in Brooklyn, one of the oldest and largest food cooperatives in America. James Leynse via Getty Images

The Oxfam report calls for a more human economy that puts the interests of ordinary workers and small-scale food producers first, not the highly paid and the owners of wealth.

Among its recommendations for governments are to aim for the collective income of the top 10 percent to be no more than the income of the bottom 40 percent, and to encourage fairer business models, including cooperatives and employee-owned companies.

It calls for the repeal of laws that discriminate against women and proposes tax systems which put more burden on the very rich, including taxes on wealth, property and inheritance, and to put an end to tax havens.

When it comes to businesses, recommendations include paying a living wage, ensuring fair supply chains and publishing information on the gender pay gap.

For more content and to be part of the ‘This New World’ community, join our Facebook Group.Sen. Lindsey Graham (R-S.C.) on Sunday blasted White House staff for undercutting efforts to craft a deal on immigration and end the ongoing government shutdown.

Speaking with reporters, Graham singled out White House senior policy adviser Stephen Miller as an “outlier,” and said despite President Donald Trump’s willingness to forge a deal, his aides have made such negotiations difficult.

“Every time we have a proposal it is only yanked back by staff members,” Graham said. “As long as Stephen Miller is in charge of negotiating immigration, we’re going nowhere.”

“He’s been an outlier for years, there’s a deal to be had,” he added.

Miller, a former aide to then-Alabama Sen. Jeff Sessions who joined the Trump transition team in 2016, has long held hardline views on immigration. He helped craft the White House’s first executive order to bar entry into the United States for residents of seven predominantly Muslim nations and has been a vocal proponent for the construction of a wall along America’s southern border.

Graham on Sunday pointed to the meddling of White House aides, saying Trump initially wanted a cheaper proposal for the border wall following estimates that requested $18 billion for its construction.

“So what does the White House staff do a couple of days later? They pitch a proposal for $33 billion,” Graham said. “That’s just not credible.”

In a tweet later that day, Graham expressed similar support for the president and his chief of staff, John Kelly, who he called “tough but reasonable.” But he continued to slam others in the White House, saying they held “extreme and unrealistic views.”

“They hold us back from getting a solution,” Graham said.

President Trump has expressed a desire to have border security with compassion on immigration. #winningcombination.



General Kelly is tough but reasonable.



Some other staff in the White House hold extreme and unrealistic views.



They hold us back from getting a solution. — Lindsey Graham (@LindseyGrahamSC) January 21, 2018

A bipartisan group of senators met behind closed doors late Sunday in an effort to find a compromise to end the shutdown. Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.) had scheduled a procedural vote on a temporary spending bill for 1 a.m. on Monday.

AdvertisementLast Thursday, investigative reporters Peter Stone and Greg Gordon of McClatchy DC Bureau reported what could be another bombshell in the Russia probe: that the FBI is investigating whether a Kremlin-linked banker illegally channeled funds to the National Rifle Association to aid Donald Trump’s presidential campaign.

On Friday, Rep. Ted Lieu (D-Calif.), who sits on the House Judiciary Committee, told me on SiriusXM Progress that the word on Capitol Hill is that the story of a Russia-NRA-Trump link is going to grow.

“FBI counterintelligence investigators have focused on the activities of Alexander Torshin, the deputy governor of Russia’s central bank who is known for his close relationships with both Russian President Vladimir Putin and the NRA,” Stone and Gordon reported being told by two sources familiar with the matter.

The journalists noted that it’s “illegal to use foreign money to influence federal elections.”

The same day their story ran, Gordon told me on SiriusXM Progress he and Stone are fairly certain the Torshin investigation is part of special counsel Robert Mueller’s Russia probe.

“We’re confident that this is Mueller,” he said. “There’s no part of the FBI that is doing Trump and Russia and not working for Mueller.”

The Kremlin’s alleged outreach to the NRA, Stone observed, “can be looked at as another part of the way that Russia is trying to build political links in the U.S., and that’s what the suspicions are.”

The NRA reported spending a record amount of money on the 2016 elections: $55 million. That includes over $30 million pushing for the election of Trump, which is three times what the group spent to advance Mitt Romney’s campaign in 2012.

When I asked about the McClatchy report on Friday, Lieu, a former prosecutor who has been outspoken on Twitter about alleged collusion between Russia and the Trump campaign, said, “The rumors I’ve heard on Capitol Hill are that the NRA-Kremlin story is going to get bigger, particularly because we’re talking about some potentially very large sums of money being involved.”

“the rumors I’ve heard on Capitol Hill are that the #NRAKremlin story is going to get bigger” @RepTedLieu / @tedlieu on The @MSignorile Show pic.twitter.com/qFFyd6gghi — SiriusXM Progress (@SXMProgress) January 22, 2018

Lieu underscored the possible significance of the story with a telling comparison to Watergate.

“It’s ironic that when you think about Watergate, one of the lines we followed was, ‘Follow the money,’” he commented.

“He is going to testify under penalty of perjury and he is going to testify at a time when Donald Trump and his associates have abandoned Steve Bannon,” Lieu said. “I think Donald Trump and his associates are in some serious legal jeopardy.”Larry Nassar’s sexual-abuse victims are finally getting more of the attention they so rightfully deserve.

Several protest signs at the Women’s March over the weekend featured quotes from survivors of the former USA Gymnastics and Michigan State University team doctor. The comments were from last week’s victim impact statements read aloud in court during Nassar’s sentencing hearing.

“Little girls don’t stay little forever. They grow into strong women that destroy your world,” read a sign featuring a quote from victim Kyle Stephens, the first woman to read an impact statement in court last week.

Nassar, who has been accused of sexual abuse by 140 women, has been sitting through a lengthy hearing before he’s sentenced on 10 counts of first-degree sexual misconduct. The hearing, which began on Jan. 16 and is set to conclude this week, is to feature victim impact statements from over 100 victims and family members. All of the impact statements have been emotional, cathartic and powerful.

Kyle Stephens I am SO happy I got to meet you yesterday. You are a hero. When you said these words I knew I had to be there. THANK YOU. ARMY OF SURVIVORS. pic.twitter.com/80qyTrX2TC — Alexandra Raisman (@Aly_Raisman) January 21, 2018

Other Women’s March signs included quotes from Olympic gymnast Aly Raisman, who has been outspoken about the abuse she endured at the hands of Nassar.

″We are now a force and you are nothing,” read one sign featuring a quote from Raisman.

“Larry, you do realize now that we, this group of women you so heartlessly abused over such a long period of time, are now a force and you are nothing,” she said. “The tables have turned, Larry. We are here and we are not going anywhere.”

Raisman, along with fellow Olympians Simone Biles, Gabby Douglas and McKayla Maroney, have all accused Nassar of sexually abusing them for years under the guise of medical treatment.

Scroll below to see other Women’s March signs that featured quotes from Nassar’s victims.

Kyle Stephens quote from the Nassar trial spotted at #WomensMarchNYC2018 #wehearyou pic.twitter.com/qRcxBaI0rL — Alexandra Svokos (@asvokos) January 20, 2018Laverne Cox can add “Cosmopolitan covergirl” to her ever-growing list of credits and accomplishments.

The Emmy-winning actress, producer and LGBTQ rights advocate made history as the first transgender woman ever to appear on a Cosmo cover, appearing atop Cosmopolitan South Africa’s February issue in a sheer black leotard. The Valentine’s Day-themed #SayYesToLove edition is focused on LGBTQ issues, and features a rainbow-colored masthead designed specifically for the occasion.

Cox, 45, debuted the cover on Twitter and Instagram early Monday.

A post shared by laverne cox (@lavernecox) on Jan 21, 2018 at 10:11pm PST

In a video interview (see above) that accompanied the issue’s release, Cox got candid about her celebrity crush, her proudest career moment and her ongoing struggle for acceptance in the heteronormative world of show business.

“As a black transgender woman, I’ve often been kept a secret by the men that I’ve dated,” she said. “So when my ex-boyfriend introduced me to his dad and invited me to spend Hanukkah with him and his family, it was the most special thing ever.”

She added, “Trans women deserve to be loved out in the open and in the light.”

Previously, Cox appeared in the October 2016 issue of Cosmopolitan’s U.S. edition, paying tribute to Tina Turner, Beyoncé and other iconic black women in a photo feature to promote her role in Fox’s television reboot of “The Rocky Horror Picture Show.”

Holly Meadows, who is Cosmopolitan South Africa’s editor-in-chief, said the magazine aimed to “disrupt heteronormative ideas around February and Valentine’s Day and look at love in 2018” in its latest issue.For years, advocates have called victims of domestic violence part of the country’s “hidden homeless.” But now, for the first time, they’re being included in the national homelessness count.

Two volunteers interview a homeless man during the 2017 Point-in-Time count in Miami. This year’s count, for the first time, will ask people if they are homeless because of domestic violence. Lynne Sladky, The Associated Press

By Matt Vasilogambros

In its annual count of the city’s homeless population, New York in 2015 listed how many people fit into 10 different groups: nearly 4,000 chronically homeless, more than 8,000 severely mentally ill, 1,500 veterans, and so on. But when the list got to victims of domestic violence, the annual federally mandated count showed one striking number: zero.

Far from the reality on the ground — nearly a third of homeless families with children have experienced domestic violence, according to the city’s Department of Social Services — the glaring statistical gap in the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development’s Point-in-Time count was a red flag for advocates who work with victims every day.

Without an accurate count of people who are homeless because of domestic violence, communities across the country can’t fully understand and serve their homeless population, said Carol Corden, one of those advocates.

“If you ignore them, you ignore a major part of homelessness,” said Corden, the executive director of New York-based New Destiny Housing, which connects low-income victims of domestic violence with affordable permanent housing.

This year, after lobbying from advocates for homeless women and children like Corden, the annual count will for the first time ask people whether they are currently homeless because of domestic violence, sexual assault, dating violence or stalking. HUD had previously suggested that communities ask homeless people if they had ever experienced domestic violence, but the narrower question will help paint a more accurate picture, Corden said.

The Point-in-Time count, a one-night survey of the country’s homeless population, includes unsheltered homeless people, such as those living on the streets or in cars, and sheltered homeless people, including those in transitional housing or subsidized hotel stays. (The count does not include people in rapid rehousing or permanent supportive housing programs.) The snapshot is mandatory for communities looking to receive federal grants to help pay for local homeless services.

Communities, led by their local homeless agencies, this year can choose any of the last 10 days of January to conduct the count. In the Washington, D.C., metropolitan area, for example, the count is Jan. 24. In the Charlotte area, it’s Jan. 31.

Along with asking about domestic violence, officials and volunteers will scour their streets and shelters, asking homeless people where they are staying that night, how many members of their family are staying in the same location, whether they have HIV or a severe mental illness, and whether they are a veteran, a chronic substance abuser, or chronically homeless. Some participants decline to answer, even though the results remain anonymous. While the survey is not exact, the count provides a general estimate of homelessness in the community.

This year’s question was added because HUD officials determined that asking whether homeless people had been a victim of domestic violence in the past wasn’t telling them whether they were homeless because of that violence. William Snow, who works in HUD’s Office of Special Needs Assistance Programs, made this point clear when, earlier this month, he briefed local officials across the country about the upcoming count.

“When we analyzed our domestic violence data in the past … we realized we didn’t know what we were getting,” Snow, a senior programs specialist, said in the webinar. “We didn’t know if we were getting information about everyone who’s ever experienced some form of domestic violence, whether we were getting information about those who are currently fleeing, and we’re pretty sure that we were getting a mix of the two.”

So, for example, of the 554,000 homeless people counted nationally in 2017, about 87,000 said they had been a victim of domestic violence at some point in their lives — a number that does not indicate whether they are currently homeless because they are fleeing abuse.

Brian Sullivan, a spokesman for HUD, said this problem has been “a vexing issue” for the department for the past decade, since it began gathering data on domestic violence survivors among the national homeless population. Refocusing the question, Sullivan said, is just part of the effort to get accurate data.

“We wanted to get to the root of homelessness, as opposed to just gathering data,” Sullivan said.

A domestic violence survivor sits with her son for dinner in their new apartment in New York. Among the goals of counting people who are homeless because of domestic violence is to understand how best to steer them into permanent, safe housing. Bebeto Matthews, The Associated Press

‘You Care About This Person’

A homeless person who may suffer from a severe mental illness requires different care from one who is a victim of domestic violence, Corden said. In New York City, for example, an accurate estimate can help get families out of the city’s 47 emergency shelters that provide temporary housing for domestic violence victims for 180 days, and into one of the 11 properties with affordable, permanent housing that New Destiny manages.

Asking these intimate questions, though, can be difficult. Getting accurate data starts with training volunteers who assist with the annual count, said Courtney Morton, the housing and research coordinator for Community Support Services of Mecklenburg County, North Carolina, a government agency for the Charlotte area.

During several of the two-hour trainings that take place in the weeks leading up to the count, Morton wants volunteers to understand why they ask specific questions and why answering a question about domestic violence can be traumatic.

“We meet them where they are, try to understand what they might be thinking and offer that this may be a difficult question to answer,” Morton said. “Just be mindful. This is more than getting information. You care about this person.”

Morton and her 250 volunteers will start their count in the early evening of Jan. 31 and will survey homeless people in camps, parks, cemeteries, shelters and temporary houses until 8 a.m. the following day using the mobile app Counting Us. Most of the county’s homeless population — 1,476 last year — is sheltered and concentrated in Uptown, Charlotte’s city center.

But there still are many homeless people in the county who are spread out and hard to reach. Many volunteers are formerly homeless and may have a sense of where people might live, Morton said.

The count does not show the full picture of homelessness, Morton said, but it can provide a good glimpse of a community’s homeless population and help advocates and officials engage with those people.

“Clarifying the problem as much as possible can lead to better solutions,” she said.

Mecklenburg County is one of many localities that choose to ask more questions than are required by the federal government for that reason. For several years, volunteers and officials have been asking homeless people their perspectives on future housing, additional information on income, and in which other communities they have lived.

From 2010 to 2017, county officials used the data on homelessness to more than triple spending on rapid rehousing, which allows families to quickly leave shelters and move into permanent homes of their own. In that period, homelessness went down by 26 percent, despite the county’s overall population increasing by 17 percent — a rare combination in urban areas.

New Uses for Data

Communities in the Washington, D.C., metropolitan area, which includes parts of Virginia and Maryland, have been asking the homeless population about domestic violence for many years, before it was mandated by the federal government. Last year, officials found that 12 percent of homeless adults in families were homeless because of domestic violence.

In Fairfax County, Virginia, Julie Maltzman, the lead manager of the county’s Office to Prevent and End Homelessness, said the data has been “very useful” in planning homeless and domestic violence programs.

In 2016, the county found that of the 472 homeless people in families, 42 percent were homeless at the time of the count because of domestic violence. A year earlier, 49 percent were homeless for that reason. In recent years, this data has allowed Fairfax County to prioritize a new rapid rehousing program for families who are homeless because of domestic violence.

“Using data this much is new in the homeless and domestic violence fields,” Maltzman said. “But now, we totally recognize that domestic violence is a major cause of homelessness.”

Still, some advocates warn these numbers may not accurately show how many people are homeless because of domestic violence. The count, after all, reflects a community’s homeless population only on one day in January, and it is voluntary. Julie Dworkin, the director of policy at the Chicago Coalition for the Homeless, an advocacy and organizing group that conducts its own count, has concerns about the validity of the count overall.

“It’s not an accurate reflection,” Dworkin said. “Just because they’re not homeless one night doesn’t mean they won’t be homeless another night. If we underestimate the problem, then we underestimate the resources needed.”

Still, the more data officials and advocates have on domestic violence, the better they can address the issue, said Linda Olsen, the housing program director at the Washington State Coalition Against Domestic Violence. Current criminal data from the U.S. Department of Justice and other agencies doesn’t provide a full picture of the problem, and homeless victims of domestic violence are undercounted too, Olsen said.WASHINGTON ― As lawmakers wage a messaging war over who caused the government shutdown, Republicans and the White House are getting a big boost in their efforts to blame Democrats for the mess ― from the Russians.

#SchumerShutdown ― the hashtag that GOP leaders and the White House are using to accuse Democrats of causing the shutdown ― on Sunday night became the top trending hashtag being promoted by Russian bots and trolls on Twitter, according to the Alliance for Securing Democracy, a project led by former top national security officials from both parties.

Here’s a chart by Alliance for Securing Democracy, last updated at 10 p.m. Sunday, showing the #SchumerShutdown hashtag blowing up among Russia-linked influence networks.

Alliance for Securing Democracy

#SchumerShutdown has surpassed #ReleaseTheMemo as the highest trending hashtag among Russian influence campaigns. They seized on that hashtag earlier this month in an effort to pressure Republican lawmakers to release a classified memo written by House GOP aides that allegedly describes abuses in FBI surveillance practices. Conservative organizations like Breitbart and the Daily Caller have given major coverage to the memo, but Democratic lawmakers have denounced it as deeply misleading.

Alliance for Securing Democracy tracks activity from 600 monitored Twitter accounts linked to Russian influence operations. It has found that Russian bots and trolls frequently amplify content attacking the United States, conspiracy theories and misinformation.