“The incident is being investigated, and while the District cannot share information about the discipline of specific students, any student that uses demeaning speech and language will receive consequences in accordance with the FHSD Code of Student Conduct.

“The Francis Howell School District and Francis Howell High School work to promote inclusion, acceptance, and equality for all students and staff.”Chelsea Clinton stood up for what she believed was right even as a preschooler, she revealed on Wednesday’s broadcast of “The Late Late Show.”

The former first daughter recalled writing to then-President Ronald Reagan when she was 5 years old to warn him that the Nazis in the hit musical movie “The Sound of Music” did “not look like very nice people.”

“Please don’t go to their cemetery,” she added in her note, in an apparent reference to Reagan’s controversial 1985 visit to the Bitburg war cemetery, where some German Nazi troops are buried.

Clinton said the failure of Reagan’s office to respond to her letter was “devastating.” She said she decorated it with her favorite heart and rainbow stickers “for goodwill.”

The experience inspired Clinton to help change policy when her father Bill Clinton became president in 1993. At her request, the White House set up a special children’s correspondence unit so every child would be guaranteed a response to their letters.

Clinton said she’s not sure if the unit continues under President Donald Trump.

AdvertisementKelis and Nas while the two were together in the early 2000s. Johnny Nunez/Getty Images

Singer Kelis just revealed that her ex-husband and rapper Nas subjected her to “a lot of mental and physical abuse” throughout their five-year marriage.

“I have edited myself for nine years and I woke up this morning and I was like ― not today,” she told Hollywood Unlocked’s Jason Lee on Thursday.

In a rare interview, Kelis, 38, discussed her relationship with Nas, which lasted from the early 2000s until their divorce in 2009. The two are currently in the middle of a nasty custody battle over their son, Knight.

Kelis told Lee the relationship was toxic and very volatile, especially since the two were both regularly attending red carpet events and parties as famous artists.

“We had really intense highs and really intense lows,” she said, adding later, “It was dark, it was really dark. There was a lot of drinking, a lot of just mental and physical abuse.”

When Lee asked Kelis to specify what she meant by physical abuse, she responded: “We would fight. I never like just sat there, but we would definitely fight. Did he hit me? Mhmm. Did I hit him back? Mhmm.”

Nas did not immediately respond to a request for comment.

Kelis recalled seeing the photos of singer Rihanna’s face in 2009 when her then-boyfriend, R&B artist Chris Brown, beat her up. Kelis, who was married to Nas at the time, said she remembers contemplating coming out publicly about Nas’ abuse then.

“It was like double dutch. Like I felt like, do I jump in? Do I say it? Because I had bruises all over my body at that time.” - Kelis

“I remember so clearly when the pictures came out with that whole thing that happened with her and Chris Brown and the only way I can describe it was like double dutch. Like I felt like, do I jump in? Do I say it?” she said. “Because I had bruises all over my body at that time. Like that day.”

Kelis said she was sitting in her kitchen in Atlanta trying to figure out if she should say something.

“I wasn’t ready to walk, I just wasn’t. So I didn’t say it. Honestly ’cause I’m not weak … I’m really private, I don’t like people in my business. I felt like this is my partner, I chose this, we’re gonna do this, we’re gonna make it work. I stayed for years after that,” Kelis said.

“Seeing her, the way she looked and then looking at myself I was embarrassed,” she added. “I was appalled, I was embarrassed.”

Kelis said she didn’t leave Nas until she was pregnant with her son Knight. She said she realized she couldn’t bring a baby into such an abusive environment.

“I didn’t say anything [then] because I wanted things to work,” she said. “And because I was delusional and because I thought I could love past this.”

Watch the full interview below.AFP Contributor via Getty Images

The Senate on Thursday voted 56-42 to confirm Richard Grenell, President Donald Trump’s nominee for the ambassadorship to Germany.

Grenell, a Republican and close political ally of Trump, has a background in communications and worked with incoming national security adviser John Bolton at the United Nations under President George W. Bush. He also worked briefly as a national security and foreign policy spokesman on Mitt Romney’s presidential campaign in 2012.

Trump had reportedly considered Grenell for the U.S. ambassadorship to the United Nations before nominating Nikki Haley, a former U.S. representative, for the position.

With his confirmation, Grenell becomes one of the most prominent openly gay Trump appointees. Grenell’s supporters include Stuart Milk, co-founder of the Harvey Milk Foundation and nephew of the late gay civil rights leader. Milk told The New York Times in March that he believed Grenell’s confirmation would “send an important message” to the LGBTQ community about their place in the Trump administration.

The Senate vote was delayed earlier this week over several Democrats’ concerns regarding Grenell’s past comments about women. Grenell has a reputation for launching sexist attacks through his Twitter account and disparaging women in media and politics.

On Monday, a spokeswoman for Sen. Jeff Merkley (D-Ore.) said in a statement to CNN that the senator was concerned about Grenell’s “significant history of making misogynistic and other incendiary statements online.”

She added that Grenell “has also been dismissive of the threat of Russia’s meddling in the US, a fact that is doubly concerning as Germany is one of our closest and most important allies in pushing back on Russian aggression on the world stage.”

The confirmation comes ahead of a visit to the White House by German Chancellor Angela Merkel, who is expected to push Trump not to abandon the Iran nuclear deal nor hit Europe with new U.S. tariffs. French President Emmanuel Macron made similar appeals to Trump during his three-day state visit this week. But where Trump and Macron have appeared to develop an easy rapport, relations have been notably chillier between Merkel and the U.S. president.

Germany has seen a rise in anti-American sentiment since Trump assumed office, and foreign policy experts have warned about the already tenuous transatlantic relationship.A post shared by Pete Souza (@petesouza) on May 24, 2018 at 5:39am PDT

Barack Obama’s White House photographer has become a master of the image troll, using a photo to say so very much. In his latest zinger, Pete Souza takes aim at Donald Trump’s claim that the FBI, under orders of the Obama administration, planted a “spy” in his presidential campaign.

So Souza posted on Instagram a funny, quirky photo of the former president bending down to peek through a peephole in a door as Obama’s personal secretary, Katie Johnson, looks on, smiling. The photo is captioned: “Learning to spy in 2009 with help from Katie Johnson.”

As someone responded: “Well played.”

There has been no evidence that a spy was implanted in the Trump campaign, even though the president’s claim has been elevated by him and his personal attorney, Rudy Giuliani, to “spygate.” Following a meeting Thursday with FBI and Justice Department officials, Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.) said he learned “nothing particularly surprising.”

Trump told friends that he decided to use the term “spy” for his story because it sounded more villainous, The Associated Press reported earlier this week.

SPYGATE could be one of the biggest political scandals in history! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) May 23, 2018Fans of actor Donald Glover blitzed a forum on Reddit that was previously dedicated to discussing President Donald Trump with memes of their actor idol.

Thedonald subreddit is no longer, as its description once reportedly read, a “place where we discuss in an unbiased manner Donald Trumps great contributions to modern society.” Instead, it is now a virtual space where people are sharing photographs and praise of the celebrity that one user called “the one true Donald,” meaning Glover.

Pro-Glover redditors began flooding the thread, which has almost 20,000 subscribers, with their content on Monday, according to multiple media outlets.

Reddit

On Wednesday, the top posts were almost solely dedicated to the 34-year-old performer — who stars in the upcoming “Solo: A Star Wars Story” film and earlier this month released the powerful music video for his new song “This Is America” under his Childish Gambino moniker.

Here’s a sampling:

Mic.com notes that the forum had previously been “full of ’Fox and Friends′ clips and links to far-right news publications,” while some Twitter users said some of the content had already been anti-Trump.

Thedonald subreddit is not as large as its the_donald counterpart, which boasts 610,000 subscribers and describes itself as “a never-ending rally dedicated” to Trump. In 2017, Vox dubbed the bigger community “Reddit’s hate-mongering shadow.”

According to one Reddit user, the Glover takeover of thedonald was allowed to happen after the forum’s moderator “basically abandoned” the thread.

Another redditor indicated it developed organically, rather than as a result of a premeditated discussion. “I feel excited,” the user told Mic.com. “There is much joy found in changing the culture of a space even on a rather small scale such as a subreddit.”

User MetalsDeadAndSoAmI hailed the forum for embracing “its true purpose” and “celebrating the best Donald there is.”James Comey, the former FBI director, spoke at a CNN town hall Wednesday. CNN

Former FBI Director James Comey said at a televised town hall Wednesday that he is “embarrassed and ashamed” of the Republican Party for abandoning the values he once took pride in.

“I was attracted by the notion that character matters and values matter most of all, that that’s where you start in evaluating a person, an entity, a country: What are their values. That’s non-negotiable,” Comey said at the CNN event at his alma mater, the College of William & Mary in Virginia.

Comey has conducted a range of interviews to tout the release of his new book, A Higher Loyalty, this month. CNN’s Anderson Cooper and students asked about a host of issues, including his firing, the moral fitness of President Donald Trump and his thought process regarding an investigation of Hillary Clinton ahead of the 2016 presidential election.

When asked by a young Republican student what first attracted him to the party and what conservatives could “rally around today,” Comey bluntly said he was no longer a Republican before questioning the motives of top lawmakers.

"I've been embarassed and ashamed by the way the Republican Party has abandoned ... the notion that character matters, and values matter most of all." - James Comey says the GOP has made a "fools bargain" by trading core beliefs for political gain https://t.co/txOexnJ99P pic.twitter.com/MyCIpzvsTt — Anderson Cooper 360° (@AC360) April 26, 2018

“Where is that commitment to character and values?” he said. “If people have convinced themselves that, well, we’ll trade it temporarily for a tax cut or a Supreme Court justice, as I say in the book, that’s a fool’s bargain, because those values are all you have.”

“There will always be another Supreme Court justice, always another tax bill. You lose this, exactly what are you?”

Comey said in 2016 that he was no longer a registered Republican after being one “for most of his adult life,” and earlier this month he said on an ABC News podcast that Republicans “don’t represent anything I believe in.”

“I see the Republican Party, as near as I can tell, reflects now entirely Donald Trump’s values,” Comey said on ABC’s “Start Here.” “It doesn’t reflect values at all. It’s transactional, it’s ego-driven, it’s in service to his ego. And it’s, I think, consoling itself that we’re going to achieve important policy goals ― a tax cut or something.”

On Wednesday, he questioned what legacy Republicans hoped to leave behind.This year’s Emmy Awards will be an “Update” from previous telecasts.

Comedians Michael Che and Colin Jost ― who host the “Weekend Update” segment on “Saturday Night Live” ― will be hosting the Emmys, NBC announced on Thursday.

Che and Jost’s “SNL” boss, Lorne Michaels, is producing the Sept. 17 broadcast, which he last did in 1988 when John Forsythe was the host, according to Variety.

NBC Entertainment Chairman Robert Greenblatt is predicting a hilarious show, according to the network’s announcement.

“With Colin and Michael in the driver’s seat as hosts, along with surprise appearances by other cast members of ‘Saturday Night Live,’ I think we are in for one of the funniest awards shows in a long time,” he said.A federal judge on Thursday decided documents seized in FBI raids targeting lawyer Michael Cohen should be handed over to an independent reviewer, hours after President Donald Trump sought to distance himself from his personal lawyer on Fox News.

U.S. District Judge Kimba Wood ruled an independent special master should review the material to make sure it doesn’t violate attorney-client confidentiality rules before it can be seen by prosecutors or lawyers for Cohen, who reportedly is under investigation for paying hush money to silence porn star Stormy Daniels’ claim of an affair with Trump.

Wood named lawyer Barbara Jones, a former federal judge in Manhattan who also worked as a prosecutor, as special master. Jones was not among the lawyers suggested by either side.

Federal prosecutors wasted no time after Trump’s bizarre interview Thursday morning on “Fox & Friends” to argue that the president’s comments about Cohen bolster their argument that the documents are unlikely to be protected by attorney-client privilege. They made a similar argument after Fox commentator Sean Hannity, who Cohen has identified as a client, also tried to distance himself from the lawyer.

Trump, in a phone call to the cable network show, said the FBI investigation of the lawyer doesn’t involve him. Federal prosecutors used Trump’s interview to argue the documents are unlikely to be protected by attorney-client privilege.

“These statements by two of Cohen’s three identified clients suggest that the seized materials are unlikely to contain voluminous privileged documents, further supporting the importance of efficiency here,” Robert Khuzami, a deputy U.S. attorney for the Southern District of New York, said in a letter to the judge.

The judge appeared to agree.

“The letters that I received for counsel for Mr. Cohen and the intervenors has convinced me that” this process can go quickly with a special master, Wood said.

Cohen was asked to identify his current clients during a recent hearing. Two of the clients ― Hannity and Trump ― made statements that prosecutors argued demonstrate that the documents belong in the hands of a trained, independent reviewer.

Hannity has said Cohen has never represented him. Trump on Thursday told Fox News that Cohen only performed “a tiny, tiny little fraction” of his legal work.

Trump has railed against the raid on Cohen several times, complaining that “attorney-client privilege is dead!”President Donald Trump acknowledged to Fox News on Thursday that he did stay overnight in Moscow during a 2013 trip tied to the Miss Universe pageant.

“I went to Russia for a day or so, a day or two,” Trump said.

“Of course I stayed there. I stayed there a very short period of time, but of course I stayed,” he added.

Trump claimed former FBI Director James Comey lied in a memo noting that the president had told him he never stayed overnight in Moscow.

Flight records uncovered by Bloomberg this week show Trump’s plane was in Moscow for more than 24 hours during the weekend of the pageant. Thomas Roberts, the host of the pageant that year, told The Daily Beast he could confirm Trump was in Moscow overnight, having seen him both the day before and the day of the Miss Universe broadcast.

The trip was mentioned in a dossier, parts of which remain unconfirmed, compiled by former British intelligence agent Christopher Steele.

Steele’s dossier cites claims Trump hired prostitutes while staying at the Moscow Ritz-Carlton in 2013, asking them to urinate on the bed in the hotel’s presidential suite. The document also suggests the Russians may have proof of this encounter they could potentially use as blackmail.

Trump denies the encounter ever occurred. Comey has said Trump discussed the claims with him at length, on multiple occasions, while he was FBI director.

Trump fired Comey in May 2017.

Trump at a Miss Universe 2013 news conference in Moscow in November 2013. Vyacheslav Prokofyev via Getty Images

This article has been updated.

AdvertisementJohn Cena is having a rough time after his breakup with Nikki Bella.

“It sucks,” the pro wrestler and actor told “Entertainment Tonight” on Wednesday at CinemaCon in Las Vegas.

“There’s no other way to say it,” he added. “I love Nicole with all my heart and that’s that.”

On a day when he was promoting a “Transformers” spinoff movie “Bumblebee,” the “Blockers” star seemingly couldn’t avoid discussing his romantic life.

Cena told The Associated Press: “The split is very tough. But that’s life. We all go through highs, we all go through lows. I’m going to get through it. I love her. I’ll always love her. The fact that my heart hurts for her — I know I was in love. So I’ll always have that.”

Cena and Bella were headed for their May 5 wedding date when they suddenly announced their split earlier this month, ending their six-year relationship.CIA Director Mike Pompeo, President Donald Trump’s pick for secretary of state, came under fire earlier this month for failing to disclose business ties to two companies controlled by the Chinese government.

Now new documents reviewed by HuffPost show that Pompeo’s links to foreign-owned oil and gas companies are even more extensive than was previously reported. But, despite the evidence, Pompeo continues to deny his foreign entanglements, according to a Senate source who asked to remain anonymous to talk to HuffPost about proceedings that haven’t been made public yet.

Republicans expect to bring Pompeo’s nomination up for a vote before the full Senate this week. Several Democrats have signaled they intend to support him, making it likely he will be confirmed.

But his failure to be forthright about his business ties to a foreign-owned company has raised questions about how he will perform as the nation’s top diplomat, especially in the midst of an escalating trade conflict between the US and China.

“Director Pompeo either was somehow unaware he was doing business with a Chinese government-controlled company, or he knew and decided to hide that fact from Congress,” Sen. Ron Wyden, a Democrat on the intelligence committee, said after the initial reports that Pompeo had failed to disclose foreign ties. “Neither option is acceptable for a man who would be responsible for our nation’s most sensitive diplomatic matters.”

Pompeo omitted any mention of the Chinese companies on a mandatory questionnaire he filled out last year before his Senate confirmation to head the CIA. Asked if he had “received any compensation from, or been involved in any business transaction with a foreign government or any entity controlled by a foreign government” in the past 10 years, Pompeo wrote, “No.”

But earlier this month, McClatchy reported his Kansas company’s ties to Sinopec – an oil and gas giant that is majority-owned by the China Petrochemical Corporation. Documents seen by HuffPost Wednesday show that Sentry International, a Kansas company where Pompeo served as president, imported products from two subsidiaries of the state-owned oil company China National Petroleum Corporation. The transactions – for a total of 12 shipments of oil and gas equipment – occurred as late as 2007 and 2009, when Pompeo was still serving as Sentry’s president. That brings Pompeo’s total undisclosed relationships with foreign firms to four.

After McClatchy’s initial news report, Sen. Bob Menendez, a member of the Senate foreign relations committee, vowed to ask Pompeo about the omission. On Wednesday, HuffPost learned that Pompeo stood by his answers to the questionnaire in response to a written question Menendez sent Pompeo after the committee hearing.

“Do you stand by the statement you made in your [questionnaire] that for the previous 10 years you had not been involved in any financial or business transactions with any entity controlled by a foreign government?” Menendez asked.

“Yes,” Pompeo wrote.

The CIA did not immediately respond to HuffPost’s inquiry. In response to the report by McClatchy, a CIA spokesman said: “Mr. Pompeo was president of an American company in Kansas that sold products made in many different countries, Canada and China to name just two. In fact, the paper clips the company used were from Taiwan. He would have no reason to know details on the layers of companies that may or may not have had ownership interests in each overseas company that supplied products to his Kansas company.”

Pompeo submitted a new questionnaire to the Senate as part of his nomination to be secretary of state; the Senate Foreign Relations Committee has not made his answers public.

Senators at Pompeo’s Foreign Relations Committee hearings were split over the significance of his omission.

Sen. Richard Burr (R-N.C.), chair of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, thought the omissions were inconsequential. He “didn’t disclose that he had purchased a pump that resold from a Chinese company,” Burr told McClatchy. “That’s like when you buy a pair of shoes at K-Mart.”

On Tuesday, the committee narrowly recommended Pompeo be confirmed after Sen. Rand Paul (R-Ky.) reversed his earlier opposition.

Pompeo served as the president of Sentry International from 2006 to 2010. The Kansas-based company and its subsidiaries sold and purchased oil and gas equipment around the world, including some equipment manufactured in China.

Among its manufacturers, was DQE International, which sent nine shipments, including pumping units, to Sentry as recently as 2009. A Securities and Exchange Commission filing disclosed that as of 2010 DQE International was owned by CNPC Daqing Petroleum, a subsidiary of the state-owned China National Petroleum Corp.

Another Sentry supplier was the China Petroleum Technology & Development Corp. The company, which sent Sentry three shipments of pumping units as late as 2007, discloses on its website that it is also a China National Petroleum Corp. subsidiary.

Records of Sentry’s suppliers were obtained from Panjiva, a global supply-chain monitoring firm.

In his testimony before the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, Pompeo signaled his willingness to be confrontational with China.LeBron James delivered another incredible moment on Wednesday night, leading his Cleveland Cavaliers to victory over the Indiana Pacers with a three-point buzzer-beater in the first round of the NBA playoffs.

The shot, launched with just 1.5 seconds left on the clock, broke a tie in Game 5, giving the Cavs a 98-95 win and a 3-2 lead in the best-of-seven series.

In a huddle just before that shot, James told his teammates exactly what to do.

“Just give me the ball,” he told them. “Give me the ball. They had a foul to give, so I wanted to go quick so they couldn’t give up that foul, because we had no more timeouts. So I was able to turn and get to my spot.”

Moments earlier, he helped save the game in another way with this block:

Here is the LeBron James ahem block on Victor Oladipo prior to his game winner pic.twitter.com/vljIwEDLcA — ⓂarcusD (@_MarcusD2_) April 26, 2018

James finished with 44 points, 10 rebounds and 8 assists in 42 minutes.

The shot was reminiscent of a similar moment nearly a decade ago, when King James sank a three-point buzzer-beater in the 2009 playoffs against the Orlando Magic:

That shot brought back some bad memories....



Actually, no #VanGundysIn6 pic.twitter.com/7snrQb6OFh — Orlando Pinstriped Post (@OPPMagicBlog) April 26, 2018

Pacers fans looking for a little consolation can note that the Magic came back to win that series.Are you ready for “A Quiet Place 2: Even Quieter?”

That probably won’t be the name of the sequel to “A Quiet Place,” but all that matters now is that it’s actually happening.

Paramount Pictures has broken its silence on a follow-up to the surprise box office smash, announcing on Wednesday that a sequel to the John Krasinski-directed horror flick with Emily Blunt is officially a go.

“We’re thrilled to say that we’re already working on the sequel to ‘A Quiet Place,’” chairman-CEO Jim Gianopulos said at CinemaCon on Wednesday, according to The Hollywood Reporter.

“If you told me five years ago that an almost silent film starring the very funny guy Jim from ‘The Office’ would have been a hit at Paramount, I would have said, ‘Well, I should go work at Paramount,’” he added.

Warning: Spoilers for “A Quiet Place” below!

“A Quiet Place,” which follows a family living in constant fear of noise-sensitive monsters, raked in $213.3 million at the global box office on a $17 million budget. The film’s ending easily paves the way for future films, with Blunt’s character and her daughter discovering how to defeat the creatures who’ve wiped out most of the human race.

Screenwriters Bryan Woods and Scott Beck previously spoke about how a sequel might look beyond the characters introduced in the first film.

“It’s such a fun world,“ Woods told Fandango. “There are so many things you could do.”

“There are so many discarded set pieces, too, just hiding out on Word documents on our computer,” Beck added. “So, yeah, there are certainly so many stories you could tell. It’s just really, at the end of the day, who are the characters in this and what does this situation mean to that dynamic?”The president has repeatedly attacked special counsel Robert Mueller's investigation as a "witch hunt." Joshua Roberts / Reuters

WASHINGTON ― The Senate Judiciary Committee advanced a bill Thursday to protect special counsel Robert Mueller from being fired by President Donald Trump.

The bill, which passed 14 to 7, would impose restrictions on the U.S. attorney general’s ability to fire a special counsel. All the Democrats on the committee supported the measure. They were joined by four Republicans: Sens. Lindsey Graham (S.C.), Jeff Flake (Ariz.), Thom Tillis (N.C.) and Chuck Grassley (Iowa), the chairman.

The vote sends a clear and bipartisan signal to the White House that at least some in Congress are prepared to act if Trump fires Mueller, who is leading an investigation into Russian interference in the 2016 presidential election and possible links between the Russian government and Trump’s campaign.

But as pointed out by Sen. John Cornyn (R-Texas), who opposed the measure, there are no plans to give the bill a vote on the Senate floor or in the House, and Trump would never sign it. So for now, at least, the vote is little more than symbolic.

Trump doesn’t have the authority to fire Mueller himself, but he could direct Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein to do it (since Attorney General Jeff Sessions has recused himself from the case). In the meantime, the president has repeatedly and publicly harassed Mueller and questioned his probe, calling it a ”witch hunt,” a ”total witch hunt″ and illegal.

The bill, which has bipartisan authors, would mandate that a special counsel could be removed only by the attorney general or the most senior Senate-confirmed Justice Department official and could be removed only for “misconduct, dereliction of duty, incapacity, conflict of interest or other good cause.”

It would also require the attorney general to provide written notice specifying the reason for removal and would allow the special counsel to challenge his or her removal within 10 days.

Most of Thursday’s hearing centered on a debate about the constitutionality of Congress’ curbing certain executive powers. Grassley acknowledged that he had “constitutional concerns” with the bill, but emphasized that “it’s clear that Congress has an oversight role to play” when it comes to how the executive branch wields its power.Graduates of Santa Monica College. Santa Monica is one of a handful of California two-year colleges piloting four-year degree programs as part of a trend toward community colleges conferring some bachelor’s degrees. John McCoy/Daily News via AP

Starting in fall 2019, students at Ohio’s Sinclair Community College will be able to enroll in a four-year degree program in unmanned aerial systems, also known as drones.

They’ll learn mission planning, maintenance, laws, data analytics and more. Working on drones is a new field, and the college is eager to expand its program to meet the growing demand for graduates.

Just up the road, Youngstown State University offers a somewhat similar four-year degree, in mechanical engineering technology — but tuition there is double Sinclair’s.

Sinclair is one of a growing number of community colleges that have embraced the practice of two-year schools conferring four-year degrees. As college costs rise and state officials look to accommodate nontraditional and low-income students, more are turning to community colleges to develop programs for industries with a lot of need — sometimes irking officials at four-year universities in the process.

About 90 two-year colleges are offering about 900 baccalaureate programs across the country, according to Beth Hagan, executive director of the Community College Baccalaureate Association, a Florida-based trade association.

But officials at four-year universities are balking at what they see as community colleges encroaching on their turf, and competing for scarce resources from the state. Many officials would rather partner with the two-year schools than compete with them.

Ohio is one of 19 states that allow at least one two-year college to offer a four-year degree, and a half-dozen states could be moving in the same direction. Most community colleges in those states can offer only baccalaureate programs that are narrowly tailored, rather than offering many programs across a wide swath of disciplines. The community colleges still offer associate degrees and other certificates to students who want to complete their studies in two years, but those who want a bachelor’s degree stay for four.

“These are very much niche degrees when there is a local workforce need,” Hagan said, “either for skills that need specific training and require a bachelor’s degree, or for someone who has those skills and wants to advance into a supervisory level.”

“These are people who can’t leave their families, or their jobs … to go away to university and get a degree,” she said. “Some are younger students who live with their families in a culture that’s not conducive to going away.”

Despite limits on what they can offer, some two-year schools are offering baccalaureate programs that officials at four-year schools see as competition. Their programs are commonly found at four-year colleges and universities, ranging from nursing and education to information technology and human resources management.

In California, 15 community colleges offer bachelor’s degrees in health and technology subjects such as biomanufacturing and health information management. In Georgia, students at two-year schools can get their bachelor’s in nonprofit management and respiratory therapy.

One California student, Elvia Esquer, is a mother of two college-age children who has worked as a medical coder for 22 years near her home in San Diego. She is going to a community college, San Diego Mesa College, to get her bachelor’s in health information management. She hopes the new degree, which she is set to receive in May, will help her move into a management position.

One of Esquer’s children also attends San Diego Mesa, and the other goes to a different community college. Her husband is a bus driver, and she said cost was the most important factor in her choosing San Diego Mesa over the closest four-year school, Loma Linda University.

“This is a big deal for our family,” she said. “I’ve been encouraging my kids to go to school, and I was encouraged by my father, who passed away. Education is the key to success. That’s why it’s a big deal.”

She said she will have spent about $2,000 a year to go to the community college. Tuition and fees at Loma Linda cost more than $33,000 a year, according to College Factual, a website that tracks college costs.

Tuition at San Diego Mesa was also a factor for Linda Bredeson — but so was the commute. Bredeson, 34, works at a hospital about a 20-minute drive from her home in San Diego. School is 10 minutes from work. Getting to Loma Linda, she said, would take 90 minutes.

“It’s a hop and a skip away, which makes going to school very easy,” Bredeson said, adding that she has gained confidence simply by attending the classes, and got a promotion in January.

In Ohio, Republican Gov. John Kasich’s fiscal 2018 budget has cleared the way for two-year colleges to offer four-year degrees. The governor has long advocated conferring four-year degrees at community colleges as a low-cost pathway to a higher degree.

“Community colleges are doing this to serve the students-and-employers community we serve now,” said Adam Murka, chief of staff for Sinclair Community College in Dayton. “We are not trying to be universities.”

Murka pointed out that the Ohio Department of Higher Education had to approve the school’s application to confer four-year degrees, and that one requirement was that the degree was not already available at other institutions in the state. The drone degree fits that description, he said.

The Youngstown State degree, by comparison, is broader. “The bottom line is there is nowhere else in Ohio where you can get this degree,” Murka said. “This is an area of local economic importance. It’s an area of tremendous growth over the coming decades.”

But representatives of universities say there’s more to a traditional four-year college education than a diploma, and they don’t welcome the competition.

“We live in a state with limited resources for higher education,” Youngstown State’s provost, Martin Abraham, said. “We’re continuously cutting back — not increasing funding — for higher ed. It doesn’t make a lot of sense to set up a competing system for the same set of funds.”

While the Sinclair program may not compete directly with Youngstown State, Abraham said the four-year school has a mechanical engineering technology degree that provides similar training. Purdue University, in nearby Indiana, also has a degree in drones.

Average in-state tuition at a four-year public college in Ohio was close to $7,000 for the 2016-17 school year, according to CollegeCalc, a website that compares college costs using Department of Education data. Sinclair averaged just above $3,000, while Youngstown State came in close to $8,000.

“There’s a reason the tuition structure is different at a four-year university versus a two-year university,” Abraham said. For example, he said, Youngstown State’s career fair attracts 70 companies to campus every year.

“That’s economy of scale. It drives up the cost of our education, but it also provides significant value to our students that is not easily replicated on a community college campus offering one or two baccalaureate degrees.”

And C. Todd Jones, president and general counsel of the Association of Independent Colleges and Universities of Ohio, said the argument that baccalaureate degrees are unaffordable is a “red herring.”

“Financial assistance makes degrees affordable, particularly for low-income individuals in our state,” he said. There’s no reason in terms of costs for creating a community college baccalaureate degree, he said.

The debate played out in testimony this year to the Ohio Department of Higher Education. Representatives from the four-year schools succeeded in removing a passage from a new regulation that would have allowed two-year institutions to teach the same courses that are taught at four-year institutions, with the department’s permission.

For students, there are pros and cons to getting a bachelor’s degree from a community college, according to the Community College Review, which follows issues related to two-year colleges. On the plus side, in addition to lower cost, students have the flexibility of studying closer to home and avoiding housing costs, while tailoring their course schedules to their work and home schedules. On the negative side, courses of study at community colleges are limited, and some schools have outdated equipment.

In California, legislators will decide this year whether to renew or extend a 2016 pilot program that offers a handful of bachelor’s degrees in subjects such as airframe manufacturing and respiratory care at community colleges.

Students have been enrolling in the degree programs, a 2017 report from California’s Legislative Analyst’s Office found, but there is not enough data such as graduation rates with which to evaluate the program.

Some state lawmakers would like to see the program expanded. Democratic state Sen. Jerry Hill, who authored the legislation to start the pilot program, said four-year institutions are often not within commuting distance of the students who would potentially enroll in these kinds of programs.

“Education should be convenient,” he said. Or students “won’t participate and at the end of the day won’t be educated enough to meet the needs of the state and their need for a good-paying job.”

Community colleges could help graduate more low-income and minority students. Forty percent of students at state community colleges, where low-income and underrepresented students are more likely to enroll, transfer to four-year colleges, according to a report by the nonpartisan Public Policy Institute of California. “The central challenge,” the report said, “is to improve pathways through college.”The rapper T.I., also known as Clifford Joseph Harris Jr., is calling for a boycott against Houston’s restaurant after three Atlanta women were allegedly assaulted in the restroom by an off-duty police officer.

The incident happened May 13 at an Atlanta location near closing time when the women reportedly came in to use the restroom, according to local station WXIA TV.

According to the police report, Officer Jose Guzman was working on the side as a security guard at the restaurant. The shift manager had asked him to escort three women out of the restroom because the business was closed and they had already been asked twice to leave.

Guzman went into the restaurant where he saw three women, identified as Brittany Marie Lucio, Asia’h Sharrell Epperson and Erica Walker, on their phones. He reportedly asked the women to leave three times, but they either ignored his request or just laughed, according to the station.

Guzman told police he asked an employee to open the restaurant’s back door and then grabbed Lucio’s wrist and said, “Let’s go.”

Walker left the restaurant, but Lucio allegedly told Guzman not to touch her and refused to leave, according to the Atlanta Journal-Constitution.

Guzman said Lucio allegedly punched him in the head. Epperson filmed him holding Lucio and Walker to the ground while more police arrived.

The three women were arrested and all charged with criminal trespass. Lucio was also charged with felony obstruction, according to Vibe.

Gerald Griggs, the attorney representing the women, told the Atlanta Journal-Constitution that his clients were given permission to use the restroom and that they were in the process of leaving when the officer escalated the situation.

He also said Lucio and Walker had markings on their bodies from being attacked by the officer.

Griggs is asking the district attorney and solicitor to dismiss charges and wants the officer to be placed on unpaid leave while the police department investigates the situation.

Epperson told WSB-TV that the police report about the incident is “false and exaggerated.”

She gave the following statement to the station:

It was not after hours. The restaurant was open. It was full of people. We asked if we could use the restroom and we were given permission to do so. We were in the restroom maybe 7-8minutes. Actually Using the restroom, and On the phone with the Uber driver trying to give directions to where we were! Period. We weren’t doing anything wrong. We were never asked multiple times to leave. That is a lie. We are moving forward very rapidly with this matter things will be handled legally!

The incident struck a chord with T.I., who had organized a boycott of Houston’s last year after another Atlanta location threw out a group of black female customers, according to TMZ. He had met with the restaurant’s ownership in an attempt to improve relations and stopped his call for a ban as a result.

The rapper posted a series of videos to Instagram Tuesday to bring attention to the alleged assault.

On Monday, he was calling for another boycott: “We done tried to do it the Martin Luther way. It’s time for Malcolm X!”Scott Pruitt, the embattled Environmental Protection Agency administrator, admitted Thursday that he signed off on controversial five-figure raises for political appointees, contradicting statements he made in a tense Fox News interview earlier this month.

Speaking at the first of two House hearings, Pruitt said gave chief of staff Ryan Jackson the green light to use a special loophole in the Safe Drinking Water Act to boost the salaries of Millan Hupp and Sarah Greenwalt, two of his longtime aides from Oklahoma who now work at EPA, even after the White House rejected the request.

“There were delegations giving him that authority,” Pruitt said in response to questions from Rep. Paul Tonko (D-N.Y.). “I was not aware of the amount, nor was I aware of the bypassing or the [White House Office of Presidential Personnel] process not being respected.”

He reiterated the statement in the second hearing later in the afternoon, and insisted he canceled the raises and resubmitted the requests to the White House.

That was the extent of Pruitt’s acknowledgement of any wrongdoing. The hearings ― one before the House Committee on Energy and Commerce, the other in front of the House Committee on Appropriations ― cap a month of mounting calls for Pruitt to step down.

Over the course of the first nearly four-hour hearing, the administrator defiantly blamed the media for his mounting ethics scandals. He repeatedly deflected Democrats’ questions about the lapses and proposals to dramatically weaken public health regulations, ducking yes-or-no inquiries with a verbose torrent of legalese.

“I recognize there have been some very troubling media reports over the past few weeks,” Pruitt said in opening remarks repeated at both hearings. “A lie does not become truth just because it appears on the front page of the newspaper.”

Asked about a proposal to dramatically limit the public health research EPA can use to write regulations, disqualifying the sort of epidemiological pollution studies that undergird federal air pollution rules, Pruitt deployed canned statements to defend what he called “transparency” measures. Asked if he had anything to say to the families of people who died inhaling the toxic paint stripper methylene chloride, Pruitt said he hadn’t made a decision yet on a ban. Asked about his security guard moonlighting for the tabloid publisher who paid to cover up stories about President Donald Trump’s reported extramarital affairs, Pruitt said he “was not aware of that outside contract, and it’s being reviewed.”

Republicans at the first hearing were swift to defend the administrator.

“I apologize for the abrasiveness of some of my colleagues who would rather tarnish your reputation than address the problems facing the nation,” said Rep. Jeff Duncan (R-S.C.).

Scott Pruitt listens to a question by Rep. Diana DeGette, D-Colo., right, during his testimony before a House Energy and Commerce Environment Subcommittee hearing in Rayburn Building. Tom Williams via Getty Images

Rep. David McKinley (R-W.Va.) admonished Democrats for a “classic display of innuendo and McCarthyism.”

“I hope that we can stay on policy and talk about some of the progress that’s been made,” McKinley said, “because I think that it’s been good for the environment.”

Rep. Bill Johnson (R-Ohio) dismissed questions into Pruitt’s mounting ethics scandals as “a personal attack” and “a shameful attempt to denigrate the work that’s being done at the EPA.”

Rep. Joe Barton (R-Texas) described Pruitt as “a victim of ... Washington politics.” He lauded Pruitt’s efforts against “radical clean air policies,” and pointed out that the administrator’s penchant for first-class flights “may look bad,” but “it’s not illegal.” The EPA chief hadn’t done anything like renting “a party jet,” he noted.

Rep. Kathy Castor (D-Fla.) criticized Republicans for refusing to take the committee’s oversight duties seriously.

“It’s embarrassing,” she said.

In a stunning rebuke of his critics, Pruitt made no direct mention of the growing heap of corruption accusations against him in his prepared testimony, and again cast blame on his staff for the whirlwind of ethical lapses that triggered 10 federal investigations over the past month.

“I am not afraid to admit there’s been a learning process,” Pruitt said in an unscripted comment during his opening remarks.

Pruitt has faced criticism for months over his spending on first-class flights, seemingly in violation of federal rules, which he justified as a safety measure to avoid passengers in coach who might accost the administrator over his controversial deregulatory agenda.

But, in late March, details emerged about a $50-a-night luxury Capitol Hill condo Pruitt rented from an energy lobbyist with business before the EPA. That scandal quickly cascaded into more than two dozen more as new reports revealed shady real estate deals in Oklahoma, use of multiple email accounts, and a tyrannical management style in which EPA staffers who questioned Pruitt’s actions were fired or pushed out.

A New York Times story published April 5, detailing how five EPA employees were sidelined after raising concerns about Pruitt’s spending, became a flashpoint at the first hearing.

Asked about the article by Rep. Frank Pallone (D-N.J.), Pruitt said he didn’t remember the incident, kicking off a testy exchange.

“I don’t ever recall a conversation to that end,” Pruitt said.

Pallone responded: “I’ll take that as a yes.”

“A lie does not become truth just because it appears on the front page of the newspaper.” - Scott Pruitt

“You shouldn’t take that as a yes,” Pruitt said.

Despite regaling what he called a “bloodsport” of going after any Republican who supports the president, Rep. Gregg Harper (R-Miss.) asked later in the hearing how the EPA investigated allegations such as those made in the Times story.

“There’s no truth to the assertion,” Pruitt said. “I’m not aware of that ever happening.”

The EPA’s notoriously hostile press office cast doubt over many of the reports, suggesting political motivations. But, earlier this month, a former top staffer to Pruitt, who described himself as a lifelong Republican and former Trump aide, detailed “unethical and potentially illegal” activities to top Democrats leading an investigation. Four days later, the nonpartisan Government Accountability Office issued a report finding EPA spending on a $43,000 soundproof phone booth for Pruitt broke the law.

Pruitt blamed career staff for taking “the process all the way through.”

“If I had known about it,” Pruitt said, “I would have refused it.”

Trump for weeks projected strong support for Pruitt. But Bloomberg reported on Monday that the White House had begun urging Republicans to temper their defenses of the embattled administrator.

At least five Republicans members of Congress have joined 170 Democrats calling for Pruitt’s departure. Even Sen. James Inhofe (R-Okla.), who counts Pruitt as a friend and protege, signaled concern over Pruitt’s ethical issues, calling this week for a hearing before the powerful Senate Environment and Public Works Committee.Bryan Rice, pictured here during a Senate hearing in October, was appointed as director of the Bureau of Indian Affairs in October. Twitter/Bureau of Indian Affairs

WASHINGTON — Bryan Rice has resigned just six months after Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke appointed him to lead the Bureau of Indian Affairs, multiple sources familiar with the situation told HuffPost.

Politico first reported Rice’s departure on Thursday.

The bureau, which is part of the Interior Department and handles government relations with more than 500 federally-recognized tribes, has made no official announcement about Rice’s departure. Agency officials are not discussing details of his resignation.

“It is our policy not to discuss DOI personnel matters in the press,” BIA spokeswoman Nedra Darling said in an email. She ignored follow-up questions about whether Rice was still employed.

The resignation comes roughly two weeks after the agency’s internal watchdog concluded that poor Interior Department staff record keeping made it impossible to determine if the reassignment of dozens of senior agency staff last year was legal. Nearly a third of the transferred staffers were Native American, Talking Points Memo reported.

Rice’s resignation was effective as of Tuesday, according to an email circulated among BIA staff on Thursday. The email, a copy of which was reviewed by HuffPost, said that it was unclear why Rice had decided to leave his position.

When Zinke announced Rice as his choice to lead the bureau in October, he said the veteran Interior official “has a wealth of management expertise and experience that will well serve Indian Country.”

“I have full confidence that Bryan is the right person at this pivotal time as we work to renew the department’s focus on self-determination and self-governance, give power back to the tribes, and provide real meaning to the concept of tribal sovereignty,” Zinke said.

Rice is a member of the Cherokee Nation of Oklahoma and previously led Interior’s Office of Wildland Fire beginning under the Obama administration in 2016.This time around, Reid has vehemently denied writing the posts, contending that her blog was hacked. But as HuffPost reported, only a pretty bizarre course of events would have led to the allegedly fraudulent posts.

Reid’s attorney, John H. Reichman, said in a statement Wednesday that the FBI had opened an investigation into the alleged hacking.

“We have received confirmation the FBI has opened an investigation into potential criminal activities surrounding several online accounts, including personal email and blog accounts, belonging to Joy-Ann Reid,” Reichman said. “Our own investigation and monitoring of the situation will continue in parallel, and we are cooperating with law enforcement as their investigation proceeds.”

On Thursday night, The Daily Beast published a report on the hacking claims made by Reid’s cybersecurity consultant, Jonathan Nichols. Like HuffPost, Poulsen determined Nichols’ “evidence” of the alleged hacking didn’t hold much water.

Reid “says a cybersecurity consultant has proof that her old blog has been hacked,” Poulsen wrote. “But that consultant, Jonathan Nichols, had trouble producing the promised evidence. And what he did produce failed to withstand scrutiny, according to a Daily Beast analysis.”

Reid dropped out of a panel she was slated to moderate in New York City on Thursday. She informed event organizers on Wednesday night that she would need to withdraw from the CAFE Change Summit, sources close to the event confirmed to HuffPost.

The Change Summit was organized by former U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara and his media venture CAFE. Reid was set to moderate a panel featuring Pete Buttigieg, the mayor of South Bend, Indiana; Ravi Bhalla, the mayor of Hoboken, New Jersey; and Washington state Lt. Gov. Cyrus Habib, according to BuzzFeed.

A representative for Reid declined to comment on Reid’s withdrawal from the Change Summit and the suspension of her Daily Beast column.

The LGBTQ advocacy organization PFLAG announced Tuesday that it was rescinding its Straight for Equality in Media award to Reid in light of the “ongoing investigation” into her blog posts.

The story has been updated with The Daily Beast’s decision on Reid’s column, the results of the outlet’s investigation and her attorney’s statement.President Donald Trump’s personal lawyer Michael Cohen filed court papers Wednesday indicating his plan to exercise his Fifth Amendment right against self-incrimination should he be called to testify in the lawsuit Stephanie Clifford, known as porn star Stormy Daniels, filed against the president.

Clifford is suing the president over the validity of a nondisclosure agreement she signed just before the 2016 presidential election that barred her from discussing a consensual affair she said she had with Trump in 2006. Cohen, long known as the president’s “fixer,” also issued a payment of $130,000 to Clifford that she called “hush money.”

Cohen’s declaration states that in light of the FBI’s raid on his home, office and hotel room earlier this month, his counsel has advised him to invoke his Fifth Amendment rights should he be called to testify in Clifford’s lawsuit.

The FBI reportedly seized records relating to Cohen’s payment to Daniels.

JUST IN: Michael Cohen formally states that he will assert his 5th Amendment rights against self-incrimination in Stormy Daniels' civil case in California due to the ongoing criminal investigation against him in New York. https://t.co/20IadXjivo pic.twitter.com/11OQk3OVuT — Chris Geidner (@chrisgeidner) April 25, 2018

Clifford’s lawyer, Michael Avenatti, called Cohen’s decision “stunning” in a statement posted to Twitter.

“Never before in our nation’s history has the attorney for the sitting President invoked the 5th Amend in connection with issues surrounding the President,” Avenatti tweeted. He also shared a Washington Post article from last year quoting Trump’s previous statements on invoking the Fifth Amendment.

“The mob takes the Fifth,” Trump said at an Iowa campaign rally in September 2016. “If you’re innocent, why are you taking the Fifth Amendment?”

This is a stunning development. Never before in our nation’s history has the attorney for the sitting President invoked the 5th Amend in connection with issues surrounding the President. It is esp. stunning seeing as MC served as the “fixer” for Mr. Trump for over 10 yrs. #basta — Michael Avenatti (@MichaelAvenatti) April 25, 2018Axelle/Bauer-Griffin via Getty Images

It’s hard to find a woman who accused of a man of sexual harassment and then carried on with her life and career as normal. Think Anita Hill, or the actresses who rejected or complained about Hollywood producer Harvey Weinstein, or the untold numbers of women who speak up about discrimination and wind up fired from their jobs, or blackballed from entire industries.

But on Monday, former Fox News anchor Gretchen Carlson did just that; she announced her own comeback. Carlson plans to host a new documentary series, set to air on the A&E network, focused on telling stories about workplace sexual harassment.

The move marks her first return to TV since former Fox chairman Roger Ailes forced her out of the network in 2016, after Carlson rebuffed his sexual advances and complained about sex discrimination.

Even as an increasing number of media outlets devote stories to the potential redemption of the many prominent men who’ve been accused of sexual harassment in this Me Too moment, Carlson’s comeback is a poignant reminder of the careers that truly are ruined when sexual harassment is allowed to flourish. Typically, it’s the victims of harassment who vanish.

Focusing on the men is a “slap in the face,” Carlson told HuffPost in a phone interview on Wednesday.

Carlson filed suit against Ailes nearly two years ago, before the hashtag Me Too was a phenomenon. She triumphed. Ailes was ousted from the network he helped found, though with a $40 million exit package. She walked away with a $20 million settlement. Many more women at Fox soon came forward with their own stories.

Since then Carlson’s become an activist on sexual harassment, lobbying Congress on legislation, speaking at conferences and writing a book called “Be Fierce,” published last fall.

She spoke with HuffPost about her comeback, the future of Me Too and another new project she launched this week with the nonprofit March of Dimes called Gretchen Carlson Advocacy Fellows, which broadens her recent focus from sexual harassment to a wider range of women’s issues, including racial disparities in maternal and infant health, maternity leave and post-partum support.

You’ve written about how women are permanently sidelined from their careers after speaking up about harassment. Is coming back to TV particularly meaningful for you?

Yes. 100 percent. I wanted to be able to go back to my passion and what I worked so hard on for 27 years of my life. I want to be an example to thousands and maybe many millions who have lost their professions for having the courage to talk about harassment.

Of the thousands of women who reached out to me [with their stories of harassment], 99 percent of them were never afforded the opportunity to work in their chosen profession again. It’s outrageous on its face. I want to make sure I’m sending a message of hope to other women that they too can make comebacks.

What do you make of the recent rash of media stories about harassers ability to comeback?

Those stories are a slap in the face to all the women who have lost their careers as a result of doing nothing wrong except having the bravery to come forward. I’m not sure there is even evidence that these men are making a comeback.

Even writing the [comeback] story perpetuates the idea that harassing is not that big of a deal. We should write stories about all the women who haven’t been able to go back and imagine how brave it would be for those companies to hire some women to come back. That would be a good story.

What do you think is next for Me Too?

It’s one thing to talk about the famous people, those stories attract a lot of attention. Harassment is an epidemic everywhere, not just with famous people.

I feel like we’ve come to the far end of the tipping point when we focus on everyday-women ― members of military, police, teachers. I want to make sure I give them a mouthpiece. My first special for A&E will focus on these women.

How has your tolerance for “harmless” sexism changed over the years? In your book you speak of the “drip, drip of misogyny” being like torture. On Fox and Friends your co-hosts were often incredibly sexist and you managed to handle it with grace.

I can’t talk about Fox [editor’s note: her settlement with the network prohibits it], but you iterated what was happening. My hope is that women have been empowered to not just sit there and take it. Women are seeing that their voice matters. They’re mobilizing and standing up and saying not so fast. So yeah, I do think millions of women have felt empowered to not just sit there and take it.

I’d make the argument that part of this entire movement has trickled down to the effect we’ve seen with the Parkland high school students.

Even with all these women speaking up, and the Me Too movement catching on, we still have an accused harasser sitting in the Oval Office. Is that disheartening?

I get asked that at every single event that I do. A lot of people are feeling disconnected on that.

Do you think there’s a bit of fatigue with hearing from victims?

I don’t feel that way. I’m of the opinion that we can’t put the genie back in the bottle. There’s been massive progress ― a cultural revolution.

If you look at how I was treated and what happened to me a mere 21 months ago and you look at how that changed in just a year-and-a-half, from women not being believed to omigosh, now we actually believe women. Men not being immediately fired to now harassers being fired. Men not issuing apologies, to on the same day they’re issuing apologies. That’s a major transformation.

So I really believe we’ve made immense progress. I hope we haven’t come to the end of the journey.

I haven’t.TONIGHT: Say what you will about Dr. Ronny Jackson, but he sure knows how to keep people in the White House happy. #LSSC pic.twitter.com/jxs79o10bz — The Late Show (@colbertlateshow) April 26, 2018

Stephen Colbert says he knows why President Donald Trump is so far standing by Ronny Jackson, the White House doctor he named to run the Department of Veterans Affairs.

Jackson’s confirmation hearings have been put on hold as accusations over his conduct have surfaced, including reports he crashed a government car while drunk and was once passed out in his hotel room when needed.

He’s also accused of passing around prescription drugs, which led to him being nicknamed “Candyman,” according to a report released Wednesday by the office of Sen. Jon Tester (D-Mont.), the ranking member on the Senate Veterans Affairs Committee.

Trump, however, defended Jackson as “one of the finest people that I have met,” and on Wednesday night’s “Late Show,” Colbert said he thinks he knows why.