First, citizens should be exposed to materials that they would not have chosen in advance. Serendipity is a good thing. Unplanned, unanticipated encounters are central to democracy itself. Such encounters often involve topics and points of view that people have not sought out and perhaps find quite irritating – but that might change their lives in fundamental ways. They are important partly to ensure against fragmentation, polarization, and extremism, which are predictable outcomes of any situation in which like-minded people speak only with themselves.

Second, many or most citizens should have a wide range of common experiences. Without shared experiences, a heterogeneous society will have a much more difficult time in addressing social problems. People might see each other as strangers, foreigners, possibly even enemies. Common experiences, emphatically including the common experiences made possible by social media, provide a form of social glue. Societies need such things.

Third, citizens should be in a position to distinguish between truth and falsehood – and to know when democratic processes are being manipulated. In democracies, of course, it is fair for people to disagree about what the truth is. But if people are knowingly spreading lies, and if nations are attempting to disrupt other nations, some process should be in place to enable citizens to have access to the truth.The Pennsylvania Supreme Court on Monday ruled that the state’s congressional map went so far to benefit Republicans that it “clearly, plainly and palpably” violated the state constitution.

The court, where Democrats have a 5-2 majority, blocked the use of the map in the 2018 midterm elections, ordered state lawmakers to begin to draw a new map.

The suit against the congressional map, which only challenged it under Pennsylvania’s state constitution, was one of the most watched voting rights cases in the country. The ruling could encourage groups to bring similar challenges against congressional gerrymandering cases in other states and bypass a ruling from the U.S. Supreme Court, which is currently considering two cases dealing with partisan gerrymandering.

Pennsylvania has been described as one of the worst gerrymandered states in the country, and analyses have found the map is responsible for at least three additional GOP seats in Congress. Republicans controlled the redistricting process in 2010 and drew the map to give them a considerable advantage. In the 2012, 2014 and 2016 elections they won 13 of the state’s 18 congressional seats, despite just winning about 50 percent of the vote.

The suit, brought by the League of Women Voters on behalf of 18 voters in each of the state’s congressional districts, said that GOP lawmakers had retaliated against Democratic voters for supporting Democratic candidates, violating the equal protection and free expression guarantees in the state constitution.

The justices gave GOP lawmakers until Feb. 9 to submit a new map and gave Gov. Tom Wolf (D) until Feb. 15 to approve it. Should the parties fail to reach an agreement on the plan, the justices said the court would move quickly on its own to develop a constitutional congressional map. The court said the new map could be expected by Feb. 19.

“Pennsylvania voters will finally be able to cast their ballots in districts that were fairly and constitutionally drawn,” David Gersch, one of the lawyers who argued the case on behalf of the plaintiffs, said in a call with reporters on Monday. “This is a tremendous day for Pennsylvania, tremendous day for the voters and it’s also a tremendous step by the Pennsylvania Supreme Court.The current map is the worst map in Pennsylvania’s history.”

The justices indicated the state’s congressional primary on May 15 would proceed as scheduled.

The court only issued an order on Monday and said a full opinion would follow. In a dissenting statement, the court’s two Republicans, Chief Justice Thomas Saylor and Sallie Updyke Mundy, said they would not have issued a ruling until the U.S. Supreme Court ruled on its partisan gerrymandering cases. They agreed with a lower court’s finding, however, that the map raised “substantial concerns” about constitutional viability. In a separate dissenting opinion, Mundy expressed concern with the vagueness of the court’s order, arguing it had instructed the legislature to redraw the state’s congressional map without giving it any guidance on how to do so.

Justice Max Baer (D) wrote an opinion joining the majority in part and dissenting in part. He said he would have held off on redrawing the congressional map until 2020 so it didn’t throw the state’s 2018 midterm elections into chaos and confusion.

At oral arguments in Harrisburg last week, lawyers for House Speaker Michael Turzai (R) and Senate President Tempore Joseph Scarnati (R) defended the map, saying that courts had never articulated a standard for when partisan gerrymandering was so egregious that it could be unconstitutional.

E. Mark Braden, a lawyer for Turzai, said it was inconceivable that a political body like a legislature, which is constitutionally tasked with drawing lines for Congress, would not take partisan considerations into account.

Scarnati and Senate Majority Leader Jake Corman (R) criticized the Pennsylvania Supreme Court’s decision on Monday, saying they intended to ask the U.S. Supreme Court to block the order to redraw the map.

“Today’s ruling by the State Supreme Court is a partisan action showing a distinct lack of respect for the Constitution and the legislative process. The PA Supreme Court has overstepped its legal authority and set up an impossible deadline that will only introduce chaos in the upcoming Congressional election. The Court had this case since Nov. 9, 2017 ― giving it over 10 weeks to reach this decision,” they said in a joint statement. “Yet, it has elected to give the legislature 19 days to redraw and adopt the Congressional Districts. With matters the Supreme Court found unconstitutional in the past, it afforded the General Assembly four months to make corrections.”

The statement continued, saying: “It is clear that with this ruling the Court is attempting to bypass the Constitution and the legislative process and legislate themselves, directly from the bench.”

Gov. Wolf, a named defendant in the suit who supported striking down the maps, said his administration was assessing next steps. Wolf would have to sign off on any maps passed by the legislature.

“I strongly believe that gerrymandering is wrong and consistently have stated that the current maps are unfair to Pennsylvanians. My administration is reviewing the order and we are assessing the executive branch’s next steps in this process,” he said in a statement.

R. Stanton Jones, another lawyer for the plaintiffs, told reporters that any appeal would be unsuccessful because the challenge to the congressional map was only brought under the state constitution, not the federal one.

“It’s well established that the United States Supreme Court does not review decisions of state court that exclusively construe state law, which is the exact situation you have here,” Jones said. “When people talk about federalism, the concept of federalism, this is an important part of it. The United States Supreme Court doesn’t get to tell a state’s highest court what is state law, in this case Pennsylvania law.”

Democrats praised the court’s verdict.Bill Maher thinks President Donald Trump’s administration is less like a reality show and “more like a Scorsese movie.”

On Friday’s broadcast of “Real Time,” the comedian broke down why he believes Trump is like a mob boss in a Martin Scorsese film. He said the president has surrounded himself in the White House with “toxic trash” figures from New York City — such as Michael Cohen, Rudy Giuliani and Anthony Scaramucci.

This administration “is a protection racket” and “everything Trump does is modeled on the mob,” said Maher. “Who does Trump surround himself with? Disposable lawyers and idiot members of his own family. Who’s his worst enemy? The FBI. Where does his money come from? He’s in construction.”

“He’s so much like a don, his name is literally Don,” Maher added. “What part of this isn’t mob-like?”American gymnasts Simone Biles (L) and Aly Raisman (R) during the 2016 Rio Olympics. Damir Sagolj / Reuters

Three USA Gymnastics directors have resigned amid fierce criticism that the organization failed to protect its athletes from team doctor Larry Nassar, a serial predator whose sentencing hearing continues this week.

“USA Gym Board of Directors executive leadership ― Chairman Paul Parilla, Vice Chairman Jay Binder & Treasurer Bitsy Kelley ― tendered their resignations, effective Jan. 21, 2018,” a tweet from the organization on Monday says. “The Board of Directors will identify an interim chairperson until a permanent selection is named.” The announcement comes during Nassar’s sentencing hearing on 10 counts of first-degree sexual misconduct, which began Jan. 16 and will end later this week. The former USA Gymnastics and Michigan State University team doctor has been accused of sexually abusing over 140 young girls under the guise of medical treatment over the course of two decades.

USA Gym Board of Directors executive leadership - Chairman Paul Parilla, Vice Chairman Jay Binder & Treasurer Bitsy Kelley - tendered their resignations, effective Jan. 21, 2018. The Board of Directors will identify an interim chairperson until a permanent selection is named. — USA Gymnastics (@USAGym) January 22, 2018

Kerry Perry, president and CEO of USA Gymnastics, said she supports the resignations.

“We believe this step will allow us to more effectively move forward in implementing change within our organization,” Perry said in a statement. “As the board identifies its next chair and fills the vacant board positions, we remain focused on working every day to ensure that our culture, policies and actions reflect our commitment to those we serve.”

USA Gymnastics did not immediately respond to HuffPost’s request for further comment.

Attorney John Manly, who represents more than 100 Nassar victims, called the resignation “a public relations ploy” in a statement to HuffPost.

“In speaking with some of our clients this morning, all of them wondered whether USAG will change the position they have taken in court that USAG had no duty to warn its member gymnasts even though they knew Larry Nassar was a molester,” he said. “Until that happens, this move is simply a public relations ploy to save a sinking ship of an organization.”

Manly demanded Congress open an investigation into how the U.S. Olympic Committee, USA Gymnastics and MSU have handled the Nassar accusations. He added that many of the board members who remain were “well aware of USAG’s concealment of sexual abuse, its non-compliance with reporting statutes and harsh treatment of sexual abuse survivors.”

“It should not have more than 100 young women publicly baring their souls about their sexual assault by Larry Nassar to finally get USAG to act,” Manly said. “It’s important to note that 54 USAG Coaches have been credibly accused of sexually molesting little girls and boys in the last 20 years. Child molestation is a cancer in USAG and those responsible need to be completely ousted from the organization so there is nothing left of their influence.”

More than 100 women have read victim impact statements during Nassar’s sentencing. Many called out USA Gymnastics and Michigan State University for disregarding or failing to report warnings about Nassar’s abuse.

It appears the organizations “only see us as a financial burden that needs to be silenced and squashed, devalued and discredited all while trying to say they are sorry it happened to us and are on our side,” survivor Larissa Boyce recently told HuffPost.

Olympic gymnast Aly Raisman wrote in a series of tweets this month that USA Gymnastics is “100 percent responsible” for Nassar being allowed to continue his abuse for so long.

“We must understand how this happened to make sure it never occurs again,” Raisman tweeted. ”... The system has to change so that athletes are safe. Enablers need to be held accountable.”

The president of USA Gymnastics, Steve Penny, resigned in March 2017 amid the investigation.

Nassar is already serving 60 years in prison on child pornography charges and faces a minimum of an additional 25 years on the sexual misconduct charges.“That was the carrot,” Ginsburg said of the entire ordeal. “The stick was, [the professor told the judge] ‘If you don’t give her a chance, I will never recommend another Columbia student for you.’”

Ginsburg also described a time when Columbia Law School laid off 25 women in the maintenance department without laying off a single man. That act caused her to march into the university’s vice president for business’ office to tell him that the university was violating Title VII, which prohibits discrimination in hiring based on race, sex, religion or national origin.

The vice president apparently dismissed her, telling Ginsburg, “Professor Ginsburg, Columbia has excellent Wall Street lawyers representing them, and would you like a cup of tea?”

Not long after, an application for a temporary injunction against Columbia was filed and the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission sent their chief counsel to argue in favor of it. To that, Ginsburg said that, all of a sudden, “Columbia decided they didn’t really have to lay off anyone.”

You can watch the full exchange above, where she also talks about motherhood and Kate McKinnon playing her on “Saturday Night Live.”

“I liked the actress who portrayed me,” Ginsburg said. “And I would like to say, ’Gins-Burn!’”Bradley Hardison was arrested last week in connection with an alleged break-in at a doughnut shop in North Carolina. Elizabeth City Police Dept

There was a hole in his plan.

A former doughnut-eating champion was arrested in North Carolina last week after police said he broke into a Dunkin’ Donuts, the Virginian-Pilot newspaper reported.

Bradley Hardison, now 27, made national news in 2014 when he won a police-sponsored doughnut-eating contest in Elizabeth City, then was arrested days later in connection with a series of break-ins in a neighboring county. Sheriff’s deputies had seen the media reports of his doughnut-eating contest victory and recognized him as their suspect.

Hardison was convicted and received a suspended sentence in connection with those break-ins.

This time, Hardison allegedly broke into a safe at a Dunkin’ Donuts in Elizabeth City in November and took an undisclosed amount of dough, according to WAVY, the NBC station in Portsmouth, Virginia. He’s now facing a series of felony charges, including breaking and entering, larceny, safecracking and probation violations, court records showed.A 16-year-old boy shot a 15-year-old girl in a Texas high school cafeteria Monday, officials said.

The shooting took place at Italy High School, roughly 40 miles south of Dallas, a spokeswoman for the Ellis County Sheriff’s Office told HuffPost. Both teens were students at the school.

The unidentified 16-year-old allegedly “engaged the victim,” fired several shots from a semi-automatic .380 handgun and then fled. He was later arrested without incident.

“I saw him take out the gun and shoot the girl. After he shot her twice, he tried to shoot the guy she was with. He just went out the back door,” Italy High School sophomore Edgar Rodriguez told CBS-DFW.

The victim was airlifted to a Dallas hospital, and her condition isn’t yet known. An investigation is ongoing.

Students were moved “under guard” to the high school’s gymnasium, also known as “the dome,” she confirmed. Nearby Stafford Elementary School was also on lockdown as staff prepared to release students once police gave the all-clear, local ABC affiliate WFAA reported.

Italy TX school shooting. Suspect in custody. More information to come. — ECSO (@ECSOTX) January 22, 2018Then-San Francisco Police Chief George Gascón poses at a news conference in 2010. Gascón, now the city's district attorney, announced on Jan. 11 that the city would not prosecute sex workers who come forward as victims or witnesses of violent crimes. Justin Sullivan/Getty Images

The San Francisco District Attorney’s Office announced a policy on Jan. 11 that is supposed to protect the city’s sex workers from being arrested for prostitution if they report being victim to or witnessing violent crime.

But the San Francisco Police Department continues to employ an officer accused of statutorily raping then-17-year-old sex worker Celeste Guap in 2015. (The age of consent in California is 18.) More than two dozen police officers in the San Francisco Bay Area allegedly had sex with Guap starting when she was 14 years old; so far, seven have faced charges for sex offenses and other crimes.

Guap came forward in the summer of 2016, saying she had sex and shared cocaine with Officer Rodger Ponce De Leon, 42. According to her phone records, their interactions began when she was 17. But a year and a half later, Ponce De Leon is still under Internal Affairs investigation and is still employed by SFPD, according to Michael Andraychak, a spokesman for the department.

Ponce De Leon works in a position in which he has no contact with the public, Andraychak said. But the city is still paying him. The Examiner reported in 2016 that the officer was moved from Northern Station to the SFPD Operation Center, and Andraychak said he is currently still employed as a parole officer. (The SFPD lists the starting salary for its police officers as $83,018, but the department would not comment on Ponce De Leon’s current salary. According to Transparent California, he made $133,968.69 total in 2016.)

Although a 2011 study found that sex workers are “18 times more likely to be murdered than women who do not engage in prostitution” and are also more likely to be raped as well, violence against sex workers is often overlooked as a result of the contentious and often dangerous relationship between police and sex workers.

San Francisco will no longer prosecute sex workers if they come forward to SFPD as victims or witnesses of “sexual assault, human trafficking, stalking, robbery, assault, kidnapping, threats, blackmail, extortion, burglary or other violent crime,” District Attorney (and former San Francisco police chief) George Gascón announced earlier this month.

Some members of the sex worker community lauded the policy and welcomed the opportunity to build trust between the two communities. Briq House, communications director for Sex Workers Outreach Project-USA, told HuffPost that it was “a wonderful step in the right direction.”

A former San Francisco-based SWOP-USA Board member, Maggie Mayhem, told HuffPost the policy is a welcome change, but criminalization of sex work remains an issue when it comes to keeping sex workers safe. Overall, she said, “it is a promising sign that the SFPD and DA are continuing to learn more about the important issue of sex worker rights and safety and taking more progressive steps to address it.”

The DA’s policy announcement also said SFPD will collaborate with local sex worker organizations to implement a training program for its police members.James Franco attended the 2018 Screen Actors Guild Awards on Sunday night despite having been accused earlier this month of sexually inappropriate behavior.

Franco was spotted in the audience early on during the show’s broadcast, but did not appear on the red carpet or participate in pre-show interviews. He was nominated for Outstanding Performance by a Male Actor in a Leading Role for his role as Tommy Wiseau in “The Disaster Artist.” Gary Oldman won the award for his role as Winston Churchill in “Darkest Hour.”

TNT

Franco has denied the allegations waged against him, appearing on “The Late Show with Stephen Colbert” days before the LA Times’ story was released to say he was “here to listen and learn and change my perspective where it’s off.”

“The things that I heard that were on Twitter are not accurate, but I completely support people coming out and being able to have a voice,” he said, referring to accusations made against him on social media.

Franco also said during an interview on NBC’s “Late Night With Seth Meyers” that he has his “own side of this story.” But he said he believed “in these people that have been underrepresented getting their stories out enough that I will hold back things that I could say just because I believe in it that much.”

“And if I have to take a knock because I’m not going to try and actively refute things, then I will, because I believe in it that much,” he said.

Actress Alison Brie, Franco’s sister-in-law, commented Sunday on the allegations against the actor.Pence defended the president in an Associated Press interview during his visit to Jerusalem. Trump’s comments, reportedly made during a private White House meeting on immigration policy with congressional leaders earlier this month, have been widely excoriated.

Although Trump’s comments were in line with his history of racism, Pence insisted that the president is committed to a merit-based system for immigrants, “regardless of what country they come from or what their race and creed is.”

“I know that what President Trump wants to do is reform immigration to make our system one that puts the interests of America first,” he said.

Pence also claimed that Trump’s outburst had not harmed diplomatic efforts and relationships with world leaders, even though many of them have condemned the president’s remarks.

“I just think leaders around the world appreciate the president’s renewed engagement. He appreciates the relationships that he’s forged with them,” Pence told AP.

A spokesman for the United Nations’ human rights office said earlier this month that “there is no other word one can use but ‘racist’” to describe Trump’s comments, and leaders of several African countries called them insulting.

“We will not accept such insults, even from a leader of a friendly country, no matter how powerful,” said Nana Akufo-Addo, the president of Ghana, a U.S. ally.Asking my children to go get something for me is basically asking them to go to another room and forget why they are thereOops.

Boston’s ABC affiliate WCVB tweeted the New England Patriots’ AFC title game victory over the Jacksonville Jaguars on Sunday with an action photo of the late Aaron Hernandez.

The tweet was eventually deleted, but not before the Twitterverse noticed.

Hernandez in April hanged himself in prison, where he was serving a life sentence for murder. He last played for the Patriots in a 2013 playoff game.

The photo originated from a 2011 preseason game between the Jags and the Pats. Hernandez had fumbled the ball and it was about to be recovered by the Jags’ Rod Isaac, according to the caption.

Elsa via Getty Images

So how in the heck did this happen?

The station said an unidentified news service “accidentally” posted the picture on its social media, and called the error “embarrassing & unacceptable.”In a stirring speech Saturday at the Women’s March in Los Angeles, Natalie Portman opened up about how she was overtly sexualized after the release of her first film. She was 13 at the time.

The actress, now 36, recalled being eager to see how people would respond to her work in “Léon: The Professional.”

“I excitedly opened my first fan mail to read a rape fantasy that a man had written me,” the Oscar winner said at the march, as transcribed by CNN.

She described other instances of sexual objectification that she faced soon after the film’s release, including movie reviewers talking about her “budding breasts” and her local radio station starting a countdown to her 18th birthday to keep track of “the date that I would be legal to sleep with.”

“I understood very quickly, even as a 13-year-old, that if I were to express myself sexually, I would feel unsafe,” said Portman, who was wearing a Time’s Up T-shirt. “And that men would feel entitled to discuss and objectify my body to my great discomfort.”

Portman said she chose to combat this by building a reputation as a “prudish, conservative, nerdy, serious” actress. She even rejected roles in which there were kissing scenes in order to feel safe.

“I felt the need to cover my body and to inhibit my expression and my work in order to send my own message to the world: that I’m someone worthy of safety and respect,” she said. “The response to my expression, from small comments about my body to more threatening deliberate statements, served to control my behavior through an environment of sexual terrorism.”

In November, Portman spoke to Vulture about how sexual harassment is so ingrained in the film industry and society generally that when other women’s stories began to surface in late 2017, she didn’t immediately recognize the similarity to her own experiences.Amazon CEO Jeff Bezos loves to expand his company, and he's shown that he hates taxes. Joshua Roberts / Reuters

SEATTLE ― The 9:30 a.m. meeting of the Seattle City Council’s Finance and Neighborhoods Committee ― the most boring name imaginable ― was overflowing. People in the crowd held up signs: “Don’t vote our jobs away” or “Tax the rich.”

The committee was taking public comment on the proposed Progressive Tax on Business, a fee on Seattle’s largest corporations to support homeless services. Last week, Amazon — the employer of more than 45,000 Seattleites that is on the hook for an estimated $20 million under the tax — announced it was pausing construction planning on a tower downtown and would consider renting some of its office space to other companies if the fee goes through.

Now the mayor and City Council have to decide whether to take this threat seriously. About a third of the attendees at Wednesday’s hearing were wearing construction vests. One of them told committee members that if the tax passes, workers will have to go home, look their kids in the eye and tell them Daddy doesn’t have a job anymore. Another called a member of the City Council a communist (she’s actually a socialist) and said she “seems to be getting paid by the residents of Seattle to throw temper tantrums.”

The applause in the room was deafening.

But the fight is about more than just one company or one policy. It is about the growing challenge of running American cities and all the ways companies make it even harder. Seattle faces an impossible choice: Either raise revenue from employers and risk driving them away, or keep levying taxes on voters and risk a backlash that could exacerbate the very problem it’s trying to solve. Whatever happens here, it will be a template for the rest of the country.

Don’t Call It An ‘Amazon Tax’

The details of Seattle’s proposed tax are crucial to understanding why Amazon hates it so much. Under the current proposal, the city will charge large companies 26 cents for every hour their employees work. That’s about $520 per worker every year. Though the tax will apply only to companies with more than $20 million in revenue per year, or about 3 percent of Seattle businesses, Amazon employs about 145,000 people.

And that structure is only temporary. The tax is flat for the first three years: The same fee is levied on wages whether an employee earns $31,200 a year (the minimum wage here) or more than $100,000 (what many Amazon corporate employees make). But in 2021, the flat fee becomes a payroll tax. Large companies will have to pay 0.7 percent of their employees’ wages — that’s $220 per year for minimum wage workers and more than $700 for Amazon’s corporate employees.

It’s the second part, bigger taxes for bigger incomes, that seems to worry the companies here. A few days after Amazon’s announcement, the CEO of Seattle-based Zillow made the same taking-our-ball-and-going-home threat, calling the tax “misguided and too blunt of an instrument.”

But you can’t talk about where the money comes from without talking about where it’s going. Homelessness is an emergency in Seattle. Literally. In 2015, the mayor issued an emergency proclamation over the sheer number of people sleeping outside and in their cars and overflowing from shelters. At last count, Seattle had 11,643 homeless people, and its home of King County had the third-highest homeless concentration in the nation. A study last year by Zillow estimated that every 5 percent rise in Seattle rents pushed 258 more people into homelessness. Rents here rose 13.5 percent last year alone.

The proposed tax would raise about $75 million per year to help address this crisis, bringing the city’s total homelessness budget up to $200 million. Three-quarters of the revenue would go toward building affordable housing and a smaller chunk would go toward direct, immediate services — things like temporary shelters, “hygiene centers” and shelter beds.

“This isn’t about Amazon,” said Lisa Herbold, a Seattle City Council member and a co-sponsor of the tax. “It’s about the humanitarian crisis in our city.”

Amazon vs. Taxes

It’s clear that Seattle’s tax is going to piss off Amazon. The question is, how much?

Everything the company has said so far has been pretty tepid. Amazon has not, in fact, stopped construction on any downtown towers. It has stopped planning future construction, a much different (and less costly) decision. Similarly, the company announced it was exploring the option of subleasing some floors in one of its already-under-construction office buildings. That doesn’t mean Amazon is crying wolf, but it does mean there’s still a lot of uncertainty about the company’s response.

Even if members of the Seattle City Council approve the tax — hell, even if they triple it — Washington is still a relatively cheap place to do business. It has no income tax (which is effectively a pay raise for Amazon employees who move here from elsewhere), no capital gains tax and no corporate income tax. The city even passed an almost identical tax on employees, albeit at a much lower rate, in 2006 before repealing it during the recession.

Then there’s the public relations aspect to consider. Though it will grow after 2021, Amazon’s tax bill under the law will be pocket change compared with its $1.6 billion in profits last quarter alone. Moving employees, halting construction and reversing course all have costs, too.

Plus, does a not-super-popular corporate behemoth really want to pull thousands of jobs out of a city over being asked to fund services for the homeless? While Amazon is less reputation-conscious and less likely to be harmed by a boycott than a lot of companies are, its executives must know that throwing a hissy fit over this law would create some backlash.

Amazon could still pull jobs out of Seattle anyway. The only thing CEO Jeff Bezos loves more than expanding his company is hating taxes. When a handful of states tried passing laws requiring internet retailers to collect sales tax in 2012, his vice president for global public policy called the efforts “unconstitutional.”

A few years ago, Amazon halted plans to build a warehouse in South Carolina when local lawmakers wouldn’t grant an exemption to the state sales tax. Bezos even reportedly considered incorporating his company on a Native American reservation to avoid taxes. Just because leaving Seattle over a small tax increase would be bananas doesn’t mean it won’t happen.

This Proposal Is A Stopgap

In the past five years, Seattle has seen unprecedented growth, much of it driven by Amazon and other large companies. That has put unbearable strain on the housing market, schools and infrastructure. As the bill for services has grown, the way the city pays for them has become increasingly unjust.

Washington has the most regressive tax structure in the country. The poorest 20 percent of residents pay an average of 16.8 percent of their income in state taxes. The richest 1 percent pay just 2.4 percent. This means low-income people are effectively paying for the city’s growth.

And yet, nearly every route to fixing Seattle’s tax and revenue mess is blocked. The most obvious fix, an income tax, is illegal under the state constitution (or at least the way the state Supreme Court interpreted the constitution in 1951). Last year, the City Council passed a ”high earners tax,” but a lawsuit preventing its implementation was filed about 10 minutes later.

Alongside the (high and regressive) sales tax, Seattle relies heavily on property taxes. But, thanks to a 2001 ballot initiative, those revenues aren’t allowed to grow by more than 1 percent per year. Everything the city needs (libraries, fire stations, schools) has to be individually approved by voters. Though Seattle’s property taxes are below average compared with other cities, the constant levies and add-ons contribute to a sense among Seattleites that the city is squeezing them for more money every year without keeping up its end of the bargain.

Housing built for the homeless in Seattle. George Rose via Getty Images

Homelessness is the perfect encapsulation of this dynamic. As the city has grown, it’s nearly doubled its budget for homeless services. In 2016, voters approved a $290 million affordable housing levy. The city is getting more people into permanent housing than ever before.

But living here, it is immediately and viscerally clear that these efforts aren’t enough. Rising rents are pushing people onto the streets faster than the city can bring them back inside. Nearly half of the city’s homeless population is now unsheltered. Last year, a record 169 people died sleeping on the street, and the city is already on track to break the record again.

Seattle’s current situation exposes a fundamental challenge for lawmakers across the country: Solving big problems requires bold, transformational policies. What city leaders can pass in the face of structural barriers and skeptical voters, however, are merely small, incremental improvements to the status quo.

And that’s exactly what the Progressive Tax on Business is: a half-measure. No matter what Amazon decides to do, taxing employment, just like taxing cigarette purchases, will result in less of it. And the new tax probably won’t result in a significant reduction in the city’s homeless population. The city estimates the tax will produce 1,780 units of affordable housing, even though its own resolution says it needs more than 17,000.

None of that is an argument against the tax. As council member Herbold points out, this may be Seattle’s only available route toward making its tax code more progressive. Despite the fireworks at public hearings, the tax is relatively modest and is specifically tailored to affect only the companies that can afford it. Nor is it the only tax of its kind: Wilmington, Delaware; Denver; and plenty of other cities tax companies on the number of employees they have, a so-called head tax.

This week, as Seattle debated the $75 million head tax, the Chamber of Commerce released a report estimating that solving homelessness would cost $400 million. A proposal by the mayor to reduce the revenue to $40 million triggered an even more raucous committee hearing, with protesters chanting “$75 million, no extortion!” to another packed audience. The original proposal passed and will be voted on Monday, but the mayor could still veto it.

But that is the debate here, what has become possible and necessary to the city to fight over: Whether to spend 10 percent of what it will cost to solve homelessness or 20 percent.

It’s Getting Harder For U.S. Cities To Run Themselves

But the bigger question is how cities should respond to threats like Amazon’s.

The request for proposals for the company’s second headquarters stated explicitly that “a stable and business-friendly environment and tax structure will be high-priority considerations.” Cities responded in kind: Chula Vista, California, offered free land. Fresno, California, offered control over how municipal revenues would be spent. Chicago even offered to waive income taxes for Amazon employees.

The calculation these cities are making is all about the multiplier: Every job created by Amazon creates another 1.5 in “indirect employment” — consultants, chefs, schoolteachers. Except those employers won’t get any of the tax breaks. Perversely, it’s only the largest companies, the ones with the most power and the littlest need for unfair advantages, who get cities falling all over themselves to give away revenues.

It’s not even clear what Seattle gave up to entice Amazon’s most recent expansion here. The company didn’t respond to inquiries about how many employees it has in Seattle or how much it pays in city and state taxes (though late last week, “a person at the company familiar with the data” made a “rare disclosure” to The Seattle Times that Amazon had paid $250 million in local taxes — without specifying what types of taxes or where they went).

No matter where they operate, companies have every incentive to play exactly the game Amazon is playing. To shareholders, every dollar a company pays in tax is waste. The minute Amazon announces its second headquarters location, it can start pitting its host cities against each other: Hey Seattle, we’re thinking of adding another 1,000 jobs. It’s you or Pittsburgh. What are you going to give us?

This is, in fact, almost exactly what the CEO of Zillow warned this week. “We are actively trying to decide where to put the next couple hundred heads, and this is the type of thing that causes us to consider looking at putting that expansion in other cities,” he said.

The challenge of finding enough revenue to adequately run a city is only going to get worse. Excluding health care, federal grants to cities are at their lowest since 1980. Despite the growing economy, 30 states have revenue shortfalls. The Trump administration has declared its intention to cut transportation funding and housing assistance. Without outside support, cities will become increasingly reliant on revenues from their own voters and their largest employers.

Seattle is a case study for what those fights are going to look like. The more desperate cities become, the more leverage corporations will wield over them. And, simultaneously, the more frustrated their populations will get at the constant tax raises and fee hikes.

The most depressingly insightful comment from Wednesday’s City Council hearing came from Howard Bess, a counselor for the Downtown Emergency Service Center, a homeless shelter in Seattle. He apologized for being tired; he had been up all night helping Seattle’s homeless population find an “island of relief.”

“I don’t see that anybody who is opposing this is going to die on the streets,” he said, “or not be able to pay their mortgage or not be able to wear new shoes or clean clothes. But our clients could certainly use that help.”Neil deGrasse Tyson is known for using his Twitter account to tackle everything from urgent scientific issues to pop culture. But on Sunday, he took to social media to wonder about bears ― and, in particular, one potential feature of a bear-led world.A Philadelphia Eagles fan on Sunday went viral in the worst way on the night his team advanced to the Super Bowl.

As passengers watched from inside a subway car, the man ran on the platform to keep up and plowed into a pole, video posted on Twitter showed.

At least he presumably got to enjoy his team’s 38-7 home victory over the Minnesota Vikings in the NFC Championship Game.

Transit police said the unidentified man, who was showing off for passengers in advance of the game, got up after his smackdown, high-fived other travelers and boarded the next train, a SEPTA rep told HuffPost on Monday.“We’ve already got the family bus going. Hopefully I’ll be able to sleep.”

Those are the musings of new dad Mat Kearney, who’s gearing up to the hit the road on a headlining tour in February. It’s poised to be a family affair with Kearney’s wife, Annie, and their 1-year-old daughter, Olive, in tow. This will be the first time Kearney will bring his little girl on an extensive tour, so he’s ready for anything to happen.

Touring life is clearly a lot different now than when Kearney got his start in the business ― and quite different from one of his first major gigs: opening up for John Mayer at New York’s Madison Square Garden in 2007.

“It was actually a turning point for me,” the Nashville-based singer-songwriter told HuffPost at Build Series. “The first song, ’I was like, ‘Wow, this is not going to go well.’ Like the first row is like, ‘What are you doing?’ But I’m grinding and I’m going to get these people and I was just working it. Everything I had in me. Every piece of heart. Every joke I could tell. We played the last song and I noticed the first row stood up and then other people stood up and we got a three-quarter standing ovation. I was like, ‘Wow, if we did it here, maybe I should keep doing this. I should not go back to Starbucks.’”

A decade later, Kearney is an established artist whose music has appeared in countless TV shows ― from “Grey’s Anatomy” and “Parenthood” to “The Vampire Diaries.”

Now he’s about to release his sixth studio album.

“This one is more deep house, tropical house-influenced, chilled out record, with serious songs,” said Kearney, who teamed up with various DJs for the upcoming set. “Nashville songs, I guess … That was the goal — let’s have these really smart songs and have these moments that feel like what electronic music does. It’s not about words. It’s about a feeling.”

Mike Pont

For Kearney, each album is extremely personal. Kearney’s wife inspired his 2011 album, “Young Love.” Kearney’s most recent effort, 2015′s “Just Kids,” featured a nostalgic theme, with Kearney looking back on his younger days growing up in Oregon.

A “really intense year” influenced the sound and lyrics on his upcoming release, “Crazytalk.”

“This record, there’s definitely some super emotional moments. My wife, we had someone pass away super dear to us. We found out we were pregnant the next day. And I was like, ‘OK, life is short.’ I love what I do. I love playing music. I feel like I’m just starting. That’s when we were like, ’All right, [let’s get] out of my record deal, [get] new management. Like, ‘Let’s go.’ I’m ready to go,” Kearney said. “I want to do this in a way that’s really inspiring to me ... This is a second wind in what I do.”

“Crazytalk” is expected to be released this spring.

For the full Build Series interview, check out the video below.Someone, please cast Olivia Munn and Anna Faris in a movie where they road-trip across country being their fabulous selves, because we need more of these two together immediately.

After reports circulated that the “X-Men: Apocalypse” star and Faris’ ex-husband, actor Chris Pratt, enjoyed a “romantic dinner” together earlier this month, Munn decided to set the record straight.

In a series of posts on Instagram Story, Munn essentially circumvented the entire celebrity gossip machine by refusing to be pitted against another woman she considers a friend.

“Not every woman is scorned and upset after a breakup,” Munn wrote on social media. “Not every woman is ‘furious’ at another woman for dating her ex...So even if I was dating [Chris], some tabloids got me and [Anna] all wrong...women respect and love each other a lot more than some people like to think.”

Olivia Munn

Olivia Munn

Olivia Munn

Olivia Munn

Munn went on to offer potential celebrity couple names for her and Pratt, like Crolivia, Prunn and Olipratt, to prove what a “horrible” match they would make.

Olivia Munn

But Munn wasn’t done clearing the air. The actress, who stunned at the SAG Awards on Sunday night, shared her text-message conversation with Faris to explain that nothing went down between her and Pratt.

“Sooo… I would never respond to random tabloid stories, but since we know each other I wanted to reach out to you personally to tell you the story about me and Chris dating has 0% truth,” Munn’s message read. “I’m sure you already know it’s not true, or maybe you didn’t care either way, but I just wanted to reach out personally to tell you it’s not true.”

Faris responded, “Hi!!!! Oh my god-this town is so f**king crazy-you are so sweet to text-I love you-having said that if you were my new sister in law I would be thrilled! -lets please catch up soon.”

Olivia MunnSTAFF: Mr. President, we need the optics of you working hard during the shutdown.



TRUMP: Fine, I’ll pose with the phone at my ear.



STAFF: Um, sir, maybe it would be better if it looked like you had been reading—



TRUMP: Just take the f**king picture in the next three seconds. https://t.co/Wp3rfOng5T“And if I have to take a knock because I’m not going to try and actively refute things, then I will, because I believe in it that much,” he said.

Nominated for Outstanding Performance by a Male Actor in a Leading Role for his role as Tommy Wiseau in “The Disaster Artist,” Franco attended Sunday night’s Screen Actors Guild awards, though he skipped the red carpet.

Johansson herself has faced scrutiny over her work with Woody Allen, whose adopted daughter has accused him of sexually abusing her when she was a child. The “Avengers” actress, who’s starred in three of Allen’s films, has for the most part kept quiet, despite condemnations from several other actors, including her “Vicky Christina Barcelona” co-star Rebecca Hall.

Farrow described the alleged abuse in her first television interview last week, although she first publicly accused Allen in 2014. That same year, Johansson denied knowing anything about what happened in an interview with The Guardian.

“It would be ridiculous for me to make any kind of assumption one way or the other,” Johansson said.Kristen Bell arrives at the 2018 SAG Awards. Kevin Mazur via Getty Images

Bell, who dubbed herself the unofficial first lady of the SAG Awards because she’s the first person to ever host the ceremony, went after the anti-cyberbullying campaign Trump has said she’s championing during her time in the White House ― despite her husband’s controversial tweets.

“I never thought I’d grow up to be the first lady, but you know what? I kinda like it,” the “Veronica Mars” actress said on stage.

“I think my first initiative as first lady will be cyberbullying,” she added, to much laughter from the audience. “Because I have yet to see any progress made on that problem quite yet.”

Bell went on to offer some stirring words about Hollywood’s recent reckoning with sexual assault and harassment. She has been a vocal supporter of the Time’s Up movement, which was launched earlier this year and aims to secure gender and racial parity across all industries.

“Everyone’s story deserves to be told, especially now,” she said. “We are living in a watershed moment and as we march forward with active momentum and open ears, let’s make sure that we’re leading the charge with empathy and with diligence because fear and anger never win the race.”

The “The Good Place” star ended her speech on a lighter note, teasing that the next installment of the fan-favorite “Frozen” franchise will indeed be hitting theaters in 2019.The stars brought their fashion A-game to the 2018 Screen Actors Guild Awards on Sunday night.

The ceremony, hosted at the Shrine Auditorium in Los Angeles, California, honors the favorite performances in film and television over the past year. It is often the best prediction for who will take home an Academy Award in March.

This year, the SAG Awards boasts a roster of all female presenters, including Emma Stone, Halle Berry and Olivia Munn, and it will also for the first time ever have a host, “The Good Place” actress Kristen Bell.

Some stars dressed all in black and sported pins in support of the Time’s Up initiative, an action plan and legal defense fund that’s raised millions to support to victims of sexual harassment and assault. Earlier his month at the Golden Globes, actors and actresses almost universally blacked out the awards show.

This time around, most opted for brighter shades, bringing some color to the red carpet before the ceremony officially kicked off.

Check out the all of the looks below.

Allison Janney

John Shearer via Getty Images

Tracee Ellis Ross

Frazer Harrison via Getty Images

Kristen Bell

Jeff Kravitz via Getty Images

Margot Robbie

Frazer Harrison via Getty Images

Alexander Skarsgård

Steve Granitz via Getty Images

Samira Wiley

Monica Almeida / Reuters

Goldie Hawn and Kate Hudson

John Shearer via Getty Images

Nicole Kidman

Frederick M. Brown via Getty Images

Reese Witherspoon

Frederick M. Brown via Getty Images

Emily Gordon and Kumail Nanjiani

Frazer Harrison via Getty Images

Saoirse Ronan

Steve Granitz via Getty Images

Greta Gerwig

Frederick M. Brown via Getty Images

Elisabeth Moss

Frederick M. Brown via Getty Images

Lupita Nyong’o

Frederick M. Brown via Getty Images

Laura Dern

Frederick M. Brown via Getty Images

Uzo Aduba

Frazer Harrison via Getty Images

Halle Berry

Frazer Harrison via Getty Images

Millie Bobby Brown

Frazer Harrison via Getty Images

Maya Rudolph

Frederick M. Brown via Getty Images

Brie Larson

Dimitrios Kambouris via Getty Images

Sam Rockwell and Leslie Bibb

Monica Almeida / Reuters

Kelly Marie Tran

Monica Almeida / Reuters

Olivia Munn

Mike Blake / Reuters

Mandy Moore

Kevin Mazur via Getty Images

Susan Sarandon

Frazer Harrison via Getty Images

Dakota Fanning

Steve Granitz via Getty Images

Holly Hunter

Steve Granitz via Getty Images

Allison Williams

Steve Granitz via Getty Images

Ryan Michelle Bathe and Sterling K. Brown

Frederick M. Brown via Getty Images

Yara Shahidi

Jeff Kravitz via Getty Images

Connie Britton

Frederick M. Brown via Getty Images

Milo Ventimiglia

Kevin Mazur via Getty Images

Chrissy Metz

Frederick M. Brown via Getty Images

Natalia Dyer

Frazer Harrison via Getty Images

Gina Rodriguez

Kevin Mazur via Getty Images

Niecy Nash

Frederick M. Brown via Getty Images

Allison Brie

Dimitrios Kambouris via Getty Images

Dave Franco

Frederick M. Brown via Getty Images

Giuliana Rancic

Frederick M. Brown via Getty Images

Danielle Brooks

Dimitrios Kambouris via Getty Images

Yvonne Strahovski

Kevin Mazur via Getty Images

Gaten MatarazzoHuffPost may receive a share from purchases made via links on this page. Prices and availability subject to change.

It’s not surprising that social distancing can put a strain on relationships. If you’re quarantined with your significant other, you might still be adjusting to so much time together or trying to be a supportive partner during this stressful and unprecedented time. If you’re social distancing separately from your S.O., this might be the longest you’ve gone without seeing them, even if you were already in a long-distance relationship.

Sometimes all that person needs is a reminder of how much you mean to them and how special you think they are. But in a time where you can’t really pick them up a gift or take them on a real date, how can you surprise them?

Fortunately, there are plenty of gifts that can be signed, sealed and delivered to your partner, whether you’re married or just started dating. Miss going to your favorite restaurant or bar for dinners and drinks? Surprise them with a cocktail or meal kit subscription that you can make and enjoy together or via a Zoom date. You can even sign up for an online class to learn a new language or instrument together.

Don’t be afraid to think “inside the box” with deliverable gifts, like a personalized subscription box or sexy couples gifts that’ll make your special someone blush with excitement.

To help, we’ve found some of our favorite gifts that come in a box. Take a look below at 14 romantic gifts that can be delivered:Tracee Ellis Ross is speaking out about leaked reports that indicated her “Black-ish” co-star Anthony Anderson, who’s also the show’s executive producer, had a significantly higher salary than her.

Ross, who plays Bow on the hit ABC show, responded to a Hollywood Reporter article that claimed she said she would appear in fewer episodes if she wasn’t brought up to Anderson’s level.

Jeff Kravitz via Getty Images

The actress tweeted on Saturday that she never made that threat and that she just wants fair pay for her work.

“There has been a lot of conversation and speculation the last few days regarding my blackish salary. I was in a renegotiation, like many actors find themselves in during the fourth season of a successful show,” she wrote. “I wanted to be compensated in a way that matches my contribution to a show that I love for many reasons, including the opportunity it allows me to reshape what it is to be a fully realized black woman on TV.”

Ross said that the comments in The Hollywood Reporter article weren’t hers. She said it was “awkward” that her renegotiation was made public, but that she’s appreciative of the support she received.

The Golden Globe winner continued, “I’m truly thankful that important conversations are taking place about fighting for women’s worth and equality, and tightening the pay gap in every industry.”

AdvertisementNothing gets between Kylie Jenner and her Calvins, except a blanket, an oversized denim shirt, sister Khloe Kardashian’s thigh and literally whatever else can distract from her pregnancy.

The Kardashian-Jenner sisters — Kylie, Khloé, Kim, Kourtney and Kendall — are the new faces of Calvin Klein‘s “Our Family” campaign. They’re posed lounging in their underwear together in a series of images released on Monday.

The photos are pretty run of the mill where the KarJenners are concerned, but, of course, we currently exist in a purgatorial state where Kylie has yet to confirm whether she’s pregnant or not.

Multiple outlets reported back in September that the beauty mogul is expecting her first child with rapper Travis Scott.

Calvin Klein

Calvin Klein

Kylie has taken an extended vacay from the spotlight since reports of her pregnancy surfaced, posting sparingly on social media and maintaining an Area 51-like level of secrecy around her personal life.

These photos are the first we’ve seen of all five KarJenner sisters together since reports of both Kylie and Khloe’s pregnancies broke the internet. Khloe confirmed she was expecting late last year with a photo of her belly on Instagram and later filmed scenes for the family’s reality TV series, “Keeping Up With the Kardashians,” of her sharing the news with her sisters.

“Family is everything, so when we’re all together doing something special like this, it means so much.” Kim told Vogue about the photo shoot. “We were all in a group text before saying how lucky we are to do this together and that it’s going to be the best day.”

Calvin Klein

Calvin Klein

The internet, of course, had a field day with the images, poking fun at the lengths everyone’s gone to keep Kylie’s pregnancy on the down-low.

Kylie Jenner is in that #MYCALVINS ad like pic.twitter.com/wOUq6u0Nms — Heidi (@HeidiRochelle) January 22, 2018

Kylie sis we know pic.twitter.com/yEY8JfyTpL — z 🥀 (@obvszee) January 22, 2018

me, thinking I’m cleverly hiding my winter weight gain on Instagram pic.twitter.com/7i4GU661Bj — Robert Kessler (@robertkessler) January 22, 2018

I'm crying at how the others are flaunting it and Kylie is wrapped up like she's going 4 a nap pic.twitter.com/pMUUjPJjTI — lydia ✨ (@lydtweed) January 22, 2018Andrew Kelly / Reuters

NEW YORK ― Look, we get it. The extremist, far-right New Yorker doesn’t get many opportunities to attend a gala event with like-minded folks in the city these days.

But on Saturday, a few hundred “patriots and political dissidents” got their big night, hosted by men’s rightser and far-right propagandist Mike Cernovich. Pro-Trump rabble rousers spent hundreds of dollars to watch Cernovich and other conservative Twitter celebrities spew hot garbage at “brown people,” women, “faggots,” and leftist snowflakes.

In general, Cernovich’s “Night for Freedom” party, held on the same day that hundreds of thousands of women marched for equal rights across the nation, would not be news. From its lineup alone, we knew what it would be: a drunken huddle of angry white men with no clear agenda and a rambling, hateful message.

But a few points of interest brought us to the event at FREQNYC on 50th Street Saturday night, and what we found was worse than expected.

For example, attendees watched keynote speaker and Vice Media co-founder Gavin McInnes say things like this:

I think we learned from Tonya Harding, when you associate yourself with the lower classes, people get hurt. We try to pretend we like the lower class but no one really wants them and none of them are here, thank God.

McInnes also peppered his speech with deeply homophobic and transphobic sentiments, commenting on trans women’s genitalia and asking, “Do you like that? Are you gay? Doesn’t a gay like a giant erect cock?”

Not sure what Proud Boys founder Gavin Mcinnes is trying to get across but how he keeps people in the audience with “will you faggots shut up” and “most women would be happier at home” is beyond me pic.twitter.com/ov3NbBdfqJ — Andy Campbell (@AndyBCampbell) January 21, 2018

Trump supporters ― some of whom told HuffPost they had no idea who the speakers were that night ― braved midtown Manhattan on a weekend (hot tip: don’t) to watch self-proclaimed comedian Owen Benjamin give this oddly timed seasonal witticism: “This Christmas, give her what she’s been begging for since that first time you made love — that final inch of cock.”

There are a few reasons that a handful of reporters attended, and not because we thought these speeches were newsworthy.

The event piqued our interest because these fringe right groups don’t often publicly congregate in New York City, so it was likely there would be violent clashes between protesters and partygoers (there were), a heavy police presence (there was) and some familiar faces on the American extremism beat. McInnes, for one, is a member of the Proud Boys, a crew of extremist “pro-Westerners” that has ties to white supremacy and attracts racists and fascists into its ranks. These aren’t your run-of-the-mill Trump supporters, but they’re often the loudest, and they were all in one place.

Secondly, there was word that Chelsea Manning was going to show up. And for some bizarre reason, she did!

Manning, the former Army private convicted of sharing classified government documents with Wikileaks, said on Twitter she wanted to “crash the fascist white supremacist hate brigade party.” She didn’t stay long, and though a ticket cost at least $150, it’s unclear if she paid. It’s also not clear why she showed up at all, given the company and that she’s running for U.S. Senate in Maryland as a Democrat. She didn’t immediately return calls for comment, but she’s had to repeatedly explain herself on social media:

learned in prison that the best way to confront your enemies is face-to-face in their space — Chelsea E. Manning (@xychelsea) January 21, 2018

After the party, McInnes tweeted that Manning is a “cunt.”

Eventually, the bloviating subsided, and it was time for some awkward dancing. Once the DJ fired up the national anthem, we accepted that we’d learned nothing and got out just as an attendee was choked and punched outside the venue.

At least the party’s headliners, like McInnes, seemed to have a good time.Courtesy of Sundance Institute

The tale of Lizzie Borden has been axed to death, just like her father and stepmother. And yet, on Friday, another dramatization of the alleged killer’s cloistered 19th-century life premiered at the Sundance Film Festival.

“Lizzie” has been Chloë Sevigny’s passion project since 2010. And who is a better fit to play Borden than Sevigny, best known for dark roles and cool-girl eccentricities? But the movie underwent a circuitous route to the big screen ― one that wasn’t as serendipitous as the actress hoped.

Sevigny was first inspired to develop the film when an artist friend of hers ― Lily Ludlow, whom Sevigny described as “esoteric” and “witchy” ― dressed as Lizzie Borden for Halloween. Taken with the imagery of this Gilded Age commoner who suffered fainting spells and fantasized about escaping her stodgy parents, Sevigny did her research, delving into Borden’s past as a tried ― and acquitted ― ax murderer from Fall River, Massachusetts. Sevigny, along with screenwriter Bryce Kass, quickly mounted a film project, transforming it into a miniseries in order to get a greenlight from HBO, where she was nearing the end of her employment on the drama “Big Love.”

“So much has been said [about Borden]. But I think that we just really wanted to focus on how she went about finding [her freedom] and how important that was to her and what that meant to her,” Sevigny told me at Sundance. “Whether it was through the relationship with [her maid] or ultimately killing her parents for money ― because money equaled freedom then. It still does. I wanted it to be this rousing, smash-the-patriarchy piece, and then she gets everything she wants monetarily — the capitalist dream. She gets the house on the hill, and Bridget leaves her. Her sister leaves her. She ends up alone.”

Seven years later, the movie that premiered at Sundance was not what Sevigny conceptualized. According to her, HBO dawdled on the film’s production, and when the powers that be finally opted to move forward, they were scooped by Lifetime, which released “The Lizzie Borden Chronicles,” a TV movie starring Christina Ricci, in January 2014. As a result, HBO pulled the plug.

“You can’t imagine how heartbroken I was,” Sevigny said. “I was really like, I can’t go on. This is the end of days for me. It was an emotional roller coaster.”

Sevigny and Kass, who’d partnered with Tom Hanks’ production company, had to retrieve the rights to the script from HBO, after which Kass culled the four-hour miniseries into the feature film he and Sevigny first envisaged, which would convey an erotic relationship between Lizzie and her family’s Irish live-in maid, Bridget Sullivan, portrayed with shy sensitivity by Kristen Stewart. Sevigny and Kass quickly lined up producers. The first director who signed on, Pieter Van Hees, dropped out due to scheduling conflicts. Craig William Macneill, who made the 2015 thriller “The Boy,” replaced him, but Sevigny said he had his own ideas about how to frame Borden’s story.

Sevigny was hoping for “Black Swan” meets “Capote.” But on set and in the editing process, Macneill apparently trimmed and expunged scenes, including some of Sevigny’s punchier moments ― for example, “exclamation points” ending heated exchanges with Borden’s parents, played by Jamey Sheridan and Fiona Shaw. More crushingly, some of the development surrounding Lizzie and Bridget’s affair was left on the cutting-room floor. As we see it, their flirtations are sensual but clipped.

“I love the whole murder sequence ... seeing the ax in the bin. I think there’s some real beautiful work that [director Craig William Macneill] did, and dare I say elegant?”

“It was very hard,” Sevigny said about learning those moments weren’t included in the film. “I was like, ‘If you have another scene with Kristen Stewart and you don’t put it in your movie, you’re stupid. What’s your problem?’ But almost every movie goes through that. Almost everything that was on the page was filmed, and a lot of it didn’t make it in the movie. And more stuff with me and Fiona Shaw. There was more to the relationships that made them more complicated, and also then informed why Lizzie [commits the murders]. Now it’s a little more vague than what Bryce and I intended originally to do.”

Asked whether she could elaborate on how the film’s tone and content changed, Sevigny said, “Without getting in trouble, probably not,” laughing and looking around to see if her publicist was in the room.

“I think Craig is very restrained,” she continued. “Craig has a lot of vision. I think he’s a great filmmaker. But I think maybe the movie could so easily go camp because she is also a camp figure. I think he was very frightened of pushing emotion in that direction, where it might turn into that. So he was really pulling the reins on a lot, performance-wise. [...] What was so much harder with this film was I was a producer and this was my baby. I developed it from the get-go, and I had to relinquish control and power over to the other producers and the director. That was my first experience in that. Of course I’ve been in countless other movies where scenes all of a sudden disappear. You’re like, all right, well, that happens. But because I was so close to the material, it became harder for me to let go of stuff.”

“But we hired him,” she added, “and this was his vision and this was his interpretation of what we gave him.”

As it exists, “Lizzie” remains rather external ― it’s not as “inside her head” as Sevigny hoped. As much a romance as it is a psychodrama, the movie features more than a few shots of Lizzie’s backside as she glides through her yard and home. When asked whether she was surprised there weren’t more closeups of her face, which might better telegraph Lizzie’s internal emotions, Sevigny chuckled.

“You’re really pushing this,” she said. “I mean, have you been on my email chain? Uh-oh, I’m getting dirty looks [from my publicist]. Yes.”

It seems the film’s evolution surprised Macneill, too. He told Filmmaker magazine that the budget prevented “Lizzie” from shooting in New England, where Borden lived from 1860 until her death in 1927. “As a result, we were forced to mostly suggest the outside world rather than showing it,” he said. “Consequently, most of the film takes place inside the Borden home. As it turned out, finding a suitable interior was nearly as complicated as finding exterior locations, and each day without a locked location put an enormous strain on every department.”

For what it’s worth, the movie springs to life during the culminating murder sequence, in which Lizzie, fully nude so as to avoid incriminating bloodstains, slowly climbs the stairs, wielding the ax she’ll use to bludgeon her patronizing father and unloving stepmother. Exactly how much of Sevigny’s body would be exposed ― read: a lot of it ― was contractually negotiated via her agents and the movie’s producers. She also approved the footage after it was shot.

“I still feel really vulnerable, like I put myself out there,” she said. “I’m hoping it’s worth it.”

Indeed, the execution is dripping with carnal moxie. It’s the payoff we desire for someone trapped by her parents’ command, a woman who wasn’t even permitted to go into town unaccompanied.