Restaurateur Joe Bastianich is facing backlash over his insensitive comments to Chinese nail salon workers during a recent episode of cooking show “MasterChef Italia,” where he serves as a judge.

Bastianich, also known for being Mario Batali’s business partner, is seen making a series of cringeworthy statements while the salon employees give him a manicure and pedicure.

In the clip, he repeatedly corrects the women’s pronunciation of Italian words. At one point, he even makes a comment that alludes to an offensive stereotype about Asian male genitalia, after asking the woman giving him a manicure if she has an Italian or Chinese boyfriend.

“I don’t know, personally ... Chinese men ... have some defects sometimes, they’re a little short,” Bastianich says, according to a HuffPost translation. “They’re inadequate in certain situations.”

“This is hard for me,” the woman responds, uncomfortable. Bastianich continues talking about the subject, saying, “But we need to confront this conversation, because that’s the reality.”

The segment, which aired earlier this month, shows the restaurateur inquiring about the pair’s names. Though they already tell him their names, he suggests they have different ones. He then corrects their pronunciation of the “r” sound and later, the pronunciation of Paolo Sarpi, a street in Milan, as well.

Bastianich is also seen asking, “Why haven’t I ever seen a dead Chinese person? What do the Chinese do with the dead?”

New York Magazine’s Grub Street first unearthed the clip last week. The restaurateur has since issued an apology statement to several media outlets, claiming the statements are “not reflective” of his views.

“This was a scripted segment shot in a Milan nail salon that I’ve gone to regularly. I know the women, and we were given the questions to discuss in advance,” said Bastianich in a statement provided to the media. “That said, it’s clear that some of what I said was in poor taste and not reflective of my views. I’m sorry I said those things.”

Social media users, however, weren’t buying his statement. Many labeled his comments as “racist” and others found his apology insincere. Paulina Farro, a contestant on Season 4 of “MasterChef,” tweeted about the incident, saying she was “not surprised by this.” Accomplished chef David Chang even wondered why the clip hadn’t received more attention.

Why is this not a bigger deal? — Dave Chang (@davidchang) January 18, 2018

Not surprised by this. As a finalist on MasterChef, Joe Bastianich called my Filipino dish “bad Chinese food” https://t.co/SVhnzScYU6 — Paulina Farro (@Paulina_Farro) January 19, 2018

It's exhausting to constantly hear the 'the racist thing I said doesn't reflect who I am' excuse when the actual words are literally COMING OUT OF YOUR PIEHOLE. If this isn't you, then why is your mouth moving? https://t.co/MLZYUzaDdw via @grubstreet — Katherine Lee (@katherine_lee1) January 22, 2018

Joe Bastianich talking to the NYT: He "said he is intent on “completely changing the DNA of the company.” - https://t.co/TOISbSOi4N

Also Joe Bastianich: Chinese men have defects https://t.co/XIWGkXw4Xz — Chris Crowley (@chrisecrowley) January 18, 2018

Bastianich is no stranger to controversy. He’s come under fire for his relationship with Mario Batali, who was recently accused of several instances of sexual misconduct that spanned decades. Bastianich claimed to have “never heard” of the allegations before the news broke. The restaurateur did note that he had heard Batali say inappropriate things to staffers and “should’ve done more” to call his partner out, Eater reported.

The outlet also mentioned that several staffers allege Bastianich had “sleazy” behavior and flirted with female staffers, making them feel uncomfortable. The restaurateur has denied these allegations, saying he was trying “to be friendly.”“Game of Thrones” fans have known that the end of the series was near, even if they weren’t quite ready to leave the Seven Kingdoms. But at least one of the stars says it’s the right time to wrap up the show.

Dinklage, who has won two Emmys and a Golden Globe for playing Tyrion Lannister, called the upcoming ending “bittersweet” and a “sad part of our business.” Yet he indicated that it was better for a show to go out while it was still on top.

“Sometimes shows stay on a little too long, the jumping-the-shark thing,” he said.

Dinklage is currently attending the Sundance Film Festival for the premiere of his new movie “I Think We’re Alone Now.” The film, which also stars Elle Fanning, was directed by Reed Morano.

Hear more from Dinklage below:John Jolly, a 55-year-old black cisgender man, was stabbed to death in August in Manhattan. Nathaniel “The Kidd Creole” Glover Jr., a former member of the 1980s hip-hop group Grandmaster Flash and the Furious Five, was charged with second-degree murder. According to the Daily News, Glover may have suspected Jolly was hitting on him.

Juan Javier Cruz, a 22-year-old Latinx cisgender man, was fatally shot In August in Lake Worth, Florida. Cruz was reportedly defending a group of friends against homophobic slurs. Nelson Hernandez Mena has been charged in the killing.

Giovanni Melton, a 14-year-old black cisgender man, was fatally shot in October in Henderson, Nevada. Melton’s father, Wendell Melton, is charged. The elder Melton was allegedly upset about his son’s sexuality and the fact his son had a boyfriend.Ruth Bader Ginsburg finally went there.

During an interview with Nina Totenberg at the Sundance Film Festival, the long-serving Supreme Court justice said she not only enjoyed Kate McKinnon’s impression of her, she also let loose with the “Saturday Night Live” star’s signature line.

“I liked the actress who portrayed me,” Ginsburg said. “And I would like to say ‘Gins-Burn!’ sometimes to my colleagues.”

“I liked the actress who portrayed me (Kate McKinnon) and I would like to say "Gins-burn" sometimes to my colleagues.” - Ruth Bader Ginsburg #SNL pic.twitter.com/10opnFf2wJ — Kate McKinnon News (@UpdatedMcKinnon) January 21, 2018

Ginsburg was attending the film festival to talk about “RBG,” the upcoming CNN documentary about her life.

Ginsburg, who will turn 85 in March, just hired a full slate of law clerks to work through 2020, an indication that she has no intention of retiring anytime soon.

Looks like there are still more “Gins-burns” to come from the Notorious RBG.

AdvertisementAs Morgan Freeman accepted a Lifetime Achievement Award at the 24th annual Screen Actors Guild Awards on Sunday night, the veteran actor called the accolade an “enormous honor.” Then, he took issue with the show’s “gender-specific” statuettes.

“This is beyond honor. This is a place in history,” Freeman said as he received a standing ovation.

A worker applies a patina on "The Actor" statuette on January 9, 2018. Mario Anzuoni/Reuters

The SAG statuette — known as “The Actor” — depicts a nude male figure holding two masks, one of comedy and one of tragedy. (The Lifetime Achievement Award that Freeman received depicts just the masks.)

“I wasn’t going to do this,” Freeman said at the end of his short acceptance speech. “I’m going to tell you what’s wrong with this statue. It works from the back; from the front, it’s gender-specific.”

Then, with a mischievous grin, he added: “Maybe I started something.”For the first time, a U.S. state has legalized marijuana with the stroke of a pen, not a vote at the ballot box.

Vermont Gov. Phil Scott (R) on Monday signed into law House Bill 511, which legalizes the possession of up to one ounce of cannabis and removes penalties for possession of up to two mature marijuana plants and up to four immature plants. The legislation says nothing about creating a state market for recreational weed, however. The new law will go into effect in July.

“Today, with mixed emotions, I have signed H. 511,” said Scott in a statement addressed to the state’s General Assembly. “I personally believe that what adults do behind closed doors and on private property is their choice, so long as it does not negatively impact the health and safety of others, especially children.”

With Scott’s signature, Vermont will join eight other legal-weed states, as well as Washington, D.C., in a growing movement away from federal law, which still classifies marijuana as a Schedule I substance, alongside heroin and LSD. Vermont legalized medical marijuana in 2004, and is currently among nearly 30 states, plus the territories of Guam and Puerto Rico, and the District of Columbia, with such programs in place.

Although other states have legalized cannabis through ballot initiatives that have left the decision up to voters, Vermont does not allow for such a process. Over the past few years, lawmakers in the state have instead been working to address marijuana reform through legislation. A similar legalization bill made it to Scott’s desk in 2017, but the governor vetoed it, citing concerns with weak language on punishment for the sale of marijuana to minors and its establishment of a commission to study how a regulated cannabis market would work in Vermont.

The final version of H. 511 clarified civil penalties for the sale of marijuana to individuals under 21 years old and removed the commission entirely. Scott has instead created his own marijuana task force, which is examining the state’s involvement in recreational cannabis sales and focusing on developing comprehensive education, prevention and highway safety strategies.

“There must be comprehensive and convincing plans completed in these areas before I will begin to consider the wisdom of implementing a commercial ‘tax-and-regulate’ system for an adult marijuana market,” Scott said on Monday. “It is important for the General Assembly to know that – until we have a workable plan to address each of these concerns – I will veto any additional effort along these lines, which manages to reach my desk.”

Some state officials say the composition of that commission looks to be biased against marijuana, which means recreational weed faces an uncertain future in Vermont.

“There is frustration that the governor’s panels appear to be predetermined in opposition [to a tax-and-regulate model for marijuana sales] versus the sentiment of the House and Senate, which was to move forward,” said Vermont Lt. Gov. David Zuckerman, a Progressive/Democrat.

The governor’s commission is expected to deliver a final report to lawmakers by the end of the year, which would guide them on future legislation to establish a market for cannabis. Under Vermont’s two-step process of legalization, it could be a while before the state sees its first legal marijuana sale, said Matt Simon, the New England political director for the Marijuana Policy Project, a non-profit organization that advocates for cannabis reform around the country.

“The tone of the commission all along has been, ‘Let’s figure out how to do this, regardless of whether we think it should happen or not,’” he said. “They’re gonna come up with specific policy recommendations. Now whether the legislature decides to take those recommendations or not is a whole different story.”

It’s not yet clear if there would be enough support in the state legislature to pass a tax-and-regulate bill without Scott’s support. Vermont requires a two-thirds vote in both chambers to override a gubernatorial veto. With statewide elections upcoming in November, these deliberations seem likely to become a key campaign issue in the coming months, though it’s not yet clear if lawmakers will be willing to put themselves on the record as strong supporters of legal marijuana sales in Vermont.

“Some Republicans feel vulnerable if they support this kind of legislation, even though the support for this is majority across all parties,” said Zuckerman. “The cultural sentiment is still in some of those districts, and they don’t feel the support is there yet.”

Recent surveys have shown strong support for relaxing marijuana laws in Vermont and nationwide. A January HuffPost/YouGov poll showed that 55 percent of Americans favor legalizing marijuana both nationally and in their own states. National support for legalization at the federal level hit a record high 64 percent in a Gallup survey from October 2017, including among a majority of Republicans.

Recreational marijuana has already become a substantial revenue source in the states that have legalized it. Legal marijuana sales in the U.S. hit $6 billion in 2016, with tax revenue in Colorado and Washington, the states that have had legal cannabis markets for the longest, now bringing in hundreds of millions of dollars a year, according to an analysis by the Marijuana Policy Project. Another recent study projected that over a nine-year period, legal marijuana nationwide could provide 1 million new jobs and generate more than $132 billion in federal tax revenue, with nearly $52 billion in sales tax alone.

Without a system to tax and regulate cannabis sales in Vermont, all commerce involving marijuana would remain underground.

“Marijuana is widely available, widely used throughout Vermont. Vermonters spend an awful lot of money on marijuana and it all goes to the illicit market,” said Simon. “Why wouldn’t we have a regulated system so that money would instead go to taxed and regulated businesses and the state would have some revenue to deal with any costs or issues that do arise?”

Despite the clear economic benefits of legal marijuana, the state-federal divide on cannabis laws has gotten deeper over the past month. Lawmakers in the Vermont House of Representatives passed H. 511 just a day after U.S. Attorney General Jeff Sessions released new Justice Department guidance giving federal prosecutors the go-ahead to crack down on state-legal marijuana operations. Although the announcement led to some anxiety in the fledgling marijuana industry, its practical effect remains to be seen.

That Justice Department action alone shows that the political stigma around marijuana reform still hasn’t faded completely, said Zuckerman. But he hopes the Vermont legislature’s successful move toward legalization could serve as an invitation for lawmakers in other states to pursue reform.

“This is a significant signal to other legislative bodies around the country that legislatures can act in the interest of the general population without some of the fear that there will be electoral retribution,” he said. “In the world of making laws, that is often one of the things that lawmakers look at, that potential consequence.”

For now, lawmakers are discussing how best to incorporate Vermont’s progressive principles into any future system of state marijuana sales, Zuckerman said.

“The very broad sentiment from right to left is that nobody wants Big Cannabis to own Vermont, and whatever we do end up drafting for a tax-and-regulate bill will be oriented toward smaller production facilities and a more broad distribution of the economic benefit throughout the state, as opposed to large out of state corporate version,” he said.Megyn Kelly attacked Jane Fonda during her show on Monday, spending several minutes blasting the actress for her anti-Vietnam War activism and for refusing to talk to Kelly months ago about plastic surgery.

“Now, a word on Jane Fonda, who appears to be fixated on an exchange I had with her months ago on this show,” Kelly began.

The TV host apparently was sent into full-feud mode by Fonda’s appearance last week on the “Today” show with “Grace and Frankie” co-star Lily Tomlin. When “Today” co-host Hoda Kotb asked how long Tomlin and Fonda have known each other, and Tomlin joked that she’s known Fonda since “before your first face-lift,” Fonda immediately quipped, “Who are you? Megyn Kelly?” A few days later, Fonda told Variety that Kelly is “not that good an interviewer” and she’ll only appear on Kelly’s show again if the host “learns her stuff.”

Those digs intensified a rift that opened in September 2017, when Fonda, during an appearance on Kelly’s show, “Megyn Kelly Today,” was aghast that Kelly raised the topic of plastic surgery. “We really want to talk about that right now?” Fonda answered, shifting the conversation to her latest movie.

“It’s time to address [Fonda’s] ‘poor me’ routine,” Kelly told viewers on Monday.

“For years she has spoke about the joy of giving a cultural face to older women,” Kelly said.

“The truth is, most older women look nothing like Fonda, who is now 80. And if Fonda really wants to have an honest discussion about older women’s cultural face, then her plastic surgery is tough to ignore.”

Kelly then aired clips of Fonda talking about her plastic surgery on other talk shows, and said she’s done so “pretty much everywhere.”

“Apparently, when she came here, however, again to promote her film about aging, I was supposed to discern that this subject was suddenly off limits,” Kelly said.

“I gave her the chance to empower other women, young and old, on a subject she purports to know well and she rejected it. And that’s OK. But I have no regrets about that question.”

The NBC host took it even further. She said she’s not “in the market for a lesson from Jane Fonda on what is and is not appropriate” and dug deep into Fonda’s past to talk about “a woman whose name is synonymous with outrage.”

“Look at her treatment of our military during the Vietnam War. Many of our veterans still call her ‘Hanoi Jane,’ thanks to her radio broadcast which attempted to shame American troops,” Kelly said, showing old photographs and footage of Fonda.

“She posed on an anti-aircraft gun used to shoot down our American pilots. She called our POWs hypocrites and liars and referred to their torture as ’understandable.’ Even she had to apologize years later for that gun picture. But not for the rest of it.

“By the way, she still says she is not proud of America. So, the moral indignation is a little much. She put her plastic surgery out there. She said she wanted to discuss the plight of older women in America. And, honestly, she has no business lecturing anyone on what qualifies as offensive.”

STF via Getty Images

Many people remarked on Kelly’s attack on social media, with some saying the criticism was “unbecoming of a news anchor” and a “big mistake.”

A former Kelly colleague at Fox News told freelance reporter Yashar Ali that the remark shows “this is who she is. Also, if Jane Fonda is so horrible and offensive and an America hater why did Megyn have her on?”Chadwick Boseman addresses graduates at Howard University on Saturday. ERIC THAYER / Reuters

Chadwick Boseman delivered a powerful commencement speech at Howard University on Saturday, applauding students for their victory in on-campus protests and describing his early struggles as a black actor.

“Everything that you fought for was not for yourself, it was for those who came after you,” the “Black Panther” star and Howard alum said, referring to a nine-day student takeover of the administration building last month. He also applauded the administration’s willingness to make changes.

Watch the whole speech below:

The protests were sparked in part by an embezzlement scandal — which led to six employees being fired — involving the misuse of funds meant for low-income students. In the end, the university agreed to a series of demands, including a re-examination of on-campus housing policies, the board agreeing to consider freezing undergrad tuition rates, and the formation of a task force to address issues of sexual assault and harassment.

“Many of you will leave Howard and enter systems and institutions that have a history of discrimination and marginalization,” Boseman said in his speech. “The fact that you have struggled with this university that you loved is a sign that you can use your education to improve the world that you are entering.”

Boseman at Howard University on Saturday. ERIC THAYER / Reuters

Boseman also spoke about feeling “conflicted” early in his acting career when a soap opera cast him as a gang member in a role he said was “wrapped up in assumptions about us as black folk.” Although he got compliments on his performance, he said, executives fired him after he questioned the way the character was written.

Boseman did not specify what soap opera he was talking about. However, his first professional credited TV role, according to IMDB, was on “All My Children,” in which he briefly played young gang member Reggie Porter Montgomery. The role was later taken over by Michael B. Jordan ― yes, the same one who later starred alongside Boseman in “Black Panther.” Jordan referred to the part in a 2015 GQ interview as a “fucking stereotypical black role.”

“What do you do when the principles that were instilled at you at Howard close the door?” Boseman asked in his address Saturday. “Sometimes you need to get knocked down before you realize what you’re really fighting against.”

Boseman makes the "Wakanda Forever" sign during Howard University's commencement ceremony. ERIC THAYER / Reuters

He ended the speech by urging grads to find their own purpose in the world, which he said was more important than simply a job or career.“Yay, Sony, for putting a Latino in the lead, because barely people do that,” Rodriguez said, turning her attention to the camera to make her point. “I mean, we do make [up] 55 million plus in the country — no big deal — you should throw us in a movie or two, it would make sense. We do buy 1 in every 4 tickets every single weekend and make sure that your movies do well. So it would do you a service. And not only service, it would be — I don’t know — integrity. So thank you, Paramount and Sony, because you two are driving the game, you’re doing it. You’re opening the doors.”In the year since President Donald Trump took office, "Fuck Trump!" graffiti has become ubiquitous around Washington, thanks to one man. Travis Waldron/HuffPost

WASHINGTON ― In a coffee shop here, a man known as Dirty Knucklez was explaining the process of capturing, for many, the national mood.

“‘Dump Trump,’ that doesn’t really satisfy me,” he said, questioning whether the slogan that appears on yard signs and stickers really conveys what people are feeling. “There’s genuine discontent, and I think it’s emphatically felt when I say, ‘Fuck Trump.’

“Like, fuck him,” Dirty Knucklez continued. “Fuck everything he represents. I can’t stand him. Our government right now, it’s been fucked up. Our system’s been broke. And he’s just representative of all that.”

And so every day, from sunup ’til sundown, and sometimes for a few hours after, Dirty Knucklez, a homeless rapper, walks the streets of D.C. and writes a simple message of protest onto nearly every wall and street sign he passes.

His “Fuck Trump!,” written with a fat, felt-tipped Sharpie, is only lightly stylized. A broken-legged “k,” a big-shouldered “T,” a thermometer exclamation point.

But you know his handiwork when you see it, and you see it everywhere in the city. “Fuck Trump!” say the plywood construction sheets along the U Street corridor, one of D.C.’s main entertainment districts. “Fuck Trump!” say the electrical boxes at intersections from the White House to New York Avenue Northeast. “Fuck Trump!” say the sidewalk curbs and parking meters and street signs. If you’ve walked around the nation’s capital for even five minutes, to work, to the bar, to a friend’s house, to a Metro subway station, you’ve seen those two words, in his handwriting, somewhere.

You can have your “No matter who you are or where you’re from, we’re glad you’re our neighbor” lawn sign. “Fuck Trump!” is “D.C.’s Street Art Anthem,” as the Washington City Paper put it.

Some of Dirty Knucklez' tags get painted over -- so he returns and produces even more elaborate versions in their place. Many, like this one, are on temporary structures along D.C.'s U Street corridor. Travis Waldron/HuffPost

Dirty Knucklez ― he uses the moniker exclusively ― is a California native who came to the nation’s capital two years ago and has spent most of that time homeless. Out west, he was a rapper; here, he planned to continue to chase his hip-hop dreams.

Then Trump won the election, and Dirty Knucklez, who had already scrawled his name across the city in an effort to boost his brand, felt moved to do something more. So he took to the streets with a Sharpie and began writing “Fuck Trump!” whenever and wherever he felt like it.

He knows the vulgarity may turn people off. Some of his fellow Muslims ― he converted years ago ― have urged him to stop for just that reason. But how else to put it, particularly in a city where 96 percent of residents voted for someone other than Trump?

“It’s not so much a protest as a visual demonstration of my discontent with the way our country’s going right now. We’re supposed to be America,” he said over coffee. “He’s not respectable, he’s not admirable, he’s not any of the qualities we would ideally look for in a president. He’s not representative of our country.”

“We need somebody who understands people, who understands the majority of the people. The majority of the people aren’t rich. The majority of the people are out here struggling, bro.”

I asked Dirty Knucklez how long his famous scrawl took to complete. He pulled his Sharpie from his pocket and walked outside, to an electrical box on the street corner that he’d spotted on his way in. In less than 10 seconds, he was done.

A policeman stood just across the street. It didn’t matter. A minute later, Dirty Knucklez bent down and scribbled the same message onto a parking meter.

By his reckoning, he does this 200 to 300 times a day, whenever the inspiration hits him. He started right after the election, with an electrical box in the city’s northeast quadrant.

But the U Street corridor is his most common canvas: Dirty Knucklez scratched “Fuck Trump!” onto the walls of a single, block-long plywood construction walkway more than 120 times. The construction firm painted over many, so Dirty Knucklez returned and tagged the walkway again, this time in even more elaborate fashion, with spray paint instead of his Sharpie.

One day, he hopes to hit the Trump International Hotel, located just a few blocks from the White House. His favorite tag for the moment, however, is the one on the curb outside Ben’s Chili Bowl, a landmark restaurant on the stretch of U Street once known as D.C.’s Black Broadway.

Dirty Knucklez loves this particular tag because of its locale. President Barack Obama once visited Ben’s, one of D.C.’s oldest black-owned establishments. Obama wasn’t perfect, Dirty Knucklez said, but at least he “had been around the block.”

“We need somebody who understands people, who understands the majority of the people,” he said, still bundled in layered coats to protect from the bitter winter cold, his face hidden behind a long beard. “The majority of the people aren’t rich. The majority of people don’t have money.”

And then, Dirty Knucklez started to cry.

“The majority of the people,” he said, “are out here struggling, bro.”

The tag on the curb outside Ben's Chili Bowl on Washington's U St. is Dirty Knucklez favorite of the multitude he's plastered across the city. Travis Waldron/HuffPost

Being homeless, he said, has deepened his opposition to the president. Same goes for his friends. One of his closest is a Muslim woman who left her family behind in the Middle East when she immigrated to the United States nearly a decade ago. Now she fears a return visit to see them would mean never re-entering this country.

In some ways, Dirty Knucklez has become a local celebrity. His Instagram notifications are full of people who have posed in front of a “Fuck Trump!” in one place or another and who tagged him in their photos. Tourists have asked for pictures with him as he holds a “Fuck Trump!” sign in front of the White House. Local graffiti artists have hailed his work, he said, and local rappers have supposedly included him and his signs in videos filmed in D.C.’s streets.

The nation’s capital has a long and rich history of street art and graffiti, protest-minded and otherwise. Dirty Knucklez took his inspiration from the late Cool “Disco” Dan, a street artist who moved to D.C. and began tagging his name on every surface he could find in the 1980s and 1990s. Disco Dan became a D.C. icon. His art, former Washington Post metro columnist Clinton Yates wrote, was “a personal testament to the struggles of the city and the people who lived here, and his staggering visibility, even if illegal, was a steadying hand for many when we had few others.”

“It wasn’t until the buildings that he tagged went away,” Yates, who now works for ESPN, said of Disco Dan at the artist’s funeral last year, “that people realized that they actually cared about those monikers that some people just considered vandalism.”

In recent years, D.C.’s street art has taken on a more urbane nature, as former taggers have transitioned to painting sprawling, intricate ― and legally sanctioned ― murals alongside the city’s buildings, particularly in neighborhoods that have gentrified.

Dirty Knucklez' graffiti inside a temporary protective walkway along the U Street corridor. Travis Waldron/HuffPost

Dirty Knucklez insisted that his art isn’t just a protest against a president he sees as a clear threat to the very idea of America. It’s also a more subtle gesture against the sanitization of a city that, as it’s grown whiter and wealthier, has sought to maintain and celebrate its graffiti culture ― without the actual graffiti. That’s the subject of another message Dirty Knucklez is fond of tagging: “Preserve urban culture,” he writes. “The suburbanization of America is a plot to wipe out our strongest roots of independence.”

“It helps me,” Dirty Knucklez said, wiping tears from his eyes. “It keeps me looking forward to the future. Maybe people will see my tags and get the freaking picture.”

His most enjoyable moments are when it’s clear people do.

As we walked into a sandwich shop and ordered lunch, Dirty Knucklez jokingly asked for “the full Fuck Trump.” The woman taking his order smirked. She didn’t know who he was. At least, I don’t think she did.

“Fuck him,” she said. “Fuck him. Fuck him. Fuck him. He’s got these rich people getting tax money back, and poor people getting poorer.”

Some nights, when U Street is busiest, Dirty Knucklez sits silently outside Ben’s Chili Bowl and watches as visitors bend down to take pictures of his favorite piece of work. Then he walks over to one of the temporary construction walkways where he’s scribbled “Fuck Trump!” a hundred times and listens. “Fuck Trump!” people scream, the words echoing off the plywood walls around them.WASHINGTON (Reuters) - Moderate Republican and Democratic senators held talks on Sunday to break a political impasse that has kept the U.S. government shut down for two days, but it was unclear if a deal could be struck to reopen federal agencies by the start of the work week.

Some of the roughly two dozen senators involved in the discussions said they were making progress, but offered few details of a possible compromise. The ultimate decision was up to Senate Republican Leader Mitch McConnell and his Democratic counterpart, Senator Chuck Schumer, they said.

“We are moving in the right direction,” Republican Senator Johnny Isakson said of the effort.

“I wouldn’t rule out anything now, positive or negative. But I think it’s going to be positive,” Isakson said.

An emerging deal appeared to involve reopening the government in return for a promise by majority Republicans to deal with Democrats’ immigration concerns in coming weeks.

“We’re going to open the government and solve immigration at the same time,” said Republican Senator Lindsey Graham.

Funding for federal agencies ran out at midnight on Friday, and was not renewed amid a dispute between U.S. President Donald Trump and Democrats over immigration.

Refusing to support another short-term government funding extension last week, Democrats demanded that Trump live up to an earlier agreement to protect “Dreamers,” illegal immigrants brought to the United States as children, from deportation.

“We need to have a substantive answer, and the only person who can lead us to that is President Trump. This is his shutdown,” Dick Durbin, the second ranking Democrat in the Senate, said on the CBS “Face the Nation” program.

Trump and other Republicans were just as adamant on Sunday, saying they would not negotiate immigration or other issues as long as all but essential government services remain shuttered.

“We will not negotiate on the status of unlawful immigrants while Senator Schumer and the Democrats hold the government for millions of Americans and our troops hostage,” White House press secretary Sarah Sanders said.

The shutdown is the first since a 16-day closure in October 2013. Its effects will likely be more visible on Monday, when financial markets and federal offices open.

The Senate will vote at 1 a.m. EST (0600 GMT) on Monday on whether to advance a measure to fund the government through Feb. 8, McConnell said on Saturday. But several senators said on Sunday the vote could be accelerated.

Trump, who spoke by phone to Republican lawmakers and agency heads on Sunday, canceled a weekend trip to his Mar-a-Lago estate in Florida that included a major fundraiser on the anniversary of his first year as president.

The White House said his planned trip to the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland, next week was in flux because of the standoff.

Joshua Roberts / Reuters

With elections set for November for a third of U.S. Senate seats and the entire House of Representatives, both sides are maneuvering to blame the other for the shutdown.

Trump said earlier on Sunday that if the stalemate continued, Republicans should change Senate rules so a measure could be passed to fund the government.

Current Senate rules require a super-majority of three-fifths of the chamber, usually 60 out of 100, for legislation to clear procedural hurdles and pass.

“If stalemate continues, Republicans should go to 51 percent (Nuclear Option) and vote on real, long term budget,” Trump said on Twitter.

But McConnell rejected the idea.

Republicans hold a slim 51-49 majority in the Senate.

‘HOSTAGES RIPE FOR THE TAKING’

In a Senate floor speech on Sunday, McConnell accused Senate Democratic leader Chuck Schumer of imperiling children’s health care, military training, veterans’ care and other programs.

“To most Americans, those sound like fundamental responsibilities” of government, McConnell said. “To the Democratic leader, apparently they sound like hostages ripe for the taking.”Rocket Lab's Electron rocket is named "Still Testing." Rocket Lab

New Zealand successfully launched a rocket into orbit on Sunday, becoming the 11th country to achieve the feat.

Rocket Lab, a California-based aerospace manufacturer, fired the unmanned Electron rocket from Māhia Peninsula on Sunday. The launch vehicle was carrying three small commercial satellites, including one for weather monitoring and another for earth imaging, according to the Associated Press.

Celebrating the launch, Rocket Lab — which was founded by Peter Beck, a New Zealander, in 2006 — called the achievement the “beginning of a new era in commercial access to space.”

“It’s absolutely beautiful,” Beck told SpaceNews after the launch.“It puts us into a really good position to really deliver on what we said many years ago, that we’re here to open up space for business.”

LIFT OFF! — Rocket Lab (@RocketLab) January 21, 2018

Electron is orbital. Successful payload deployment. #StillTesting — Rocket Lab (@RocketLab) January 21, 2018

Today marks the beginning of a new era in commercial access to space. Thank you to @planetlabs and @SpireGlobal for joining us on this ride. #Electron #StillTesting #PassedTheTest pic.twitter.com/RUMx31MzN8 — Rocket Lab (@RocketLab) January 21, 2018

This is just the second test flight for Rocket Lab’s Electron rocket. During its first test mission last May, the company managed to get the launch vehicle to space, but it failed to reach orbit due to a telemetry glitch.

The rocket’s next launch is expected to take place in “early 2018,” the company said in a Sunday press release, adding that “at full production, Rocket Lab expects to launch more than 50 times a year, and is regulated to launch up to 120 times a year, more than any other commercial or government launch provider in history.”

On its website, Rocket Lab describes its mission as the removal of “barriers to commercial space by providing frequent launch opportunities to low Earth orbit.”

Richard Easther, a professor of physics at the University of Auckland, told Stuff.co.nz that Sunday was a “red-letter day for New Zealand,” thanks to the Electron’s orbital success.Rep. Patrick Meehan (R-Pa.) leaves a meeting on June 21, 2017. Tom Williams via Getty Images

A Republican tasked with fighting against sexual harassment in Congress secretly settled a misconduct complaint filed against him by a former aide, The New York Times first reported Saturday.

According to the report, Rep. Patrick Meehan (R-Pa.), a member of the House Ethics Committee and married father of three, expressed interest in the personal life of a female aide who was decades younger than him. Meehan eventually attempted to pursue a romantic relationship with the aide and became hostile when she rejected his advances, the Times said.

The advances reportedly made the aide, who remains anonymous, so uncomfortable that she filed a complaint against Meehan, began working from home and, eventually, quit.

Meehan was booted from the House Ethics Committee on Saturday, hours after the Times story was published. A spokeswoman for House Speaker Paul Ryan (R-Wis.) announced Meehan’s ouster in a statement to HuffPost.

In its story, the Times spoke with 10 people who either worked in Meehan’s office or were friends with the aide at the time the alleged harassment took place.

After the aide left her post in Meehan’s office, Meehan reportedly paid her an undisclosed amount from his congressional office fund, which includes taxpayer money, as part of a confidential agreement.

Meehan denies the former aide’s allegations, his spokesman John Elizandro told HuffPost in an email, adding that he “has always treated his colleagues, male and female, with the utmost respect and professionalism.”

Elizandro said the former employee was represented by counsel and “made certain assertions of inappropriate behavior which were investigated.”

He also insisted that Meehan “would only act with advice of House Counsel and consistent with House Ethics Committee guidance,” and that he had handled the process “ethically and appropriately.”

Meehan requested that the congressional lawyers involved in the case release both parties from the confidentiality agreement “to ensure a full and open airing of all the facts,” Elizandro said.

According to the former colleagues of the employee, Meehan expressed so much interest in her while she worked in his office that others viewed it as unprofessional. He then appeared to become jealous when she entered a serious relationship last year, the Times reported.

Meehan reportedly told the woman of his romantic feelings in person and later in a handwritten letter. The aide filed a complaint alleging sexual harassment after she said Meehan became hostile toward her.

The former aide told the Times that those tasked with handling the complaint, including two representatives for Meehan and two lawyers for the Office of House Employment Counsel, suggested she had misinterpreted Meehan’s behavior, leaving her feeling demoralized.

Meehan and his former aide eventually reached a settlement and nondisclosure agreement after mandatory counseling and mediation sessions, according to the Times.

Over the past few months, the House Ethics Committee has been investigating several members of congress who are facing sexual harassment allegations or who have reached settlements with their accusers. In December, the committee opened investigations into sexual harassment claims made against Reps. Blake Farenthold (R-Texas), Trent Franks (R-Ariz.) and Ruben Kihuen (D-Nev.).

In light of those investigations, both Farenthold (who reportedly used $84,000 in taxpayer money to settle his claim) and Kihuen announced they would not be running for re-election; Franks resigned from Congress.

Lawmakers in the House have issued more than $100,000 in taxpayer-funded settlements for sexual harassment claims made between 2008 to 2012, HuffPost reported in December.

House and Senate legislators have since introduced proposals to ban the use of taxpayer-funded settlements.

After speaking with Meehan on Saturday, Ryan said Meehan was submitting himself to the Ethics Committee for review, Ryan spokeswoman AshLee Strong said in a statement to HuffPost.

Ryan also urged Meehan to repay the funds he used in his settlement.The Philadelphia Eagles host the Minnesota Vikings for football’s NFC championship game Sunday night, and the city of brotherly love is making sure the hometown fans stay safe and grounded.

City workers, being humorously referred to as the “Crisco Cops,” began greasing light poles Sunday morning to keep fans from scaling them tonight after the game.

Good morning from Philly where crews from the city are greasing the light poles with Crisco to prevent #Eagles fans from climbing after the #NFCChampionshipGame tonight. #Vikings pregame coverage starts at 3 on FOX9. They call themselves the #CriscoCops pic.twitter.com/w1ZkYWZhYG — FOX 9 Sports (@Fox9Sports) January 21, 2018

Whether Eagles fans will feel the need to celebrate a win or let out the frustration of a loss remains to be seen, but Philadelphia would prefer that they not do it on the city’s street lamps.

The NFC title game has already been marred by violence as riot police were called to the Eagles’ stadium parking lot at Lincoln Financial Field after a massive fight broke out Sunday afternoon.

Energy is running high, as Minnesota sports reporter Ryan Shaver discovered after following some Vikings fans around the Philly parking lot.

What’s it like to be a #Vikings fan inside the #Eagles tailgate? *Sound up* I followed a few fans in purple. @kare11 pic.twitter.com/GkK9viGyRR — Ryan Shaver (@RShaverSports) January 21, 2018

The Philadelphia Eagles have been without an NFC title since 2004, the Minnesota Vikings since 1976. One of those droughts will end Sunday night when they play in Philly at 6:40 EST.

AdvertisementWhite House budget director Mick Mulvaney said Sunday the current government shutdown was different than the one that occurred in 2013 because then-President Barack Obama wanted a closure to hurt Republicans.

“I will look you in the eye and tell you President Obama wanted that shutdown. Wanted to weaponize it. He wanted to use it politically to hurt Republicans because he thought Republicans would get blamed politically,” Mulvaney told Chris Wallace on “Fox News Sunday.” “I don’t think anybody could say that [President Donald Trump] wants the [current] shutdown. You could not say the same thing about President Obama.”

Mulvaney’s comment ignored that the 2013 shutdown was caused by Republicans who refused to support funding for the Affordable Care Act. That effort was led by the far-right House Freedom Caucus, of which Mulvaney ― then a South Carolina congressman ― was a key member. In 2013, Republicans controlled the House of Representatives, while Democrats controlled the Senate and White House. Republicans now control both chambers of Congress and the White House.

Trump also has repeatedly expressed explicit support for a government shutdown. In 2013, he said Republicans shouldn’t be afraid to shut down the government over Obamacare. And as president, The Washington Post reported that Trump told confidants a shutdown could be good for him politically.

He has also repeatedly expressed frustration over needing 60 votes to pass legislation in the Senate, and tweeted in May that the U.S. might need a good “shutdown” to fix the way that chamber works. His son, Eric Trump, on Saturday said the shutdown is a “good thing for us.”WASHINGTON (Reuters) - President Donald Trump and Republican lawmakers were locked in a standoff with Democrats on Saturday over the U.S. government shutdown, with Republicans saying they would not negotiate on immigration until the government is reopened.

Funding for federal agencies ran out at midnight with no agreement in Congress, meaning the second year of Trump’s presidency began without a fully functioning government.

Democrats stuck to demands that any short-term spending legislation must include protections for young undocumented immigrants known as “Dreamers.” Republicans in turn said they would not negotiate on immigration until Democrats gave them the votes needed to reopen the government.

U.S. government workers were told to stay home or, in some cases, work without pay until new funding is approved in the first federal government shutdown since a 16-day funding lapse in October 2013.

The Republican-controlled Senate and House of Representatives held rare weekend sessions on Saturday, facing a political crisis that could affect November congressional elections. By about 7 p.m. both chambers resigned themselves to failure and agreed to resume work on Sunday.

Both Republicans and Democrats had dug in during the day, each side blaming the other.

Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell said the Senate would vote at 0100 EST (0600 GMT) Monday on a bill to fund the government through Feb. 8, unless Democrats agree to hold it sooner.

“We’ll be right back at this tomorrow and for as long as it takes” for Democrats to vote for legislation that would reopen the government, McConnell said.

Outside the U.S. Capitol, parks, open-air monuments and Smithsonian museums were open as a second annual women’s rights march took place on the National Mall. But visitors were turned away from the Liberty Bell in Philadelphia and the Statue of Liberty and Ellis Island in New York Harbor.

A scheduled trip by Trump and some Cabinet members to the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland, was being assessed on a day-to-day basis, White House budget director Mick Mulvaney said.

Republicans said they would refuse to negotiate on immigration until Democrats provide the votes to re-open the government. Democrats insisted they have been willing to compromise but Republicans backed out of deals.

“The president will not negotiate on immigration reform until Democrats stop playing games and reopen the government,” said White House spokeswoman Sarah Sanders.

Marc Short, the White House’s legislative affairs director, said Trump had been in contact with Republican leaders in Congress during the day, but had not reached out to Democrats.

Short said the president likely would be most effective making the case for ending the shutdowndirectly to the American people, and he did not rule out Trump addressing the nation in the coming days.

The tough message from the White House and Republicans in Congress led to speculation that Washington could be in for a prolonged political battle.

At the U.S. Capitol, Senate Democratic Leader Chuck Schumer delivered a stinging portrayal of Trump as an unreliable negotiating partner, saying the two sides came close to an agreement several times only to have Trump back out at the urging of anti-immigration conservatives.

“Negotiating with President Trump is like negotiating with Jell-O,” said Schumer, who met Trump at the White House on Friday for a 90-minute meeting that had briefly raised hopes. “It’s impossible to negotiate with a constantly moving target.”

‘INCHES AWAY’

The federal government had been running on three consecutive temporary funding bills since the new fiscal year began in October.

Democrats had sought to secure permanent legal protections for 700,000 young undocumented immigrants as a condition for new government funding after their attempts to push through the protections in stand-alone bills were rebuffed. Trump ordered the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrival program to expire in March, requiring Congress to act.

Earlier, McConnell said a solution to the crisis was “just inches away” but he blamed Democrats for blocking legislation to pass the fourth stopgap funding measure.

One idea floated by Republicans was to renew government funding through Feb. 8 to end theshutdown, while working to resolve other issues, including immigration, military and non-military spending, disaster relief and some healthcare matters.

U.S. Representative Gerry Connolly, a Democrat whose northern Virginia district has one of the highest concentrations of federal government employees, said there was no sign that serious bipartisan negotiations were taking place and he would be surprised if Congress reached a resolution before Monday.

“You can hear the crickets chirping in the hallway,” Connolly said on Saturday evening. He said if there were negotiations, “it would have to be really deep back channels.”

He attributed the lack of talks to “raw feelings” and that Trump had walked away on Friday from a deal on immigration.

A video ad released on Saturday by Trump’s presidential campaign that says Democrats will be “complicit” in murders by illegal immigrants could inflame tensions.

Trump had portrayed himself as the ultimate dealmaker, but his inability to cut a deal despite having a Republican majority in both houses of Congress marked arguably the most debilitating setback for his administration.

“This is the One Year Anniversary of my Presidency and the Democrats wanted to give me a nice present,” he said on Twitter.

The immediate impact of the government shutdown was eased somewhat by it beginning on a weekend.

The Defense Department said combat operations in Afghanistan and other military activities would continue, while federal law enforcement officers also would remain on duty.

Talks on the North American Free Trade Agreement will continue, as will major cybersecurity functions, and most of the Environmental Protection Agency will remain open, budget director Mulvaney said.

But without a quick deal, hundreds of thousands of government employees will be put on temporary unpaid leave.

“It’s ironic that they get paid - meaning Congress - and the rest of the government doesn’t,” said Dawn Gaither, 57, a Washington teacher. “That’s what we need to do, kick these guys in the tail and get them to work.”Roberth Castillo and Mario Arias speak after a news conference to announce the suspension of their wedding scheduled for Saturday, Jan. 20. Juan Carlos Ulate / Reuters

SAN JOSE (Reuters) - Costa Rica’s first same-sex wedding has been blocked by notaries who are refusing to recognize it until laws forbidding gay marriage are changed, setting them at odds with the president.

The marriage between two men was set for this Saturday after a top Latin American human rights court earlier this month ruled that countries in the region should legalize same-sex unions, pushing back against opposition from the Roman Catholic church.

The Inter-American Court, based in Costa Rica’s capital San Jose, recommended that those rights be upheld via temporary decrees while governments pursue permanent laws.

Costa Rican President Luis Guillermo Solis then directed government agencies to apply the ruling until lawmakers or the constitutional court formally adopt new laws.

However, the notary council of the Central American country said on Friday it would only authorize such unions if the local legislature or the court annul laws outlawing gay marriage.

"There’s nothing stopping the road to equality, but the truth is we don’t know how long it will take to get there," Castillo and Arias' attorney said. Juan Carlos Ulate / Reuters

“The rules that regulate marriage in Costa Rica ... remain in force,” the council said, telling notaries to abide by them.

The court’s decision has triggered debate ahead of Costa Rica’s presidential election on Feb. 4, with some candidates vowing to fight it.

Solis is barred by law from seeking a second consecutive term.

Several Latin American countries, including predominantly Roman Catholic Costa Rica, still do not allow same-sex marriage.

However, that is changing, and in recent years same-sex couples have been allowed to marry in Argentina, Brazil, Colombia, Uruguay and some parts of Mexico.

“There’s nothing stopping the road to equality, but the truth is we don’t know how long it will take to get there,” said Larissa Arroyo, an attorney representing the couple in Costa Rica who planned to marry on Saturday.A top White House aide tried to distance the administration from an incendiary new online ad that says Democrats are culpable for murder if they refuse to support the administration’s immigration proposals ― even though the ad came from President Donald Trump’s re-election campaign.

The campaign released the ad as the government shutdown began on Saturday. Touting Trump’s immigration policies ― including construction of a wall along the U.S.-Mexico border ― the video says, “Democrats who stand in our way will be complicit in every murder committed by illegal immigrants.”

Funding for the wall and the status of more than 700,000 undocumented people brought to the U.S. as children have been key sticking points in negotiations that stalled and led to the shutdown.

Marc Short, the White House’s legislative affairs director, tried to distance the White House from the ad, telling Chuck Todd on NBC’s “Meet The Press” that it was produced by an “outside group” and not anyone in the White House ― even though that group is the president’s own campaign.

But when Todd pressed him on whether the ad was helpful in terms of negotiating a funding deal with Democrats, Short defended it.

“I think it’s helpful to continue to raise awareness of the crisis we have,” Short said.

ON #MTP: "You know that ad was created by an outside group ... it's not done from people working inside the White House," @Marcshort45 says on an ad attacking Democrats which was paid for by Donald J. Trump for President. pic.twitter.com/uHnGqvgGHA — Meet the Press (@MeetThePress) January 21, 2018

Asked whether he found the tone helpful, Short said “the data in the ad shows that there are people coming across our border that pose threats to our country, yes.”

The ad features Senate Minority Leader Charles Schumer (D-N.Y.), House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi (D-Calif.) and Senate Minority Whip Dick Durbin and says “Democrats who stand in our way will be complicit in every murder committed by illegal immigrants.

Several studies have disputed the suggestion undocumented immigrants bring more crime into the country.

Republican lawmakers lightly criticized the ad on Sunday. House Speaker Paul Ryan (R-Wis.) weighed in on the ad on CBS’s “Face The Nation,” saying, “I don’t know if [it’s] necessarily productive.”

Sen. Lindsey Graham (R-S.C.) told HuffPost that the ad was “over the top,” while Sen. Lisa Murkowski (R-Alaska) said it “wasn’t helpful.”

Graham calls ad endorsed by Trump that says Democrats are culpable for murder if they refuse to support his immigration proposals “over the top” — Igor Bobic (@igorbobic) January 21, 2018

Murkowski calls ad endorsed by Trump that says Democrats are culpable for murder if they refuse to support his immigration proposals “not helpful” — Igor Bobic (@igorbobic) January 21, 2018

White House press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders on Monday further defended the ad as “absolutely appropriate” and dismissed suggestions that it would make negotiations more difficult by blaming Democrats.

“We cannot protect this country if we don’t secure our border. That’s the point the president is trying to make,” she said on ABC’s “Good Morning America.”Last winter, Erik sent a message to 20 of his least favorite porn stars, YouTube celebrities and “Insta-gays.”

“So are you like a real person or just another shallow empty fuckboy who works in an industry that props up unrealistic gay male beauty/sex standards and wouldn’t be caught dead with anyone below pornboy looks?”

Erik isn’t his real name. He’s 28 years old, he works for the government, he lives in the Midwest and that’s as specific as I’m going to get. “Speaking objectively,” he says when I ask him to describe himself, “I’m pear-shaped. I’ve got a tummy, man-titties and a big squishy butt. I also have a nice haircut, a clean face and a nice smile.”

I met Erik a few months ago, right around the time his flurry of porn-star trolling reached its zenith. He read my article about gay loneliness and messaged me to say that it resonated. “I feel like a failure as a gay guy,” he wrote, “because I’m 28 and I haven’t had much sexual experience even though I’ve been out since I was 18.”

The more I got to know Erik, the more familiar his story sounded. For years I’ve lurked on message boards for self-described “incels” — “involuntary celibates,” men who think they’ve been unjustly denied sex. What I heard from Erik were the same resentments, the same hurts, the same mixture of jealousy and desire I had scrolled through on Reddit.

With, of course, one crucial difference. The incels we’ve heard of — Elliot Rodger, who killed six people in Isla Vista in 2014, and Alek Minassian, who mowed down 10 people in Toronto last month — were both mass killers. Erik, even at the darkest points of his “incel-ar period,” as he calls it, says he never contemplated anything violent.

But his experience — how he gathered contempt for the people he wanted to sleep with and, eventually, got over it — says a lot about what’s really behind the incel phenomenon and why it seems to be getting worse.

A student signs on a remembrance wall in the Isla Vista neighborhood of Santa Barbara, California May 27, 2014. Twenty-two year old Elliot Rodger killed six people before taking his own life in a rampage through a California college town shortly after he posted a threatening video railing against women. Lucy Nicholson / Reuters

“Involuntary celibacy” isn’t about sex, it’s about status.

Erik’s radicalization began five years ago, when his family fell behind on bills and he had to take a second job to help them catch up.

“I didn’t have the time or the money to go out and meet people because I was always working,” he says. He was 23 years old, living with his parents, doing day shifts at a big-box retail store and nights at a call center, dialing for political donations. “I felt isolated and alone and crippled. The resentment started with myself. I would think, ‘What did you do to deserve this?’ Then the self-loathing became loathing of everyone around me: ‘Why am I propping up this family?’”

He describes a widening circle of resentment. He had no time for dates and no car for hookups. His first (and only) sexual experience had been a one-night stand, some dude he met on Facebook while studying abroad. His attempts at flirting in bars ended badly. One guy, whom Erik describes as “diva-pretty,” once told him, “I wouldn’t even rape you.”

He had started to think of the men he was attracted to — “slim, pretty-faced guys who looked like they had a lot of money, who lived that West Hollywood lifestyle, who could eat whatever they wanted and never gain a single pound” — as the cause of his failures. They were shallow, superficial, hoarding status and sex and power and denying it to him.

“The ones I hated the most,” he says, “were the gorgeous, white, rich gay men on Instagram saying, ‘You’ve just got to love your body’ or ‘It’s not about what’s on the outside.’ I would be like, fuck you. You don’t know what it’s like to be rejected. You haven’t weighed more than 100 pounds in the last 30 years.”

I tell Erik that he doesn’t strike me as the kind of guy who would actually enjoy the “West Hollywood” lifestyle all that much. VIP rooms, bottle service, duckface selfies? “Weren’t you just telling me that your ideal gay bar was somewhere you could wear a tux and sing show tunes?” I ask.

“It was more about attaining status than finding love or even sex,” he says. “Even though I didn’t actually want the lifestyle they were broadcasting, I wanted to feel worthy of having it — as affirmed by others. I wanted to be the alpha male.”

What’s at the heart of Erik’s experience, and the incel phenomenon more generally, says Jennifer Bosson, a masculinity researcher at the University of South Florida, is the concept of “precarious masculinity.”

“Manhood is conceptualized as something that has to be earned,” she said. “And once you earn it, you have to defend it. It can be lost.”

Look at almost any culture, she adds, and you’ll find that men, as a group, have higher status than women. But within men there are huge disparities. Cars, clothes, jawlines: Some guys have them and some don’t. For the have-nots, it feels like they’re not reaping the benefits of being in the dominant group, like they’re being denied what’s owed to them.

“When women lack power we’re just like, ‘Oh I’m a woman,’” Bosson says. “When men lack power, they’re like, ‘Hey, this isn’t fair.’”

In other words, the incel phenomenon has nothing to do with sex — duh — and everything to do with entitlement.

Erik found comfort in YouTube comments like the one above. They reflected his own ideas and made him feel he wasn't alone anymore. YouTube

Misery loves company. And then it gets radicalized.

My personal theory is that it was the online forums, the constantly updated cheering section of like-minded misanthropes, that turned people like Minassian into monsters.

Though he doesn’t know of any dedicated message boards for gay incels, Erik still managed to find places where he could voice his resentments and get them reflected back to him. His forum of choice, he says, was “the scariest place on the Internet: The YouTube comments section.” He found articles and videos that critiqued gay male beauty standards, then scrolled down until he found snark and resentments that echoed his own. “It’s like, hey, this person is dejected and unfucked as well. We have something in common, we can share our loathing of people we perceive to be the problem.”

He shows me screenshots of what this looked like. “Your issues with body image are not the same as those of objectively ugly people, like myself,” is how one of the comments on a YouTube video begins. Another, a Twitter thread, starts with a message to a model tweeting about his mental illness: “how nice of a conventionally hot/pretty boy to tell us regular folk with our plain looks, mediocre sex lives, & non-Adonis figures such Noble sentiments.”

Seeing these echoes of his own experience, he says, felt like relief, like he wasn’t alone anymore. The more he built fellowship with the guys from the comment threads, the more he started to see his life in us-versus-them terms. He started celebrating the misfortunes of his online enemies. “Someone posts about their breakup on social media and I’d be like, ‘Oh look, the pretty person feels sad. They have no chance of getting anyone else, boo hoo.’” Some of the people he met online actually seemed happy, cheering on the misfortune of the pretty people, he says. Teach that narcissistic little fucker that life doesn’t revolve around him.

“I was being just as judgmental and shallow as I thought the enemy was,” he reflects. “The irony never occurred to me.”

Curtis Puryear, a colleague of Bosson’s who specializes in online radicalization, tells me Erik followed a fairly typical pattern. Whether online or offline, being around like-minded people tends to result in having stronger views. Whether you’re a vegetarian or someone who thinks “Crash” shouldn’t have won an Oscar, being around a bunch of people with the same opinion usually makes you feel it more intensely.

The internet, Puryear says, allows you to find people and activate identities you never could if you had to rely on face-to-face interactions. If you live in a small town (like Erik does), it’s pretty hard to find enough fellow incels to form a community. On the internet, though, nearly any identity can become the basis for sharing empathy, information — and grievances.

“Feeling like you’re a member of a disadvantaged group brings some psychological benefits,” Puryear continues. “It’s a way to write off failures. You feel like the deck is stacked against you. If you’re an incel and you feel attacked, then that identity will become more important for you over time.”

"It’s like, hey, this person is dejected and unfucked as well. We have something in common, we can share our loathing of people we perceive to be the problem," Erik says about the comments he found online. Twitter

Are gay incels really a thing?

One of the stories about Elliot Rodger I can’t get out of my head dates back to the summer before his shooting rampage. Rodger saw a group of women playing kickball in a park. According to Ralph W. Larkin’s “Learning to Be a Rampage Shooter,” Rodger immediately left, bought a Super Soaker, filled it with orange juice and came back. He ran onto the field and hosed down the players. He had no goal other than ruining their fun. “They deserved to die horrible, painful deaths,” he wrote later about the women, “just for the crime of enjoying a better life than me.”

I ask Erik whether he ever lashed out like this, even in small ways. He says he didn’t. He tells me that when his co-workers used to complain about gaining weight, he would ask them if they wanted to trade bodies with him.

“It was my way of saying, ‘Shut up, I don’t want to hear any complaining from conventionally attractive people,’” he says. Pretty dickish, he admits, but a far cry from even the warning signs of the violence that people like Rodger have carried out.

I ask Bosson about this, whether something about gayness keeps gay men from lashing out the way straight men do. She points out, first, that only a small percentage of men are gay — maybe there’s fewer gay mass shooters because there’s fewer of us overall.

And it’s not like gayness grants immunity from masculinity norms. “We see the same valorizing of ‘straight-acting’ and stigmatization of femininity in gay men that we see in straight men,” Bosson says, confirming what you already know if you’ve spent more than five minutes on Grindr.

And masculinity is inextricably linked to violence. Bosson’s lab runs studies where they threaten men’s status by making them braid a mannequin’s hair or telling them they got “a typical female score” on a knowledge test. Afterward, the men hit a punching bag harder and blasted their fellow research subjects (well, a simulation of them) with higher levels of punitive white noise than men whose masculinity hadn’t been challenged.

“If you threaten men’s sense of their gender status and make them feel for a moment that they’re not a real man, they lash out,” she says. For men who feel like their sense of masculinity is under constant threat — like being unemployed or, ahem, not getting laid — it may take smaller and smaller threats to provoke their anger.

A combination photograph shows notes of support at a makeshift memorial on Yonge Street following a van that attacked multiple people in Toronto in April 2018. Carlo Allegri / Reuters

“From incel to excel.”

It took a response from his targets for Erik’s five-year “incel-ar period” to become something else. While most of the porn stars and Insta-gays blocked him after he sent them the “fuckboy” message, some replied.

“I am poor as fuck,” one of them wrote. “About to lose my cheap apartment. I have til the end of the month to move out. Looks are not everything.”

Erik shows me screenshots. “Sorry,” he replied. “It’s just ... it must be nice to be gay and hot and have some of the best sex on the planet.”

“I have not had sex since October of last year. It was not hot or fun,” the porn star wrote. And, to Erik’s apology, “If you continue acting that way, you will have nothing. Like I have nothing.”

He got other responses, too. After he copy-pasted his message to a porn producer and got blocked, Erik contacted him on Snapchat to apologize. The producer explained that lots of porn was fake (gasp) and that the actors making it were people, too. Another “enemy” who got Erik’s message posted it on Twitter and said that his life might look perfect on the outside, but he was struggling with drug addiction and had been abandoned by his family.

Eric felt traumatized, overwhelmed with guilt over what he had done. That’s when the fog started to lift. “It didn’t make me feel better automatically. But I started to think that if these guys were conventionally attractive and have what I’m supposed to have and they’re still miserable, then maybe I don’t need to worry.”

“So the happy ending is that everyone is miserable?” I ask.

“No,” he says, “but it’s like I spent years collecting stamps, building up this whining and resentment. When I could have just accepted that I wasn’t in grad school and working these mediocre jobs.”

He’s dating someone now, a retail clerk he met on OKCupid right after he decided to trade Twitter DMs for an OKCupid profile. (“Sneak that into your article somehow,” he says, “from incel to excel.”) They’ve been together two months now, but he’s having trouble shedding his old habits. “I’d like to think I’ve improved and am content now that I found someone who not only I like but who actually thinks I’m beautiful,” he says, “but the envy and resentment are still there.” Envy, he says, because other people still look so attractive. Resentment because he thinks he never will.

Although he’s different than Rodgers and Minassian, Erik’s anger, too, came from a mismatch between expectations and reality: “If this was pre-1980s, maybe I’d feel more different from a straight incel,” he says. “But with the mainstreaming of gay people, the expectations have become more mainstream too. You’re expected to be financially stable, to look a certain way, to have the right partner and the right hookups. When you can’t live up to that image, then the inferiority complex comes.”