The mother of a University of Alabama student who received national scorn for her racist rants on video said she agreed with the school’s decision to expel her daughter.

“This is not a reflection of how she was raised,” Jill Barbera, mother of Harley Barber, 19, told NJ.com on Thursday. “She’s just degrading herself and it breaks my heart. I hope someone can look at this and learn. I don’t want anyone to feel what I feel.”

Harley Barber was returning to her home state of New Jersey after social media posts surfaced showing her defiantly repeating a racist slur, according to reports. She said she hated black people in the clips (see below) and would continue using the slur on Martin Luther King Day because she was in the South.

Alabama President Stuart Bell called Barber’s remarks “racist and disturbing” in announcing that she was no longer enrolled. Her sorority, Alpha Phi, had already banned her. Barber apologized, calling herself an “idiot.”

Her mom said she agreed with the school’s decision. She added that she kicked her daughter out of the house in 2016 after several arguments, and Barber moved in with her grandmother.

“I love my kid,” Barbera told NJ.com. “I wish this never happened for everyone involved. I can’t apologize for her actions, and I won’t. But I’ll apologize for the pain it caused people.”

Here are the videos that caused the uproar.

Be warned ― they are unedited and downright ugly.

Peep her finsta lmaoooo im dead ..she bold. Gottta love Alabama women pic.twitter.com/eFZDZDjsCj — Tabarius da Feminist (@TabisBack) January 16, 2018A guest on Fox News defended white supremacists over undocumented immigrants on Thursday evening.

“The white supremacists are American citizens,” Mark Steyn, a regular guest on the network, told Tucker Carlson. “The illegal immigrants are people who shouldn’t be here.”

Steyn, who Carlson introduced as an “actual thinker,” was speaking about a segment on CNN in which Chris Cuomo ripped the Trump administration for making undocumented immigrants seem like “monsters” and “villains” while ignoring the threat posed by white supremacists.

“That may be well and true,” Steyn said, but added that it was “irrelevant” because the white supremacists were citizens.

“The organizing principle of nation-states is that they’re organized on behalf of their citizens, whether their citizens are cheerleaders or white supremacists or whatever,” he said. “You’re stuck with them.”

Steyn also complained of “cultural transformation” in Arizona due to immigration:

“In Arizona, a majority of the grade-school children now are Hispanic. That means Arizona’s future is as an Hispanic society. That means, in effect, the border has moved north and the cultural transformation outweighs any economic benefits that that lady was talking about.”

Carlson called it “bewildering for the people who grew up here.”

That would not include Steyn. He’s from Canada.

See their full discussion below.A government shutdown is imminent with no resolution in sight after a Republican-led spending bill was blocked in the Senate. The midnight (Eastern time) deadline is less than an hour away.

President Donald Trump, who was slated to leave on Friday for his Mar-a-Lago resort, delayed his trip while negotiations continued.

One of the major issues holding up progress is a debate over extending the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program. Mick Mulvaney, the director of the Office of Management and Budget, said Friday that “there’s no emergency in terms of the timing on DACA” and argued that “there’s absolutely no reason to tie these two things together right now.”

A government shutdown would be the first since 2013, and would mark the first time since President Jimmy Carter’s administration that a shutdown happened while one party controlled the House, Senate and White House.Outsports

This article originally appeared on Outsports

In October of 2015 I penned an Outsports article, revealing my authentic self to the world. Prior to the article being published I was sure this would be the scariest thing I ever did (and by the way, I went skydiving with my then-boyfriend the following year and let me assure you, jumping out of a plane at 13,000 feet is MUCH scarier).

I knew I wanted to share my story in hopes that someone would understand it’s OK for them to be gay, or that depression does not define them. I wanted to help end the stigma some have about being gay or suffering from mental-health diseases.

I wanted to say, “Here I am world, I made it this far and so can you.”

Yet I feared the possible complications that may arise.

The reasons for my fear never came to pass.

The anxieties of explaining my life, in the most detailed way to date, were quickly put to rest by the outpouring of love and support I received after the publication of my story. Family, friends and strangers half-way around the globe greeted my story with nothing but love and acceptance.

While I sorted through the thousands of emails, messages and comments, I stopped to remind myself just how lucky I am. Even if every day it becomes more rare in America to be rejected for being LGBTQ, far too many people are not met with this same wave of support.

Outsports

Shortly after my article was published, I made the decision to move back home to North Carolina for college. The decision was not an easy one. Not only did I feel as though there were many more people “like me” in Los Angeles, I was scared of what prejudices may await me back home in “the South.”

For the longest time my experiences growing up resulted in my association of this part of the country with intolerance and discrimination. I was sure I would face similar circumstances once again, and I reminded myself to keep my guard up.

Amazingly these fears were put to rest as I have been welcomed into an accepting and loving community of LGBTQ members and allies at North Carolina State, the very place I least expected it.

Prior to coming out it felt as though I was alone in my sexuality, like I was the only one who felt the way I did. These recent years have taught me that is far from the case.

The same loneliness that almost ended my life in high school has been overwhelmed by this communal love and acceptance. While there is still much progress to be made in this region of the country, thankfully I haven’t encountered any of the hate that once had caused me so much inner turmoil.

That internal turmoil was one of the main factors keeping me from pursuing the opportunities I had to play football in college. I was sure the levels of intolerance and hate that I had seen back home would only be magnified in collegiate athletics, so I decided to step away from the sport.

It was only after making the coed cheerleading team at North Carolina State, one of the same D1 schools that recruited me to play football, that I realized this is not always the case. Here in Raleigh I am treated just as any other student-athlete. Not once have I been made to feel uncomfortable because of my sexuality.

College sports are changing across the board. Acceptance of LGBTQ people is being embraced.

While the adjustment from being on the field to being on the sidelines has been tricky for me, there is comfort in knowing that if I can play, I can play in more than one arena.

Since beginning to live my life more authentically, I have learned numerous lessons about life.

A major takeaway is the lesson that coming out has taught me about love. While I do believe this experience has allowed me to learn about love in the most traditional sense, it has also taught me how to love myself, how to love others despite our differences, and how to accept the love I previously deemed myself unworthy of.

Part of learning to love myself has included learning that my sexuality is not something to be ashamed of.

For so long I was made to believe that being gay would negatively affect my life experiences, that it was something I should bury deep inside of me.

Instead I’ve learned that my sexuality is just another part of me that should be celebrated.

Learning to be me – totally, openly, for the world to see – has been one of the most freeing revelations of my life, and I am thankful for every day I’m able to just be me.

OutsportsIn Touch magazine printed its full 2011 interview with former adult film actress Stephanie Clifford on Friday. Clifford, whose stage name is Stormy Daniels, talked at length about her previous relationship with President Donald Trump.

And there is one detail that many found pretty Jaws-dropping — Trump is terrified of sharks, she said.

According to Clifford, she once met Trump for a date in his bungalow at the Beverly Hills Hotel. Over dinner Clifford learned something rather interesting about the then-reality show personality.

Stephanie Clifford, aka Stormy Daniels, at the AVN Adult Entertainment Expo in Las Vegas on Jan. 18, 2017. Ethan Miller via Getty Images

“The strangest thing about that night — this was the best thing ever,” she said. “You could see the television from the little dining room table and he was watching Shark Week and he was watching a special about the U.S.S. something and it sank and it was like the worst shark attack in history. He is obsessed with sharks. Terrified of sharks. He was like, ‘I donate to all these charities and I would never donate to any charity that helps sharks. I hope all the sharks die.’ He was like riveted. He was like obsessed. It’s so strange, I know.”

The anecdote about sharks made quite a splash on Twitter.

Donald Trump is deathly afraid of sharks, and it's hilarious: https://t.co/RBuLbBj5De pic.twitter.com/aYAzeE9lKQ — Marlow Stern (@MarlowNYC) January 19, 2018

it’s time for the washington media to ask every republican member of congress where they stand on the important issue of sharks — David Mack (@davidmackau) January 19, 2018

Donald Trump is terrified of sharks, so you probably shouldn’t like/retweet this pic.twitter.com/qG7She1Etu — Marie Connor (@thistallawkgirl) January 19, 2018

In the @intouchweekly interview, Stormy Daniels says @realDonaldTrump wouldn't give to shark charities. I checked: the Trump Fdn. gave $0 to any shark-focused charities. Closest was $10K to Florida Keys Reef Relief, where a Trump friend is on the board. — David Fahrenthold (@Fahrenthold) January 19, 2018

As odd as that story is, Trump has expressed his dislike of the predatory fish in the past.

Sorry folks, I'm just not a fan of sharks - and don't worry, they will be around long after we are gone. — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) July 4, 2013

Last week The Wall Street Journal reported that a Trump lawyer had arranged a $130,000 payment to Clifford in October 2016 to keep quiet about their relationship. This was right before the presidential election.

Both Clifford and Trump’s legal team have since denied the affair and the payment.

So earlier this week, In Touch released a few tempting details online from its unpublished 2011 interview with Clifford.

In Touch

The magazine’s initial disclosures included how the two met at the American Century celebrity golf tournament in Lake Tahoe in July 2006 — the year after the future president married Melania Trump and just months after she gave birth to their son, Barron. In Touch also highlighted such details as Trump brushing off the subject of Melania during that first date with Clifford and Clifford describing their sex as “textbook generic.” She also talked about how Trump promised to get her on his show, “The Apprentice,” and used that as an excuse to keep in touch over the next year.

With the release of In Touch’s full interview on Friday, here are 10 more fascinating tidbits:

Trump did not dress up for his first date with Clifford.

“I went in [to his Lake Tahoe hotel room] and I was all dressed up because I had just assumed that we were going to go to dinner, but he meant to have dinner in his room. Like he wasn’t dressed to go out at all, just lounging. I remember taking a jab at him. I remember saying, because he was all sprawled out on the couch, watching television or something. He was wearing pajama pants. And I was like, ‘Ha, does Mr. Hefner know that you stole his outfit?’”

Trump bragged about himself during their first date.

“He kept showing me he was on the cover of a magazine that had just come out and it was some sort of money magazine, I wish I could remember which one it was. But he had it in the room and he kept showing it to me and I was like, ‘Dude, I know who you are.’ He was trying to sell me, I guess.”

Later she adds:

“He just kept talking about this magazine that he was on the cover of, like, ‘Look at this magazine, don’t I look great on the cover?’”

Trump is superstitious about his hair.

“He said that he thought that if he cut his hair or changed it, that he would lose his power and his wealth. And I laughed hysterically at him.”

Trump has some pretty slick moves.

Of their first date, Clifford recalled:

“I had to use the bathroom and I went to the restroom, which was in the bedroom. Like I said, it was a big suite. I could describe the suite perfectly. When I came out, he was sitting on the bed and he was like, ‘Come here.’ And I was like, ‘Ugh, here we go.’”

On their second date at the Beverly Hills Hotel, Clifford recalled Trump saying to her:

“’You know, you’re so beautiful. I love your little nose, it’s like a little beet.’ I go, ‘Did you say a beet? Like, what the f―?’ I started giving him a hard time about it. And he goes, ‘No, no, no, no! It’s majestic. It’s a very smart nose, like an eagle.’”

Clifford has a part of Trump’s anatomy etched in her memory.

“I can definitely describe his junk perfectly, if I ever have to.”

The two didn’t use protection that one time they had sex.

“It was kind of in the moment. And I was really kind of upset about it because I am so, like, careful. The company I work for is condom-only. But I remember for a fact that we didn’t because I’m allergic to latex. And I didn’t go up there with condoms on me. I know that for a fact because 99% of men don’t carry non-latex condoms on them, so I usually always have one in my backpack but I thought I was going to dinner, so I only had a tiny little cocktail purse.”

After sex, Trump had a request for Clifford.

“Here’s the weird thing. He had one of my DVDs and he asked me to sign it for him and I did.”

After their initial affair, Trump would always call Clifford from a blocked number.

“The number was always blocked. He called me about every 10 days. He always called me ‘honeybunch.’ He’s like, ‘How’s it going, honeybunch?’”

Trump never got Clifford on “Celebrity Apprentice.” When Jenna Jameson appeared in an episode, he used it as an excuse to call Clifford.

“So he called me and was like, ‘Did you see Jenna Jameson on my show? I didn’t know she was going to go on. That’s bullshit. She made a fool of herself.’ He said, ‘She’s a bimbo. You’re so much better.’ I was like, ‘I didn’t even know about it.’ I just thought that was really funny. Don’t care. Totally over it.”

In retrospect, Clifford feels sorry for Melania Trump.Chris Christie, no longer the governor of New Jersey, was reportedly denied access to a special VIP entrance at Newark Liberty International Airport on Thursday.

Christie denied the multiple reports from local media and The Associated Press as “pure fiction.”

The entry point is typically used by dignitaries and others to bypass the normal Transportation Security Administration checkpoint, and Christie used it himself recently, according to NBC New York.

However, his access to the bypass appears to have ended this week along with his two terms as governor of the Garden State.

“Port Authority says Christie showed up at Newark Airport today with NJ State PD detail,” a Port Authority spokesman told CBS New York. “They tried to go into the special access area where they have been going for years. A PA cop told him he was no longer allowed to use that access and they escorted him to the regular area.”

The station said Christie cooperated.

The onetime Republican presidential hopeful later fired off a pair of tweets slamming the reports:

Absolutely false story about my travel today. NJSP security detail & I were led to one entrance in the airport by PAPD officer. TSA informed PAPD and NJSP that this was the wrong way to enter and directed us to another entrance where I was screened & admitted to the airport(1/2) — Governor Christie (@GovChristie) January 18, 2018Rep. Debbie Dingell (D-Mich.) was so moved by the story of Jorge Garcia, a 39-year-old man deported to Mexico this week after living most of his life in the U.S., that she plans to bring his wife Cindy Garcia as her plus-one guest to the 2018 State of the Union address.

“This week, America watched in horror as Jorge Garcia, a father of two and husband to an American citizen, who was brought to this country at 10 years old and has never received so much as a traffic ticket, was torn from his family and the only home he knows,” Dingell said in a statement on Thursday.

“Jorge’s wife Cindy has shown incredible resilience and courage in the face of these impossible circumstances,” Dingell continued. “I am honored that she will join me at the State of the Union to be a voice for the hundreds of thousands of aspiring Americans who are part of the fabric of our communities, and who deserve a pathway to legal status in the country they call home.”

Jorge Garcia, 39, of Lincoln Park, Michigan, hugs his wife, Cindy Garcia, and their two children Jan. 15, 2018, at Detroit Metro Airport moments before being forced to board a flight to Mexico. NIRAJ WARIKOO/DETROIT FREE PRESS/USA TODAY SPORTS IMAGES

Garcia, who lived with his family in the Detroit area, received temporary extensions during President Barack Obama’s administration that allowed him to avert a deportation order from 2009, according to the Detroit Free Press. Immigration and Customs Enforcement renewed the order in November. Dingell said she asked ICE to extend the order until Jan. 15, allowing Garcia to spend the holidays with his family.

Garcia’s attorney, Mayra Miles, is petitioning to reunite him with his family, she told HuffPost. The process typically takes about a year, although Garcia may encounter difficulties because he didn’t leave the U.S. voluntarily.At least four sets of sisters are among those speaking out about their experiences with Larry Nassar, the disgraced doctor accused of molesting more than 140 young female athletes.

Maddie and Kara Johnson spoke Friday during Nassar’s sentencing hearing; two others, identified only as Victim 11 and Victim 136, were heard in court the day before. Amanda Thomashow, who reported Nassar to police in 2014, was joined by sister Jessica in court earlier this week, and Katie Payne and Maureen Payne Baum were on the “Today” show late last year to tell their stories.

More than 100 accusers and their family members have shared victim impact statements in court. Nassar served as a team doctor for USA Gymnastics and Michigan State University until he was fired in 2016.

Nassar, who is already serving 60 years in prison for possession of child pornography, faces a new sentence of up to 125 years after pleading guilty in November to 10 counts of first-degree sexual misconduct.

Former gymnasts Maddie (left) and Kara Johnson hold hands during the sentencing hearing for Larry Nassar, former USA Gymnastics team doctor. Brendan McDermid / Reuters

In court, the Johnson sisters recalled trusting Nassar largely because he was an Olympic doctor with framed photos of the athletes he had treated.

“I felt so lucky that I got to see the same doctor as all of my idols in the gymnastics world,” Maddie said.

Their father, Brad Johnson, who is also a doctor, called out MSU and USA Gymnastics for allowing Nassar’s behavior to continue for so long.

“These institutions emphasize the importance of safe spaces. Ironically, the only safe place that was created was for Larry Nassar,” he said, per Deadspin’s Dvora Meyers, who first noted the number of siblings appearing together in court.

"You smacked my butt and said, 'We're done here sweetie,'" Kara Johnson said of Nassar — Dvora Meyers (@DvoraMeyers) January 19, 2018

The Johnson sisters said Nassar didn’t abuse them during appointments when their father accompanied them, but other former patients have said the misconduct occurred within feet of their parents.

Maureen Payne Baum said Nassar once briefly assaulted her while standing in between her and her father. She and her sister have said their gymnastics coaches encouraged them to see Nassar when they competed in the sport around ages 12 to 14.

Victim 11 and Victim 136 said Nassar asked other medical staff to leave the room during appointments.

Amanda Thomashow said in court that she has experienced anxiety and depression since reporting Nassar for abuse in 2014, adding that she had put aside her dream of becoming a doctor.

“When Larry Nassar assaulted me and MSU covered for him, it changed the trajectory of my life,” she said. “Someday I will be whole again.”

Jessica Thomashow said Nassar abused her when she sought treatments for gymnastics-related injuries when she was 9 and 12.

“What you did to me was twisted,” she said. “You manipulated me and my family. How dare you.”

Brian McKeen, the attorney for Katie Payne and Maureen Payne Baum, criticized MSU’s attempt to dismiss lawsuits brought by Nassar’s accusers while simultaneously purporting to support the survivors.

“MSU’s hypocrisy is shameful,” he said in a statement issued this week. “The University claims that many of the assaults happened so long ago that the law now bars the claims from being brought. This firmly places the blame on teenage girls for being terrified to speak up, or for their naiveté regarding the assaults.”Then-Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid (D-Nev.) speaks to reporters after Senate luncheons as he is accompanied by Sen. Jeff Merkley (D-Ore.) at Capitol Hill in Washington July 16, 2013. Jose Luis Magaua / Reuters

WASHINGTON ― Republicans are confirming judges at a breakneck pace and are pushing forward with changes to Senate rules that make it even easier to confirm more of President Donald Trump’s judicial nominees. It’s a tremendously important achievement ― one that is already being called their most enduring legacy.

But Democrats who blew up the rules when they were in the majority to make it easier to confirm executive and judicial nominees say they have no regrets about doing so.

“It wasn’t a mistake. The mistake is to have people confirm judges that are way out of the mainstream and to refuse to be thoughtful about what we’re going to do the judiciary,” Sen. Jeff Merkley (D-Ore.), a lead proponent of filibuster reform at the time, told HuffPost this week.

In 2013, under the leadership of then-Sen. Harry Reid (D-Nev.), Democrats voted to deploy a parliamentary procedure dubbed the “nuclear option” to change Senate rules to pass most executive and judicial nominees by a simple majority vote, instead of the long-standing 60-vote threshold needed to overcome a filibuster. They argued that unprecedented obstruction to then-President Barack Obama’s executive and judicial nominations necessitated the historic change to Senate rules.

“It wasn’t a mistake. The mistake is to have people confirm judges that are way out of the mainstream and to refuse to be thoughtful about what we’re going to do the judiciary.” - Sen. Jeff Merkley (D-Ore.)

Republicans were furious, however, warning that Democrats would come to rue abandoning the filibuster on executive and judicial nominees.

“I say to my friends on the other side of the aisle, you’ll regret this,” then-Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.) told them at the time. “And you may regret it a lot sooner than you think.”

Now, as majority leader, McConnell is leading the push to reshape the federal bench with mostly young, conservative nominees. The Senate is expected by next week to confirm a total of six circuit court nominees, bringing Trump’s number of circuit court nominees confirmed to 21, after already confirming more nominees to the nation’s appellate courts by a single president in over half a century. All would serve lifetime appointments.

“By appointing and confirming these strict constructionists to the courts who are in their late 40s or early 50s ... we’re making a generational change in our country that will be repeated over and over and over down through the years,” McConnell told conservative radio host Hugh Hewitt last week.

Most Democrats who spoke to HuffPost about their 2013 vote to go nuclear dismissed the notion that they somehow paved the way for Trump’s parade of conservative judges, arguing that the GOP is degrading Senate rules on judicial nominees in other ways.

Republicans, for example, have been bending longstanding Senate tradition that allows home-state senators of a nominee to deny or advance their nomination in the Judiciary Committee. The GOP did so again this week, for example, when they confirmed Michael Brennan to be a lifetime judge on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the 7th Circuit over the objection of Sen. Tammy Baldwin (D-Wis.). Republican senators routinely abused the tradition, known as a “blue slip,” to block Obama’s court picks.

And last month, Republicans voted to advance a proposal, authored by Sen. James Lankford (R-Okla.), that would substantially cut down on the amount of debate time needed for hundreds of nominations ― speeding up the time needed to get them confirmed.

“The rules change has nothing to do with it. It’s just pure partisanship,” Sen. Pat Leahy (D-Vt.) said, noting that McConnell’s greatest legacy includes denying Obama a hearing on his Supreme Court pick in 2016.

Adam Jentleson, a former spokesman for Reid, said his “only regret” was that Democrats didn’t change the rules prior to 2013 which would have given them even more time to confirm Obama nominees.

“McConnell was blocking judges at an unprecedented pace and if we hadn’t changed the rules, we would’ve confirmed far fewer Obama judges and there would be far more vacancies right now for Trump to fill, including to important courts like the critical DC Circuit,” he said.

“The rules change has nothing to do with it. It’s just pure partisanship.” - Sen. Pat Leahy (D-Vt.)

But some Democrats said that, in hindsight, the 2013 rules change may not have been such a good idea.

Sen. Joe Manchin (D-W.Va.), one of just three Democrats who opposed going nuclear, criticized the former Nevada senator who pushed to change the filibuster rules.

“The whole thing is coming apart. We’re just going to become a glorified extension of the House. I blame one guy. I blame Harry Reid,” he said.

Sen. Richard Blumenthal (D-Conn.), meanwhile, said he thought the decision to change the filibuster rules was “right at the time.”Here we go again: Health care for 9 million kids could disappear as soon as Friday because the majority-Republican Congress can’t get out of its own way.

Friday also is the day the entire federal government might shut down because infighting among congressional Republicans over immigration, military spending and other issues has left House Speaker Paul Ryan (R-Wis.) and Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.) seemingly without the votes they need to pass yet another short-term spending bill.

Coincidentally, Friday also happens to be the last day that federal authorities can guarantee they will be able to send money to the states, which jointly run the Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP) with the federal government, to keep it alive.

It didn’t have to be this way.

Knowing that enough members of the majority party didn’t want to play ball with leadership, and that President Donald Trump continues to send wildly mixed signals about crucial elements of the spending package, congressional GOP leaders decided to add CHIP, which covers low-income children, to the short-term funding bill as a way to pressure congressional Democrats to vote for it.

Here’s Republican Sen. Mike Rounds (S.D.) saying so to BuzzFeed News reporter Paul McLeod:

Per Rounds, passing CHIP on its own would cause Republicans to lose major leverage: "Look, here's the deal. If Republicans simply authorize six years of CHIP that's one less reason for Democrats to work with us on a long-term omnibus solution." — Paul McLeod (@pdmcleod) January 18, 2018

The standoff means that states soon will have to start notifying parents that their children’s health care may go away, as a few were forced to do in the fall, the last time CHIP almost died.

Eleven states are now poised to run out of CHIP money before the end of February, and that number will more than double by the end of March, according to federal data analyzed by the Georgetown University Center for Children and Families.

The failure to deal with CHIP in a timely manner is made even more puzzling by the fact that the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office now says extending the program’s funding for a decade would actually save the federal government $6 billion.

The budget office initially estimated that renewing CHIP for 10 years would cost the government $8.2 billion. The adjustment is largely due to changes Congress made to the Affordable Care Act that make private health insurance more expensive and increase federal spending on subsidies for that coverage, which makes CHIP a much better deal by comparison.

Before the Congressional Budget Office declared CHIP’s renewal a cost-saver, the House passed a bill to reauthorize the program over the objections of Democrats who didn’t approve of its corresponding cuts to Affordable Care Act coverage. And the Senate Finance Committee advanced a CHIP bill last fall without any means to pay for it. That obstacle is now gone.

And Trump made matters worse for everyone Thursday morning by posting on Twitter that he opposed including CHIP in the spending bill, a position that the White House later completely changed after members of Congress spent a few hours wondering what to do.

Seeing failure to keep the government open and CHIP running, Republican leaders are preemptively trying to blame a shutdown and a CHIP crisis on Democrats. This is a curious strategy considering that Republicans control both houses of Congress and the White House and yet can’t cobble together a majority of votes to pass their own bill.

At this point, Senate Democrats won’t even get a chance to obstruct the legislation with a filibuster because McConnell can’t find 50 votes from his own party members. And over in the House, the conservative Freedom Caucus is, as it often does, threatening to derail Ryan’s plans.

Democrats by and large don’t appear to want to go along with the GOP’s ploy, not least because they also want the legislation to include immigration provisions opposed by conservatives and, depending on what day it is, Trump himself.

Chief among the Democrats’ demands is help for the so-called Dreamers, undocumented young adults who were brought into the United States illegally by their parents as minors. Nearly 700,000 of them could lose relief from deportation because Trump ended the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program last year, and the rate of people losing protections each day will skyrocket in March if Congress doesn’t act.

The Democrats’ insistence that a spending bill include immigration reforms intensified after Trump rejected a bipartisan deal that would’ve protected Dreamers while providing a bunch of money for border control and other things. Trump objected, The Washington Post reported, to people from “shithole countries” being welcomed into America.

Moreover, there is broad support in Congress for passing CHIP legislation and shielding Dreamers from deportation, leading Democrats to argue neither should be mired in the spending bill fight. CHIP, in particular, has enjoyed wide support among members of both parties since its inception in 1997.

Another problem with pinning CHIP’s problems on Democrats is that the program actually expired almost four months ago, on Sept. 30. The GOP spent most of last year’s legislative time trying to repeal the Affordable Care Act and then passing a massive tax overhaul that mainly benefits rich people and corporations.

Republicans never made CHIP a priority and apparently preferred to keep a bill guaranteeing that millions of kids can keep their doctors’ appointments in their hip pocket as a way to force Democrats to support legislation they otherwise would oppose.

Congress twice has taken small steps to shore up CHIP, and the Trump administration has made efforts of its own to stretch the dollars it has for the states. But it was mere weeks after Congress authorized $2.85 billion for CHIP that the federal Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services disclosed that the money might last only until Jan. 19, not through the end of March, as Congress had intended.She’s got diamonds and purses a’plenty, she’s got Donald’s hair pieces galore.

On Thursday night, the “Late Late Show” host performed a hilarious parody of the song “Part of Your World” from “The Little Mermaid.” Corden’s version swaps Ariel for Melania Trump, who longs to be part of our world.

“With Secret Service you don’t get too far. Heels make it hard for jumping, escaping,” Corden croons as Melania.Women dressed as handmaids from "The Handmaid's Tale" demonstrate against cuts for Planned Parenthood in the Republican Senate health care bill at the U.S. Capitol in Washington, D.C., on June 27, 2017. Aaron Bernstein / Reuters

The White House announced Friday that it will no longer discourage states from attempting to defund Planned Parenthood, further restricting women’s access to health care.

President Donald Trump wrote a letter to state Medicaid directors in which he said he was rolling back an Obama-era guidance that advised states not to defund the family-planning provider.

“Reinstating the pre-2016 standards frees up states to once again decide for themselves what reasonable standards they use to protect Medicaid programs and their beneficiaries,” Charmaine Yoest, assistant health and human services secretary for public affairs, said in a call with reporters.

The Department of Health and Human Services said the initial guidance “restricted states’ ability to take certain actions against family-planning providers that offer abortion services.”

Dawn Laguens, Executive Vice President for Planned Parenthood Action Fund, called the President’s actions an attempt to infringe on American freedoms.

“On the anniversary of the historic Women’s March, the Trump-Pence administration makes their agenda crystal clear: They are laser-focused on using their power to control women’s bodies and lives,” Laguens said in a statement. “Their latest action encourages states to try to block access to care at Planned Parenthood and control where women can go for health care. Without Planned Parenthood, many of our patients would lose access to health care altogether — either because there are no other providers in their community or because other clinics cannot serve all of our patients.”

Planned Parenthood says abortions make up about 3 percent of the services it provides. The group primarily provides sex education and birth control options.

Trump also used a live video stream on Friday to address thousands of people at the March for Life rally. The rally, which took place in Washington, D.C., is the largest anti-abortion rights gathering in the country. Activists plan to march to the Supreme Court to protest outside of the building.

Trump to #MarchforLife: "Under my administration, we will always defend the very first right in the Declaration of Independence, and that is the right to life." pic.twitter.com/kTgW04volz — Ellie Hall (@ellievhall) January 19, 2018

There is some evidence that limiting access to abortion does not mean fewer women seek the procedure. The rate of teen abortions actually surged in Texas after Republicans cut the state’s family planning budget in 2011 and shut down more than 80 women’s health clinics, according to Texas A&M University research published last year.Gatsi via Getty Images

In 2008, state and federal prisons around the U.S. held more than 1.6 million people. After three decades of growth, it was the peak of American mass incarceration.

Over the next eight years, the nation’s imprisonment rate fell by 11 percent, as many states significantly reduced their prison populations, according to recently released federal data. The 2016 imprisonment rate is as low as it has been since 1997. And yet the U.S. continues to experience long-term reductions in crime.

Those two facts challenge a fundamental assertion among supporters of incarceration, who hold that higher imprisonment rates correlate with lower crime rates, a new Pew report points out.

“The argument has been for so long that if you wanted crime to go down, then prisons had to go up, and the reverse of that is, of course, that if you reduce imprisonment, crime would flourish,” Adam Gelb, director of Pew’s Public Safety Performance Project and co-author of the report, told HuffPost. “That’s not what we’re seeing in the data.”

Instead, the numbers reinforce a body of criminal justice research that suggests America’s reliance on incarceration as a crime deterrent has gone “well past the point of diminishing returns,” said Gelb.

“There are so many people locked up that there’s no public safety benefit,” he said.

A total of 36 states reduced their imprisonment rates between 2008 and 2016, and 35 of them saw a simultaneous drop in crime rates, according to the Pew report. Alaska was the outlier: The prison population there fell by 35 percent, the largest such decrease of any state, while crime rose by 16 percent, the second largest such increase of any state.

Between 2008 and 2016, a total of 21 states recorded double-digit declines in both imprisonment and crime rates.

In 12 states, imprisonment rates rose over that period. But the data show that crime rates fell more slowly in those places on average than they did in states with the largest declines in imprisonment.

Pew Charitable Trusts

The Pew study comes with a caveat. Although these figures help disprove the idea that the number of people behind bars is strongly linked with overall crime rates, they don’t necessarily prove that prisons have no effect on crime.

“Whatever impact prison has on crime is weak enough that crime won’t inevitably go up if you cut prisons,” John Pfaff, a Fordham University law professor, told HuffPost. “Perhaps the states that cut prisons might have seen their crime rates drop even more had they not cut prisons.”

Data from the ’70s, ’80s and early ’90s suggest prisons did play a role in at least slowing growth in crime, Pfaff said.

“But that’s still not to say they were the right policy call,” he added. “There are other things that could have accomplished the same crime drop with far less financial and social cost.”

In recent years, lawmakers and activists have successfully championed policies to scale back the nation’s sprawling prison system, which houses the world’s largest incarcerated population. There has been some movement on this issue at the federal level, and Congress has been mulling a variety of criminal justice initiatives that could further reduce imprisonment rates. But the majority of recent progress has come at the state level, as Pew reports that more than 30 states have pushed ahead on sentencing, corrections and similar reforms.

“There has been a wave of reforms across the country, in red states and blue states alike, and often with support of very lopsided majorities and sometimes unanimous votes,” Gelb said. “Right now, the general aim of the prison policies focus on [incarcerating] serious chronic violent offenders and to steer lower-level offenders into alternatives. That can be done in a myriad of ways, and it has.”

But there’s still plenty of work to do. Even with recent declines, there were around 1.5 million people behind bars in 2016. And while racial disparities have closed slightly, with the imprisonment rate among black adults declining 29 percent between 2006 and 2016, that rate is still nearly six times that of white adults.

For the most part, the latest imprisonment numbers also don’t account for local jails, which held 630,000 people in 2015. Jail inmate data for 2016 haven’t been released yet, though Gelb believes they will show a drop as well.

The Pew report likely won’t offer much comfort to officials like Attorney General Jeff Sessions, who have pointed to recent increases in the overall violent crime rate in efforts to drum up support for President Donald Trump’s so-called “law and order” agenda. Those upticks in crime are concerning, but Gelb argues that greater incarceration is not the answer.

“We’ve done this experiment over the past several decades and we know how it turns out: More people behind bars, more families broken apart, higher cost for taxpayers and very little, if anything, to show for it in terms of safer streets,” said Gelb. “There are persistent pockets of violence around the country that have to be addressed, but we have to remember that overall crime and violent crime and homicide have not been this low in nearly 50 years.”

Although the Pew study could provide fodder for policymakers to pursue more drastic reductions in incarceration rates, there are also good reasons to back reform that have nothing to do with the impact of prisons ― or lack thereof ― on the crime rate.

For one, there are more effective tools than incarceration to fight crime, including community policing, drug treatment, rehabilitation programs, mental health care and smarter probation schemes, said Pfaff.

For another, Pfaff argues that the social costs of prisons are substantial enough that cuts would be justifiable even if crime did rise afterward.

“Prisons are a vector of STDs and HIV,” said Pfaff. “They’re a vector for tuberculosis. There’s an incredibly elevated risk of dying of a drug overdose in the weeks after being released from prison. … There’s a risk of death or physical harm in prison. There’s loss of income. There’s risk of divorce ― it throws off marriage in high-enforcement communities.”Ivanka Trump believes her father has a “genius” that mesmerizes her, according to White House correspondent Maggie Haberman.

“She does believe that he’s got a genius,” Haberman told Katie Couric’s podcast on Thursday. “She believes that there are things that he can intuit that other people can’t. And she is very riveted by it.”

Haberman has covered Donald Trump for years, previously for Politico and since 2015 for The New York Times, which the president loves to accuse of “fake news.” She discussed both the president and his older daughter in a wide-ranging interview with Couric, offering her assessments of Donald Trump’s ideology and Michael Wolff’s tell-all book about the White House.

Somebody with aptitude and conviction should buy the FAKE NEWS and failing @nytimes and either run it correctly or let it fold with dignity! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) January 29, 2017

Haberman said that Ivanka Trump has become the “spitting image” of her father, even though the two have had policy differences.

She “has gone from being sort of a somewhat resentful daughter to really being, in many ways, the spitting image of him — not physically, obviously,” said Haberman. “But she’s him without a lot of the flash and style.”

The first daughter has a “very similar set of grievances,” according to Haberman. “She has a very similar sense that people are being unfair to her,” the journalist added.

“Like him, she believed that they would walk in and be treated deferentially, and she’s been a little surprised at how D.C. actually is.”

But Jared Kushner and his wife are “very different people,” Haberman observed. “Jared is very sort of chill and flat, and speaks as little as possible.”

Haberman, who was writing political stories about Donald Trump back in 2011 and witnessed him breathe life into the birther attack on President Barack Obama, said that Trump didn’t have a strategy during his presidential campaign and doesn’t have an ideology now.

“If people wanted to believe during the campaign that there was a strategy, that’s fine. But there wasn’t a strategy. He did things because it felt good to him or because he liked it or because it was fun,” she told Couric.

As for his political beliefs, “there is no ideology,” Haberman said. Trump is “perfectly comfortable being inconsistent on policy. He is perfectly comfortable taking two conflicting positions.”

Couric asked about the accuracy of Wolff’s book, Fire and Fury: Inside the Trump White House. She summarized several points in the book: Trump “doesn’t read, he is semi-literate, he doesn’t prepare, he knows almost nothing about policy or politics, he’s extremely moody, thin-skinned.”

Haberman responded, “It’s what I’ve been reporting for two years. Yeah, sounds right.”WASHINGTON ― President Donald Trump had been scheduled to depart Washington, D.C., on Friday to visit his resort in Florida.

But White House officials told reporters early in the day that Trump would push back his weekend sojourn to Mar-a-Lago until Congress found a way to keep the government open ― avoiding what would have been poor optics for the president.

On Saturday, Trump is scheduled to host a fundraiser with the Republican National Committee to commemorate the first anniversary of his inauguration. Tickets start at $100,000 per couple, and there is a $250,000 option, according to Bloomberg.

It’s unclear if a government shutdown would change plans for the event. White House officials and Republican leaders hope the Senate will be able to pass a short-term fix, known as a continuing resolution, by Saturday. But the prospects seem uncertain.

Trump, who has pledged to champion “the forgotten men and women of America,” has spent about one-third of his first year in office at properties that bear his name, most frequently visiting Mar-a-Lago and his golf clubs in Virginia and New Jersey.WASHINGTON ― Such is the divisiveness of today’s political climate that three grown siblings who each raised three kids near their hometown, in the area where they all still live, could stop talking to each other for weeks because a guy got elected.

The siblings told HuffPost this week that a year after Donald Trump’s inauguration, things are better ― but their mother’s not so sure.

“Nothing has really changed,” said Renee Walker, 86. “It’s gotten worse in terms of our feelings within the family.”

Her son, Michael, is a 57-year-old builder and real estate developer in Port Washington, New York, who became a huge Trump supporter during the 2016 election. Her younger daughter, Shelly Betancourt, is a 59-year-old attorney who cannot believe the country elected someone she considers a monster.

After the election, Michael Walker skipped Thanksgiving, and Betancourt showed up late to Christmas in order to avoid spending time with her brother. Their older sister, Jodie Davies, has hosted both events at her house for years.

The pair resumed communication when Walker called to say he was coming to Trump’s inauguration and that he’d booked an extra night at his hotel so Betancourt could use it for the Women’s March. She got stuck in traffic on the way and didn’t make it.

“I have lived through several presidents. I have never seen such poison and hatred acceptable,” Renee Walker said. “It’s acceptable now, it’s OK to hate. Even the neo-Nazis ― they think Trump is wonderful.”

Serious political disagreements among family members might be happening more often, but they’re still not incredibly common, according to limited survey data. Twenty-nine percent of respondents to a HuffPost/YouGov survey early last year said they’d argued about politics with a relative in 2017, compared with 23 percent in May 2016 for that year.

Michael Walker used to be liberal, like his sisters, but had started leaning conservative since voting for Barack Obama. He kept quiet about it until throwing his support to Trump. So he thinks maybe they could cope with the fact of his Trump support a little better.

“In the past years I used to have to grin and bear it while they talked politics,” he said.

One thing that’s made it easier to get along, Betancourt said, is that her brother acknowledges that Trump has flaws.

“He has not exceeded my expectations in his ways of doing things, because he has shot himself in the foot many times,” Walker said.

“Him admitting that Trump is a jerk has made me feel better,” Betancourt said.

In December, she didn’t avoid the Christmas party at Davies’ house in Woodbury, New York ― though she did avoid talking about politics near her brother.

“I don’t want my kids to see a non-forgiveness type of behavior,” Betancourt said. “And my kids love him. He’s hilarious. He’s that fun uncle.”California’s top law enforcement officer put businesses on notice that they face up to a $10,000 fine if they illegally share information about their employees with federal immigration officials.

Attorney General Xavier Becerra issued the warning Thursday at a news conference after the San Francisco Chronicle reported that federal Immigration and Customs Enforcement officials are preparing a major sweep in San Francisco and other Northern California cities in a strike against the sanctuary state. Officials hope to net about 1,500 undocumented immigrants, according to the report.

“Regardless of what the rumors are, the law is the law, the Constitution is the Constitution, and people have rights,” Becerra said.

Becerra called for “mutual respect” between state and federal authorities. He said he hoped federal officials would follow federal law and the Constitution, and would respect state law. And he alerted employers.

Under a new state law, “no one — but more specifically, employers — [can] voluntarily give up ... employees’ rights to privacy,” Becerra said. “If you do so, you are subjecting yourselves to fines — up to $10,000 for violations.”

He warned: “Ignorance of the law is no excuse if you violate it ... we will prosecute those who violate the law.”

Becerra called reports of possible raids by federal officials “rumors.” He said his office is “reaching out” to federal officials to learn more.

But Thomas Homan, the acting director of ICE, said on Fox News earlier this month that “California better hold on tight. ... If the politicians in California don’t want to protect their communities, then ICE will.”

State and local officials reacted in anger after the Chronicle report. Oakland Mayor Libby Schaaf said Wednesday that she’s prepared to go to jail to defend her city’s sanctuary policies.

“This Administration has continually put a target on the back of California,” Sen. Kamala Harris (D-Calif.) told HuffPost in a statement Wednesday. “These broad brush raids will instill fear in immigrants who are terrified they will receive a midnight knock on the door and be deported or separated from their families.”

House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi (D-Calif.) called the plans “deeply shameful.” Sen. Dianne Feinstein (D-Calif.) and Harris released a joint letter to Holman asking to be “immediately briefed on the troubling reports.”

The state enacted two laws in 2017 to provide greater protection for immigrants in California. SB-54, known as the “sanctuary state” law, bars state and local law enforcement in most cases from using their resources, including equipment or personnel, to help with immigration enforcement. Personnel are also barred from asking residents about their immigration status and, in many cases, are barred from giving federal immigration officials access to people in custody.

AB-450, the Immigrant Labor Protection Act, deals specifically with the workplace. It bars employers from granting federal officials access to a workplace or employment records unless the authorities have a subpoena or warrant. Employers must also warn workers if their records are being reviewed by federal officials.

Becerra said guidelines are being prepared to help businesses understand what the law requires.WASHINGTON ― A day before a government shutdown, House Republican leaders cut a last-minute deal with conservatives to get a one-month spending bill out of their chamber and on to the Senate floor. But that legislation to extend government funding still faces challenges, particularly after conservatives won concessions that could set up a shutdown in the coming weeks and the Senate delayed a vote late Thursday night.

The House voted 230-197 for the four-week continuing resolution, with 11 Republicans voting no and six Democrats voting for it. A couple of hours later, Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.) set up a vote to end debate on the spending bill, and then promptly delayed it.

Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer (D-N.Y.) urged Republicans to hold the vote now, so Democrats could demonstrate that Republicans didn’t have the votes and lawmakers from both sides could work toward a different solution. But McConnell wasn’t having it. Now the Senate appears likely to vote Friday on ending debate, and unless something changes overnight, that vote still looks like it will fail.

President Donald Trump weighed in Friday, acknowledging the impasse and calling for more Republican victories in 2018:

Government Funding Bill past last night in the House of Representatives. Now Democrats are needed if it is to pass in the Senate - but they want illegal immigration and weak borders. Shutdown coming? We need more Republican victories in 2018! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) January 19, 2018

All day Thursday, the stopgap spending bill has looked to be in doubt, both because of Senate Democrats and House conservatives. In the House, the conservative House Freedom Caucus confidently told any reporter who’d listen that they had enough votes in their caucus to stop the bill, assuming every Democrat opposed the measure.

The promises from Freedom Caucus Chairman Mark Meadows (R-N.C.) that he could ― and would ― sink the stopgap spending bill eventually forced House GOP leadership to cut a deal. In exchange for about 20 votes that Meadows said he had in his back pocket, Republican leaders agreed to hold a vote on a defense-only appropriations bill in the next 10 legislative days. That bill would break spending caps that lawmakers set in 2011, but it would not simultaneously raise those limits for non-defense spending. (The bill Republicans passed Thursday night would once again delay “sequestration,” the automatic spending cuts that would be triggered without an agreement.)

Conservatives also got commitments on the House voting on a conservative immigration bill that, in return for extending the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program, would approve money for a border wall, curtail family reunification immigration and end the diversity visa lottery program ― among other right-wing immigration priorities.

President Donald Trump personally approved of the agreement Thursday afternoon when he called Meadows during a Freedom Caucus meeting. With the president’s blessing, Meadows and former HFC Chairman Jim Jordan (R-Ohio) went to House Speaker Paul Ryan’s office and cut the deal.

The agreement got the bill out of the House, but it hasn’t guaranteed anything in the Senate. If anything, it may make Senate passage of the four-week continuing resolution (CR) even more difficult.

Senate Democrats have been lining up against this four-week CR for days now, even though it funds the Children’s Health Insurance Program for six years. Democrats oppose the bill because it doesn’t deliver any legislative fix for Dreamers, the undocumented immigrants who were brought to the United States as children.

Without a DACA deal, Senate Democrats look poised to vote against ending debate on the four-week CR. And if Republicans can’t close debate, government funding will lapse at midnight Friday.

Democrats always could supply enough support for the Senate to get to the magic number of 60 votes to push through the CR, but Democrats instead look more apt to reject the bill and maybe agree to a shorter term for the spending measure ― or insist on assurances of their own.

When HuffPost asked Meadows Thursday night what, in effect, conservatives really got ― because the deal conservatives struck was really to just hold two votes, not necessarily enact any real legislative changes, and defense hawks appeared to already have a deal to bring up a separate spending bill for the Pentagon ― Meadows said there were “subplots” to the agreement that he wouldn’t go into now.

Those subplots look like a pact that Republicans will pass the two bills conservatives angled for ― the defense-only spending legislation and the immigration measure ― and then not cave when Congress hits the next government funding deadline.

Trump and conservatives have seemed open to a shutdown fight, and, ultimately, this deal might move Congress closer to a shutdown either this week or in the near future.

Senate Democrats don’t, at the moment, appear to be bluffing that they’ll oppose ending debate on this short-term funding bill. And without an agreement, lawmakers can’t send a bill to the president’s desk.

Senators could strike a new deal on a CR, either for that shorter-term bill that some Democrats have indicated they’d support, or they could come up with a larger deal that would address DACA and win the support of Democrats in both chambers.

But short of those possibilities, or some other last-minute option, Congress still appears to be veering toward a shutdown that no lawmaker really wanted.The Pentagon scrubbed its latest National Defense Strategy of all references to climate change, an Orwellian rhetorical shift away from a scientific reality at an agency that has long avoided the issue’s politics.

A summary document released Friday morning makes no mention of “climate,” “warming,” “planet,” “sea levels” or even “temperature.” All 22 uses of the word “environment” refer to the strategic or security landscape. The 11-page memo, signed by Defense Secretary James Mattis, is the first update to the policy in a decade.

It’s unlikely the Department of Defense will release a full National Defense Strategy report; instead, the document is expected to remain classified. The Pentagon did not immediately return a call requesting comment.

The move comes a month after the White House dropped climate change from the list of threats in its National Security Strategy. But it was not unexpected. Days after the president released his security memo, the Pentagon’s No. 2 civilian official said the National Defense Strategy would not “specifically address climate change.”

“It really reflects the high priorities of the department,” Deputy Defense Secretary Patrick Shanahan told reporters at the time.

The George W. Bush administration first added climate change to its 32-page National Defense Strategy report in 2008, clearly stating: “[C]hanges with existing and future resource, environmental, and climate pressures may generate new security challenges ... These risks will require managing the divergent needs of massively increasing energy demand to maintain economic development and the need to tackle climate change.”

The new strategy contradicts Mattis, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Gen. Joseph Dunford and four other former top military commanders who were quoted in the defense bill President Donald Trump signed last month saying things such as, “Climate change is a national security issue.” The National Defense Authorization Act devoted roughly 870 words to the “vulnerabilities to military installations” linked to global warming and sea level rise over the next two decades, and warned that climate-linked droughts and famines could lead to more failed states and propagate terrorist organizations.

President Trump delivers a speech aboard the U.S. Navy aircraft carrier Gerald R. Ford in Newport News, Virginia. Jonathan Ernst / Reuters

The military began studying climate change as far back as May 1990, when the U.S. Naval War College issued a 73-page report titled “Global Climate Change Implications for the United States.” The report found that Naval operations in the coming half century may be drastically affected by the impact of global climate change.

Despite the Bush administration’s official opposition to greenhouse gas regulations, the National Defense University published a report in October 2003 warning that “global warming could have a chilling effect on the military.” That same month, the Defense Department’s Office of Net Assessment drafted a report urging immediate action to prepare for the “not the most likely” but “plausible” scenario in which climate change became a problem.

Yet the military remains woefully unprepared. The Naval Station Norfolk, the world’s largest naval base, suffers from routine flooding, even when the sun is shining, and there is no plan in place to fix it, InsideClimate News reported.

In one chapter of journalist Jeff Goodell’s new book, “The Water Will Come,” officials at the base admit that they bill efforts to raise docks as maintenance projects without referencing sea level rise.

Yet the issue has become impossible to ignore. Phyllis Bayer, Trump’s nominee to oversee Navy facilities, said climate change and sea level rise “is one of my top priorities if confirmed in the job” at a Senate confirmation hearing Thursday.

“We can talk about climate change in a variety of ways, but one is sea level rise. And it’s happening, it’s visible and it seems to be accelerating,” Sen. Angus King (I-Maine) said. “I think we need to know where our problems are.”