Kamil Krzaczynski / Reuters

Nearly a year after Barack Obama left the Oval Office, the public’s opinions of his presidency have retroactively improved across the board, a new HuffPost/YouGov survey finds.

Half of Americans now say they approve of Obama’s tenure in office, with 43 percent disapproving, for a net +7 rating, a modest improvement from where he stood last December.

But the former president has seen his image burnished more significantly during the past year on many of the specific issues he handled. The biggest shifts come regarding his record on the environment, on which he left office with already strong ratings, and on immigration and “the way things work in Washington,” two of the areas on which he garnered his lowest scores.

Americans, who said by a 15-point margin in December 2016 that they disapproved of Obama’s record on immigration, now say by a 3-point margin that they approve.

HuffPost

There’s been relatively little movement among Hillary Clinton and Donald Trump voters, with a few exceptions ― since December 2016, for instance, Clinton voters have grown 13 points likelier to support Obama’s record on the way things work in Washington. But some of the biggest changes appear to be among those who sat out the last presidential election. The share of non-voters who approve of Obama’s record on the environment and immigration have risen 19 points and 17 points, respectively; and he saw a 14-point increase among that group for “the way things work in Washington,” and for “helping people like you.”

The upward trend isn’t entirely new. Obama had already seen his ratings improve on a host of issues by the time a HuffPost/YouGov poll was taken last June. But in the months since, he’s seen further positive re-evaluation on several topics, taking his ratings for foreign policy and immigration out of the red for the first time in these surveys.

Opinions about Obama’s signature health care law also turned positive over the past year, and recent polling has found that Americans remain more likely to give credit to him than to President Trump for the current state of the economy.

Former presidents are often received more kindly by the public after they’ve departed the White House.

“Americans tend to be more charitable in their evaluations of past presidents than they are when the presidents are in office,” Gallup’s Jeffrey M. Jones noted in 2013. “Former presidents likely transcend politics when they leave office, moving into a more nonpolitical role compared with the highly political environment in which presidents operate. And Americans’ retrospective views of presidents may focus more on their accomplishments as president rather than the day-to-day political decisions or the state of the nation that are big influences on their approval ratings while in office.”

Use the widget below to further explore the results of the HuffPost/YouGov survey, using the menu at the top to select survey questions and the buttons at the bottom to filter the data by subgroups:

The HuffPost/YouGov poll consisted of 1,000 completed interviews conducted Jan. 10-11 among U.S. adults, using a sample selected from YouGov’s opt-in online panel to match the demographics and other characteristics of the adult U.S. population.

HuffPost has teamed up with YouGov to conduct daily opinion polls. You can learn more about this project and take part in YouGov’s nationally representative opinion polling. More details on the polls’ methodology are available here.As Donald Trump unveiled his “Fake News Awards,” Reporters Without Borders, the international press freedom advocacy group, lambasted the U.S. president for “grotesque” behavior and actions “unworthy of the country that adopted the First Amendment.”

In the first year of his presidency, Trump “has not let one week go by without attacking and denigrating journalists,” the Paris-based nonprofit said on its website Wednesday.

“Trump’s behavior is gradually pushing the United States towards an anti-journalist climate worthy of the worst countries for press freedom, although he swore to protect and defend this freedom at his inauguration,” the group’s secretary-general, Christophe Deloire, said in a statement. “By attacking journalists in this way and grotesquely treating the media as children, Donald Trump poses a major threat to U.S. democracy.”

The Reporters Without Borders statement adds to fierce criticism of Trump’s administration by journalism advocacy groups. The Committee to Protect Journalists this month awarded Trump the title of the world’s most oppressive leader toward press freedom, and likened him to strongmen like Turkish president Recep Tayyip Erdoğan and Russian leader Vladimir Putin, who “have gone above and beyond to silence critical voices and weaken democracy.”

Reporters Without Borders, reacting to Trump’s “Fake News Awards,” said it was launching a social media campaign ridiculing the president’s anti-media rhetoric. It mockingly shows other world anti-press world leaders, including Turkey’s Erdogan, China’s Xi Jinping, and Iran’s Ali Khamenei, praising Trump for “his efforts and his creativity in trampling on media freedom.”

“With humor, this campaign points out that the U.S. president’s actions are unworthy of the country that adopted the First Amendment,” Deloire said.

Trump shared his “Fake News Awards” via Twitter on Wednesday night, linking to a GOP website post listing 10 news stories from media outlets including CNN and The New York Times that the president had deemed “fake.”

Many of the stories on the list had been corrected or amended by the outlets that had published them. All were critical of Trump or his administration.

Trump’s promotion of the so-called awards prompted backlash from people on both sides of the aisle.

Stuart Stevens, a veteran Republican strategist, told Politico that Trump’s peddling of the list was “an attack on the First Amendment.”

In a Washington Post op-ed this week, Sen. John McCain (R-Ariz.) blasted Trump’s “unrelenting attacks on the integrity of American journalists and news outlets,” which he said was providing “cover for repressive regimes” in other parts of the world.

“The phrase ‘fake news’ — granted legitimacy by an American president — is being used by autocrats to silence reporters, undermine political opponents, stave off media scrutiny and mislead citizens,” McCain wrote.

Reporters Without Borders said America’s reputation as an advocate for media freedom is rapidly eroding.

“After falling two places last year, the United States is currently ranked 43rd out of 180 countries in [our] World Press Freedom Index,” the nonprofit said.The New York Times announced online Wednesday that the Thursday print edition would feature a number of letters from supporters of President Donald Trump “in the spirit of open debate.”

The newspaper admitted to publishing a number of critical pieces of Trump in the last year and, in an effort to understand those who disagree with its editorial board, will “let Mr. Trump’s supporters make their best case for him.”

Letters that went online Wednesday highlighted a number of the same issues, including Trump’s tax reform, the U.S. Embassy move in Israel to Jerusalem and the fight against the so-called Islamic State.

“I’m thrilled with the progress that President Trump has made in defeating ISIS, cutting taxes for middle-class families and making court appointments,” Emily Robertson from Austin, Texas, wrote in her letter. “Thanks to the tax cuts, my husband and I stand to keep a much larger portion of our paychecks.”

Not many of Trump’s supporters seem to approve of his aggressive, bully-like demeanor, though.

I voted against Hillary Clinton more than I voted for Donald Trump. That said, President Trump has exceeded my wildest expectations. https://t.co/6Si7J6jlFU — NYT Opinion (@nytopinion) January 18, 2018

Quite a few of the letters admit that the president’s speeches and tweets are a problem, with one writer calling him a “crude, rude, clueless dude.” Yet there seems to be a consensus among Trump supporters that the last year was defined by more than just social media.

“If it takes putting up with Mr. Trump’s brash ways to see things get done, that is a deal I’m willing to accept,” Jason Peck of Holtsville, New York, wrote in his letter. “To be honest, I’m not sure he would have accomplished what he has so far without being an unrelenting public bully.”

The Times has made an effort in the last year to shed its reputation, deserved or not, for liberal elitism. Giving more voice to Trump fans is only the latest effort to restructure its opinion page. Bret Stephens, a conservative columnist, was brought aboard even though he has controversial opinions on issues such as climate change and the Middle East.One of the most powerful Republicans in North Carolina defended his state’s redistricting process, which federal courts have repeatedly rebuked, saying it was a “model” other states could follow.

The comments from North Carolina House Speaker Tim Moore come just a week after a panel of three federal judges struck down the state’s congressional map for egregiously benefitting Republicans. That map was intended to be a fix to an earlier one, drawn in 2011, where the U.S. Supreme Court agreed two districts amounted to unconstitutional racial gerrymandering.

The opinion was unequivocal and scathing at parts, with the judges noting lawmakers didn’t even try to advance a “democratic, constitutional, or public interest.” The purpose of the map, the judges wrote, was to advance the GOP’s electoral interests.

Republican lawmakers, who drew the maps, are appealing the ruling to the U.S. Supreme Court. In an interview with WFAE, Moore was defiant, saying the maps were constitutional and well drawn.

“Frankly, it’s a model other states could follow,” Moore told local NPR station WFAE, speaking about North Carolina’s redistricting process. “We were running previously under districts that were approved in 2011 that had been pre-cleared by the Obama Justice Department at the time. And then roughly last year, the court applies this new standard now to strike them down. We then drew the districts and this new map we have. This new map splits fewer counties, fewer precincts and is more compact than in any congressional districts in any recent or modern history of the state.”

According to an analysis by the Brennan Center for Justice, North Carolina’s congressional map is one of the most severely gerrymandered for partisan bias in the country. The analysis estimates the state’s map is responsible for an additional two or three Republican seats in Congress.

“Sure, North Carolina’s Republican leaders have created a model – a model for how to manipulate elections. They have made a mockery of American democracy,” said Kathay Feng, the national redistricting director at Common Cause, which was one of the plaintiffs in the suit challenging the partisanship of the Congressional map. “North Carolinians expect and deserve elections where their votes matter.”

Republicans in North Carolina have a super majority in the state’s legislature, and the state’s congressional map gives the GOP a 10 to three advantage in its congressional delegation. When Republicans were redrawing the maps in 2016, Rep. David Lewis, the Republican in charge of the redistricting committee, said in a meeting he wanted to draw the maps that way because he didn’t think it was possible to draw a map with “11 Republicans and two Democrats.”

Separately from the issue of the congressional map, the Supreme Court last year upheld a ruling from a three-judge panel striking down 28 of North Carolina’s state legislative districts as unconstitutional racial gerrymandering. After giving Republicans a chance to draw new constitutional districts, the panel of judges appointed a special master to assist in drawing the maps for the new districts.

Last year, Republicans also considered new maps for state courts that would have required many African-American and Democratic judges to run against one another. Critics say the plan is part of a brazen effort to get more Republicans on the bench.

“If a state wants to rack up millions of dollars in attorneys’ fees (paid to both defense attorneys and victorious plaintiffs’ attorneys) and get unanimously rebuked by the United States Supreme Court, sure. North Carolina is a great model if those are the goals,” said Allison Riggs, a senior attorney at the Southern Coalition for Social Justice, a group that has repeatedly sued the state over its redistricting plans.A teen suspect is in custody after police responded to reports of shots fired at a high school in Palmdale, California. One person has been injured, according to multiple reports.

Update: 1 suspect being detained regarding the person with a gun the call at Highland High school in Palmdale. @PalmdaleSheriff @LANLASD @SEBLASD @SCVSHERIFF Deputies on scene searching campus. No other information available. — LA County Sheriff's (@LASDHQ) May 11, 2018

Numerous 911 calls came in Friday morning about an incident at Highland High School. The school was placed on lockdown while police responded, a spokesman for the Palmdale Sheriff’s Station told HuffPost. The Bureau of Alcohol, Firearms, Tobacco and Explosives also responded to the scene.

The school has approximately 3,000 students. The injured victim is a 17-year-old male who was shot in the arm, ABC 7 reported. He is in stable condition, the Los Angeles County Sheriff’s office said.

Update Regarding Highland High School in Palmdale:



1 victim shot in the arm at Highland High School. At local hospital now. stable condition.



1 Firearm recovered.



1 Subject detained, and is a Male Hispanic Juvenile. — LA County Sheriff's (@LASDHQ) May 11, 2018

A firearm was recovered and the detained suspect is a 14-year-old male, authorities said.

Meanwhile, an elementary school just seven miles away from Highland also had a police presence after reports of gunshots being heard. Authorities later gave an all-clear for Manzanita Elementary School.

Update regarding Manzanita Elementary School in Palmdale: Deputies have searched the campus. School is clear. So far, no evidence of crime. Investigation still ongoing — LA County Sheriff's (@LASDHQ) May 11, 2018Because everything is now impossibly stupid, MSNBC and a host of other websites and news outlets spent a decent amount of time this week covering the height and weight of President Donald Trump.

Stupid stories are fine. We certainly do our share. But there’s no excuse for doing stupid stories stupidly. Because everything is impossibly stupid, however, MSNBC and many other outlets decided to cover this stupid story by comparing the president’s alleged 6-foot-3, 239-pound body to... athletes who are similarly sized?

This is stupid, as Trey Burton, a 6-foot-3, 235-pound tight end for the Philadelphia Eagles, recognized when his name came up in one such comparison.Grant Faint via Getty Images

The U.S. Supreme Court on Thursday evening granted a request from Republican lawmakers in North Carolina to temporarily put on hold a lower court order that the state redraw its congressional map by next week.

A special panel of three federal judges had found that state Republicans turned the redistricting process so much to their advantage that it violated the First and 14th Amendments as well as Article I of the U.S. Constitution. The lower court ordered the lawmakers to draw a new map before the end of the month.

Republican lawmakers appealed the ruling to the high court.

Thursday’s brief order from the Supreme Court noted that Justices Sonia Sotomayor and Ruth Bader Ginsburg would have denied the request to delay the redrawing of congressional borders.

The stay makes it more likely that the 2018 midterm elections will proceed under the current congressional map, which give Republicans a 10-3 advantage in North Carolina’s U.S. House delegation.

Ruth Greenwood, senior legal counsel at the Campaign Legal Center, urged the high court to move quickly to resolve the case.

“North Carolina voters deserve to have a fair map before the 2018 election, or they risk a fourth consecutive election under an unconstitutional map that does not reflect their preferences,” Greenwood said in a statement. “A single election under an unconstitutional map is one too many; four are intolerable.”

The Supreme Court’s decision to stay the lower court’s order is not entirely surprising because the court is currently considering two other cases dealing with partisan gerrymandering. The justices are trying to figure out whether there is a legal standard to determine when partisan gerrymandering goes so far that it is unconstitutional and whether courts should even wade into the issue. The court also granted a stay in a gerrymandering case out of Wisconsin before it heard that case this term.

Still, some had hoped the justices would allow the lower court’s order for new maps to proceed in North Carolina. Republicans in that state openly admitted to drawing the congressional map to give the GOP a maximum political edge, and the lower court agreed it was a particularly brazen and clear-cut example of partisan gerrymandering.

In its own order declining a stay, the lower court had said such an action would send a bad message, telling to lawmakers “there is little downside to engaging in unlawful districting practices because ‘the federal courts are powerless to effectively redress [voters’] grievances.’”House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi (D-Calif.) will be one of the guest judges on the upcoming season of “RuPaul’s Drag Race: All Stars,” VH1 announced Thursday.

House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi will be a guest judge on "RuPaul's Drag Race: All Stars." Win McNamee/Getty Images

Pelosi got involved as a show of “solidarity in the face of what she calls attacks against LGBT people by the Trump administration,” a spokesperson for the congresswoman told The Washington Post.

The aide also said Pelosi, whose episode already taped, had a “fabulous” time, which the Democrat herself reiterated on Twitter:

All I can say is, you betta werk! Had a fabulous time with @RuPaul and good luck to all the queens. #DragRace https://t.co/ZrJDyDmuVh — Nancy Pelosi (@NancyPelosi) January 18, 2018

The network announced that other guest judges set to join Michelle Visage, Carson Kressley and Ross Mathews for Season 3 include: Vanessa Hudgens, Tituss Burgess, Kristin Chenoweth, Marc Jacobs, Shay Mitchell, Chris Colfer, Vanessa Williams, Adam Lambert, Constance Zimmer, Emma Bunton, Todrick Hall, Garcelle Beauvais, Jeffrey Bowyer-Chapman and Nicole Byer.

“RuPaul’s Drag Race: All Stars” features past contestants from “RuPaul’s Drag Race” competing for a spot in the show’s Hall of Fame.

Season 3 of "RuPaul's Drag Race: All Stars" premieres Jan. 25. Bennett Raglin via Getty ImagesGlobal views on U.S. leadership have plummeted since President Donald Trump took office, according to a Gallup poll.

The poll, released Thursday, shows that only 30 percent of the public approves of U.S. leadership, down from 48 percent in 2016. At the same time, 43 percent of people expressed a negative opinion of the U.S. leadership, up from 28 percent in 2016.

The previous record for lowest global approval rating came in 2007― the first year Gallup did the polling ― during the end of George W. Bush’s administration, amid the global financial crisis. The results are based on phone and in-person interviews with approximately 1,000 people in more than 130 countries.

Meanwhile, approval of China’s leadership was at 31 percent. Yes, you heard that right ― about as many people trust China, with an abysmal record on human rights and press freedom, as the U.S.

Trump’s America First agenda ― and his more isolated stances on trade, immigration and climate change ― also has damaged the U.S. reputation abroad, Gallup said. Trump’s decision last year to pull the U.S. out of the historic Paris climate pact was especially unpopular, with politicians and business leaders worldwide resoundingly denouncing the move.

French President Emanuel Macron in December underscored the gaps in confidence by awarding more than a dozen U.S.-based scientists millions of dollars in funding for climate research.

“We will be there to replace” the U.S. on funding of climate science, Macron said during a major climate meeting where Trump was not invited.WASHINGTON ― President Donald Trump on Thursday used Twitter to add confusion to his stance on two key issues, one day before Congress’ deadline for passing legislation to keep the government open.

In several tweets, Trump insisted that he stands by his signature campaign promise, a wall along the U.S.-Mexico border. His comments directly contradicted his chief of staff John Kelly, who reportedly told Democratic congressional leaders that Trump had softened his views on the wall because he had previously been “uninformed.”

We need the Wall for the safety and security of our country. We need the Wall to help stop the massive inflow of drugs from Mexico, now rated the number one most dangerous country in the world. If there is no Wall, there is no Deal! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) January 18, 2018

In a Fox News interview later that day, Kelly similarly said that Trump has “changed the way he’s looked at a number of things,” and did not deny the reports of what he said at the Capitol Hill meeting, which congressional Democrats confirmed.

“There’s been an evolutionary process that this president has gone through,” Kelly said.

Trump has been using the wall as a bargaining chip in negotiations over how to deal with undocumented immigrants brought to the U.S. as children. Democrats, who oppose the wall, have been pushing for a so-called clean bill that allows these immigrants to stay in the U.S. Without such a bill, they have threatened to not support a government funding bill.

Trump was angry following Kelly’s interview, according to CNN.

Trump in his tweets also bucked GOP congressional leaders, saying that funding for the Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP), which has also been hanging in the balance, should be included in future legislation, not a short-term bill funding the government.

CHIP should be part of a long term solution, not a 30 Day, or short term, extension! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) January 18, 2018

Republican leaders attached a provision for CHIP, which has been running out of money, in hopes of getting Democrats to back what’s known as a continuing resolution, which would give Congress more time to work out a long-term spending bill.

Later Thursday morning, the White House attempted to walk back Trump’s tweet, issuing a statement affirming that the president does support House GOP leaders’ proposal for extending CHIP funding.

This article has been updated with the White House statement on CHIP funding.There's no evidence that so-called honor killings are a problem in the U.S., but domestic violence is. Kevin Lamarque / Reuters

More than 1,000 U.S. women are killed by their husbands, boyfriends or former partners each year. But that’s not the number we should pay attention to, according to the Trump administration. Americans, the administration suggests, should instead focus on a small subset of those crimes: the ones committed by immigrants.

That’s the argument behind a report ordered by President Donald Trump in March and released Tuesday by the Department of Homeland Security and the Justice Department. The report, which highlights crimes committed by immigrants, shines a new light “on acts of gender-based violence,” the White House said.

Trump, as part of his executive order blocking citizens from six Muslim-majority countries from entering the U.S., tasked the government with collecting data on gender-based crimes committed by foreign nationals and releasing it to the public. But the report he commissioned doesn’t accurately describe the gender-based violence it focuses on. Instead, it offers misleading statistics that provide zero evidence that immigrants are any more likely than anyone else to commit crimes against U.S. women.

“The report does two things. First, it sensationalizes a very small percentage of gender-based violence cases to feed into the centuries-old fallacy of violence against women, the fallacy being that this happens only to white women by ‘the other,’” explained Ruth Glenn, executive director of the National Coalition Against Domestic Violence. “Secondly, it is also a severe marginalization of women of all backgrounds, classes, colors, and cultures who have endured (and continue to endure) suffering for being women by men of all backgrounds, classes, colors and cultures.”

Take the example of so-called honor killings, crimes in which women are murdered by relatives who claim the victims shamed the family name, which the report highlights. Globally, an estimated 5,000 “honor killings” occur each year, mainly concentrated in countries in the Middle East, North Africa and Asia.

As evidence of the prevalence of “honor killings” in the U.S., the report cites a study by the Bureau of Justice Statistics, which “estimated that an average of 23-27 honor killings occur every year.” But those figures, according to the bureau’s study, are drawn from unpublished research that applied U.S. demographic characteristics to another country’s honor killing statistics ― a method the researcher himself called “not terribly scientific.”

Many “honor killings” look indistinguishable from what are usually called domestic violence homicides in the U.S. For instance, in 2015, nearly 1,100 women were killed in “honor killings” in Pakistan. One of the main causes of honor killings was domestic disputes, according to a report by the Human Rights Commission of Pakistan. In the majority of the cases, the perpetrators were current or former spouses of the victims, just like in domestic killings in the U.S., and most women were killed with a gun, same as here.

It is unclear how Trump’s administration plans to track gender-based crimes committed by immigrants. Neither the Justice Department nor Homeland Security responded to HuffPost’s repeated requests for information over the course of six months.

On its face, tracking the crimes is daunting, as domestic violence, a form of gender-based violence, is extremely common in the U.S. The report acknowledges this difficulty, noting that there are an average of 1.3 million non-fatal domestic violence victimizations in the U.S. annually, and no way of knowing how many are perpetrated by foreign nationals, as most jurisdictions don’t note the immigration status of the offender in records of crimes.

The Justice Department is “committed to working with our law enforcement partners to determine the best way to report these statistics,” an official told HuffPost on Wednesday.

The Trump administration report also features a section on forced marriages that has come under fire from the organization that performed the research it cites. The report states that approximately “1,500 forced marriages occur every year” in the U.S. But Tahirih Justice Center, which collected the data, says the statistic is being presented incorrectly.

The nonprofit in 2011 surveyed legal and social services providers about their clients in the previous two years, and counted 3,000 cases of forced marriages. A 2014 Bureau of Justice Statistics study cut this figure in half to come up with an estimate of 1,500 cases of forced marriages per year. That’s inaccurate, Tahirih Justice Center says, because its research only tallied people who had experienced forced marriages ― but not when or where those marriages occurred. They could have taken place outside the two-year period of its study, or in places outside the U.S.

“It’s hypocritical for this administration to try to justify its restrictionist immigration policies by pointing to gender-based violence,” said Archi Pyati, chief of policy at Tahirih Justice Center. “In fact, the immigration policies of this administration are leaving immigrant victims more vulnerable.”Workers from Wuhan Guangsheng Photovoltaic Company install solar panels on the roof of a building in Wuhan, China. In August, China announced it had already eclipsed its 2020 goal in solar installations. Kevin Frayer via Getty Images

In November 2013, more than 15,000 scientists reissued a warning to humanity of “widespread misery and catastrophic biodiversity loss” unless business-as-usual changed. “By failing to adequately limit population growth, reassess the role of an economy rooted in growth, reduce greenhouse gases, incentivize renewable energy, protect habitat, restore ecosystems, curb pollution, halt defaunation, and constrain invasive alien species, humanity is not taking the urgent steps needed to safeguard our imperilled biosphere,” they wrote.

Former UN climate chief Christiana Figueres and physicist Stefan Rahmstorf last year warned that the world has approximately three years before the worst effects of climate change become inevitable. In an open letter they urged companies, communities, countries and citizens to cut carbon emissions now, arguing that failure means fires, floods, droughts, rising sea levels, extreme weather, agricultural losses and massive insurance costs. Between 2008 and 2016, climate related disasters displaced 21.5 million people.

Humanity is in a horse race with catastrophe. The good news is that we are in the race. But even if we win, it will change our economy beyond recognition.

We have the technologies to solve the worst of the crises facing us, and buy the time to deal with the rest. Back in 2009, Stanford scientist Dr. Mark Jacobson said that renewable energy could power the entire world by 2030. His Solutions Project calculated how to do this for every state in the U.S. and many countries. More recently, scholars like Christian Breyer have shown how to do this with photovoltaics alone.

Stanford Professor Tony Seba argues that not only is the transition to renewables possible, it is inevitable.

In his book Clean Disruption Seba describes how the convergence of disruptive technologies and business models makes a renewable world inevitable. He focuses on four factors: the fall in the cost of solar energy, the fall in the cost of storage (batteries), the rise of the electric vehicle, and the advent of the driverless car.

These innovations, he argues, by delivering renewably powered, electric vehicle transit as a service will be ten times cheaper than current private ownership of internal combustion cars. In the process, the shift to EVs will move us to a completely renewable energy system.

He reminds doubters that experts totally underestimated sales of mobile phones. In the 1990s, McKinsey told ATT to expect 900,000 mobile subscribers by the year 2000. They were off by 108 million. By 2014 there were more mobile phones on earth than the seven billion people, increasing five times faster than humans.

“When the Kentucky Coal Museum puts solar on its roof rather than plug into the coal fired electric grid at its doorstep, you know that the fossil era is over”

A new solar array goes up in the U.S. every 150 seconds, but can the whole world be renewable by 2030?

Why? Because the cost of solar is falling rapidly. In October Saudi Arabia announced the new world record low price in an auction bid: 1.7¢/kWh. When the Kentucky Coal Museum puts solar on its roof rather than plug into the coal fired electric grid at its doorstep, you know that the fossil era is over.

So we can run our society on solar energy, but what if the sun isn’t shining or the wind blowing?

Storage technology to make renewable energy available 24/7 is only in its infancy as an industry, but its prices are falling, too.

When the Aliso Canyon natural gas well blew out, spewing 100,000 metric tons of methane, a potent greenhouse gas, the local utility feared it would be unable to keep lights on in Southern California. In record time, Tesla and others brought online more than 70 megawatts of energy storage at a price cheaper than building a new gas peaking plant, and vastly faster.

In late 2016 the Financial Times reported that Fitch Ratings warned: “Widespread adoption of battery-powered vehicles is a serious threat to the oil industry,” noting that transport accounted for 55 percent of total oil use in 2014. In the U.S. it accounted for 71 percent of oil use, according to 2016 figures.

It endangers the banks, as well: a quarter of all corporate debt, perhaps as much as $3.4 trillion, is related to utility and car company bonds that are tied to fossil fuel use.

Anyone doubting this risk must have been sobered when, in September 2017, China announced it was going to phase out internal combustion vehicles. Given that China represents a quarter of the global automobile market, this – coupled with India, France, the UK, and Norway making similar announcements – is an existential crisis for both the oil and car industries.

About a week after China’s announcement, Jerry Brown, the Governor of California, the world’s fifth largest economy, asked Mary Nichols, head of the state’s Air Resources Board, whether California could do the same. Two days later she said yes. Two days later Jerry said then we will. That was a Friday.

On the Monday, General Motors, which had reclaimed its coveted status of the world’s leading automobile manufacturer on the strength of its Bolt electric car, announced that its future is electric. Meanwhile, Daimler, Volkswagen and Volvo have committed to electrifying their entire product portfolios.

The Chevrolet Bolt EV. Josh Lefkowitz via Getty Images

In November, Elon released an all-electric long haul truck, and China announced the launch of the world’s first all-electric cargo ship.

We’re three for three on Seba’s predictions. But in Seba’s scenario it’s the autonomous electric vehicle (AEV) that drives the real reduction in cost he claims will make the disruption inevitable. Are AEVs more than just science fiction?

To get the straight story, I talked to Tom Chi, the head of Product Experience at Google X and one of the designers of the self-driving Google car.

“Within ten years?” asked Tom. “Easy.” Tesla, he said, released its driverless vehicle when it was as safe as a human driven car. Remember, hundreds of thousands of people die every year in car crashes. Teslas have driven more than 5 billion miles in autonomous mode, en route to the company’s 10 billion mile safety proof point. In fact, all Teslas are now capable of full autonomous mode. The Google car has driven four million real miles, and 2.5 billion simulated miles. GM just announced that it is pivoting its business model to offer autonomous electric vehicle Transit as a Service by 2019.

Does that make it four for four? Is Tony right?

You decide. But realize that if the evidence laid out here is true, it has profound implications for everything. It will mean the dissolution in value, likely complete loss of the oil, gas, coal, uranium, nuclear, utility, auto industries, the banks that hold the loan paper for all of these companies and the pension funds and insurance companies that are invested in them.

It will mean an economic collapse on a scale never seen coming at us within about 10 years.

Consider oil. In 2011, Carbon Tracker calculated that at least 80 percent of the fossil deposits still in the ground would have to stay in the ground if the world is to avoid warming beyond 2C more that pre-industrial levels.

Given that those fossil assets are on the balance sheets of some of the world’s wealthiest companies and form the basis of the sovereign wealth funds of many nations around the world, John Fullerton of the Capital Institute predicted that this implied a write-off of at least $20 trillion dollars. In contrast, Fullerton warned, the 2008 financial collapse was triggered by the stranding of only $2.7 trillion in mortgage assets.

What can be done?

It appears unwise to have any of your assets in the industries that will be disrupted. Bevis Longstreth, former Securities and Exchange Commissioner, observed: “It is entirely plausible, even predictable, that continuing to hold equities in fossil fuel companies will be ruled negligence.”

Where does your energy come from? Are you dependent on an industry that is at risk? Millions of people, communities and cities are going 100 percent renewable.

Is your job at risk? Companies will either become part of the solution, or they won’t be a problem because they won’t be around. The emerging industries are creating millions of jobs, but millions are at risk. Will we substitute a Universal Basic Income? Will we descend into unimaginable darkness? Or will we create a Finer Future?

Either way, we will totally transform the global economy. The crises we face and the inevitabilities of change described here will drive this change.TASS via Getty Images

ALMATY (Reuters) - A bus fire in northwestern Kazakhstan killed 52 Uzbek citizens on a route used by migrant workers heading to Russia, the Kazakh Interior Ministry said on Thursday.

The bus was traveling along a road in the remote Aktobe region that links the Russian city of Samara to Shymkent, a city in southern Kazakhstan close to the Uzbek border.

It was unclear in which direction the bus, a Hungarian-made Ikarus, had been traveling, but the route is widely used to transport Uzbek workers to and from Russia where they often take work on building sites.

Only five people managed to escape the burning vehicle, the interior ministry’s emergencies department said in a statement.

The ministry said the apparent accident had happened at 10.30 a.m. (0430 GMT), but provided no details about its cause.

A photograph posted online from the site showed the bus completely burnt out. Video footage also posted on the Web showed it positioned diagonally across a two-lane freeway in the middle of a snow-covered steppe, in flames and emitting heavy black smoke.

Uzbekistan’s foreign ministry said in a statement its embassy staff were en route to the area, roughly midway between the Russian border and the Aral Sea.Britain has appointed its first ever minister for loneliness after research found that one in 10 people in the U.K. face isolation, a condition that can trigger a range of physical and mental health issues.

As Prime Minister Theresa May announced Tracey Crouch’s appointment on Wednesday, she called loneliness “the sad reality of modern life” for “far too many people.”

“I want to confront this challenge for our society and for all of us to take action to address the loneliness endured by the elderly, by carers, by those who have lost loved ones ― people who have no one to talk to or share their thoughts and experiences with,” May said in a statement.

Both proud & humbled to be appointed #loneliness minister in order to continue Jo Cox's great work & deliver recommendations of the @JoCoxFoundation working in partnership across gov, business & so many brilliant orgs/charities to combat social isolation & loneliness pic.twitter.com/6vhBcPzoFm — Tracey Crouch (@tracey_crouch) January 17, 2018

Crouch, a junior minister for sport and civil society, has vowed to deliver recommendations from the U.K.’s Jo Cox Commision on Loneliness, an organization that works to combat social isolation and loneliness.

The commission is named after Labour Party lawmaker Jo Cox, who was a prominent advocate for addressing the issue of loneliness in Britain before her 2016 shooting death by a right-wing extremist. During her work with the commission, which the 41-year-old set up shortly before her death, Cox had called for the appointment of such a minister, Reuters reported.

“Jo would be over the moon,” her husband, Brendan Cox, tweeted.

One of the awful things about losing Jo is knowing how much difference she would have made in the world. When the kids wake up this morning I’m going to tell them how - even though she’s not here - she’s still making the world a better place. https://t.co/qqe4lSjy5g — Brendan Cox (@MrBrendanCox) January 17, 2018

According to statistics published in a report by the foundation in 2017, more than 9 million adults in the U.K. report feeling often or always lonely. For 3.6 million people aged 65 or older, it found, television is considered the main form of company.

But the harmful impact of loneliness is more than psychological. Having weak social connections is considered to be as damaging to one’s health as smoking 15 cigarettes a day, according to Brigham Young University Psychology Professor Julianne Holt Lunstad.

“There is robust evidence that social isolation and loneliness significantly increase risk for premature mortality and the magnitude of the risks exceeds that of many leading health indicators,” Lunstad is quoted as saying in the Jo Cox Commission’s report. “The challenge we now face is what can be done about it.”

Tracey Crouch, a junior minister for sport and civil society, has been named the U.K.'s first-ever minister for loneliness. Eamonn M. McCormack via Getty Images

Former U.S. Surgeon General Dr. Vivek Murthy has also expressed concern about the effects of loneliness on health. In an article in the Harvard Business Review last year, he wrote that it can be associated “with a greater risk of cardiovascular disease, dementia, depression and anxiety.”

Like in the U.K., Murthy considers loneliness to be a growing health epidemic in the United States, with more than 40 percent of adults there reporting that they feel lonely — though he noted that that number could be even higher.

Among those who are disabled or take care of the disabled, loneliness is particularly stark, research suggests.

A commission established by Jo Cox before she was murdered has found that loneliness is deadlier than obesity pic.twitter.com/Z5Cszq9LPy — Sky News (@SkyNews) December 16, 2017

More than half of all disabled people in the U.K. experience loneliness, with it being more prominent among younger individuals. Eight out of 10 caregivers have also felt lonely or isolated as a result of looking after a loved one, according to the Jo Cox Commission’s report.

“Many of the barriers to disabled people making friends and meeting people are practical, such as the need for accessible transport and buildings, financial support and appropriate social care,” Richard Kramer, CEO of the U.K. disability charity Sense, told HuffPost UK.

“A lack of understanding and awareness of disability is also a significant obstacle to making connections and forming friendships,” he said.India successfully test-fired a long-range intercontinental ballistic missile on Thursday in what officials called a “major boost” to the country’s strategic defense system.

The Agni-V missile, with a range of about 3,100 miles, has been in the works for several decades, a tweet from India’s congress said. The country, which has successfully tested this type of missile five times since 2012, last completed a launch in December 2016.

Successful test firing of Agni-V ICBM makes every Indian very proud. It will boost our strategic defence. Congratulations to the team of DRDO scientists. May you go further on this trajectory #PresidentKovind — President of India (@rashtrapatibhvn) January 18, 2018

The launch comes as some of the world’s nuclear powers are considering steps that would slow or reverse years of working to denuclearize their arsenals.

The North Korean nuclear threat looms over the rogue nation’s neighbors as well as the United States. The country continues to test what appear to be ICBMs, and President Donald Trump and North Korean leader Kim Jong-Un trade verbal jabs in an escalation that many fear could lead to nuclear war.TONIGHT: Problematic Trump attorney Michael Cohen may one day write a book on the art of influence peddling. #LSSC pic.twitter.com/1sxNLb6toz — The Late Show (@colbertlateshow) May 11, 2018

Stephen Colbert says Michael Cohen, embattled personal attorney to President Donald Trump, had no choice but to try influence-peddling from outside the White House.

The reason?

He couldn’t get a job on the inside ― because the role of “unqualified” White House staffer was already taken.Claudiad via Getty Images

An Australian state government minister has come under fire for appearing to suggest that tired or distracted drivers could be given electric shocks to prevent crashes.

It has been a horror week on roads in the state of New South Wales, with three deadly crashes in two days, including a seven-vehicle collision on a rural highway in which two people died and more than a dozen were injured. Even before those crashes, 19 people had died on the state’s roads in just 15 days.

On Wednesday, New South Wales roads minister Melinda Pavey announced extra funding for technology around crash testing, driver assistance and vehicle safety. In the process, she said that “technology now is so advanced, a driver can be driving and get an electric shock if they look away from the windscreen for more than two seconds.”

Pavey has been roundly panned for her statement.

“To not only ignore the actual problems that are killing people on our roads, but to also propose electrocuting people driving heavy vehicles, is not only baffling and deeply offensive to the families of those killed, it is also unconscionably dangerous in its negligence,” the Transport Workers Union said in a statement.

The union called her comments “heartless, arrogant and completely incompetent.”

In only 24 hours, five people in NSW have been killed in three truck-related crashes. Rather than address the extreme and unfair working conditions that are causing truck deaths, NSW Roads Minister @melindapaveyMP has seriously suggested *electrocuting drivers behind the wheel*. pic.twitter.com/ZGmzJrEAFF — TWU NSW (@TWUNSW) January 17, 2018

Pavey’s office told HuffPost her comments had been taken out of context, and that she was speaking generally about how far vehicle safety technology has progressed, not explicitly advocating shocks for drivers.

A spokeswoman for Pavey also pointed out that shock devices for drivers already exist, such as the Steer bracelet, which sends vibrations and shocks to drivers if their heart rate drops, a signal that they may be falling asleep or getting drowsy.

“I am both disgusted and appalled that today of all days the Transport Workers Union would play this kind of politics,” Pavey said in a statement to HuffPost.

“I spoke on other forms of technology being looked at in both the private and public sectors – specifically important measures around fatigue management. New technology for fatigue management are currently in place in Australia and being rolled out across fleets by our most responsible operators, and further research continues to highlight new measures.”

However, in other comments to the news.com.au website, Pavey appeared far more open to the idea of electric shocks for drivers.

“If a driver is a fluttering their eyes in tiredness or looking away, there are a variety of measures that can alert the driver,” she told the site. “That can be through an electronic jab through the seat that gives a slight buzz or a message and some of our best companies are using that technology and investing in their workforce and safety.”Jamesmcq24 via Getty Images

The push to legalize drug checking at music festivals in Australia is gathering momentum, with a new study reporting nearly 90 percent of participants said they would use such a service, if it were available, before taking illicit drugs.

Drug checking at music festivals has long been called for by public health advocates and drug reform campaigners. The summer music festival and party season in Australia often sadly sees many drug overdoses and deaths, with many of these reactions ascribed to people ingesting a substance that was sold as something else, or because the drug was laced with more toxic ingredients, such as detergent or rat poison.

Drug checking, also known as pill testing, has been in place at parties and music festivals throughout Europe for years. It has shown success in preventing deaths and injuries in the Netherlands, Austria, Portugal and other countries. With the service, someone who wants to take a drug can come to a booth where the pill or powder can be checked scientifically to produce a detailed analysis of its ingredients. Festival-goers can then make an informed decision about what they put in their body.

Despite vigorous efforts from campaigners, health experts and the federal Greens party, pill testing is still not permitted in Australia. Recent studies at Australian universities have indicated that young people want the services to be available and would heed warnings.

In a study of 642 people from Western Sydney University, conducted at a major Australian music festival in 2016 and published in the Harm Reduction Journal, more than 54 percent of respondents said they would be highly likely to use a free drug testing service at a festival. Another 33 percent said they would be somewhat likely to use it, making a total of 87 percent saying it would be useful. Participants also said the results of a test would influence their decision to take that drug, with 65 percent saying they would not take any substance found to contain methamphetamine, and 57 percent saying they would not take a substance containing the anesthetic ketamine.

“The idea is not to facilitate or condone drug use ― but to help people make better informed decisions, and to provide an opportunity for harm reduction information and health promotion messages to be given directly to young people,” said Dr Jennifer Johnston, research fellow at the University Centre for Rural Health North Coast, which was involved in the study.

A recent University of New South Wales study involving 850 young people found that 94 percent said they would use a drug checking service at clubs or festivals,

In 2015, the Australian Institute of Health and Welfare’s National Drug Strategy Household Survey reported 27 percent of Australians ages 20 to 29 had used illicit drugs in the previous 12 months. Australians use MDMA (ecstasy) at a slightly higher rate than the global average, according to the 2017 Global Drug Survey, and almost three-quarters of Australian MDMA users ingest the drug in pill form, the highest amount in the world. The 2014 United Nations World Drug Report found Australians had the world’s highest rate of ecstasy consumption. Despite this, a study of drug reports by American drug addiction information service Project Know found ecstasy available in Australia is among the most dangerous in the world.

Dr. David Caldicott, an emergency physician and drug expert, is one of those leading the charge for pill testing in Australia. His team is seeking permission for a trial at an Australian music festival in coming months. A planned trial at a Canberra festival last year was canceled at the last minute.

Caldicott, who has been pushing for such a program for over a decade, including a trial at a South Australian festival in 2005, wants to bring in “the latest equipment, forensic analysts, supervised by doctors.” He says he would set up shop in a visible part of the venue, asking potential drug users to bring their substance ― pill, powder or otherwise ― in for a test. The tests take 20 to 40 minutes for an accurate analysis.A new report from The Guardian details the stories of 15 people who worked for the U.N. and said it maintained a "culture of silence" surrounding sexual harassment and abuse. JEWEL SAMAD via Getty Images

Sexual harassment and assault have run rampant at United Nations offices around the world, with victims afraid to come forward and perpetrators rarely punished, according to a new report.

In a story published Thursday by The Guardian, 15 current and former female U.N. staffers, who remained anonymous, said they had experienced harassment or assault in the past five years. Seven of the women said they had reported the offenses, which ranged from verbal harassment to rape.

Dozens of other current and former employees told The Guardian they had witnessed “a culture of silence” at the organization, where victims fear they will risk retaliation at worst or inaction at best if they come forward about alleged assaults.

One woman, who alleged she was harassed by a supervisor while working for the World Food Programme, said it’s an “unsaid” rule that coming forward will mean ending your career.

Another woman, an aid worker who said she was harassed by a senior U.N. employee, said she received threats after trying to formally report the offense. “I had threats, sent through friends, that ‘She will never set foot in this office again,’” she said.

The U.N. press office did not immediately respond to a request for comment. But in a statement to The Guardian, a representative said the organization’s secretary general, António Guterres, has “prioritized addressing sexual harassment and upholding the zero tolerance policy.” The organization further pledged to “look at strengthening our capacities to investigate reports and to support victims.”

The international humanitarian organization has long faced scrutiny for abuses committed both internally and against civilians in countries where peacekeepers are installed. The international nature of the organization of some 44,000 employees makes it difficult to establish a centralized system for tackling abuse, The Guardian noted. Many senior staff enjoy diplomatic immunity and those who don’t may be working in countries with dysfunctional judicial systems.

A 2015 report from the Office of Internal Oversight Services, the U.N.’s internal watchdog, noted: “Very few victims have been assisted due to lack of dedicated funding and the slow enforcement process.”

The U.N. tracks allegations of sexual exploitation and abuse against U.N. staff, and even features a real-time table of the reported offenses on its website. It also lays out prevention, enforcement and remedial measures aimed at addressing the problem.The federal government is once again entering a shutdown as Congress failed to pass short-term funding legislation by midnight Friday.

Republicans and Democratic lawmakers remained at odds with each other and with President Donald Trump over a budget proposal, blocking attempts to avert the shutdown with a short-term spending bill.

You might be wondering what a “government shutdown” entails and how it could affect you. Let’s take a look.

How we got here

There have been 18 government shutdowns since the modern congressional budgeting process took effect in 1976.

The most recent occurred Oct. 1 to Oct. 16, 2013, under former President Barack Obama, over a dispute between Republicans and Democrats over the Affordable Care Act. The shutdown cost the U.S. economy at least $24 billion, according to the financial ratings agency Standard & Poor’s.

Today, lawmakers were fighting over several issues in the stopgap funding proposals. Republicans were split on efforts to include language that would increase military spending and allow for stricter immigration standards, while Democrats were looking to reach a deal on the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program, as well as funding for the Children’s Health Insurance Program, or CHIP.

Congress appeared to signal that an agreement was imminent earlier this week, but some lawmakers suggested Trump undermined the negotiations with his reported “shithole countries” comment last week and his tweet Thursday that questioned CHIP funding in the proposal.

What Could Close

Nonessential, or “non-exempted,” federal operations could cease. In 2013, roughly 850,000 federal workers received furloughs, meaning they were placed on temporary leave. Furloughed employees are not paid during a shutdown, but Congress has almost always agreed to pay them retroactively.

During the 2013 shutdown, all national parks, zoos and monuments, as well as Smithsonian museums, closed. The Trump administration was working on a plan to keep hundreds of these venues open in the event of a government shutdown, reported The Washington Post. It’s unclear which parks would remain open and for how long. Zoo animal care would not be affected, the Post reported.

Within the Department of Agriculture, thousands of workers in the Food Safety and Inspection Service might be furloughed, including positions related to public health science and international programs that ensure that meat, poultry and egg products from foreign countries are safe.

The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention shut down most of its influenza program in 2013, including testing labs and tracking programs across the country. Paul Billings, national senior vice president of advocacy at the American Lung Association, noted that 49 of the 50 states are reporting widespread flu cases.

Along with the flu, the CDC performs a number of functions to address public health threats, such as a bioterrorism attack, a disease outbreak or the spread of viruses from other nations.

“The nation’s public health infrastructure is already stretched very thin,” Billings told HuffPost. “Many states and communities have very limited public health departments, so they’re all counting on the CDC to be their backbone.”

Many passport offices, small business loan offices, and IRS call centers would also likely be shuttered.

What Might Be Delayed

Americans should expect visa and passport processing to be delayed, since they are deemed nonessential. Federal mortgage approval, as well as veterans and unemployment benefits, could be delayed as well.

During the 2013 shutdown, reviews of veterans’ disability applications slowed significantly. At the same time, three-quarters of employees from the National Institutes of Health and two-thirds of employees from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention were furloughed.

What Could Remain Open

Essential, or “exempted,” functions would continue. Basically, if someone could die or if the economy could face irreparable harm when a federal worker is off the job, they aren’t going to be furloughed.

Law enforcement officials and members of the military will continue to work, since their jobs are deemed “necessary to protect life and property.” Courts will remain open as well.

Because the U.S. Postal Service is independently funded, the agency would continue to operate and your mail will be delivered. Airport security operations would function normally because the Transportation Security Administration would continue to be funded. Air traffic control operations would also continue.

The Social Security Administration would continue to operate on most levels. You could apply for benefits, but you’d have to wait to get replacement Social Security or Medicare cards.

The Department of Agriculture would maintain funding for food stamps and other necessary nutritional programs. Veterans hospitals will remain open and operational.

Special counsel Robert Mueller’s team should continue to operate, a Justice Department spokesperson told CNN.

The Office of Management and Budget’s website lists contingency plans for dozens of federal agencies. You can view them here.There’s no party like a Latino “Party of Five.”

The hit ’90s family drama is officially being rebooted with a Latino cast and a timely focus on immigration. Freeform has given the series a put pilot commitment, trade publications reported Thursday.

The original series followed five siblings who had to take care of each other after their parents died in a car accident. The remake will feature five children from a Mexican-American family whose parents are deported from the U.S.

Wow. Party of Five, the '90s drama about a group of five siblings raising themselves after their parents died, will be rebooted for Freeform channel. New story features siblings raising each other after their parents are deported to Mexico. Talk about a topical subject... pic.twitter.com/dOmK0hJvh6 — Eric Deggans at NPR (@Deggans) January 18, 2018HOUSTON, Pa. ― Conor Lamb, the Democrat running to represent this district in Congress, was wrapping up an interview with a reporter last week when Ted Skowvron, a 93-year-old veteran in a World War II cap, walked over to shake his hand.

Lamb thanked Skowvron for his service and asked him where he’d served.

Skowvron informed Lamb that was he was a ball gunner on a B-17 in the European theater. But he was more interested in discussing President Donald Trump.

“I just wanted to let you know: Get in there and get him out! Cuz if you don’t do it, I’m coming down myself,” the lifelong Democrat and retired union crane operator exclaimed.

Meet the Resistance here in Pennsylvania’s southwestern corner. Lamb is hoping there are enough voters like Skowvron who will help him score another upset victory for Democrats and flip a GOP-held seat in the special election on March 13.

This district should be no problem for Republicans to hang onto. Pennsylvania Republicans gerrymandered the 18th District to combine GOP-leaning Pittsburgh suburbs with once-Democratic mill towns and rural areas that have trended steadily more Republican in recent national elections. Tim Murphy, the Republican incumbent, ran unopposed in 2014 and 2016, and Trump won the district by a whopping 20 percentage points.

But the special election clearly has Republicans on edge.

Will be going to Pennsylvania today in order to give my total support to RICK SACCONE, running for Congress in a Special Election (March 13). Rick is a great guy. We need more Republicans to continue our already successful agenda! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) January 18, 2018

Lamb is competing with Republican Rick Saccone, a 59-year-old state representative and former military intelligence officer. Murphy had held the seat comfortably since 2003, but resigned in October after it emerged that the anti-abortion congressman had asked a woman with whom he was having an extramarital affair to have an abortion.

Democrats have had a string of victories since Trump’s inauguration. In fact, they’ve flipped 34 state legislative seats, one governor’s seat and one U.S. Senate seat from red to blue. Republicans, meanwhile, have only picked up four state legislative seats.

Trump is heading to the 18th District on Thursday to stave off another potentially embarrassing defeat. He’ll hold a rally for Saccone, whose fundraising has reportedly been lackluster.

Democrats, meanwhile, are hoping that the energy from the base and the excitement from other wins over the past year will bubble over to benefit Lamb as well.

Democrat Conor Lamb, 33, a veteran of the Marines and former federal prosecutor, is running in a district Donald Trump won by a landslide. Jeff Swensen/Getty Images

An Upset In The Heart Of Trump Country?

Skowvron was one of some 85 people who braved snow-clogged roads and temperatures in the teens on Saturday to hear Lamb, a 33-year-old former federal prosecutor and veteran of the Marines, speak briefly at an American Legion hall in a small town southwest of Pittsburgh.

The boisterous crowd, which gave Lamb the whooping welcome of a celebrity, looked like the district. It was overwhelmingly white, with more VFW caps, union pins and Pittsburgh Steelers shirts than pink pussy hats and anti-Trump gear. But the audience members were just as energized as any other resistance gathering, realizing they have a viable Democratic congressional candidate for the first time in years.

“It’s been a very, very long time” since a crowd that big turned out for a Democrat in the district, said Joe Zupancic, a 48-year-old attorney running as a Democratic candidate for an open state House seat. The last time, he estimated, was “probably back in the ’90s, when this seat was Democrat to begin with.”

No one’s denying that Lamb has an uphill climb.

In a special election where low turnout is a given, however, the district’s higher-than-normal level of Democratic enthusiasm matters.

Add to the mix a Democratic candidate with a strong biography and a Republican candidate with a record at odds with the district’s influential labor unions, and it becomes clear why the national Republican Party is not taking any chances.

Earlier this month, the deep-pocketed Congressional Leadership Fund, a GOP super PAC affiliated with House Speaker Paul Ryan (R-Wis.), announced the opening of a field office in the district. The operation will include 50 full-time door knockers who aim to make 250,000 voter contacts, the super PAC said.

Republican outside groups are also on the airwaves ahead of either candidate. Ending Spending Inc., a super PAC backed by the billionaire Ricketts family, made a $1 million ad buy in support of Saccone. And the pro-Trump 45Committee is spending $500,000 on ads, including a 30-second spot released last week that hits “Liberal Conor Lamb” for opposing Trump’s tax cut bill.

In addition, Vice President Mike Pence is slated to campaign for Saccone. The Republican National Committee has a permanent field office in Western Pennsylvania that is helping to turn out GOP voters, and the super PAC America Rising has been sending a video tracker to all of Lamb’s campaign events.

National Democratic groups, by contrast, are thus far largely limiting their support for Lamb to verbal praise for his bid. The Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee, which works to elect House Democrats, said it had no investments to announce at this time. And when asked about its involvement in the race, the Democratic National Committee referred HuffPost to its monthly $10,000 contribution to the Pennsylvania Democratic Party through the Every ZIP Code Counts program.

End Citizens United, a national liberal PAC, announced its endorsement of Lamb on Wednesday. The group raised $600,000 to elect Alabama Democrat Doug Jones to the Senate, but it is not clear how much it plans to spend on Lamb’s behalf.

The DCCC and DNC “have to kind of wait and see how much the Lamb team raises, because it is gonna be an expensive race,” said a Democratic source with knowledge of the national party’s considerations.

“It is not helpful for them for the party to be coming in and being so overt,” the source added.

“It’s still possible to craft winning messages to win at least segments of the white working class that enables the party to do well everywhere.” - Mike Mikus, Democratic campaign consultant

The southwestern Pennsylvania district offers a unique proving ground for Democrats whose strongest electoral performances since November 2016 have largely been in districts Trump lost or won only narrowly. If Democrats flip the 18th, or even hold the GOP to a narrow margin, it will put Republicans on notice that no seat is immune to a Democratic midterm wave.

It is also liable to make the Democrats think twice about ignoring former Democratic strongholds in the Rust Belt where Trump outperformed his Republican predecessors.

“The problem with a lot of people in Washington is that they equate white working-class, non-college-educated voters as being racist Neanderthals and should be written off,” said Mike Mikus, a veteran Democratic strategist based in the district. “Obviously, the Democratic Party should never turn away from its values of inclusion and equality, but it’s still possible to craft winning messages to win at least segments of the white working class that enables the party to do well everywhere, rather than just the coastal elites, the big cities.”

The saga of declining Democratic fortunes in the industrial areas of Pennsylvania and other Great Lakes states is by now a familiar yarn. Deindustrialization weakened the labor unions that bound many working-class residents to the party, and Democrats’ increasingly progressive stances on racial and cultural issues created an opening for socially conservative Republican candidates.

Congressional Democrats held on for years in increasingly conservative districts by stressing kitchen-table economic issues and union bona fides, while bucking liberal orthodoxy on issues like guns, abortion and the environment. Mark Critz, the last Democratic House candidate to win in swathes of the current 18th District (before its borders were subsequently redrawn), ran in a May 2010 special election as an opponent of gun control and abortion rights, as well as the newly enacted Affordable Care Act.

Even as the 18th District’s voters have increasingly rejected Democrats in federal elections, the party has retained some power at the state and local levels. Democrats enjoy majorities on the county commissions in 3 in 4 counties in the district.

“The people in this district who voted for Trump do not view a ‘D’ by your name as a disqualifier,” Mikus said.

Lamb speaks to voters at the American Legion Post in Houston, Pennsylvania, on Jan. 13, 2017. Jeff Swensen/Getty Images

Picking ‘Somebody In The Middle’

Due to the rushed timeline for the special election, both Lamb and Saccone were selected by party officials and activists at their respective conventions, rather than in primaries.

Lamb nonetheless defeated six rivals for the post.

Allen Kukovich, who served as a Democratic state lawmaker from 1977 to 2004 and voted for Lamb at the party convention in November, said Lamb “struck me as somebody who was ready right now. And with the special election and the national exposure that this is likely to get, there is very limited time to grow into the job.”

The district’s Democratic hands also opted for a candidate with unimpeachable patriotic credentials, deep roots in the district and relatively moderate policy stances ― criteria perhaps equally as important as preparedness.

“It’s important that the progressive Democrats understand this is a tough district to win,” said Nate Regotti, chief of staff to state Rep. Pam Snyder, a Democrat who represents a portion of the district on the West Virginia border. “They want somebody in the middle that’s gonna represent them no matter how they feel, and I think Conor Lamb’s gonna do that.”

Lamb, a native of Mt. Lebanon, an affluent suburb just south of Pittsburgh, is the scion of an Irish-Catholic Democratic family that has been influential in regional politics for generations. His grandfather, Thomas Lamb, served as the Democratic majority leader of the Pennsylvania state Senate.

Lamb is running on creating decent-paying jobs through a massive infrastructure bill, protecting Social Security and Medicare, and marshaling federal resources to address the opioid crisis that has ravaged many of the old mill towns southwest of Pittsburgh.

Although Lamb touts his experience tackling heroin and opiate trafficking as a federal prosecutor, he favors a health care driven approach to solving the epidemic.

Speaking to HuffPost, Lamb calmly rattled off proposals to secure federal funding for more rehabilitation facilities, longer rehab stays and medical treatment upon release.

He views these plans as a critical point of contrast with his rival Saccone, who voted for a state House budget that cut $10 million in funding for the life-saving opioid overdose drug Naloxone.

“You wanna talk about being pro-life? You don’t vote against a drug that saves people’s lives,” Lamb said.

Lamb also sees protecting the Affordable Care Act’s Medicaid expansion as a key component in the fight against opiate abuse, since it is frequently the program that provides insurance for addicts. He would shore up the health care law’s private insurance exchanges through technocratic fixes like extending public reinsurance to participating insurers.

“You wanna talk about being pro-life? You don’t vote against a drug that saves people’s lives.” - Conor Lamb

Although Lamb does not rule out more progressive reforms like the creation of a Medicaid or Medicare buy-in, he has concerns about the costs of expanding those programs. He supports empowering Medicare to negotiate lower drug prices with pharmaceutical companies.

Saccone’s campaign declined HuffPost’s repeated requests to speak to the candidate or get more clarification on his policy positions.

But Saccone has said he wants to repeal the Affordable Care Act, commonly known as Obamacare, and his campaign website says that he “will utilize free-market principles to fix our healthcare crisis.”

Saccone, an Iraq War veteran with a Ph.D. in international affairs and experience as an American diplomat in North Korea, has campaigned as an enthusiastic supporter of Trump’s agenda, saying he was ”Trump before Trump was Trump.”

The national Republican groups that have converged on Pennsylvania’s 18th District to buttress Saccone’s bid are meanwhile trying to portray Lamb as a liberal disciple of House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi (D-Calif.). To preempt this critique, Lamb announced earlier this month that if elected, he would not vote for Pelosi as House Democratic leader.

“I know Conor Lamb is doing his very best to backpedal away from Nancy Pelosi,” Jesse Hunt, a spokesman for the National Republican Congressional Committee, told HuffPost. “But I don’t think he’s backpedaling fast enough to fool the people of the 18th District into thinking that he wouldn’t be a loyal foot soldier for Pelosi if he was ever elected.”

Rick Saccone attends the Conservative Political Action Conference with his wife Yong in February 2017. Democrats hope Saccone's disagreements with labor unions prove to be a weakness. Mike Theiler / Reuters

Lamb is far from a doctrinaire liberal, though. He has staked out centrist positions on everything from coal ― which he told HuffPost “has an important place in our energy strategy” ― to gun policy, an area where he believes it is unnecessary to expand on the “laws on the books.”

Asked whether he backs any additional restrictions on abortion, however, Lamb, who has said that he is personally pro-life, firmly ruled out the idea.

“Once you make something a right, it’s a right. And it’s like that for a reason,” he said.

Lamb also said he was open to working with Trump on crafting national security policy and passing an infrastructure bill.

“I’m not running against President Trump, and people in my district are not looking for someone running against President Trump,” Lamb said. “They want to know what the difference is between me and Rick Saccone, so that’s what we talk about.”

In his speech at Saturday’s American Legion event, Lamb eschewed discussion of policy ― let alone Trump ― in favor of a homily about military service and the local community.

But after a nearly five-minute riff on the importance of memorializing veterans, Lamb pivoted to argue that unionized workers deserved similar recognition for their service. He invoked as a model the churchyard memorial in nearby Castle Shannon for Philip Murray, the founder of the region’s mighty United Steelworkers union.

“In Western Pennsylvania, it’s no surprise that we put a statue of one of our great labor leaders right there in the churchyard for everyone to see, forever,” Lamb said.

Testing Organized Labor’s Clout

If Lamb pulls off an upset win, it will likely be on the back of organized labor.

About 19 percent of the residents in this steel- and coal-heavy district are either active or retired members of a labor union, according to Frank Snyder, the secretary-treasurer of the Pennsylvania AFL-CIO, the state’s largest labor federation, who introduced Lamb at the American Legion. That is significantly higher than the national rate of union membership, which was 10.7 percent in 2016.

Beyond financial contributions, labor provides a massive, organic field operation.

“The capacity ... is having volunteer union members talking member to member at the workplace, at their homes, over the telephone,” Snyder said.

“Our election program is gonna focus on educating union members, not saying, ‘Conor Lamb’s the best,’” Snyder added. “We’re gonna compare the two candidates: This is where he is on education or Medicare or Medicaid, and then you decide.”

The United Steelworkers, which has about 20,000 active and retired members in the district, plan to contact every member before Election Day, said Tim Waters, the union’s national political director.

“The reaction that we’re getting right now is enthusiasm in a lot of ways at the same level that we saw in Alabama. And that was significant enthusiasm,” Waters said.

“The reaction that we’re getting right now is enthusiasm in a lot of ways at the same level that we saw in Alabama. And that was significant enthusiasm.” - Tim Waters, United Steelworkers

Labor unions’ support for Lamb is as much a function of Saccone’s status as an opponent of union priorities as it is of the Democratic candidate’s strengths.

In 2016, the Pennsylvania AFL-CIO endorsed the GOP incumbent Murphy in the district. He was running uncontested, but labor didn’t have to back him. It did so, however, because Murphy maintained at least some pro-labor stances, including support for the Davis-Bacon Act, which requires federal building contractors to pay the “prevailing wage” and benefits in a given area. In practice, the law typically ensures that federal contracts use union labor.

Saccone, by contrast, co-sponsored legislation in Pennsylvania that would have curtailed the state’s prevailing wage law. In 2014, Saccone also picked up the endorsement of Pennsylvania’s Right-to-Work Committee, a group that seeks to make Pennsylvania a state where unions are forbidden from mandating the payment of dues from workers they represent.

Steve Mazza, a council representative for the regional branch of the United Brotherhood of Carpenters, which counts 1,800 members in the district, said Saccone’s record gives the union a compelling case to take to its members, including those who voted for Murphy or Trump.

“Part of the thing we have to do is tell our members that did support Murphy, it’s about supporting federal Davis-Bacon, and Saccone doesn’t,” Mazza said. “I don’t think we can get into the issue that [Saccone’s] a really bad person and [Lamb’s] a really great person.”

Mazza and other union officials fear that if Trump moves ahead with an infrastructure bill, fiscal conservatives in Congress will try to waive Davis-Bacon to bring down the cost.

He also worries that Trump will give anti-union Republicans like the vice president a free hand to pass national right-to-work legislation now that higher priorities like tax reform are out of the way.

Such a law would “cut our jobs in half,” Mazza said.

Lamb’s campaign has also sought to point out that Joe Ricketts, whose family funds the pro-Saccone Ending Spending super PAC, has a reputation for union-busting. Ricketts abruptly closed the DNAInfo and Gothamist news sites after employees at the New York offices voted to unionize.

Across the 18th District’s bedroom communities and industrial hamlets, many voters were only just becoming aware of the special election. Several residents knew little more than either Lamb or Saccone’s name.

But conversations with some Republican-leaning union members revealed that Saccone’s hostility to labor priorities could sway them to vote for Lamb.

In a conversation at the McDonald’s in Burgettstown, Don Dowler, a 73-year-old retiree, described himself as a union member “all my life,” with stints in the United Steelworkers, as well as unions representing railroad and maintenance workers.

Dowler voted for Trump and is inclined to vote for the GOP nominee in the special election. He left open the possibility that an anti-labor Republican would be a bridge too far, however.

“That might affect me, yeah. It depends which way he goes,” Dowler said.

Aaron McKindley, 18, got a job at the Union Electric Steel plant down the road after graduating high school. A member of the United Steelworkers, he told HuffPost that he would have voted for Trump if he had been old enough.

But the prospect of an anti-union Republican candidate could convince McKindley to vote Democratic.