Former USA Gymnastics and Michigan State University doctor Larry Nassar, who is facing 10 counts of first-degree sexual misconduct after more than 140 women accused him, penned a six-page letter to the court saying it was too difficult to listen to dozens of accusers deliver victim impact statements on how he sexually abused them.

The judge was not having it.

“This isn’t worth the paper it’s written on,” County Court Judge Rosemarie Aquilina said Thursday. “There’s no truth in here. It’s delusional.”

Judge Aquilina speaks with Nassar and his attorney as he appears in court to listen to victim impact statements prior to being sentenced. Scott Olson via Getty Images

Aquilina read Nassar’s handwritten, single-spaced letter in court and addressed each issue Nassar brought up.

“I’m very concerned about my ability to face witnesses these next four days, mentally,” the letter said, noting that more than the seven women in Nassar’s plea deal were being given time in court to speak. Nassar also claimed Aquilina turned the proceedings into a “media circus.”

“Aquilina is allowing them all to talk,” Nassar wrote. “She wants me to sit in the witness box next to her for all four days so the media cameras will be directed at her.”

Aquilina responded that she “didn’t ask any media to be here” and that she doesn’t “need any cameras.”

“I don’t have a dog in this fight, sir. I didn’t orchestrate this ― you did, by your actions and your plea of guilty,” she said.

She added: “Spending four or five days listening to them is significantly minor considering the hours of pleasure you had at their expense and ruining their lives.”

Scott Olson via Getty Images

Nassar’s plea agreement allows for victim impact statements, which Aquilina is allowing all of the accusers to present. More than 100 accusers have agreed to appear or have statements read aloud.

Nassar said the letter was meant to be “cathartic” and a cry for mental help. The judge noted that nowhere does the letter say “I’m having a breakdown,” but acknowledged Nassar’s accessibility to Community Mental Health staff.

Nassar, 54, has already sat through dozens of victim impact statements since Tuesday, openly weeping during many. Sentencing is expected to take place Friday, though Aquilina has said it could be pushed to Monday due to the volume of statements.Larissa Boyce, who is believed to be one of the first victims to report Nassar’s behavior, said she talked to Kathie Klages in 1997. The gymnastics coach allegedly told Boyce that she must have misunderstood the medical procedure. Now 37, Boyce said Nassar abused her from 1997 to 2001, beginning when she was 16.

“They are denying any responsibility, saying they didn’t know a predator was among them,” Boyce told HuffPost earlier this month. “That is like a slap in the face to the ... girls who over the past 20 years told multiple MSU employees and [they] did nothing about it. How is that not showing their complete negligence?”

Christie Achenbach said she reported Nassar’s behavior to assistant running coach Kelli Bert in 1999, but nothing ever came of it. Bert told the Detroit News that she didn’t recall the interaction.

“If he had done something sexual, I believe I would have reported that immediately,” Bert said.

Tiffany Thomas Lopez said she told Lianna Hadden, then an MSU softball trainer, in 2000 that Nassar had sexually abused her during a medical exam. Hadden reportedly told another trainer, Destiny Teachnor-Hauk, who assured Thomas Lopez that the exam was “actual medical treatment.”

During this week’s sentencing hearing, Jennifer Rood Bedford, a former MSU volleyball player, said she also reported Nassar’s behavior to Hadden, who allegedly discouraged her from filing a complaint.

“Everyone trusted him so I told myself I needed to trust him, too,” Rood Bedford said in her victim impact statement. Now she said, “I constantly ask myself: Did I have the power to stop him?”WASHINGTON ― President Donald Trump opened his first Cabinet meeting of 2018 by turning to the television cameras and telling reporters, “Welcome back to the studio.”

He went on to remark that after the previous day’s nearly hourlong public meeting with congressional leaders, “my performance got good reviews.” (That “performance” got overshadowed later in the week, when reports of a private meeting turned into a battle over exactly what phrase the president used in expressing racist views on immigration.)

President Trump in Cabinet Room: "Welcome back to the studio." pic.twitter.com/jjZoJfrCq2 — CSPAN (@cspan) January 10, 2018

It’s no secret that Trump, who buffed the image of himself as a successful businessman while hosting “The Apprentice,” likes the performative aspects of being president much more than the governing part.

The idea of Trump now running a reality show out of the Oval Office provides a compelling and perhaps essential lens to view his first year as president. His take on the role may even be creating new ways of understanding politics, according to academics who have observed how politicians wield culture for political ends.

Trump stokes the culture wars to please his viewing base.

Presidents have long addressed our cultural divisions, and Republicans, especially social conservatives, continue to use cultural debates as wedge issues. But the mainstream GOP “had moved away from the most virulent strains of the culture wars” over the last decade or two, according to Karrin Vasby Anderson, a Colorado State University professor who has studied the intersection of political communication and culture.

And then Trump revved the engines again.

“You’re never going to pass a piece of legislation that says people can or can’t say 'Merry Christmas,' right? So he knows that’s going to be an easy win for him because it didn’t require him to do anything.” - Karrin Vasby Anderson, a Colorado State University professor

“It seemed like that part of the cultural wars was done in the 2010s — those [issues] are political losers right now,” Anderson said. “But Trump came in and said, ‘I don’t think those are political losers. I think there are a lot of people who are really mad that they can’t say that stuff, so I’m going to say that stuff and they’re going to like what they hear.’”

That kind of “tell it like it is” bluntness has always appealed to his base, even when Trump’s actual claims are false. Indeed, the president has often promoted his mere taking of cultural stands as real achievements.

“You’re never going to pass a piece of legislation that says people can or can’t say ‘Merry Christmas,’ right? So he knows that’s going to be an easy win for him because it didn’t require him to do anything,” Anderson said of Trump proclaiming that as president, he has freed people to say “Merry Christmas” again.

People are proud to be saying Merry Christmas again. I am proud to have led the charge against the assault of our cherished and beautiful phrase. MERRY CHRISTMAS!!!!! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) December 25, 2017

For Syracuse University communications professor Kendall Phillips, Trump’s lack of substance is part of what drives his reliance on cultural disputes.

“There was no substance in the campaign. There has been no substance in the White House, at this point. There’s no coherent policy. There’s no ‘there’ there,” said Phillips, who taught a course last fall connecting the president, rhetoric and pop culture.

But culture wars can thrive on passionate language aimed at despicable foes.

“Think about Trump’s performance in the debates,” the professor added. “There were insults and platitudes, and that’s how he’s governing.” Trump is “all about the spectacle.”

With the president’s declaration that the war on Christmas is over, for instance, “it’s not that he’s pushing a Christian agenda,” Phillips said. “It’s the spectacle of that kind of Christianity.”

A key part of this show is the vigorous antagonism, which Phillips said appeals to Trump’s core supporters because “his antagonisms are their antagonisms.” he said.

“Everything he’s pushing is against ‘them,’ whoever they are,” Phillips said. “It’s not ‘Let’s say Merry Christmas because it’s important.’ It’s ’Now we can say Merry Christmas because they wouldn’t let us before.’”

Trump is “treating the presidency like a reality show.”

All of these factors come together in the president’s background as a reality TV performer, Phillips said.

“It’s all about the spectacle of conflict. We don’t tune in to ‘Real Housewives’ because we want to see them get along or have a substantive conversation. The promos are always ‘Oh my God, you won’t believe what they said next!’ — which is what the White House is now,” he said.

Jabin Botsford/The Washington Post via Getty Images

Of course, the reality TV framework, as well as other cultural and political elements that contributed to Trump’s rise, existed before he took the political stage, Anderson said. And earlier presidents ― notably Ronald Reagan ― used television, performance and celebrity to their advantage.

But there’s a key difference between, say, Reagan and Trump.

“He knew how to play the presidential role,” Phillips said of Reagan. “Trump doesn’t even pretend to play the presidential role. There’s almost no difference between Trump now and when he was on TV.”

Or as Anderson put it, while Reagan and other politicians may have incorporated elements of “classic narrative television” in their political efforts, Trump is the first who is “treating the presidency like a reality show.”

The Trump show could change everything.

The U.S. has never had a president before with Trump’s “level of television celebrity,” Phillips said. “Everything in political rhetoric is warped by that center of gravity.”

The demands of this reality TV presidency are creating a whole new way of thinking about politics, influencing choices of candidates as well as media coverage. “The narrative frameworks that shape the way we talk about politics are more important and impactful than a lot of people realize,” Anderson said.

Not only is Trump using reality TV strategies, she said, but now he’s “influencing our media to, in some ways, cover his presidency like a reality show.” Every development now feels like an “unexpected turn” in the Trump show.

That framework, combined with partisan divisions, also might be bringing out more candidates ready to offer extreme views, Anderson suggested.

“What we’re really doing as a country right now is saying we’re not interested in having experienced, lifelong public servants in these kinds of positions,” she said. “We want outrageous people in these positions because that’s also what we want in a reality show.”

We may also want celebrities. Anderson cited recent speculation that Oprah Winfrey might run for the presidency.

“It indicates that not only do you now have to be famous to run for president — name recognition has always been an issue with presidential candidates — but you might pretty soon have to also be a celebrity, and perhaps an independently wealthy one, and that would be a really shocking transition in U.S. politics,” Anderson said. In fact, she suggested it was “dangerous.”

American democracy is still struggling to catch up with Trump’s reality show tactics.After a report of planned federal immigration raids targeting undocumented individuals in Northern California ― supposedly to send a message to the new “sanctuary” state ― California politicians came out with condemnation and vows to protect the immigrants in their communities.

In one of the strongest responses, Oakland Mayor Libby Schaaf said Wednesday that she’d be willing to go to jail to defend her city’s sanctuary policies.

The San Francisco Chronicle reported Tuesday that Immigration and Customs Enforcement officials were planning a major sweep in San Francisco and other cities around the Bay Area. The article, which cited an unnamed source familiar with the operation, said the raids could occur in the coming weeks and would aim to arrest more than 1,500 undocumented immigrants.

When asked to confirm the report, ICE told HuffPost that the agency doesn’t “speculate about potential future enforcement actions.”

The goal of those allegedly upcoming raids, according to the Chronicle, would be in part to send a message that federal immigration enforcement will continue in California despite its statewide sanctuary status. The new statute, which went into effect this month, limits local law enforcement’s cooperation with federal immigration agents.

California’s Democratic politicians have forcefully condemned the reportedly planned raids.

“This Administration has continually put a target on the back of California,” Sen. Kamala Harris (D-Calif.) told HuffPost in a statement Wednesday, adding, “These broad brush raids will instill fear in immigrants who are terrified they will receive a midnight knock on the door and be deported or separated from their families.”

“The Trump Administration’s deeply shameful plans to conduct immigration raids in California are an act of pure malice,” House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi (D-Calif.) said in a statement.

“Immigrant families in California must not be targeted in raids solely because they are Californians,” Sen. Dianne Feinstein (D-Calif.) said in her statement. “The administration is carrying out its enforcement actions to make a political point and not based on the security of the country.”

“We will not turn our backs on the people of this City because of threats from the Trump Administration,” acting San Francisco Mayor London Breed said in a statement to HuffPost. “San Francisco is and will always be a Sanctuary City and we will continue to defend and support our immigrant communities.”

Later on Wednesday, Feinstein and Harris released a joint letter to acting ICE Director Thomas Holman asking to be “immediately briefed on the troubling reports.”

“Diverting resources in an effort to punish California and score political points is an abhorrent abuse of power, not to mention a terrible misuse of scarce resources,” the senators wrote.

ICE agents carry out a raid to apprehend undocumented immigrants in Riverside, California, last year. Irfan Khan/Los Angeles Times via Getty Images

Since President Donald Trump took office, ICE has sent repeated hard-line messages, declaring that undocumented immigrants should “look over [their] shoulder” and that politicians in sanctuary states should be prosecuted.

Trump has also attacked sanctuary laws, claiming they make cities more dangerous. Supporters argue that sanctuary laws make communities safer by encouraging undocumented residents to trust and cooperate with the police.

Earlier this month, Homan told Fox News that his agency would dramatically increase its enforcement efforts in California in response to the new sanctuary law.

“California better hold on tight,” he said.

Back in October, Homan responded to the governor’s signing of the sanctuary law by threatening “at-large arrests in local neighborhoods and at worksites, which will inevitably result in additional collateral arrests.”

The Chronicle’s source said that the upcoming sweeps would target undocumented individuals who have been identified for deportation, including those served with final deportation orders and those with criminal histories ― and that other undocumented immigrants could be swept up in “collateral arrests.”

“These broad brush raids will instill fear in immigrants who are terrified they will receive a midnight knock on the door and be deported or separated from their families.” - Sen. Kamala Harris

Last week, federal immigration agents raided nearly a hundred 7-Eleven stores across the country, arresting 21 workers, in a crackdown that ICE said was meant to warn employers against hiring people without work authorizations.

“What it does when you have these raids ― where agents can go to any place in the country, with no regard to criminal offense ― no one will feel safe,” Muzaffar Chishti, director of the Migration Policy Institute’s offices at New York University School of Law, told HuffPost last week.

AdvertisementThis mobile “Harry Potter” game looks like pure magic.

The first trailer for “Harry Potter: Hogwarts Mystery,” which is coming to iOS and Android this spring, dropped Thursday. Fans of the series will be able to personalize an avatar and experience all Hogwarts has to offer ― including attending classes with Professor McGonagall and Hagrid, dueling with classmates, being sorted into a house and mastering spells ― as they make their way through the game and improve their skills as a witch or wizard.

The game will also cover territory previously not explored in the series, including Harry’s childhood and the Hogwarts careers of older Order of the Phoenix members, according to a press release from Jam City, which is partnering with with Warner Bros. for the project.

And if that wasn’t enough, the team behind “Pokemon Go” is also developing its own “Harry Potter” game titled “Wizards Unite.”WASHINGTON ― Senate Democrats disappointed young undocumented immigrants in December when many of them voted for a government spending bill that left out deportation protections. Whether Democrats do the same again this week will depend on two things: their level of commitment to helping so-called Dreamers and their disgust over Congress’ continued inability to approve longer-term government spending.

Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer (D-N.Y.) said Wednesday that there’s plenty of both commitment and disgust in the Democratic caucus, and he predicted strong opposition to House Republicans’ plan for another short-term spending bill that does nothing for the 700,000 young immigrants.

“The revulsion towards that bill was broad and strong,” Schumer told reporters after a meeting with fellow Democrats.

“The overwhelming number in our caucus have said they don’t like this deal and they believe if we kick the can down the road this time we’ll be back where we started from next time,” he added later. “There’s very, very strong support not to go along with their deal.”

Their resolve will be tested this week if the House approves a short-term government funding bill to avert a shutdown on Friday, as leadership in the lower chamber aims to do in spite of Democratic opposition there. It’s possible that Democratic senators will, as they did in December, vote for it to avoid being blamed for its failure ― only a small fraction of them would need to ― without a fix for the Dreamers, who could begin to lose protections in larger numbers after March 5 under the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program, which President Donald Trump had rescinded.

Dreamers are hoping for the alternate possibility: that Senate Democrats will say they can’t support a bill that doesn’t address DACA, even if it means a government shutdown until Congress comes to an immigration deal.

Some new dynamics emerged Wednesday when some senators suggested they wouldn’t support another short-term spending fix, known as a continuing resolution, even though they did in the past.

“It’s another patch,” Sen. Jon Tester (D-Mont.) told reporters, adding that it wasn’t about a potential lack of Dreamer protections but the fact that it was yet another short-term bill. When reporters said it sounded like that meant he would vote no, he said, “It does, doesn’t it?”

Sen. Tom Carper (D-Del.), who also voted for the December short-term funding bill, said that he was leaning no if another comes up this week. He said he changed his mind because of the White House’s “unwillingness to negotiate in good faith” on immigration and after his conversations with members of the business community who urged a fast solution for Dreamers.

“I want a comprehensive deal,” Carper told reporters. “This is not half a loaf, this is not a quarter of a loaf, this is a couple of slices of the loaf.”

Inside the Democrats’ meeting, a handful of senators stood to say they would vote against a continuing resolution and another one or two said they were unsure, but none said they would vote for it, Senate Minority Whip Dick Durbin (D-Ill.) told reporters afterward. Durbin voted against the bill in December and said he would again without Dreamer protections.

Durbin said he wants a vote on a bipartisan plan he and two other Democrats created with three Republicans to give Dreamers legal status and meet Trump’s demands on border security and legal immigration changes. Anything less than a vote wouldn’t be enough, Durbin said.

“I’ve seen a lot of commitments that are not worth going to the bank on, so I want a vote,” Durbin told reporters.

On the continuing resolution, Democrats have a newfound ally on the Republican side. Sen. Lindsey Graham (R-S.C.), one of the backers of the bipartisan deal to help Dreamers, along with Durbin, said Wednesday that he wouldn’t support a continuing resolution because “eventually, you’ve got to say no” to short-term spending bills.

He said that Republicans need to accept that they won’t be able to get deals on things they want, like more defense funding, if they don’t give on Dreamer protections.

“Democrats are not going to give us what we want on defense and leave the DACA kids hanging until March 4,” Graham said. “Nobody really believes that’s viable.”

Trump has dismissed the Durbin-Graham deal, but it has a growing number of Republican backers. In addition to its original three GOP co-authors ― Sens. Jeff Flake (R-Ariz.), Cory Gardner (R-Colo.) and Graham ― four others signaled support on Wednesday: Sens. Susan Collins (R-Maine), Lamar Alexander (R-Tenn.), Lisa Murkowski (R-Alaska) and Mike Rounds (R-S.D.).

Of course, it would take more than a few senators switching to opposition against a short-term funding bill to sink it. A bill would need 60 votes and, currently, there are 51 Republicans and 49 members of the Democratic caucus, which includes two independents. The continuing resolution in December passed easily in a 66 to 32 vote (two senators were absent), with two Republicans voting against it and 17 Democratic caucus members voting for it.

Dreamers and their allies are lobbying hard on Capitol Hill, including through sit-ins at Democrats’ offices pleading with them to hold strong for a DACA fix as part of a funding bill.

But some Democrats were shaky as to whether they would vote for another short-term bill, if they answered the question at all. Sens. Tim Kaine (D-Va.) said Tuesday that he thinks Congress can and should deal with Dreamers this week but did not definitively say he would vote against a bill that did not include protections for them.

The most definitive ― although not explicit that he would vote for a funding bill without Dreamer relief ― was Sen. Joe Manchin (D-W.V.).

“I just don’t think there’s any way in the world that anyone should be talking about shutting down the government,” he told reporters on Wednesday. “We should be talking about working and keeping the government open.”With two months until “Silicon Valley” returns and, ugh, a year until “Game of Thrones” dominates our Sundays once again, what’s an HBO lover to do? Luckily, the premium cable company announced the first half of its 2018 documentary slate today.

From Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.’s final months to Mariska Hargitay’s investigation of rape kit backlog (we never said it was uplifting), here are nine original docs debuting on HBO the first half of this year.

HBO

“THE NUMBER ON GREAT GRANDPA’S ARM”: JANUARY 27

This moving documentary from director Amy Schatz details a conversation between a ten-year-old boy and his 90-year-old great-grandfather about his experience surviving Auschwitz and building a new life.

HBO

“MAY IT LAST: A PORTRAIT OF THE AVETT BROTHERS”: JANUARY 29

Filmed over two years, this documentary from longtime fans Judd Apatow and Michael Bonfiglio offers an intimate look inside the band members’ experiences in love, loss, parenthood and the music business.

HBO

“ATOMIC HOMEFRONT”: FEBRUARY 12

Witness a group of moms-turned-activists as they attempt to confront the Environmental Protection Agency about illegal dumping of radioactive waste in their neighborhoods. Um, we’d do the same thing, and it’s giving us serious “The Handmaid’s Tale” vibes.

SLAVEN VLASIC/GETTY IMAGES

“TRAFFIC STOP”: MARCH 12

When Breaion King, an African-American schoolteacher from Austin, Texas, was pulled over for a routine traffic stop, she never expected it would escalate to her being thrown to the ground and arrested. This documentary explores race and the current state of law enforcement in America.

HBO

“ARTHUR MILLER: WRITER”: MARCH 19

Who better to memorialize one of the greatest playwrights of the 20th century than his daughter, Rebecca Miller. “Arthur Miller: Writer” features years of father-daughter interviews for a well-rounded exploration of the prolific writer.

BONNIE SCHIFFMAN/HBO

“THE ZEN DIARIES OF GARRY SHANDLING”: MARCH 26 AND 27

In addition to “May It Last: A Portrait of the Avett Brothers,” Apatow honors the legacy of his mentor and friend, legendary comedian Garry Shandling, in this two-part four-and-half-hour documentary.

MICHAEL OCHS ARCHIVES/ GETTY IMAGES

“KING OF THE WILDERNESS”: APRIL

This poignant doc follows Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. during the last years of his life, from his part in the Voting Rights Act of 1965 to his assassination in 1968.

MICHAEL LOCCISANO/GETTY IMAGES

“I AM EVIDENCE”: APRIL

Watch Mariska Hargitay of Law and Order: SVU investigate the mind-blowing number of untested rape kits in the United States and how inefficient evidence testing impacts the lives of survivors and law-enforcement officials.

POOL/GETTY IMAGES

“THE FINAL YEAR”: MAY

This doc explores the last year of President Barack Obama’s term with insider access to the White House and State Department.

AdvertisementL’Oréal Paris has made tremendous strides toward inclusivity by casting Amena Khan ― a British beauty blogger who wears a hijab ― for its latest hair care product, Elvive.

A blogger, model and co-founder of Ardere Cosmetics, Khan has called the new collaboration “game changing.” She is the first woman who wears a hijab to be featured in a major mainstream hair ad.

A post shared by Amena (@amenaofficial) on Dec 24, 2017 at 1:36pm PST

“How many brands are doing things like this? Not many,” Khan told Vogue UK this week. “They’re literally putting a girl in a headscarf ― whose hair you can’t see ― in a hair campaign. Because what they’re really valuing through the campaign is the voices that we have.”

“You have to wonder ― why is it presumed that women who don’t show their hair don’t look after it?” she said. “The opposite of that would be that everyone that does show their hair only looks after it for the sake of showing it to others. And that mindset strips us of our autonomy and our sense of independence. Hair is a big part of self-care.”

Khan, who has more than 570,000 followers on Instagram, has posted plenty of images to celebrate her latest achievement.

“So... lately I’ve had a complex relationship with my hair feeling lacklustre,” she wrote in one caption. “When I take off my scarf, I want my hair to be more radiant — don’t we all? I’m so excited and incredibly proud to announce that I’m part of the new L’Oréal Paris Elvive World of Care Campaign.”

A post shared by Amena (@amenaofficial) on Jan 14, 2018 at 3:04am PST

A post shared by Amena (@amenaofficial) on Jan 17, 2018 at 10:13am PST

At a time when U.S. President Donald Trump is amplifying the Islamophobic messages of far-right groups like Britain First, some brands ― like Mattel and Nike ― are making a point of providing greater visibility for Muslim women.WASHINGTON ― Despite protests by civil rights leaders, the Senate voted Thursday to advance a judicial nominee who helped draft North Carolina’s voter suppression law, defended racially discriminatory gerrymandering and may have lied to the Senate about his role in disenfranchising black voters when he worked for the late Sen. Jesse Helms.

The Judiciary Committee voted along party lines to move forward with the nomination of Thomas Farr, President Donald Trump’s choice for a lifetime seat on the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of North Carolina. Republicans who voted for Farr include Sens. Chuck Grassley (Iowa), Orrin Hatch (Utah), Lindsey Graham (S.C.), John Cornyn (Texas) Mike Lee (Utah), Ted Cruz (Texas), Ben Sasse (Neb.), Jeff Flake (Ariz.), Mike Crapo (Idaho), Thom Tillis (N.C.) and John Kennedy (La.).

Farr was voted out of the committee on a party-line vote last year, but his nomination expired at the end of 2017. Trump renominated him this month, and the committee voted again Thursday without any changed votes.

A North Carolina lawyer, Farr helped draft the state’s sweeping voter ID law passed in 2013 ― one of the most restrictive in the country. When civil rights groups challenged the law, Farr represented the state before the U.S. Court of Appeals for the 4th Circuit in 2016, arguing it “was not a nefarious thing.” The court struck down the law later that year, ruling that it “targeted African Americans with almost surgical precision.”

Farr defended state redistricting maps that were rejected by federal courts for being racially discriminatory, and when civil rights groups sued North Carolina in 2015 for violating the National Voter Registration Act, Farr represented the state in court again. He lost.

Back in 1990, Farr was a lawyer for Republican Sen. Jesse Helms’ campaign, which, that year, sent more than 100,000 postcards to black voters in North Carolina with incorrect information about voter qualifications and warned that voter fraud was punishable by up to five years in prison. The Justice Department sued and settled.

Farr denied to the Judiciary Committee last fall that he played any role in that effort, but had to clarify later that he knew some things about it ― a shift that raised questions about whether he had lied to the Senate about his role in intimidating black voters.

Prominent black leaders have denounced Farr’s nomination and say he’s one of the worst federal court picks they’ve ever seen. Rev. Dr. William Barber II, the president emeritas of the NAACP’s North Carolina chapter, said Farr is tied to “the worst elements of white supremacy” in a Wednesday letter to committee leaders. Members of the Congressional Black Caucus set up shop outside Farr’s hearing on Thursday to urge senators to vote no.

Joining my @OfficialCBC colleagues in opposition to Tomas Farr’s nomination to the District Court of North Carolina. His record of disenfranchising black voters and undermining workers rights signify the grave disservice he will bring in upholding the rights of North Carolinians. pic.twitter.com/uq328j9gnE — Bonnie WatsonColeman (@RepBonnie) January 18, 2018

Black lawmakers have been vocal opponents of Farr for months, in part because of his record but also because his judicial district is 30 percent black and has never had a black federal district court judge since its founding in 1719.

Farr’s nomination is “racially insensitive,” Rep. G.K. Butterfield (D-N.C.) told reporters.

Sen. Tillis, who is ushering Farr through the confirmation process, said his critics are attacking his character because they disagree with him politically.

“The far-left has taken this one step further by waging a despicable effort to damage Mr. Farr’s reputation and falsely impugn his character,” Tillis said in a Wednesday op-ed.

Farr’s nomination now heads to the full Senate, where he awaits a confirmation vote. It’s up to Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.) when to schedule that vote.

Farr was one of a whopping 17 judicial nominees voted out of the committee Thursday, many of whom had been voted out of the committee last year but had to be renominated in 2018 after the last legislative session expired.

Progressive groups used the hashtag #monstermarkup on Twitter throughout the day to complain about Republicans packing too many court picks into one hearing and not vetting them sufficiently.The Kardashian brood can’t stop, won’t stop expanding.

Kim Kardashian opened up about her growing family on Thursday, addressing misconceptions about using a surrogate and describing her bond with the daughter she and husband Kanye West welcomed this week.

“The connection with our baby came instantly and it’s as if she was with us the whole time,” the reality TV star wrote in a post shared on her website and app.

A post shared by Kim Kardashian West (@kimkardashian) on Dec 29, 2017 at 8:46am PST

Kardashian, 37, experienced difficulties, including preeclampsia and placenta accreta, while pregnant with her first two children, North, 4, and Saint, 2. She said her doctors warned her it wouldn’t be safe to carry a third child.

The woman who carried the child has remained out of the public eye ― and even off the guest list for the baby shower. But Kardashian said she has nothing but love for her gestational carrier, which she said is the preferred term for a woman carrying a baby she isn’t related to.

“Having a gestational carrier is definitely different, but anyone who says or thinks it’s the easy way out is completely wrong,” she wrote. “People assume it’s better because you don’t have to deal with the physical changes, pain or complications with delivery, but for me it was so hard to not carry my own child, especially after I carried North and Saint.”

AdvertisementNew York cultures collide in FX’s “Pose,” a new musical series to add to the Ryan Murphy–produced television canon. But “Glee” this is not: The show, which debuts next month, is riding a wave of prerelease buzz for boasting the largest cast of transgender performers as series regulars of any scripted show ever produced.

HuffPost got an exclusive sneak peek at the series with two clips introducing the character of Angel (played by trans actress Indya Moore). In them, Angel says that among the denizens of Manhattan’s ballroom scene, she finally found a community that embraced her for living her truth.

“Growing up, I didn’t really fit anywhere,” she says. “A lot of us get rejected for who we are. We want to be loved. We have the same needs. I’m not so different.”

She adds, “When I’m able to be true to myself in a space where that’s celebrated, that makes me feel beautiful.”

“Pose” is going a step toward inclusivity that goes beyond its casting too. This week Murphy announced plans to donate all his profits from the 1980s-themed series to queer organizations, particularly trans advocacy groups.An unlikely hero saved two teen swimmers on Thursday when a drone dropped a flotation device as the pair were stranded in heavy surf.

The incident ― captured on the drone’s camera ― happened off the coast of Lennox Head in New South Wales, Australia. The two swimmers, ages 15 and 17, were spotted struggling in the surf more than 2,000 feet offshore, according to the BBC. Within minutes, lifeguards activated a drone that had an inflatable raft attached to it.

Video shows the drone, directly overhead the swimmers, drop the lifesaving device into the water as the two teens grab on.

It was the first rescue of its kind, Josh Barilaro, the state’s deputy premier, said.

“It’s quite incredible to see that the NSW government’s investment in this technology has already resulted in two people having their lives saved,” Barilaro said, according to the Sydney Morning Herald. “Never before has a drone fitted with a flotation device been used to rescue swimmers like this.”

Jai Sheridan, the 2017 NSW Lifeguard of the Year, piloted the rescue drone, and said it was “a delight to fly.”Betty White recently presented Ryan Reynolds with a golden opportunity to be very Ryan Reynolds-y.

The former Golden Girl and multiple Emmy winner turned 96 on Wednesday, prompting Reynolds to post a very funny birthday tribute (that doubled as a promo for the upcoming “Deadpool 2”).

A post shared by Ryan Reynolds (@vancityreynolds) on Jan 17, 2018 at 12:19pm PST

The picture features the 41-year-old actor’s character of the voluble mercenary, holding a martini and a hot dog in a toast to a framed photo of White scarfing down her own frank.

“Happy Birthday to the one and only @bettymwhite! Cheers to another year of ’Tinis and Weenies!” wrote Reynolds, who co-starred with White in the 2009 film “The Proposal.”

Earlier this month, White, whose acting career has spanned more than three-quarters of a century, told Parade that loving vodka and hot dogs “probably in that order” is part of the reason she’s lived such a happy and healthy life.

She added that having a good attitude doesn’t hurt either.

“Enjoy life,” she told the magazine. “Accentuate the positive, not the negative. It sounds so trite, but a lot of people will pick out something to complain about, rather than say, ‘Hey, that was great!’ It’s not hard to find great stuff if you look.”Detained demonstrators protest before the inauguration of Donald Trump on Jan. 20, 2017. ZACH GIBSON via Getty Images

WASHINGTON ― Justice Department prosecutors in the District of Columbia have dropped felony charges against 129 protesters who were swept up in mass arrests on the day of Donald Trump’s inauguration. The move came after a jury last month found all six defendants in the first felony trial not guilty on all counts.

The U.S. Attorney’s Office for the District of Columbia, which handles both federal and local cases in the nation’s capital and is part of the Justice Department, said it would focus on a “core group” of 59 defendants it thinks were most responsible for destruction.

“The U.S. Attorney’s Office for the District of Columbia has filed notice with the Court that it is exercising its discretion and moving forward with the prosecution of 59 defendants indicted on felony charges related to the rioting that took place on January 20, 2017, in Washington D.C.,” spokesman Bill Miller said in a statement. “The government will be filing motions to dismiss without prejudice the indictment against the other remaining 129 defendants so that it can focus its efforts on this smaller, core group that we believe is most responsible for the destruction and violence that took place on Inauguration Day.”

When the first six individuals went on trial, the government conceded upfront that it had no evidence that any of them directly engaged in property destruction. But it said they should be held responsible for the damage that took place because they were part of a broader conspiracy to riot. During the trial, prosecutors used videotapes filmed by James O’Keefe’s Project Veritas and relied heavily on the testimony of a District of Columbia police detective who regularly tweeted about his distaste for activists. Defense attorneys argued that convicting their clients would amount to criminalizing First Amendment rights. The jury evidently agreed.

An official from the Washington office of the American Civil Liberties Union said that the “U.S. Attorney has essentially admitted it never had the evidence to charge these innocent people in the first place, and we’re gratified to see they’ve come to their senses.”

“For a full year, the government’s abusive prosecution has upended the lives of these defendants, who’ve endured the anxiety of multiple court hearings and suffered disruptions to their educations or careers while facing the prospect of more than 60 years in prison,” said Scott Michelman, a senior staff attorney for the ACLU office in D.C. “We hope the government continues to carefully examine the evidence it has against the remaining 59 defendants, at least some of whom we continue to believe are innocent.”

The group of 59 people still facing charges includes several who have received prominent attention, including journalist Aaron Cantú.

This article has been updated with comment from the ACLU office in Washington, D.C.Stephen Heasley, left, and Andrew Borg at their September wedding. Photo: Courtesy of Heasley and Borg

The two men who filed a lawsuit Tuesday against Vistaprint — the popular printing company that sent the couple a boxful of anti-gay pamphlets instead of the weddingprograms they’d ordered — have prompted the printers to announce an investigation into the matter, as well as their commitment to marriage equality.

Stephen Heasley, 31, and Andrew Borg, 39, who live in Australia but were married in Pennsylvania, filed their claim in the U.S. District Court of Massachusetts, the state where Vistaprint is based. The couple spoke with Yahoo Lifestyle about their initial reaction to the bizarre box of pamphlets, which warned, among other things, “Satan entices your flesh with evil desires.”

“At first we thought it was simply a mistake, and we had accidentally received someone else’s order. But once we saw the images and actually read a bit of the pamphlet, we quickly realized this wasn’t a simple or innocent error,” the husbands said in an email. “Both of our initial reactions were ones of shock … utter shock. The wording and imagery was aggressive, threatening, and deeply personally offensive.”

They added, “This was by far the most direct, personal, and aggressive act of homophobia either of us has experienced to date,” regarding the shipment of homophobic pamphlets, which the couple received on the eve of their ceremony and a party for 100 guests.

Vistaprint told Yahoo Lifestyle that the company had first heard of the incident on Tuesday, and with the filing of the lawsuit, spokesperson Sara Nash offered additional comments about the situation on Wednesday.

“We are taking this situation extremely seriously. Below is an open letter we have shared with all of our customers and partners today, which further outlines our immediate actions to address this incident as well as Vistaprint’s commitment to using this as an opportunity to shine a light on important LGBTQ issues,” she wrote in an email.

The letter, signed by Trynka Shineman, Vistaprint CEO, and by Robert Keane, Vistaprint founder and CEO of parent company Cimpress, addressed their “customers and partners worldwide” with the following:

“Yesterday, we learned that a same sex couple who were married in Pennsylvania in September of last year ordered 100 custom wedding programs from Vistaprint and instead, received pamphlets expressing intolerance and judgment.

“We want to say how incredibly saddened we are to hear this story. To know that any person could be treated in such a way especially during a time that should be filled with joy is extremely disheartening. Imagine a customer who took the time to create something personal to mark this special day and instead, the day before their wedding, goes to open their wedding programs and finds these judgmental messages. We have never been more disappointed to let a customer down.

“We share in this couple’s outrage. Vistaprint in no way condones — and does not tolerate — discrimination against any of our customers based on their race, religion, gender or sexual orientation. We have encouraged members of the LGBTQ community to use our services to help celebrate their life events for many years, and have published thousands of wedding invitations, programs and other content for same sex couples.

“As an organization, we support diversity and reject discrimination in all forms. We have taken the following steps in response to this incident:

We have begun a complete investigation to determine how and why the couple received these materials. If we determine that any Vistaprint employee or partner had any role in this situation, we will take strong action.

We have communicated with all Vistaprint team members and reaffirmed our commitment to equality and diversity for all of our customers and employees.

We have begun to plan how we can use our global brand platform to share a message of support for same sex marriage and equality around the world.

“We have reached out to the couple to express our outrage that this incident occurred, and sadness that this in any way diminished the joy of their wedding day memories. We are hoping to establish a dialogue with them so together we can use this incident as an opportunity to shine a light on important LGBTQ issues.”

The message was likely a good start for Heasley and Borg, who told Yahoo Lifestyle, “Our goal is to hold Vistaprint accountable for the harm they have caused, to give a voice to others who may have been similarly victimized, to help prevent this from happening to someone else, and to send a message that there will be consequences for acts of hate perpetrated against others.”In a fun preview of Chastain’s guest-hosting gig on “SNL” this weekend, the two engage in a war of words in which Chastain threatens to break out her own “killer” impressions of Hillary Clinton and Jeff Sessions.SEDGWICK COUNTY SHERIFF

WASHINGTON ― Three anti-Muslim extremists arrested ahead of the 2016 election, and charged with plotting a terrorist attack that would have killed Somali refugees, wanted a jury pulled from a rural part of Kansas that’s even more pro-Trump than the area where they’re set to face trial.

But a federal judge shut down their request this week, ruling that selecting jurors from an area where Donald Trump won by nearly 28 points in the 2016 presidential contest ― instead of an area where he won by almost 55 points ― would still allow the defendants to be tried before a jury that reflected a “fair cross-section of the community.”

Authorities arrested Patrick Stein, Gavin Wright and Curtis Allen in October 2016, alleging they were part of a militia group known as the “Crusaders” with “sovereign citizen, anti-government, anti-Muslim, and anti-immigrant extremist beliefs.” The men allegedly said they wanted to “wake people up” by using a bomb to kill Muslim immigrants living in Garden City, Kansas.

They allegedly stockpiled weapons, ammunition and explosives, and talked about setting off four car bombs inside an apartment complex that housed Somali refugees.

Allen’s federal public defender, in a motion last month that was joined by federal taxpayer-funded attorneys for the two other defendants, argued that the case was “uniquely political because much of the anticipated evidence will center around, and was in reaction to” the 2016 presidential election.

They argued that the jury division the jurors will be pulled from was “more urban” than the “more rural” division they wanted included, and that it would lead to the “exclusion of a disproportionate portion of residents holding certain conservative political beliefs.”

While Trump won by 27.89 percentage points in the Wichita-Hutchinson jury division, they wrote, he beat Hillary Clinton by 54.76 percentage points in the Dodge City jury division.

“Stated another way, a prospective juror who lives in a county within the Dodge City jury division is twice as likely to be a Trump voter than the prospective juror who lives in a county within the Wichita-Hutchinson jury division,” the attorneys argued.

But U.S. District Judge Eric Melgren, a former top federal prosecutor appointed to the bench by President George W. Bush, found that the “demographic differences between the Dodge City and the Wichita-Hutchinson divisions are not legally cognizable and will not reflect adversely on the ability of the jury panel to perform its jury function with impartiality, either in actuality or in appearance.”

Melgren, who had previously denied a request from one of the accused terrorists to be released from jail on bond, wrote that there was “no evidence to suggest that citizens of the Dodge City division would evaluate the evidence presented at trial differently than citizens of the Wichita-Hutchinson division.”

The three men are scheduled to go on trial in mid-March. Allen is also attempting to suppress information obtained through a warrant to Facebook. HuffPost found after their arrest that the trio had posted anti-Muslim, anti-Clinton and some pro-Trump memes and links to dubious websites. All three Facebook accounts have since been scrubbed from the internet.

Facebook / HuffPost

The warrant gave the feds access to a wide variety of material from the men’s Facebook accounts, including “rejected ‘Friend’ requests; comments; gifts; pokes; tags” and the like. But Allen’s attorney argued it was “overbroad because it allowed the government to rummage through every type of information in the account, without regard to the purpose of the search, exactly what the Fourth Amendment was designed to prevent.”

Attorneys for the three defendants are likely to argue that their clients’ conduct didn’t cross the line into criminal behavior, and that their threats and plots were just talk ― a strategy that has almost universally failed in cases involving Muslim defendants accused of terrorism.

An attorney for Wright had previously argued that the case involved only “mere puffery and the venting of frustration,” and that Wright was a “good, law-abiding man, who may be a not-so-good judge of character.” The attorney said Wright “feared that then-President Obama was corrupt and in league with the Muslim Brotherhood” and that the “United Nations, China and Cuba were formulating an invasion of the United States that would have to be repelled by American partisans, such as themselves.”

Because there’s no federal criminal law specifically outlawing acts of domestic terrorism writ large, federal officials usually hesitate to use the term “terrorism” in cases involving white, non-Muslim defendants who face charges that aren’t specifically terrorism-related. This case ― which involved a charge of conspiracy to use a weapon of mass destruction ― was the exception to the rule. A Justice Department press release specifically mentioned terrorism, and the criminal complaint accused the men of “conspiring to carry out a domestic terrorist attack.” Later, a grand jury returned a superseding indictment that added civil rights charges against all three defendants.

Even if the defendants had already been convicted, the federal terrorism case against these three white men from Kansas would not have been included in a report the Trump administration released this week that drew a link between immigration and terrorism, focusing solely on international terrorism. By the metrics of that report, a terrorist attack aimed at Muslim immigrants doesn’t count.

Read the judge’s order below.A gymnast works out at the Karolyi Ranch in Hunstville, Texas, on Jan. 26, 2011. Bob Levey via Getty Images

USA Gymnastics announced on Thursday afternoon that it’s severing ties with the organization’s national team training center, Karolyi Ranch.

“USA Gymnastics has terminated its agreement with the Karolyi Ranch in Huntsville, Texas,” USA Gymnastics president and CEO Kerry Perry said in a statement to HuffPost. “It will no longer serve as the USA Gymnastics National Team Training Center.”

Karolyi Ranch, which has served as USA Gymnastics’ national team training center since 2001, has been the home of many elite American gymnasts including Aly Raisman, Maggie Nichols and Simone Biles. All three gymnasts, and several others, say former team doctor Larry Nassar sexually abused them at the training center. More than 140 women have accused Nassar of sexually abusing them under the guise of medical treatment over two decades.

“It has been my intent to terminate this agreement since I began as president and CEO in December,” Perry said. “Our most important priority is our athletes, and their training environment must reflect this. We are committed to a culture that empowers and supports our athletes.”

She added that USA Gymnastics has canceled next week’s training camp for the women’s national team.

“We are exploring alternative sites to host training activities and camps until a permanent location is determined,” Perry said. “We thank all those in the gymnastics community assisting in these efforts.”

Please attribute to Kerry Perry, president and CEO



“USA Gymnastics has terminated its agreement with the Karolyi Ranch in Huntsville, Texas. It will no longer serve as the USA Gymnastics National Team Training Center. — USA Gymnastics (@USAGym) January 18, 2018

A spokesperson for Karolyi Ranch could not be reached by HuffPost for comment.

A statement posted to the training center’s website reads: “After nearly four decades of spiriting young gymnasts towards greatness in sport, our yearly tradition of the Karolyi’s Gymnastics Camp has come to an end. Bela, Martha, and the rest of the camp staff wish to sincerely thank all participants, USA Gymnastics, and everyone who has been a part of our extended family for 35 years of unforgettable memories. ”

Earlier this week, Biles revealed that she was sexually abused by Nassar while she was training at the Karolyi Ranch.

“It is impossibly difficult to relive these experiences and it breaks my heart even more to think that as I work towards my dream of competing in Tokyo 2020, I will have to continually return to the same training facility where I was abused,” 20-year-old Biles wrote on Twitter.

Olympic team member Aly Raisman has continued to call out USA Gymnastics and the U.S. Olympic Committee for failing to properly address the Nassar abuse.

“To see [Simone] write that about having to go back to the ranch ... I hope USA Gymnastics listens, because they haven’t listened to us so far,” Raisman told ESPN in an interview on Tuesday. “I hope they listen and I hope they don’t make any of the girls go back to the ranch. No one should have to go back there after so many of us were abused there.”Olympic gymnast McKayla Maroney made a powerful statement Thursday morning during the sentence hearing of former USA Gymnastics and Michigan State University team doctor Larry Nassar.

Maroney, who alleged in October that Nassar began sexually abusing her when she was 13, was not in court. Michigan state Assistant Attorney General Angela Povilaitis read the gymnast’s victim impact statement as a photo of Maroney at the 2012 Summer Olympics hung behind her.

Maroney, 21, wrote about starting gymnastics when she was 18 months old and entering her first competition when she was 7. She said making the U.S. National Team at 14 was “remarkable and amazing,” but that it came with a price.

“I was told to trust [Nassar], that he would treat my injuries and make it possible for me to achieve my Olympic dreams,” the statement said. “Dr. Nassar told me that I was receiving ‘medically necessary treatment that he had been performing on patients for over 30 years.’ As it turns out, much to my demise, Dr. Nassar was not a doctor, he in fact is, was, and forever shall be, a child molester, a monster of a human being. End of story.”

“If Michigan State University, USA Gymnastics and the US Olympic Committee had paid attention to any of the red flags in Larry Nassar’s behavior, I never would have met him, I never would have been ‘treated’ by him, I never would have been abused by him.” - McKayla Maroney

“He abused my trust. He abused my body and he left scars on my psyche that may never go away,” Povilaitis read from Maroney’s statement.

“For me, the scariest night of my life happened when I was 15 years old,” she continued. “I had flown all day and night with the team to get to Tokyo. He’d given me a sleeping pill for the flight, and the next thing I know, I was all alone with him in his hotel room getting a ‘treatment.’ I thought I was going to die that night.”

She wrote that Nassar also abused her twice while she was competing in the 2012 Olympics.

Maroney called for several organizations to be held accountable for allowing the abuse to go on for so long.

“A simple fact is this: If Michigan State University, USA Gymnastics and the U.S. Olympic Committee had paid attention to any of the red flags in Larry Nassar’s behavior, I never would have met him, I never would have been ‘treated’ by him, I never would have been abused by him,” she said.

Prosecutor Angela Povilaitis reads Maroney's victim impact statement during Larry Nassar's sentence hearing on Thursday. Brendan McDermid / Reuters

The statement ended on a strong note: “Our silence has given the wrong people power for too long, and it’s time to take our power back.”

Judge Rosemarie Aquilina said she hoped Maroney and her mother were watching a livestream of the court proceedings.

“Thank you, McKayla. I think you have just taken your power back along with your sister survivors,” she said. “Your voice for change and accountability is being heard.”Win McNamee via Getty Images The Trump International Hotel in Washington, D.C

It seems like Trump-branded properties are getting some crappy reviews.

The Yelp rating for the Trump International Hotel in Washington D.C. has plummeted from four to two stars in the past few days due to hundreds of new negative reviews. Many of those reviews call the hotel a “shithole,” in reference to President Donald Trump’s remarks about immigration last week.

CNN reports that New Knowledge, a company that “tracks the spread of misinformation online,” found that nearly 800 new reviews were posted between Thursday and Monday.

“Perhaps the Trump brand could take some lessons from Norway, where they have the BEST hotels. Like, genius, hotels. Not shitholes like this,” one reviewer wrote.

“Sincerely wanted to give it a chance. However, I didn’t like it. It felt like fake news,” wrote another.

Some reviews also included a screenshot of artist Robin Bell’s latest video. The clip displays the word “shithole,” along with poop emojis, projected onto the hotel.

The Trump International Hotel in Washington D.C. wasn’t the only Trump-brand property to be blasted in online reviews. Plenty of similar reviews have appeared for hotels in Chicago, Sunny Isles Beach, Las Vegas, Waikiki and New York City, as well as at Trump’s beloved Mar-a-lago, which had only a 1.5-star rating as of Wednesday evening.

The Yelp pages for these establishments now each include a message stating that they are “being monitored by Yelp’s Support team for content related to media reports.”

The pages also include “active cleanup” alerts, which inform users that reviews motivated by media coverage may be removed.

“While we don’t take a stand one way or the other when it comes to these news events, we do work to remove both positive and negative posts that appear to be motivated more by the news coverage itself than the reviewer’s personal consumer experience with the business,” the alerts read.

The negative reviews come in the wake of a report from The Washington Post last week that described Trump asking lawmakers during an Oval Office meeting why immigrants were coming from “shithole countries” instead of what he views as more desirable places, like Norway.Their match wasn’t friendly.

A Naples, Florida, golf course featured a reptilian smackdown between an alligator and Burmese python last week ― and it was caught on camera.

“The alligator seems to have the upper hand,” Dr. Richard Nadler wrote on Facebook.

“The python’s head was inside the mouth of the alligator and the alligator was just sitting there absolutely still with his eyes wide open,” Nadler told NBC affiliate WESH.

While state wildlife authorities couldn’t determine the outcome for sure from photos, they told Fox News they were “team alligator” in part because Burmese pythons are not from Florida and their presence is harming the ecosystem.

“We are encouraged by the prospect of a native Florida alligator consuming an invasive Burmese python,” said Brian Norris, spokesman for the Florida Fish and Wildlife Conservation Commission.

As for Nadler and his golf pals, the fight was some sight but it didn’t stop their day on the links at Fiddler’s Creek.Prosecutors in California have filed four additional counts of murder against Joseph James DeAngelo, saying investigators now have evidence linking him to all 12 killings attributed to the so-called Golden State Killer.

Santa Barbara District Attorney Joyce Dudley announced the first-degree murder charges on Thursday.

“Each of the four counts carry the potential for a sentence of life without possibility of parole or the death sentence,” she said during a press conference.

DeAngelo, 72, had previously been charged with eight counts of murder in cold case homicides across California in the 1970s and ’80s.

Joseph James DeAngelo has been charged in connection with all 12 killings attributed to the Golden State Killer. Randy Pench/Sacramento Bee/TNS via Getty Images

Robert Offerman, Debra Manning, Gregory Sanchez and Cheri Domingo are the victims named in the new counts.

Offerman and Manning, who were dating, were shot and killed inside Offerman’s Goleta residence on Dec. 30, 1979. Sanchez and Domingo, also a couple, were housesitting in Goleta when they were killed on July 27, 1981.

DeAngelo’s attorney, Diane Howard, did not return a call for comment on Friday.

Investigators remove items in evidence bags from the home of Joseph James DeAngelo, who is now charged in 12 previously unsolved homicides. Fred Greaves/Reuters

Authorities arrested DeAngelo, a Vietnam veteran and former police officer, in April after investigators linked him to the killings of Manuela Witthuhn, Janelle Cruz, Keith and Patti Harrington, Brian and Katie Maggiore, and Charlene and Lyman Smith.

After DeAngelo’s arrest, authorities revealed they’d zeroed in on him by comparing suspect DNA recovered from crime scenes to genetic profiles stored on genealogy websites. Police explained that they ultimately determined the crime scene DNA was similar to the DNA of a female relative of DeAngelo’s whose genetic profile was online.

Upon examining the relative’s family tree, police say they identified DeAngelo as a potential candidate based on his age and proximity to the crimes. They then reportedly obtained a discarded sample of DeAngelo’s DNA, which matched the suspect DNA.

Authorities have also linked DeAngelo to a series of rapes ― which the media attributed to the “East Area Rapist” at the time. That means DeAngelo’s alleged crimes may span some 10 counties and include dozens of victims.

A 2016 FBI sketch of the East Area Rapist/Golden State Killer, who was described in 2016 as between the ages of 60 and 75 years old. Handout/Reuters

According to the FBI, the Golden State Killer began his crime spree in 1976, committing several burglaries and rapes in the Sacramento suburbs of Rancho Cordova and Carmichael.

“The [suspect] gained entry into the homes of his victims by prying open a window or door while they slept,” the FBI said in a 2016 press release. “He would then shine a flashlight into the face of his victims, tie up the female victim and, if a male victim was present, tied him up as well.”

Upon ransacking the residence, the suspect would rape the female victims, some of whom the suspect later taunted with menacing phone calls, investigators said.

Cops say the slayings of Brian and Katie Maggiore in 1978 were the first homicides the suspect committed. The rapes and killings continued until 1986, when police say they stopped just as suddenly as they’d begun.

A photo of accused rapist and killer Joseph James DeAngelo. Justin Sullivan/Getty Images

The case received renewed media attention earlier this year with the publication of the book I’ll Be Gone in the Dark, by the late Michelle McNamara. For years, McNamara immersed herself in the mystery of the Golden State Killer. She visited crime scenes and interviewed detectives and survivors. She died in her sleep in 2016 at age 46, prior to her book’s publication.

DeAngelo has yet to enter a plea in any of the cases. He’s being held in the Sacramento County Jail and is expected to appear in court next week.

Dudley, the district attorney, said charging DeAngelo in each of the homicides has brought some relief to the victim’s families.

“Violent cold cases never grow cold for victims or their loved ones,” Dudley told reporters. “In fact, most of them spend their lives feverishly seeking answers and desperately hoping for justice.”

Send David Lohr an email or follow him on Facebook and Twitter.