Eduardo Munoz / Reuters Kim Kardashian and Kanye West welcomed a new baby girl via surrogate.

Kim Kardashian and Kanye West are parents to a new baby girl whose name has not been revealed.

There are plenty of jokes to be made, of course, about what the little sister of North and Saint might be named. East? Queen? Wild?

The new parents themselves might be stumped, though they might be delaying the announcement to win themselves both a little privacy and a lot of publicity. But in case Kimye are really still searching, we applied our expert thinking to finding them the perfect baby name.

Starting with the couple’s established naming preferences, they clearly like unusual word names that contain one syllable, are gender-neutral, start with a unique first initial, and play off and highlight the last name West. Given those parameters, Nameberry offers the following suggestions:

Three

Number names are hot given the character Eleven on “Stranger Things.” Singer Erykah Badu and Andre 3000 have a son named Seven, while the Novogratz family includes a son named Five. Besides fitting the other requirements for a name, Three has a lot of significance for the couple. This baby is the third child, and three people including the surrogate were involved in giving her life. Plus Three West sounds like an address, exactly the kind of mild joke that Kim and Kanye like in a name.

A post shared by Kim Kardashian West (@kimkardashian) on Dec 29, 2017 at 8:46am PST

Wing

Wing suggests flight, speed, improvisation, all qualities the couple might like symbolized in a name. Plus: Wing West, West Wing, get it? The biggest strike against this otherwise attractive name is the double W initial. Given that the couple obviously want to break with Kardashian naming traditions, they may want to avoid alliterative initials.

France

We fed the names North and Saint into our Namehunter tool, and the first suggested companion name was France, a place-name that, like North, is rare but not unheard-of. France Nuyen was a Vietnamese-French singer and actress and France Joli a Canadian pop singer. Given Kanye’s interest in fashion, France carries personal meaning. French, as in actor French Stewart or rapper French Montana, is another possibility. Strike against it: Kim may not feel too kindly toward the country where she was robbed.

True

True West is the title of a Sam Shepard play as well as a real-life phrase indicating direction, so it combines an artistic pedigree with a mild joke, two qualities the couple seem to like in a name. Plus the name True carries a spiritual element in the way that Saint does. Disadvantage: True may be too popular, given to 31 girls and 44 boys in 2016. But that’s roughly the standing Saint held when they chose it, so True may still be in play.

A post shared by Kim Kardashian West (@kimkardashian) on Aug 21, 2017 at 9:17am PDT

Dash

“Go West” may be one of the best-known West-related phrases, but we can’t see baby namers even as adventurous as Kim and Kanye naming their child Go. Likewise Head or Run. But Dash definitely works, and carries the added attraction of being the name of the store run by the Kardashian sisters. While the name Dash has been getting popular for boys, breaking into the top 1000 a few years ago, it still qualifies as rare for girls, given to only 13 baby girls last year.

A couple of runners-up, and why we rejected them: New, except then she’d have the same first initial as sister North. Snow, relating to her winter birthday, except this time she shares a first initial with brother Saint. Land, except Land West doesn’t resonate as a phrase. Jazz is nice except it’s the wrong kind of music for this couple. Free is too hippyish.On the Democratic side, Greater Wisconsin spent $30,000, and the National Democratic Redistricting Committee contributed $10,000.

Jessica Post, executive director of the Democratic Legislative Campaign Committee ― the group in charge of electing Democrats at the statehouse level ― said Schachtner’s win “perfectly encapsulates the local progressive movement” sweeping the country.

“An active community leader, Senator-elect Schachtner shared her lifelong connection to the district and connected with her future constituents about the issues they care about, from investing more in education to ensuring rural areas have access to quality health care and helping businesses grow to boost the local economy,” Post said in a statement.

Both Walker and Ryan are favored to win re-election, but Democrats are fighting to unseat them. There’s a crowded field in the Democratic primary to take on Walker. And in Ryan’s district, Democrats have been excited about the candidacy of populist ironworker Randy Bryce.Cannabis dispensaries are typically cash-only, with ATMs on site. Bloomberg via Getty Images

Attorneys general from over a dozen states where some form of marijuana use has been legalized are urging Congress to pass legislation that would allow banks to provide services to cannabis businesses without risking federal prosecution.

In a letter sent to congressional leaders on Tuesday, attorneys general from 17 states, Washington D.C. and the U.S. territory of Guam said they shared “a strong interest in protecting public safety and bringing grey market activities into the regulated banking sector.”

“To address these goals, we urge Congress to advance legislation that would allow states that have legalized medical or recreational use of marijuana to bring that commerce into the banking system,” the letter stated.

Such a law “would bring billions of dollars into the banking sector, and give law enforcement the ability to monitor these transactions,” the letter said. It added that “compliance with tax requirements would be simpler and easier to enforce with a better-defined tracking of funds. This would, in turn, result in higher tax revenue.”

Medical marijuana is legal in 29 states and several U.S. territories, including Guam. Eight of those states and the District of Columbia have also passed laws legalizing recreational cannabis use by people who are at least 21 years old. The new year ushered in a newly legal recreational weed market in California.

But the federal government still classifies cannabis as an illegal substance, and U.S. Attorney General Jeff Sessions earlier this month rescinded four Obama-era memos that discouraged enforcement of the federal ban. The abrupt announcement sparked confusion among banks on how to work with cannabis businesses without running afoul of federal money laundering laws.

Under current federal regulations, banks that provide services to state-licensed weed businesses ― such as establishing deposit accounts or providing loans ― are liable for criminal and civil prosecution under the Controlled Substances Act.

“This risk has significantly inhibited the willingness of financial institutions to provide services to these businesses,” the attorneys general’s letter said.

That has left some cannabis businesses scrambling to find ways to secure their money, while the roughly $7 billion global weed industry rapidly continues to grow. Some have used apps like CanPay, which offers digital debiting services. And about 400 banks and credit unions, most of them small institutions operating in states where cannabis has been legalized, currently do business with the U.S. marijuana industry.

California Attorney General Xavier Becerra, who was among those signing the letter to Congress, said in a statement that “the future of small and local licensed [cannabis] businesses has been clouded by the Trump administration’s relentless attacks on progress, in conflict with the will of voters.”Police Commissioner Chris Dawson addresses the media in Perth, Australia, May 11, 2018. AAP/Rebecca Le May/via REUTERS

SYDNEY (Reuters) - Australian police found seven dead people on Friday, including four children, in a rural town in the Margaret River wine-growing region, and said guns were involved in the killings.

The bodies of four children and three adults were found at or near a property in Osmington near the southwestern tip of Australia, Western Australia’s Commissioner of Police Chris Dawson told a news conference.

Dawson said firearms were found at the scene. He said there appeared to be gunshot wounds.

“I can only describe it as a horrific situation,” Dawson said.

“We have no information to raise concern about wider public safety issues at this point in time.”

Gun crime in Australia fell sharply after strict controls were introduced in response to a mass shooting in 1996, when a lone gunman killed 35 people in Tasmania.

That prompted the government to buy back or confiscate a million firearms and make it harder to buy new ones.

Australia has banned all semi-automatic rifles and all semi-automatic and pump-action shotguns, and has a restrictive system of licensing and ownership controls.

While there have been some mass killings since Port Arthur, the latest killings could prove to be the single biggest incident of gun-related deaths since 1996.

Police said they went to the property after getting a telephone call.

“The reason police went to the property was from a telephone call which we’ve recorded,” said Dawson, who would not comment on the identity of the caller.

He said homicide detectives were helping police.President Donald Trump shakes hands with Rear Adm. Dr. Ronny Jackson following his annual physical at Walter Reed National Military Medical Center in Bethesda, Maryland, Jan. 12, 2018. SAUL LOEB via Getty Images

WASHINGTON ― A Navy rear admiral who serves as President Donald Trump’s personal physician vouched on Tuesday for his mental fitness, explaining that he gave Trump a dementia screening exam at the president’s request, and that Trump aced it.

“Anything above 26 is normal, and certainly if you get a 30 out of 30, I think you can confidently assume that you’re done on the cognitive workup for now,” said Rear Adm. Dr. Ronny Jackson, who on Friday spent three hours examining Trump with a team of doctors at Walter Reed National Military Medical Center in suburban Maryland.

Trump’s mental state, which had been an occasional topic of debate since the start of his presidential campaign, became a focus of national conversation in recent weeks with the publication of Michael Wolff’s Fire and Fury. The book depicted a president quick to anger, deeply ignorant of policy matters and unable to focus for any length of time.

Critics wondered aloud about Trump’s ability to perform his duties, as some psychiatrists around the country ignored their profession’s stricture against making assessments in the absence of a personal exam to suggest that Trump had dementia.

Jackson works in the White House and sees Trump every day. Based on those interactions, Jackson said he personally saw no need to administer a dementia screening. However, he said, Trump was aware of the public discussion of his mental state and asked Jackson to give him one anyway.

“I think he saw the physical as an opportunity to put some of that to rest,” Jackson said. “He wasn’t the least bit concerned that he had anything to hide. He actively asked me to include that in it, and so we did.”

The Montreal Cognitive Assessment is actually more detailed and lengthier than the 10-minute quiz recommended by the National Institute of Aging for people 65 and over. Jackson said Trump scored 30, the highest possible result.

“The president did exceedingly well on it,” he said.

The results were something the White House ― which had refused to say beforehand whether Trump would take a cognitive assessment ― was pleased to discuss, and Jackson spent nearly a full hour taking questions about Trump’s physical exam at Tuesday’s daily briefing.

Jackson also declared Trump, who is 71, to be in “excellent” health for a man his age, and said his cardiovascular system in particular is in good shape. He did say that Trump would benefit from losing 10 to 15 pounds from a combination of improving his diet and starting an exercise regimen.

Jackson gave Trump’s height as 6 feet 3 inches, and his weight as 239 pounds. Those figures put him just barely under the obesity threshold in the body mass index calculation.

Trump has claimed that exercise is bad because people are born with a finite amount of energy and that exercise needlessly wastes it.

But Jackson said he will be figuring out a low-impact aerobic exercise machine in the White House gym for Trump, as well as bringing in a nutritionist to work with the kitchen staff to lower his intake of carbohydrates and fats. He said that as far as he knows, Trump is not currently engaging in any specific exercise at all.In the wake of Matt Lauer’s ouster from the “Today” show, it appears women are taking over.

Two weeks after Hoda Kotb officially replaced the accused serial sexual abuser on the show, NBC brass announced the long-running morning program is getting a new executive producer for its 7 a.m. and 8 a.m. ET hours: Libby Leist.

Leist will be the first woman to serve in this top behind-the-scenes position during the show’s key morning hours, anchored by Kotb and Savannah Guthrie. The co-anchors made “Today” show history when they became the first women to helm those slots, during which the show earns the most viewers.

Leist will join Jackie Levin, executive producer of Megyn Kelly’s 9 a.m. hour; Tammy Filler, executive producer of the 10 a.m. hour; and Matt Carluccio, who executive-produces weekend segments.

Formerly a senior producer on the show, Leist will step into the role recently vacated by Don Nash, who became an executive producer on “Today” in 2012, according to The Hollywood Reporter.

Nash says he wants to spend more time with his family after more than two decades at the network, explaining in a statement provided to Variety that he aims to “be a better dad to my two beautiful girls.” In a memo to employees, NBC News chairman Andy Lack credited Nash’s decision to the “change in anchors” and said it was a result of Nash “having rethought some of his priorities.”

Nash’s decision comes over one month after NBC announced it would investigate how the company handled the Lauer accusations.

“At the conclusion of the review we will share what we’ve learned, no matter how painful, and act on it,” Lack said in a memo late last year.

Lauer was fired from the “Today” show after two decades when NBC executives received a complaint about sexual misconduct that inspired “reason to believe this may not have been an isolated incident.” More women came forward after his termination, suggesting a pattern of behavior stretching back years.

In a Wednesday interview, former “Today” show anchor Ann Curry ― who was pushed out of the network in 2012 ― said she was “unsurprised” by the allegations against her former colleague, adding that she witnessed a culture of “verbal sexual harassment” at NBC.The Pennsylvania State Capitol in Harrisburg in 2011. Daniel Shanken / Reuters

HARRISBURG, Pa. ― A plurality of state Supreme Court justices on Wednesday appeared open to the possibility that the Pennsylvania congressional map may violate the state’s constitution, but during oral argument seemed unclear as to how to remedy the situation.

The state’s map, which has been in place since 2012, gives Republicans a considerable advantage. The GOP consistently has been able to win 13 of the state’s 18 congressional seats despite winning just 50 percent of the vote. The Brennan Center for Justice describes the congressional map as one of the worst gerrymanders in the country, and analyses have found it to be responsible for at least three additional GOP seats in Congress.

During an oral argument that lasted about two and a half hours in a packed courtroom, the justices seemed resistant to the plaintiffs’ suggestion that any level of partisanship would be unacceptable in drawing district lines. Reaching such a conclusion would mean the court would be wading into redistricting more than any court had before, said Justice Debra McCloskey Todd.

But a plurality of the justices seemed more open to a map that took into consideration some partisan concerns as long as they were not given more importance than traditional, neutral redistricting requirements, such as those mandating districts be compact and contiguous. David Gersch, the lawyer for those challenging the congressional map, said such an approach would be acceptable as a fallback position.

Gersch argued that the case was a “straightforward” example of viewpoint discrimination. Republican lawmakers tasked with redrawing the state’s congressional districts sorted voters based on how they had voted in previous elections. Doing so, he said, “threatens to undermine the essence” of representative democracy.

Lawyers for the Republican defendants did not dispute that voters had been sorted into districts based on their past votes, but said that did not amount to impermissible viewpoint discrimination. They argued that social science could not necessarily predict how voters would cast their ballot, and that political parties were not a protected group the way racial groups are.

The case was filed by the League of Women Voters on behalf of 18 Pennsylvania Democratic voters, one in each of the state’s congressional districts.

“Justice David Wecht interjected to ask if the convenience of Republican voters trumped constitutional rights.”

E. Mark Braden, a lawyer for House Speaker Michael Turzai (R), said it was inconceivable that the constitution would give the power to redraw districts to a legislature without anticipating it would take political considerations into effect. Brady warned the justices against wading into the “political thicket,” arguing the body would weaken its integrity as an independent judicial body by taking on the political process of redistricting.

Gersch and Daniel Jacobson, another lawyer for the plaintiffs, said they were surprised at Brady’s admission that Republicans used Pennsylvanians’ past votes to sort them into districts. Brady argued it was unsurprising politicians would take politics into account when shaping drawing the new maps.

“They offered no substantive argument that this wasn’t intentional discrimination,” Jacobson told HuffPost.

Democrats have a 5-2 majority on the Pennsylvania Supreme Court, onto which justices are elected. The court has the final say in this case because it involves a challenge under the free expression and equal protection clauses of the state constitution.

A ruling would be deeply significant, both because it could force lawmakers to draw new, more competitive congressional districts ahead of the 2018 elections, and because it could encourage people in other states to bring similar claims.

The lawyers for the Republicans faced sharp questioning from Justice David Wecht, who seemed strongly leaning toward throwing out the map. He suggested the Republican defense in the case hinted that they believed there was no permissible limit on how far a partisan gerrymander could go. Wecht at one point comparing the defense of the map to the defense in Brown v. Board of Education, the landmark U.S. Supreme Court that said school segregation was unconstitutional.

Justice Max Baer also seemed leaning toward striking down the map, but appeared to wrestle with what a fix would look like. He repeatedly asked lawyers for both sides to give the court some kind of test to evaluate partisan gerrymanders. He wondered aloud if it would be constitutional to draw a district that was only Philadelphia and Pittsburgh, cities on opposite sides of the state, that were joined only by a single highway. A lawyer for the plaintiffs responded that courts had upheld a similarly drawn districts in Illinois.

Constitutional issues aside, the justices also wrestled with the practical impact of throwing out the state’s congressional map weeks before the start of the election process for the 2018 midterm elections. Noting that technology had made it possible for computers to draw hundreds of maps in one day, Gersch said it would be possible to draw the maps in two weeks.

Mark Aronchick, a lawyer representing Gov. Thomas Wolf (D) and state election officials, argued in favor of throwing out the map and said it would be possible to run the 2018 congressional election smoothly if the court decided to do so.

With a few adjustments, he said, the state could hold its scheduled primary congressional elections on May 15 if a new map was in place by Feb. 20. If a map came later, he said the state could either postpone all of the primary elections scheduled for May 15 or delay just the congressional primary date. Aronchick suggested the court give the legislature two or three weeks to redraw the map, but also appoint an expert special master who could work on maps at the same time in case the legislature did not move quickly enough.

Todd expressed concern about the cost of an additional primary. Lawrence Tabas, a lawyer for Republican voters supporting the map, said it would amount to substantial changes on the eve on an election and would infringe on the constitutional rights of voters in the state. He suggested leaving in place the current map for the 2018 election, even if the court struck it down, and ordering a new one for 2020.

Wecht interjected to ask him if the convenience of Republican voters trumped constitutional rights.

The case is being closely watched as courts across the country grapple with whether they can set a standard to determine when lawmakers go too far to draw electoral boundaries for their party’s benefit. The U.S. Supreme Court is considering two cases out of Maryland and Wisconsin this term that could help clarify that question. Observers are closely watching Justice Anthony Kennedy, who is seen as the deciding swing vote in the case and wrote in 2004 that such a standard may exist.

But regardless of what the Supreme Court does, experts say a ruling striking down the map could encourage groups to pursue lawsuits in state courts to challenge partisan gerrymandering. Conversely, a ruling upholding the map would increase the importance of the Supreme Court’s decision.

The lower commonwealth court initially put the Pennsylvania lawsuit on hold while the U.S. Supreme Court’s decisions were pending. The plaintiffs appealed to the Pennsylvania Supreme Court, which agreed to hear the case on an emergency expedited basis. At the Pennsylvania Supreme Court’s direction, Commonwealth Court Judge P. Kevin Brobson presided over a trial in December. In his recommendation to the Pennsylvania Supreme Court, which is nonbinding, Brobson noted partisan considerations were evident in the 2011 map and said it was possible to draw a fairer map using only neutral criteria. However, he also said the challengers had failed to offer a standard to evaluate partisan gerrymandering and failed to prove it violated the state’s constitution.

Drew Crompton, a lawyer for Senate President Pro Tempore Joseph Scarnati (R), hinted that Republicans were considering how to appeal to the U.S. Supreme Court should the Pennsylvania high court rule against them. He added that the League of Women Voters was using the lawsuit as a means to get more Democrats in Congress.

“If they create new law and new policy, then we’re just going to see what they do and what the remedy is and then decide whether or not we go to the U.S. Supreme Court,” Crompton told reporters. “Regardless of the plaintiffs trying to say that this is all state Supreme Court law and state constitutional, in the world that we live in, the federal law and the state law are intertwined. There’s no getting around that. And we should highlight the fact that these are congressional issues, so federal issues. I think we have a right to an appeal to the U.S. Supreme Court, I hope it doesn’t come to that.”

R. Stanton Jones, a lawyer for the plaintiffs, said such an appeal to the U.S. Supreme Court was “absolutely not available,” because the congressional map was only being challenged under the state constitution.

The gallery was mostly quiet during the hearing, but there were some moments of levity. How can it be so bad, Tabas wanted to know, if five Democrats are running for Congress in a district where Democrats allege a particularly egregious gerrymander for Republicans?

“Hope springs eternal,” Todd responded, prompting the courtroom to break out into laughter.Attorney General Jeff Sessions honored the legacy of Martin Luther King, Jr. on Tuesday in a speech that ignored his own history― one dogged by decades of allegations of racial discrimination and opposition to voting rights.

“I regularly saw raw, unvarnished discrimination against a whole people because of the color of their skin,” Sessions said on Tuesday of growing up in the South. “I can remember riding on an all-white school bus and passing every morning an all-black school bus. Just one look at the buses was enough to know that separate was not equal.”

King’s life, he added, “changed hearts and minds. Those changed souls then changed the laws of this land.”

One of those laws, the Voting Rights Act of 1965, is a law Sessions called “intrusive” last year. In 2013, when the Supreme Court struck down parts of the law, he called it “good news ... for the South.” Several decades earlier, while he served as a U.S. attorney in Alabama, he prosecuted three African American civil rights activists for voter fraud.

Sessions’ stance on voting rights and criminal justice has led to a myriad of accusations of racial bias over the years, including by King’s widow, who in 1986 penned a letter to Congress opposing Sessions’ federal judge nomination.

“The irony of Mr. Sessions’ nomination is that, if confirmed, he will be given a life tenure for doing with a federal prosecution what the local sheriffs accomplished twenty years ago with clubs and cattle prods,” she wrote. “I believe his confirmation would have a devastating effect on not only the judicial system in Alabama, but also on the progress we have made toward fulfilling my husband’s dream.”

Other testimony during the nomination process alleged that Sessions had called groups like the NAACP “un-American” and forced “civil rights down the throats of people;” had referred to his black assistant as “boy;” and had said a white lawyer was a “disgrace to his race” for representing black clients.

Vanita Gupta, the head of the Justice Department’s civil rights division under President Barack Obama and now president of the Leadership Conference on Civil and Human Rights, called Sessions’ speech “beyond ironic.”Sunrise/Channel 7

When police told Tony Lethbridge to go home and wait for news about his missing son, Samuel, the Australian father took matters into his own hands and put his trust in a helicopter pilot.

Tony’s intuition and dogged determination almost certainly saved Samuel’s life, leading to his rescue from a car wreck after 30 hours of lying stranded and hidden in thick bushland north of Sydney.

Samuel, 17, had set off from the Central Coast region of New South Wales on Sunday, planning to drive the short distance to meet his girlfriend in a town called Blacksmiths. He never made it.

Nobody had heard from him in 24 hours, calls to his phone were going unanswered and his family had begun to worry. Samuel’s parents, Tony and Lee Lethbridge, reported his disappearance to police, but they were told to go home and wait.

“They told us that he might have ran away, he could have done this or he could have done that, and we just said, ‘It’s out of character; it’s not him,’” Tony Lethbridge told Fairfax Media.

“They put all the things in motion, and we waited and waited. They just told us to go home and wait.”

Lethbridge had it in his head that Samuel had crashed his car somewhere in the bush along the Pacific Highway. He recalled a similar incident several years earlier, when a driver had crashed his car into the scrub and had died by the time his car was found several days later.

“I just thought, bugger this, I’m not going to sit around and wait,” Lethbridge told Fairfax.

“His mates were telling us he was a bit tired when he dropped his mate off on the Central Coast, so it was the only thing we could really think of.”

“With the way the bush is there, if a car goes in you’re not going to see it. The only way you’ll see it is from the air. And that’s what we did.”

He went into the nearest airport just hours after reporting Samuel’s disappearance to police. With $1,000 in hand, he begged for help from the first helicopter pilot he found. A local aviation company accepted the job and soon took to the skies searching for Samuel’s car along the highway.

Within minutes, they’d spotted a car crashed deep into the scrub, about 50 meters (160 feet) off the road, only a short drive from Samuel’s family home. The family rushed to the scene and raced into the bush, searching for the car. The helicopter hovered overhead to guide them. Lethbridge’s brother Michael found Samuel first ― alive but dehydrated after nearly 30 hours in the wreckage of his car and suffering serious injuries.

Crangan Bay: 17-year-old Samuel Lethbridge saved after his dad hired a helicopter to look for him. "He lifted his head up, and said 'I'd kill for a drink'" - Tony Lethbridge - Father. "We would like to thank the @skylineavgroup helicopter pilot Lee Mitchell." #7News pic.twitter.com/m3l24tWRP7 — 7 News Sydney (@7NewsSydney) January 16, 2018

“You wouldn’t have seen him if it wasn’t for the helicopter, because I couldn’t see him from the road,” Michael Lethbridge said.

“If the helicopter wasn’t hovering above, I would have never had found him.”

Emergency services were called and cut Samuel out of the wrecked car. He was rushed to a hospital with an ankle injury, a fractured forearm and a compound fracture to his femur, according to an ambulance spokesperson.

“I grabbed him and I said: ‘Mate, Dad’s got you,’” Tony Lethbridge said.MEXICO CITY (Reuters) - Police have discovered at least 33 human skulls buried in western Mexico, authorities said on Tuesday, the latest grisly find in a region that has suffered from increasing violence between warring drug cartels.

“So far 33 skulls have been found. All discovered in the same area,” said a government official in the Pacific state of Nayarit, who spoke on condition of anonymity.

It was not yet clear who the skulls belonged to or why they were buried in three shallow graves, the official said.

Investigations have been underway at the site in southern Nayarit since Saturday and further discoveries of human remains are possible, he said.

Nayarit has been one of the states hit hardest by an increase in gang-related killings, which helped push murders to a record high in Mexico in 2017.

Much of the killing stems from a power struggle between the Jalisco New Generation Cartel, a gang based in neighboring Jalisco state, and their rivals in the Sinaloa Cartel of captured kingpin Joaquin “El Chapo” Guzman.This week I talked with actor Jeff Hiller about the hit Off Broadway play Bright Colors And Bold Patterns that he’ll be joining on January 17th with a new opening night scheduled for February 4th. Hiller (Nightcap, 30 Rock & Broadway’s Bloody Bloody Andrew Jackson) will step into the starring role of this devastatingly funny hit play directed by Michael Urie (Torch Song, Buyer & Cellar, Ugly Betty) and written by Drew Droege the play’s original star. Hiller will continue the play’s triumphant Off Broadway run through February 25th at the SoHo Playhouse in NYC. Bright Colors And Bold Patterns is about Josh and Brennan who are about to get married in Palm Springs on a lovely Saturday afternoon. However, the night before becomes a drunken, drug-fueled riot because their friend Gerry arrives furious that their invitation says: “Please refrain from wearing bright colors or bold patterns.” The play is produced by Zach Laks in association with Riki Kane Larimer and features set design by Dara Wishingrad. Tom DeTrinis serves as associate producer. Bright Colors And Bold Patterns was originally presented at VS Theatre in Los Angeles and directed by Molly Prather. I talked to Jeff about how thrilled he is to perform Drew Droege’s hysterical one man show and his spin on our LGBTQ issues.Protesters attend a Me Too rally in Los Angeles, California on November 12, 2017. NurPhoto via Getty Images

A five-part TV series about the #MeToo movement is in the works.

The PBS series called ”#MeToo, Now What?” focuses on the uprising against workplace sexual violence that has dominated the news for months. Zainab Salbi, a humanitarian and founder of Women for Women International, will host the series, which will feature 30-minute episodes that debut on Feb. 2, according to a press release.

“In order for this conversation to create true cultural change, we must talk with the man on the street, in our lives, our colleagues and friends,” Salbi said in the release. “Equally, we need to have the conversation with the women in our lives to examine why, when we’ve seen sexual misconduct, we’ve often looked the other way when it didn’t impact us directly.”

The series will spotlight sexual harassment by featuring women and men of all ages. ”#MeToo, Now What?” seeks to answer the important question: “How did we get here and how can we use this moment to effect positive and lasting change?” according to the press release.

“Topics to be explored include the impact of popular culture on women in the workplace, how race and class factor into the discussion, the social costs of pay inequity and gender discrimination, how men can be engaged in this discussion, and, ultimately, how we begin to chart a path forward,” the release said.WASHINGTON ― Sen. Jeff Flake (R-Ariz.) warned Republicans that they must stand up to President Donald Trump’s attacks against the press or else risk being complicit in a dangerous slide to authoritarianism.

Flake delivered an impassioned speech on the Senate floor Wednesday warning that Trump’s repeated attacks on the U.S. media as “fake news” are hurting democracy, which he said depended on a shared set of facts.

“2017 was a year which saw the truth – objective, empirical, evidence-based truth – more battered and abused than any other in the history of our country, at the hands of the most powerful figure in our government,” Flake said. “It was a year which saw the White House enshrine ‘alternative facts’ into the American lexicon, as justification for what used to be known simply as good old-fashioned falsehoods.”

Trump last week again suggested he would make it easier for people to sue news organizations and publishers for defamation by taking a “strong look” at the nation’s libel laws. In addition to his attacks against specific news organization and journalists, Trump has labeled the media the “enemy of the people.”

Flake said it would be “a source of great shame in this body, especially for those of us in the president’s party,” if Trump’s “unprecedented” assault on the media went unchallenged. The president’s behavior this past year, he added, is reminiscent of similar tactics employed by Soviet dictator Joseph Stalin.

“A free press is the despot’s enemy, which makes the free press a guardian of democracy,” Flake said.

If Republicans decide to stand together and stand up to Trump, Flake continued, they can “prevent further moral vandalism” and “resolve to be allies of the truth ― and not partners in its destruction.”

Flake also commented on Trump’s plans Wednesday to hand out something called the “Fake News Awards.” The prizes, the president said, would go to “the most corrupt and biased” news organizations. The White House on Tuesday called the awards a “potential event,” however.

“It beggars belief that an American president would engage in such a spectacle. But here we are,” Flake said.

No Republicans were present in the chamber as Flake spoke, except for Sen. Tom Cotton (R-Ark.), who presided as chair. Two Democrats ― Illinois Sen. Dick Durbin and Minnesota Sen. Amy Klobuchar ― stood up to thank Flake for his remarks.

Sen. Jim Inhofe (R-Okla.) said later he wasn’t surprised by Flake’s speech.

“He hates him,” Inhofe said of Flake’s attitude about Trump. “He’s been doing that for a long time ... I think it’s not a good idea. I just disagree with him. I don’t think it serves any purpose to criticize the president just because you don’t like him.”

Flake’s speech didn’t have the intended effect on the chair of the Republican National Committee. RNC Chair Ronna McDaniel took particular issue with the Arizona Republican comparing Trump’s attacks on the press to Stalin, tweeting that he had “gone too far.”

Sen. Flake, turn on the news. It’s wall-to-wall with biased coverage against @POTUS. He has every right to push back. Comparing the leader of the free world to murderous dictators is absurd. You’ve gone too far. — Ronna McDaniel (@GOPChairwoman) January 17, 2018I’m headed to Mississippi for a reporting trip, so the wonderful Ariel Edwards-Levy is stepping in once more to cover Thursday and Friday! Will see you all again Monday.

AS A POTENTIAL SHUTDOWN LOOMS, REPUBLICANS ARE NEGOTIATING WITH THEMSELVES The current proposed plan would “extend government operations for another month, fund the Children’s Health Insurance Program for six years as a lure for Democrats and try to win GOP support by delaying some taxes on health insurance plans.” [HuffPost] [Tweet | Share on Facebook]

EX-CIA OFFICER ARRESTED FOR RETAINING INFORMATION Such as the names and identities of covert employees and spy recruits. Jerry Chun Shing Lee is suspected in the collapse of the U.S. spy network in China. [Reuters]

STEVE BANNON REPORTEDLY INVOKED EXECUTIVE PRIVILEGE And refused to answer congressional questions in the Russia probe, according to Rep. Adam Schiff (D-Calif.), the ranking member of the House Intelligence Committee. However, he was subpoenaed by Special Counsel Robert Mueller last week. [HuffPost]

DEMOCRATS SCORE SPECIAL ELECTION UPSET IN WISCONSIN REPUBLICAN STRONGHOLD FOR STATE SENATE SEAT The 10th Senate District went solidly for Trump in 2016. [HuffPost]

22 ATTORNEYS GENERAL HAVE SUED THE FCC FOR ENDING NET NEUTRALITY “An open internet ― and the free exchange of ideas it allows ― is critical to our democratic process. The repeal of net neutrality would turn internet service providers into gatekeepers ― allowing them to put profits over consumers while controlling what we see, what we do, and what we say online.” [HuffPost]

‘LITTLE GIRLS DON’T STAY LITTLE FOREVER’ Former USA Gymnastics doctor Larry Nassar was confronted by over a dozen of his victims in court Tuesday. And Chrissy Teigen offered to pay a potential $100,000 fine from USA Gymnastics if McKayla Maroney discussed her abuse at Nassar’s hands. [HuffPost]

WASHINGTON STATE QUARTERBACK DEAD OF APPARENT SUICIDE Tyler Hilinski, 21, was expected to be the starting quarterback for the upcoming season. [HuffPost]

HOW THE CALIFORNIA PARENTS ‘HOME-SCHOOLED’ THEIR KIDS ― WHO WERE FOUND IN SHACKLES Education experts argue the lack of home-school oversight needs to change. [HuffPost]Expectations are high for the May 18 opening of “Deadpool 2,” so peace should prevail behind the scenes, right?

In goofy trailer that dropped Thursday, Ryan Reynolds’ Deadpool shows up at David Beckham’s door to apologize for a nasty line he uttered about the soccer great in the first superhero film.SEOUL, Jan 17 (Reuters) - The two Koreas will field a combined women’s ice hockey team and march together under one flag at next month’s Winter Olympics in the South, Seoul said on Wednesday, after a new round of talks amid a thaw in cross-border ties.

North and South Korea have been talking since last week - for the first time in more than two years - about the Olympics, offering a respite from a months-long standoff over Pyongyang’s nuclear and missile programs, although Japan urged caution over the North’s “charm offensive.”

The two Koreas will compete as a unified team in the Olympics for the first time, though they have joined forces at other international sports events before.

North Korea will send a delegation of more than 400, including 230 cheerleaders, 140 artists and 30 Taekwondo players for a demonstration, a joint press statement released by Seoul’s Unification Ministry said, adding the precise number of athletes will be hammered out after discussions with the IOC scheduled for later this week.

Prior to the Games, the sides will carry out joint training for skiers at the North’s Masik Pass resort and a cultural event at the Mount Kumgang resort, for which Seoul officials plan to visit the sites next week.

“Under the circumstances where inter-Korean (relations) are extremely strained, in fact just some 20 days ago we weren’t expecting North Korea would participate in the Olympics,” said Chun Hae-sung, the South’s chief negotiator and vice unification minister.

“It would have a significant meaning if the South and North show reconciliation and unity, for example through a joint march.”

The North Korean delegation will begin arriving in South Korea on Jan. 25, according to the joint statement.

The North will separately send a 150-strong delegation to the Paralympics, Chun said.

South Korean President Moon Jae-In delivers a speech during his New Year news conference at the Presidential Blue House in Seoul, South Korea on January 10, 2018. Kim Hong-Ji / Reuters

‘IT’S NOT THE TIME’

Twenty nations meeting in the Canadian city of Vancouver agreed on Tuesday to consider tougher sanctions to press North Korea to give up its nuclear weapons and U.S. Secretary of State Rex Tillerson warned the North it could trigger a military response if it did not choose dialog.

Japanese Foreign Minister Taro Kono said the world should not be naive about North Korea’s “charm offensive” over the Olympics.

“It is not the time to ease pressure, or to reward North Korea,” Kono said. “The fact that North Korea is engaging in dialog could be interpreted as proof that the sanctions are working.”

North Korean leader Kim Jong Un has refused to give up development of nuclear missiles capable of hitting the United States in spite of increasingly severe U.N. sanctions, raising fears of a new war on the Korean peninsula. The North has fired test-fired missiles over Japan.

Earlier on Wednesday, state media warned the U.S. of “meddling” in inter-Korean issues at a time when it had to “mind its own destiny rushing headlong into self-destruction.”

“The U.S. is miscalculating,” the North’s Rodong Sinmun newspaper said in a commentary. “Although the U.S. makes desperate efforts to disturb peace while wielding a nuclear stick, it can not provoke us as long as we have the strong nuclear deterrent.”

North Korean leader Kim Jong Un visits the newly-remodeled Pyongyang Teacher Training College, in this photo released by North Korea's Korean Central News Agency (KCNA) in Pyongyang on January 17, 2018. KCNA KCNA / Reuters

ICY RECEPTION

Seoul has proposed a joint ice hockey team, which triggered an angry response from athletes in the South suddenly being told they may have to play alongside total strangers.

“I don’t know if it will happen, but a joint team will be a good opportunity for ice hockey to shed its sorrow as a less-preferred sport as many Koreans will take interest,” South Korean President Moon Jae-in told players during a visit to a training center.

The number of petitions to the presidential Blue House’s website opposing a unified team shot up to more than 100 this week, with the most popular one garnering more than 17,000 votes.

“This isn’t the same as gluing a broken plate together,” said one of the signers.

The prospect of a combined team had long been unsettling for the South Korean players. As in most other winter sports, the South is much stronger than the North.

“Our players were really nervous,” Sarah Murray, South Korean women’s hockey head coach, told Reuters last month during the team’s training swing through the United States.

“We can only take 23 players to the Olympics, and they thought these North Koreans are going to come in and take our spots,” Murray said.

Chun, the South’s lead delegate, said the decision on a united ice hockey team is not yet finalized, as it requires the consent of the IOC and related international body.

“We’re well aware of the people’s concerns and interests about this,” he told a news conference.

“But I would like you to see the other side that it could make a positive contribution to peace of the Korean Peninsula and improving inter-Korean relations.”

On Tuesday, the North said a 140-person orchestra would perform in South Korea during the Games. Pyongyang is also planning to send a large delegation in addition to the athletes and orchestra.

Paik Hak-soon, the director of the Centre for North Korean studies at Sejong Institute in South Korea, said North Korea was using the cheering squad to draw attention to its apparent cooperative spirit.

“Seeing good results in competitions thanks to the cheering squad would enable the North Koreans to say they contributed to a successful Olympics and the South Korean government would likely agree,” said Paik.

“In the end, they are using this old tactic to get to Washington through Seoul.”

Reclusive North Korea and the rich, democratic South are technically still at war because their 1950-53 conflict ended in a truce, not a peace treaty. The North regularly threatens to destroy the South, Japan and their major ally, the United States.

China, which did not attend the Vancouver meeting, said on Wednesday the gathering showed a Cold War mentality and would only undermine a settlement of the North Korea problem.WASHINGTON (Reuters) - U.S. President Donald Trump said on Wednesday Russia is helping North Korea get supplies in violation of international sanctions and that Pyongyang is getting “closer every day” to being able to deliver a long-range missile to the United States.

“Russia is not helping us at all with North Korea,” Trump said during an Oval Office interview with Reuters. “What China is helping us with, Russia is denting. In other words, Russia is making up for some of what China is doing.”

China and Russia both signed onto the latest rounds of United Nations Security Council sanctions against North Korea imposed last year. There was no immediate comment from the Russian embassy in Washington on Trump’s remarks.

With North Korea persisting as the major global challenge facing Trump this year, the president cast doubt during the 53-minute interview on whether talks with North Korean leader Kim Jong Un would be useful. In the past he has not ruled out direct talks with Kim.

“I’d sit down, but I’m not sure that sitting down will solve the problem,” he said, noting that past negotiations with the North Koreans by his predecessors had failed to rein in North Korea’s nuclear and missile programs.

“They’ve talked for 25 years and they’ve taken advantage of our presidents, of our previous presidents,” he said.

He declined to comment when asked whether he had engaged in any communications at all with Kim, with whom he has exchanged public insults and threats, heightening tensions in the region.

Trump said he hoped the standoff with Pyongyang could be resolved “in a peaceful way, but it’s very possible that it can’t.”

Trump praised China for its efforts to restrict oil and coal supplies to North Korea but said Beijing could do much more to help constrain Pyongyang.

The White House last week welcomed news that imports to China from North Korea, which counts on Beijing as its main economic partner, plunged in December to their lowest in dollar terms since at least the start of 2014.

‘THEY GET CLOSER EVERY DAY’

But Trump said Russia appears to be filling in the gaps left by the Chinese.

Western European security sources told Reuters in late December that Russian tankers had supplied fuel to North Korea on at least three occasions in recent months by transferring cargoes at sea in violation of international sanctions. Russia has denied breaching North Korea sanctions.

North Korea relies on imported fuel to keep its struggling economy functioning. It also requires oil for its intercontinental ballistic missile and nuclear program.

Trump has repeatedly blamed a U.S. investigation into whether Russia meddled in the 2016 presidential election for hindering an improvement in U.S.-Russian relations.

“He can do a lot,” Trump said of Russian President Vladimir Putin. “But unfortunately we don’t have much of a relationship with Russia, and in some cases it’s probable that what China takes back, Russia gives. So the net result is not as good as it could be.”

Trump, who has grappled with nuclear tests and ballistic missile launches by North Korea since he took office a year ago, said Pyongyang is steadily advancing in its ability to deliver a missile to the United States.

“They’re not there yet, but they’re close. And they get closer every day,” said Trump.

North Korea said after its last intercontinental ballistic missile launch in November that the test had put the U.S. mainland within range. Some experts agreed that based on the missile’s trajectory and distance it had the capability to fly as far as Washington D.C.

They said, however, that North Korea had not yet offered any proof that it had mastered all technical hurdles, including development of a re-entry vehicle needed to deliver a heavy nuclear warhead reliably atop an ICBM, but it was likely that it soon would. Pyongyang could reach that milestone by the end of the year, some intelligence officials said.

Trump said he welcomed talks between North and South Korea over the Winter Olympics to be held in the South next month and said this could be an initial phase in helping defuse the crisis.

He would not say whether the United States has been considering a limited, pre-emptive attack to show the North that the United States means business.

“We’re playing a very, very hard game of poker and you don’t want to reveal your hand,” he said.

U.S. officials had spoken of Trump’s willingness to weigh a pre-emptive strike despite the risk of touching off a war. But in recent days Trump has appeared to signal more of an openness toward diplomacy.Political debate took its toll on British lawmaker Sir Desmond Swayne.

Video going viral shows the 61-year-old Conservative member of Parliament catching 40 winks as his colleague Ken Clarke discussed Britain’s looming withdrawal from the European Union in the House of Commons on Tuesday.

Swayne rested his head on the side of a bench for his impromptu catnap. He then awoke with a somewhat amusing start:

To Swayne’s credit, he later apologized “unreservedly” for the snooze.

“I just fell asleep,” he told the Daily Mirror. “No excuse.”

“I am annoyed I let it happen,” Swayne added to the BBC. “It is embarrassing and annoying.”The category would boost recognition for transgender people, and for those who do not identify as either male or female, officials said. Alberto Buzzola via Getty Images

KUALA LUMPUR, Jan 16 (Thomson Reuters Foundation) - Taiwan is considering whether to introduce a third gender option on its passports and national identity cards in a bid to protect sexual minority groups, an official said Tuesday.

The self-ruled island became a beacon of lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender (LGBT) rights in Asia after its top court last year ruled in favour of same-sex marriage - the first such ruling in the region.

A government spokeswoman said that officials have been studying a proposal to add a third gender category as a way to boost recognition for transgender people, and for those who do not identify as either male or female.

“The government is actively assessing this proposal but has yet to make a final decision,” Janet Chang, deputy spokeswoman of the cabinet, said by email from the capital, Taipei.

“The proposed policy is aimed at protecting the human rights of transgender people,” she told the Thomson Reuters Foundation.

Advocacy groups say although the island’s 23 million people widely embrace LGBT rights, transgender and intersex people often suffer discrimination when it comes to accessing public services or securing jobs.

“Adding a third gender option would show our diversity,” said Olivia Tsai from rights group Taiwan Tongzhi (LGBT) Hotline Association.

“Individuals however must have the freedom to choose whether they want to be identified in a third gender and should not be labelled automatically by the government.”

The group estimates there are over two million LGBT people in Taiwan. The government has no official figure.

A few countries, including Nepal, India, New Zealand, Australia and Canada, have already offered third gender options.In a Twitter post that same day, Zinke referenced Scott in declaring that “local voices matter.” In a statement announcing the Florida decision, he said, “President Trump has directed me to rebuild our offshore oil and gas program in a manner that supports our national energy policy and also takes into consideration the local and state voice. I support the governor’s position that Florida is unique and its coasts are heavily reliant on tourism as an economic driver.”

A firestorm followed the seemingly arbitrary decision. Some wondered if Zinke would give equal weight to voices from blue states; others suggested the move was a political stunt to help get Scott elected to the Senate this year. Democratic governors, lawmakers and other officials demanded that their states also be granted waivers. And Republicans from Atlantic coastal states, including some who support offshore drilling, said the decision to allow it in coastal waters ultimately should be made by local officials.

Frosh told HuffPost he can’t make sense of Zinke’s handling of the situation. But the secretary needs to understand the importance of Maryland’s offshore waters, listen to local voices and grant the state an exemption, Frosh said.

“All he’s got to do is sign it and send it back,” the Maryland attorney general said of his draft waiver. “That’s good with me.”

In the days since his trip to Florida, Zinke has spoken with other coastal governors, as Axios noted, but has not withdrawn any other offshore areas from drilling consideration. The Associated Press reported last week that Zinke told Oregon Gov. Kate Brown (D) that he would give thought to exempting her state’s coastal waters.“It’s profoundly offensive because it portrays a lack of understanding about the civil service and the mission of the agency,” Clement told HuffPost. “It made it clear that what he’s trying to do is not work with the career staff and advance the mission ― he’s trying to undercut the agency and its mission. And it became very clear that his interests were aligned with special interests, like the oil and gas industry.”

CORRECTION: The original headline on this story incorrectly described the number of resignations. It was three-fourths of the board, not two-thirds.Andrew Borg, left, and Stephen Heasley, are suing Vistaprint for sending them homophobic pamphlets instead of the wedding programs they ordered. Photo: Courtesy of Stephen Heasley and Andrew Borg

Two men who ordered programs for their September wedding from a popular printing company but instead received a boxful of anti-gay pamphlets warning, “Satan entices your flesh with evil desires,” have filed a lawsuit claiming breach of contract and emotional pain.

“At first we thought it was simply a mistake, and we had accidentally received someone else’s order. But once we saw the images and actually read a bit of the pamphlet, we quickly realized this wasn’t a simple or innocent error,” Stephen Heasley, 31, and Andrew Borg, 39, who live in Australia, tell Yahoo Lifestyle via email. “Both of our initial reactions were ones of shock … utter shock. The wording and imagery was aggressive, threatening, and deeply personally offensive.”

The claim was filed on Tuesday in U.S. District Court of Massachusetts, the state where the company in question, Vistaprint, is based.

“This was by far the most direct, personal, and aggressive act of homophobia either of us has experienced to date,” they added, regarding the shipment of homophobic pamphlets, which the couple received on the eve of their ceremony and a party for 100 guests.

The anti-gay pamphlet sent to the grooms. Photo: Courtesy of Stephen Heasley and Andrew Borg

The wedding programs ordered by the couple were to have listed the order of events, members of their wedding party, and lyrics to the Above & Beyond song “Treasure,” which played as they walked down the aisle. Instead, the fire-and-brimstone pamphlets they received warned that, among other notions, “Satan knows our flesh is weak. He preys upon our weaknesses to tempt us to sin. Satan can only influence us to want to sin. He cannot make us sin.”

The men did not immediately (or at any time since) contact Vistaprint to inquire about the bizarre mailing. Instead, they paid to have quick replacements printed up and went ahead with their wedding — though it was marred by anger and fear, they say.

The couple’s Pennsylvania wedding. The couples Pennsylvania wedding Photo: Courtesy of Stephen Heasley and Andrew Borg

“We realized that whoever had sent this had our personal addresses,” recalls Heasley, a portfolio manager for an educational publisher (Borg is a property manager for a retail facility). “We were getting married on a family farm in what we understand to be a fairly conservative and rural part of Pennsylvania. If ill-intentioned people decided to target our wedding and guests, we would have very few options to escape or seek shelter.”

The couple then hired legal representation — Cetrullo in Boston and Wigdor in New York City — to go after Vistaprint, and are now seeking an award of unspecified damages and a trial by jury.

The newlyweds. Photo: Courtesy of Stephen Heasley and Andrew Borg

When contacted by Yahoo Lifestyle, Vistaprint spokesperson Sara Nash offered the following response: “Vistaprint would never discriminate against customers for their sexual orientation. We pride ourselves on being a company that celebrates diversity and enables customers all over the world to customize products for their special events. We have just been made aware of this incident in the last few hours. We understand how upsetting it would be for anyone to receive materials such as these the night before their wedding and we have immediately launched an internal investigation. Until we have had the opportunity to complete our investigation, we cannot comment further.”

Vistaprint is part of custom-print company Cimpress, founded in 1996, with manufacturing facilities around the globe and a network of more than 7,000 employees. Its orders are “absolutely guaranteed,” with the website, noting, “We want our customers to be 100 percent happy with their order. If for any reason they are not, we will make it right.”

Which will likely be good news to Heasley and Borg, who say the entire experience left the men feeling rattled by anger and fear — emotions that have not yet subsided.“

After four months of being married, the pain from those memories has not faded,” says Heasley. “Andrew describes his hurt as though feeling like someone has completely robbed him of what would have turned out to be nothing short of a brilliant wedding.”

It’s why they’ve gone the legal route, they say, noting, “Our goal is to hold Vistaprint accountable for the harm they have caused, to give a voice to others who may have been similarly victimized, to help prevent this from happening to someone else, and to send a message that there will be consequences for acts of hate perpetrated against others.”Trump vowed to shine a light on “the most corrupt & biased of the Mainstream Media” on Wednesday. So “The Late Show with Stephen Colbert” put together a list of bogus titles that Trump has given himself over the last few years.HLN anchor Ashleigh Banfield on Tuesday criticized the woman who wrote an article alleging that actor Aziz Ansari had committed sexual misconduct, saying the writer sent her derogatory and anti-feminist comments.

The conflict between Banfield and Katie Way, who wrote the article for online outlet Babe in which an unnamed woman accused Ansari of sexual assault, began Monday. Banfield addressed the allegations on air by saying they were “reckless.”

Way then sent an angry email to an HLN producer, parts of which Banfield read during an episode of “Crime & Justice.”

“Ashleigh, someone I am certain nobody under the age of 45 has heard of,” Banfield read. “I hope the 500 retweets on the single news write-up made that burgundy lipstick, bad highlights, second-wave feminist has-been really relevant for a little while.”

Here's the full email the https://t.co/YZ14Jca6FS reporter who wrote the Aziz Ansari story sent when asked to go on HLN with @TVAshleigh. It is really something.https://t.co/qTca5xA9m0 pic.twitter.com/usZBm0KnIr — Max Tani (@maxwelltani) January 17, 2018

Banfield, 50, called the comments about her looks and age hypocritical from someone who claims to support women.

“The reason I want to share that is because if you truly believe in the #MeToo movement, if you truly believe in women’s rights, if you truly believe in feminism, the last thing you should do is attack someone in an ad hominem way for her age ... and for my highlights,” Banfield said.

Advertisement