A pregnant undocumented teenager in federal custody who had taken legal action against the government for preventing her from getting an abortion has been released, the American Civil Liberties Union said.

Known as “Jane Moe,” the 17-year-old had come to the United States without authorization as an unaccompanied minor and had been in custody through the department of Health and Human Service’s Office of Refugee Resettlement. She was transferred into the care of her sponsor on Sunday, the ALCU, who is legally representing the teen, said Monday. The group did not say whether or not she has undergone the procedure.

“While we are relieved that Jane Moe is reunited with her sponsor, the government blocked her from her abortion for more than two weeks, before deliberately moving her out of their custody only when we filed to take them to court,” Brigitte Amiri, senior staff attorney with the ACLU Reproductive Freedom Project, said in a statement. “We continue to pursue all avenues to ensure that no other young woman like her is forced to continue a pregnancy against her will for purely political reasons.”

The ACLU has filed three similar suits in the last four months, arguing that a new policy put in place by President Donald Trump’s administration, which prohibits federal shelters from assisting women in seeking abortions, is a violation of constitutional rights. Administration officials have pushed back on this in court, arguing that the young women have the option of going back to their native country or be released into the care of a sponsor.

“If she chooses not to exercise these options, HHS does not believe we are required to facilitate Jane Moe’s abortion, out of concern and responsibility for the mother’s best interests,” said a spokesman for the HHS’s Administration for Children and Families, which oversees ORR.Dragana Popovic via Getty Images

How often do you give thanks? More than just during the holidays and on special occasions, we should all look around and say thanks. Daily, we should find gratitude in smiling faces, learning new skills and in seeing children grow older. Be thankful for the simple riches that each day brings. I am confident that we all can finish the following statement: I am thankful for…

1. The Power of Saying, “Thanks!”

How often do you get something handwritten mailed to your home? Not often enough! Regardless of how busy we all become, we can each take the time to write a thank you note and warm someone’s heart through a simple-but-personalized memo.

One of the most traditional forms of gratitude is a simple thank you note. A handwritten thank you note speaks volumes. It notifies the receiver that you took the time out of your busy schedule to think of them and put your thoughts to paper. It is appreciated more than sending an email which takes just a second and is done at the convenience of your mobile device. We all appreciate those who go above and beyond.

2. The Power of Inspiring Visuals: Vision & Gratitude Boards

Do you love the power of visuals? Great, then vision boards are for you! It will inspire you to take on what’s shown and it’ll push you towards your goals with the help of visual reminders.

Vision boards have become progressively more popular as an annual top of the year activity. Also on the rise are gratitude boards filled with photos of loved ones, noteworthy occasions, inspiring quotes and positive reminders of happiness.

On my gratitude board, you’ll find family photos, heroes, idols, along with my personal childhood photos to show growth, memorabilia and even simplistic sticky notes with affirmations and words of encouragement.

Gratitude boards are awesome because they can be an individual or family project. They serve as an excellent way to engage loved ones in a progressive and fun activity.

But if a board is too much of a commitment, incorporate sticky notes of gratitude. Simply place sticky notes in a jar or box, and by the end of the week, share it with family for a great bonding experience.

3. The Power of Reflection

A good ol’ fashioned journal never goes out of style because journals are limitless. You can write as much as you like and always refer back to read of your progress and growth. I recently read one of my journals from graduate school and ― my goodness ― there’s dramatic growth in every area of my life, and it’s empowering to reflect on it.

Journal: write it down, and read it later, recap and rejoice.

I know what you’re thinking: “who really carries around a journal nowadays?” But don’t forget the note function of a mobile device ― cell phones, Google Docs, iPads and such devices are the new journal. Any type of readily available technology will aid in sharing and documenting thoughts, ideas and feelings.Education Images via Getty Images

There’s an old line that the definition of a liberal is someone who won’t take their own side in an argument. The line certainly describes the response of many liberals to the new Republican tax scheme. By capping the deduction for state and local taxes, the Republican tax bill raises taxes on higher income people in liberal states. Many liberals seem to think this is just fine.

The basic logic of the “this is just fine” gang is that higher income people have been the winners in the economy over the last four decades. Insofar as we need more revenue for the government, they should be the ones to provide it. Therefore we should not be upset about a provision in the Republican tax plan that means higher taxes for people with money.

But this provision is not raising taxes for all wealthy people; it is raising taxes for a subgroup of higher income people. That is a very different story. Presumably we would not think it’s okay if the bill just raised taxes on higher income people of Polish or Italian ancestry, even though as high income people they may be able to afford a larger tax burden.

In this case the subgroup of high income people who face higher taxes are people who live in relatively liberal states that provide better services to their population. The reason that states like California and New York have higher taxes is that they have relatively good education and Medicaid systems and try to provide some income support to their poor.

The Republican plan is to make higher income people pay a higher price for living in liberal states. In many cases, this relatively powerful group will put pressure on state and local governments to reduce their tax burden, which will force cutbacks in services. Needless to say, they will certainly object to any efforts to raise their state and local tax burden further to meet new needs going forward.

There are several routes that have been proposed to circumvent the cap on the deduction for state and local taxes. One being seriously considered in California is to set up state-run charities to which people can contribute and get a 100 percent credit against their state taxes. Since charitable contributions are still fully deductible under the new law, this would effectively preserve the deductibility of state income taxes.

There is a debate among tax experts as to whether this sort of set up would be legal, but it does maintain a certain symmetry in how tax law treats different types of contributions. Under the new law, a high income person can give to the charity of their choosing and effectively get the government to kick in 37 cents of every dollar.

This means if a rich person gives $1 million to the “Religious School for the Education of White Nationalists,” the taxpayers will chip in $370,000 for the cause. In that situation it certainly seems reasonable that a $100,000 payment by a high income person to support Los Angeles public schools should at least get the same 37 percent subsidy.

If that route doesn’t pass legal muster there is an alternative route that is not legally suspect. This involves substituting an employer side payroll tax for a portion of the state income tax.

To take a simple case, suppose that a state has an income tax of 5 percent. The state could get rid of the income tax and replace it with an employer side payroll tax of 5 percent.

The conventional view among economists is that an employer side payroll tax comes out of wages, which means that employers will eventually reduce workers’ pay by the amount of the tax. So a lawyer who had been getting $200,000 a year will see her wages lowered $10,000 as a result of the 5 percent tax.

This leaves the worker with the same amount of money as she would have had after paying her state taxes, but instead of paying federal income taxes on $200,000 in wages, she would only pay it on $190,000 in wages. This effectively preserves the deductibility of her state income taxes.

A neat side benefit of going this route is that it effectively makes the tax deductible on income taxes even for people who don’t itemize. That would be a pure gain for people in states like California and New York. We can also leave a portion of the income tax in place for very higher earners and have a lower cutoff under which the tax is not collected to preserve progressivity.Left to right: Greg Edward, Susan Wild and John Morganelli are Democratic frontrunners for Pennsylvania's 7th Congressional District. The primary is on Tuesday. Congressional campaigns/Facebook

FOGELSVILLE, Pa. ― Some 60 suburbanites, mostly women, gathered in a swim and tennis club outside Allentown on Sunday to hear from six Democratic candidates vying for an open Lehigh Valley congressional seat.

When it came time for the hopefuls to stake out their highest priority, two of the top candidates ― former Allentown city solicitor Susan Wild and Northampton County District Attorney John Morganelli ― agreed that it was strengthening gun safety regulations.

“If we don’t do it with these high school students, with these millennials who are speaking out, then I fear that we will never do it, and it absolutely has to happen,” said Wild, a mainstream liberal.

Morganelli, a self-described moderate who complained in 2008 when the NRA gave him an “F” rating, now wears the gun group’s negative review like a badge of honor.

Greg Edwards, an African-American pastor running for the seat with the blessing of Bernie Sanders, identified a corrupt campaign finance system as a higher priority, because it lurked behind the lack of progress on a range of issues, gun policy chief among them.

The leading candidates’ comments reflect the national dynamics at play in Tuesday’s primary for Pennsylvania’s 7th Congressional District.

On one hand, all the candidates ― even Morganelli ― are clamoring to burnish their progressive bona fides for a Democratic primary electorate that has moved dramatically to the left from where it was as recently as 2016. For example, all three candidates claim they want steps toward a Medicare-for-all system, though Wild and Morganelli emphasize incremental moves.

At the same time, the three candidates’ substantial ideological differences make the race something of a microcosm of the factional battles that have consumed the Democratic Party since the 2016 presidential primary. Lehigh Valley Democrats will get the chance to choose from a cautious Clintonian, a Sanders-style populist and a conservative Democrat hailing from the margins of the contemporary party.

“This is a race that people around the country should probably be watching closely because it’s really a laboratory experiment for what happens when you get different candidates from different factions of the party,” said Mark Nevins, a Philadelphia-based Democratic campaign consultant.

.@wildforcongress at #pa7 candidate forum. “I’m not out here fighting for the billionaire class.” pic.twitter.com/KBLeTUu3Ju — Daniel Marans (@danielmarans) May 7, 2018

‘The Kinds Of Skills That We Need In Washington’

Susan Wild, 60, who was a corporate litigation specialist before taking her city post, fits most neatly into what might broadly be called the Hillary Clinton lane. She checks many of the policy boxes prized by the party’s base ― from abortion rights and legal marijuana to the $15 minimum wage ― and would likely have been the most progressive candidate in the district in a previous election cycle.

But in her rhetoric, Wild emphasizes professional experience and bipartisan cooperation, rather than burn-it-all down populism.

“A big part of my skill set is negotiation,” Wild told HuffPost before a candidate forum in Coplay. “Those are the kinds of skills that we need in Washington.”

Wild bristled when asked whether she would support House Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi (Calif.) as speaker.

“That question has a lot of inherent sexism in it. If any other political official had done what she has done, but had been male, that question would not constantly be coming up,” she said, explaining that she would have to see who else was running.

Wild’s record as Allentown solicitor comes with its share of controversy.

During a 2015 arrest caught on camera, an Allentown police officer aggressively kicked a suspect who was already on his hands and knees, breaking the man’s jaw and knocking out three teeth.

When the man sued the city, Wild’s office determined that the officer’s actions were “appropriate” under the circumstances, and hired an outside defense attorney to represent him.

The defense attorney later decided that there was a good chance the plaintiff would win in court, so the city settled with the injured man for $160,000.

Wild stands by her handling of the case. “The fact that it was resolved in favor of the person who brought the claim speaks to my standards about what the police force should be held accountable for,” she said.

The Populist Pastor

Greg Edwards, 48, who founded a social justice-minded church in Allentown’s center city, is the candidate who most resembles Sanders, his highest-profile backer.

The non-denominational pastor and community organizer, who peppers his remarks with the sayings of Shirley Chisholm and Abraham Joshua Heschel, is a vocal proponent of Medicare-for-all, debt-free college, universal pre-K, public campaign financing and protecting cities and states that choose not to cooperate with Immigration and Customs Enforcement. He is betting that the area’s energized and growing contingent of people of color, millennials and progressives will help propel him to victory. A majority of the roughly 120,000 people in Allentown, from where he hails, are people of color, including 49 percent who are Latino.

A group backing Morganelli has attacked Edwards over the day care center that he ran and questions whether he mismanaged it financially, which Edwards vehemently denies. Other critics have wondered whether Edwards is viable in the general election. The district’s population skews white outside Allentown and nearby Bethlehem and Easton, and has historically elected moderates from either party. Voters in all three counties in the district opted for Clinton over Sanders in the 2016 presidential primary.

But Edwards maintained that his populist message now has appeal across demographic and party lines.

“The message around how do we become financially solvent individually, in our families and homes, and really live a life that has economic dignity and retire with dignity ― that cuts across this very steep, rigid ideology that says, ‘I’m a Democrat; I’m a Republican,’” he said.

.@johnmorganelli, a pro-life Blue Dog, touts his support of gun regulations, including assault weapons ban. pic.twitter.com/ZohNvtxGEi — Daniel Marans (@danielmarans) May 7, 2018

A Pro-Trump Democrat Who Is Not ‘Going To Reinvent Myself’

John Morganelli, 62, a two-time failed candidate for state attorney general, represents something of a throwback to the Blue Dog Democrats of the 1990s. Run-of-the-mill moderates still abound in today’s Democratic Party, but figures like Morganelli ― an abortion rights opponent and immigration hard-liner who has cozied up to Donald Trump on Twitter ― are a rare breed.

Morganelli famously wrote to Trump, in a now-deleted November 2016 tweet, that he was “waiting to hear from transition. Hope to serve.”

John Morganelli/Twitter

Morganelli told HuffPost on Sunday that he had applied to become U.S. attorney for Pennsylvania’s Eastern District, and withdrew his bid shortly after Trump’s inauguration when he grew disappointed with the president’s conduct. And he is keen to remind people that he was a public supporter of Clinton during the 2016 campaign.

But months into the president’s tenure, Morganelli continued to speak positively about Trump. In a March 2017 tweet, he even compared Trump’s proposed crackdown on sanctuary cities to former President Barack Obama’s use of federal funds to encourage states to allow transgender people to use the bathrooms of their choice.

Obama ordered transgender baths or lose federal school funding. @RealDonaldTrump did same on sanctuary cities.https://t.co/Wpvn8PBblh — DA John Morganelli (@johnmorganelli) March 29, 2017

Asked whether he was too conservative for the district, Morganelli said, “It’s up to the folks to decide obviously. I’ve been in office 25, 26 years, so I’m not going to reinvent myself.”

High Hopes For An Open Seat

The three-way battle between Edwards, Wild and Morganelli is contentious precisely because Pennsylvania’s 7th is a ripe pickup opportunity for Democrats.

In a year of sky-high Democratic enthusiasm, the historically moderate Lehigh Valley district would likely be on the party’s short list, one way or another.

Bu two unforeseen developments have made it even more attractive. Republican Rep. Charlie Dent, a moderate outspoken in his criticism of Trump, announced in September that he was retiring. That means Democrats are now contesting an open seat, rather than one occupied by a six-term incumbent.

And in February, the Pennsylvania Supreme Court redrew the state’s congressional districts, transforming the old 15th District, where Trump won by 8 percentage points, to the new 7th, where Clinton would have won by 1 point.

“With two candidates sniping at each other ... there’s an opportunity for a third candidate to shoot the gap and come out ahead.” - Mark Nevins

Seeking to avoid a bloody primary, the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee, which helps elect Democrats to the House, initially signaled that it might be interested in reducing the number of candidates.

Tim Persico, a DCCC political operative, inquired with local Democrats whether Wild and Edwards would be interested in running in a competitive state senate seat where they both live instead of the open House seat.

However, Edwards got wind of the query and spoke to The Washington Post about it, turning the race into yet another flashpoint between the DCCC and a restive Democratic base wary of party meddling.

In the absence of a DCCC-anointed candidate, the primary has become a battleground for influential outside groups.

NextGen America, a millennial-focused group founded by liberal billionaire Tom Steyer that has not endorsed in the race, has spent $100,000 on digital ads and mail attacking Morganelli as a “pro-Trump Democrat.”

And EMILY’s List, which backs pro-choice Democratic women, announced last week that it was buying television ad time on Wild’s behalf in the Philadelphia and Allentown markets, as well as sending 250,000 pieces of mail to support her bid.

Meanwhile, United Together, a PAC affiliated with the centrist group No Labels, is backing Morganelli. The PAC has spent over $150,000 on digital ads blasting Wild, and an additional $137,000 on direct-mail literature attacking Edwards.

Still, most of the public blows have been traded by Morganelli and Wild and their respective allies. It’s a dynamic that could give Edwards an opening, according to Nevins.

“With two candidates sniping at each other ... there’s an opportunity for a third candidate to shoot the gap and come out ahead,” he said.

The Democratic nominee will face the winner of the GOP primary, which features a local businessman and a county commissioner who won a cycling gold medal at the 2000 Olympics.

The Lehigh Valley anti-Trump "Resistance," from left to right: Carol Front, Kae Tienstra, Rossanna Krick, Barbara Connolly, Melissa Sundahl, Diane Visco, and Beth Wernham. Daniel Marans/HuffPost

Edwards, who has benefited from the fundraising prowess of groups like the Congressional Progressive Caucus and the Progressive Change Campaign Committee, has thus far led the field in money raised. But unlike his competitors, he has declined to spend on ads or campaign mailers, focusing his resources instead on a massive canvassing and turnout operation.

In conversations across the district, there was evidence that some of the progressive voters Edwards should already have in the bag were still not sure who he was.

Karen Kratzer Shields, a home health care aide from Coplay who voted for Bernie Sanders in the 2016 primary and ardently supports Medicare-for-all, had heard nothing about Edwards.

Although Shields remained undecided, she was tentatively planning to “bite the bullet” and back Morganelli, despite conservative positions with which she disagreed.

The prosecutor’s experience, she said, convinces her he’s “the one who can push our agenda the most.”

At the Fogelsville forum, organized by the local Democratic Party precinct, many attendees were deciding between Wild and Edwards.

Diane Visco, one of several friends helping clean up the swim club kitchen, was not yet set on a candidate. However, she had ruled out Morganelli, who she called a “wolf in sheep’s clothing,” in light of his warm words for Trump.

“I’d be very, very concerned” if he were the nominee, she said, before acknowledging that she would nonetheless vote for him over a Republican in the general election.

Chuck Thomas, a local construction contractor, had been leaning toward Wild, but started giving Edwards a second look when he learned that Sanders was backing him. The pastor’s remarks at the forum had just about sealed the deal.DHAKA/YANGON (Reuters) - Bangladesh and Myanmar agreed on Tuesday to complete within two years the return of hundreds of thousands of Rohingya Muslims who fled an army crackdown last year in Myanmar.

United Nations Secretary-General Antonio Guterres and the U.N. Refugee Agency (UNHCR), responding to the plan, said they were concerned about forcibly repatriating over 650,000 Rohingya who fled to neighboring Bangladesh after a conflict erupted in western Rakhine state in August.

Statements from the Myanmar and Bangladesh foreign ministries said Bangladesh would set up five transit camps on its side of the border. Those camps would send Rohingyas to two reception centers in Myanmar. The repatriation process would start next Tuesday, the statements said.

Myanmar said it would build a transit camp that can house 30,000 returnees.

The Bangladesh statement said “Myanmar has reiterated its commitment to stop (the) outflow of Myanmar residents to Bangladesh”.

Guterres said the UNHCR had not been involved directly in the agreement and that “it will be very important to have UNHCR fully involved in the operation to guarantee that the operations abide by international standards.”

“A huge effort of reconciliation is needed to allow it to take place properly,” Guterres told reporters. “The worst would be to move these people from camps in Bangladesh to camps in Myanmar, keeping an artificial situation for a long time and not allowing for them to regain their normal lives.”

Myanmar stressed the need for both sides to take preventive measures against possible Rohingya attacks and said it gave Dhaka a list with the names of 1,000 alleged militants.

The crisis erupted after Rohingya insurgent attacks on security posts on Aug. 25 in Rakhine triggered a fierce military response that the United Nations denounced as ethnic cleansing. Some 650,000 people fled the violence.

The military denies ethnic cleansing, saying its security forces mounted legitimate counter-insurgency clearance operations.

The Bangladesh statement called for repatriating orphans and “children born out of unwarranted incidence”, a reference to cases of rape resulting in pregnancy, said a Bangladesh foreign ministry official who declined to be identified.

The rape of Rohingya women by Myanmar’s security forces was widespread, according to interviews with women conducted at displacement camps by U.N. medics and activists. The military denies it was involved in any sexual assaults.

COX'S BAZAR, BANGLADESH - OCTOBER 01: A Rohingya refugee man carries a baby after arriving by boat to Bangladesh side of the Naf River at Shah Porir Dwip after fleeing her village in Myanmar, on October 1, 2017 in Cox's Bazar, Bangladesh. (Photo by Kevin Frayer/Getty Images) Kevin Frayer via Getty Images

VERIFICATION PROCESS

A UNHCR spokesman said on Tuesday the Rohingya should return voluntarily only when they feel it is safe to do so.

“Major challenges have to be overcome,” UNHCR spokesman Andrej Mahecic told a news briefing in Geneva. “These include ensuring they are told about the situation in their areas of origin ... and are consulted on their wishes, that their safety is ensured.”

Myanmar government spokesman Zaw Htay told Reuters last week the returnees could apply for citizenship “after they pass the verification process”.

Myint Kyaing, permanent secretary at Myanmar’s Ministry of Labour, Immigration and Population, told Reuters this month Myanmar would begin processing at least 150 people a day through each of the two camps by Jan. 23.

The meeting that concluded on Tuesday in Myanmar’s capital Naypyitaw was the first for a joint working group set up to hammer out the details of a November repatriation agreement.

Left out of the talks were the fears and concerns of the refugees themselves, “as if they are an inert mass of people who will go where and when they are told,” Phil Robertson, deputy Asia director at Human Rights Watch, told Reuters in an email.

“Where are considerations for protection of the Rohingya from Myanmar security forces who months ago were raping and killing them? How come the discussions ignore the deprivation of rights of people held in indefinite detention, which is what these so-called “temporary” accommodations may become?,” Robertson asked.

COX'S BAZAR, BANGLADESH - JANUARY 14: Rohingya refugees are seen in Balukhali camp on January 14, 2018 in Cox's Bazar (Photo by Allison Joyce/Getty Images) Allison Joyce via Getty Images

‘LIVING LIKE PRISONERS’

A group of refugees at the Kutupalong Rohingya camp near Cox’s Bazar in Bangladesh expressed doubt about the camps Myanmar has agreed to establish on its side of the border.

Mohammad Farouk, 20, who arrived in Bangladesh following the Aug. 25 attacks, said exchanging one camp for another made little difference - except “the camps in Myanmar will be far worse, because we will be confined there and there will be a risk to our lives.”

Another resident of the Kutupalong camp compared the new transit camps to ones set up near the Rakhine state capital of Sittwe following bouts of violence in previous years “where people are living like prisoners”.

“First, ask the military to give those Rohingya their homes and property back, then talk to us about returning,” said the Rohingya refugee who did not want to be identified.

Some said the kind of violence they witnessed toward their community in Myanmar made it hard for them to trust the military. “Even if I don’t get food or anything else here, at least there is safety. I won’t feel safe if I go back to Myanmar,” said Rashid Ahmed, 33.

Noor Alam, 37, who came to Kutupalong five months ago, wondered if he could ever get a job in Myanmar. “They don’t even call us Rohingya. Until they consider us citizens we won’t go back.”

Some young men in the camp worried they might be arrested on accusations of terrorism if they returned to Myanmar.

Camp conditions in Bangladesh are dire enough, but more than 520,000 Rohingya children are at even greater risk ahead of the cyclone season that generally begins in April, the United Nations Children’s Fund said on Tuesday.

“Hundreds of thousands of children are already living in horrific conditions, and they will face an even greater risk of disease, flooding, landslides and further displacement,” said Edouard Beigbeder, UNICEF Representative in Bangladesh.

Nearly 1 million Rohingya live in Bangladesh, including those who came after previous displacements dating back to the 1990s.First published on The Boston Globe.

Why do pro-Trump conservatives ignore his transcendent unfitness?

Because he is creating the politicized judiciary they crave – a dream team of right-wing enablers committed to advancing conservative ideology and corporate interests. If they resemble the roster of a men’s club dominated by privileged white males with the sensibilities to match, that is no coincidence. In legal circles, they are precisely that.

The Federalist Society was founded in 1982 to advance a stringently conservative theory of law and politics. Its central mission was to develop a prepackaged pool of ideologues who could transform the federal judiciary.

It worked. In less than two decades, the society became the ubiquitous screener of judicial nominees for Republican presidents, and its member comprised a good half of the lawyers the GOP appointed to the bench — including John Roberts and Samuel Alito, who joined Federalists Antonin Scalia and Clarence Thomas on the Supreme Court.

Inevitably, the ideal of dispassionate justice suffered. The abiding commitment of Federalist nominees is to the conservative network that made them judges, and to reshaping the law to its fixed political and social precepts. A study by professors Nancy Scherer and Banks Miller found that federal judges who are members of the society are twice as likely to cast votes that reflect conservative ideology than Republican nonmembers — let alone Democrats.

Particular beneficiaries are corporations. Another scholarly paper by professors Neil Devins and Lawrence Baum – “Split Definitive: How Party Polarization Turned the Supreme Court Into a Partisan Court” – spells out the linkage between conservative social networks and judicial decisions favoring business.

The most notorious example is the Supreme Court’s egregious ruling in Citizens United. There, four Federalist judges — Roberts, Scalia, Thomas, and Alito — joined with Reagan appointee Anthony Kennedy to reach well beyond the scope of the case, gratuitously holding that businesses and individuals have a constitutional right to spend unlimited sums to influence electoral outcomes. This reversed long-established precedent and shredded campaign finance laws aimed at limiting the power of money in politics. In short, the court changed settled procedures and existing law to empower corporations and the wealthy.

Enter candidate Donald Trump. To secure the allegiance of conservatives, he guaranteed that his judicial nominees would “all [be] picked by the Federalist Society” — beginning with a list of 21 potential Supreme Court nominees. From that list came Neil Gorsuch.

Two things swiftly became apparent: Gorsuch was unusually pleased with himself — and unusually friendly to business. One remarkable case involved a trucker stranded in subzero conditions. After waiting for rescue until hypothermia set in, he unhitched his cab, went to a gas station, returned to find a repairman, and delivered his load — whereupon he was fired for abandoning his truck. Of seven judges who heard the case, only Gorsuch favored the employer.

His presence on the court augurs well for corporations and poorly for average citizens. One pending case involves corporate efforts to avoid class actions — lawsuits brought by a group of people who allege the same wrong — by forcing each individual into arbitration. Because ordinary people cannot afford to litigate with corporations, this would confer de facto immunity on corporations for practices like generalized sex discrimination or consumer fraud.

Another pending case would disempower a union chosen by a minority of workers to represent all employees in collective bargaining. How? By gutting the requirement that the employees so represented pay union dues.

In both cases, one need not be a seer to know how Gorsuch will cast his potentially decisive vote — that’s what he’s there for. Indeed, he has already complained that class actions “prompt corporate defendants to pay dearly to settle.”

Gorsuch is but the tip of the corporate spear. With unwonted efficiency Trump has begun filling over 150 vacancies on federal courts with Federalists, who will serve for life. One corporate strategist calls this a “win–win” embraced “by both economic . . . and social conservatives” that will “impact . . . the country for 30 or 40 years.”

This means packing our courts with janissaries of the right. Speaking to the Federalists’ annual meeting, White House counsel Don McGahn said Trump had two lists: mainstream candidates who could be easily confirmed, or prospects “too hot for prime time — the kind of people who make some people nervous.” The first list, McGahn joked, was pitched in the trash.

Unsurprisingly, these paragons are a portrait of country club America. Of Trump’s 58 initial nominees, 53 are white, three Asian, one Hispanic, and one African-American. Only 11 are women.

Justice, it seems, will indeed be blind.A wayward wallaby was captured by police early on Tuesday after bounding across the iconic Sydney Harbour Bridge. NSW Police

Two Australian icons came together early Tuesday in Sydney, as a wallaby hopped across the Harbour Bridge through dawn traffic.

New South Wales police responded to reports of the marsupial crossing the bridge around 5 a.m., first spotting it on the northern end of the span before it crossed to the opposite side of the road and bounded toward the city. The male swamp wallaby got to the other end of the bridge and well into the city before it was apprehended by bemused officers.

Police posted a video of the episode on Facebook, showing officers cruising next to the wallaby as it bounded across the bridge. At one point, the wallaby stopped and an officer warily approached, before it hopped off again. The video also shows a motorist slowly passing the wallaby in the overtaking lane.

“Officers took the startled macropod into police custody near the Conservatorium of Music, with the Police Mounted Unit arriving on scene soon after to take it to the zoo for veterinary assessment,” police said in a tongue-in-cheek statement, adding that it “initially evaded officers.”

Police said the wallaby likely came from a golf course in the suburb of Cammeray, in the north of Sydney. If so, that would be nearly a six kilometre (3.5 mile) hop before it was captured.

News program Sunrise captured footage of the wallaby being captured by police.

NSW Police have apprehended a wayward wallaby after it was filmed hopping across the Sydney Harbour Bridge! #Straya 🇦🇺 pic.twitter.com/KkTchYXAwK — Sunrise (@sunriseon7) January 15, 2018

Wildlife experts at Sydney’s Taronga Zoo examined the wallaby and said it had sustained some minor injuries.

“The animal was thoroughly assessed by Senior Veterinarian Dr. Larry Vogelnest, including a full body X-Ray, which thankfully revealed the animal had not received any significant injuries. The wallaby has been administered pain medication and fluids and is currently in Taronga’s Wildlife Intensive Care Unit for recovery and further monitoring,” Taronga said on Facebook.

“At this stage, it doesn’t appear to have any serious injuries. However, it will be carefully assessed over the next 24-48 hours,” Vogelnest said.

The wallaby is expected to be released back into the wild.

“I couldn’t believe what I was seeing,” a woman named Michelle told Sydney radio station 2GB.

“I was so worried about the poor little thing. It was just hopping northbound in lane eight.”WASHINGTON (Reuters) - The U.S. Justice Department on Tuesday said it will ask the Supreme Court to overturn a judge’s ruling last week that blocked President Donald Trump’s move to end a program that protects hundreds of thousands of immigrants brought to the United States illegally as children.

The Trump administration will file an appeal of the judge’s injunction directly with the conservative-majority Supreme Court as well as seeking to appeal to the San Francisco-based 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals, the department said.

The Republican president in September rescinded the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA), a program put in place in 2012 by his Democratic predecessor Barack Obama, effective in March. A variety of Democratic state attorneys general, organizations and individuals challenged Trump’s action in multiple federal courts.

The administration is challenging a Jan. 9 decision by San Francisco-based U.S. District Judge William Alsup, who ruled that DACA must remain in place while the litigation is resolved.

The Justice Department is not filing an emergency application that, if successful, would result in the judge’s ruling being put on hold, which means the program will remain in effect during the litigation.

“It defies both law and common sense for DACA ... to somehow be mandated nationwide by a single district court in San Francisco,” Attorney General Jeff Sessions said in a statement.

“We are now taking the rare step of requesting direct review on the merits of this injunction by the Supreme Court so that this issue may be resolved quickly and fairly for all the parties involved,” Sessions added.

Since the program was implemented, about 800,000 young adults dubbed Dreamers, mostly Hispanic, have been protected from deportation and allowed to work legally in the United States under DACA. As of September, when the most recent figures were made available, 690,000 young adults were protected under the program.

“Dreamers came out of the shadows based on a representation that if they qualified for the status, they would be allowed to stay in the country. Now they’re being used as bargaining chips in a high-stakes immigration policy debate in which their status should have no part,” said Mark Rosenbaum, an attorney for the public interest law firm Public Counsel, which represents six DACA recipients in the case.

Alsup’s ruling came during negotiations between Trump and congressional leaders over immigration policy. Those talks fell apart after Trump rejected a bipartisan deal and provoked outrage with his reported use of vulgar language to describe African countries in a meeting with lawmakers on immigration.

The Justice Department’s move to go directly to the Supreme Court is unusual as the administration is essentially seeking to circumvent the 9th Circuit appeals court, which has previously ruled against it over Trump’s travel bans on people entering the United States from seven Muslim-majority countries.By David Burlacu

It came to my attention that Natti Vogel was recording two bonus-tracks for forthcoming orchestral EP “Serving Body,” finishing post-production on a music video (“I Don’t Want to Find the One”), beginning pre-production on another (“Brown Rice”), and playing a headlining solo concert at National Sawdust (Saturday 1/20) all in the scope of three weeks. I wanted to know why. When Natti, his China tour manager, and I sat down at Legend 72 over Sichuan ma la (麻辣) that Natti called his “emotional core” and likened to “dragon’s blood,” I learned quickly that Natti is a storyteller, a charmer, and infinitely fascinating.

Phillip M. Miner (PM): How did you start writing music?

Natti Vogel (NV): When I came back to high school from China at age 16, I felt truly out of place and deeply unloved by everyone and everything - my best friends turned against me, my house burnt down, I had to fight over a room the size of a closet with my abusive, schizophrenic brother while the house was being rebuilt, I got suspended and almost expelled because the decorative sword I gave a “friend” as a present slipped out of his bag and he ratted me out, I was doing double the schoolwork to make up for China, my brother’s violence sent me to the hospital with stitches and literally no one cared, etc.

That’s when I started really spending almost every day with the piano, mostly in private, writing from my core. I had always written joke songs, but this was different. So, at 17, I moved to NYC, changed my college major to music composition, and won the New School University Battle of the Bands in the same year. The transformation into serious songwriter Natti was grueling, sudden and thorough.

By Haley Varacallo

PM: What was the draw to music?

NV: I chose to play violin at four, so clearly I’ve always liked drama and melodic complexity. My two favorite genres as a little boy were late-Romantic opera and late-‘90s hip-hop. I was drawn to the piano for a couple reasons. I’ve always been fidgety—my hands need to be doing something; I can feel the scope of the whole piece, and make a whole orchestral reduction while I go to town on vocals, and my body can still hump and writhe throughout.

Violin training didn’t instill in me a thorough understanding of harmony and theory, but teaching myself piano, writing all the time and going to school for composition made up for that: I felt like I could suddenly conduct nature itself, move tectonic plates, make the rain come down, create new animals, summon new relationships...

PM: Tell me a bit about your China connection.

NV: I first was in China from 15 to 16, I went to a college to learn Chinese during the day. In the afternoon, I started a Shakespeare company. I was an actor at the time and brought the Arden Complete Works of Shakespeare with me, so I just had it lying around and figured I’d go for it. We ended up winning a city-wide award for a 40-minute reduction of Twelfth Night in Mandarin, 第十二夜, I edited and directed, which focused on mostly Viola, Olivia and the servants.

It was really just an elaborate ruse to create a family away from home and learn Mandarin in a sink-or-swim environment. I’m still best friends with some of the cast and I tour the country as often as possible as a singer-songwriter now.

By Zeffi Walsh

PM. Tell me more about what song writing is like for you.

NV: I have a rule that none of my music can sound like anything I’ve done before or like anything I’ve heard. Every song is its own complete universe unto itself. Writing a song takes me a long time. The essential code of the song comes to me in a burst, but then the nuts and bolts take fucking forever. Writing is deeply inconvenient.

PM: [Laughs] Tell me about it…

NV: I need the songs to woo and impress me. I need the muses to say this one is worth it. A song has to be so new, so fresh, such a juicy puzzle to make me stop what I’m doing or leave a conversation. I have to let it all move through me, sift through everything that comes up, and only then will I undertake the mental work of editing…it’s laborious as fuck.

PM: You seem to like work. I was going to ask you why you’re working at this pace, but I see that’s just how you are.

NV: [Laughs] Even in a quicksand, I’d run a marathon, which is not advisable. This EP, Serving Body, has been a long time coming.

I wrote We All Move to Brooklyn seven years ago. There’s the push right now because after I release this EP, I can finally starting putting out some of the hundreds of songs I’ve written since then— the songs from Serving Body are more earthy, novelistic, idiosyncratic and decadent but the next batch is way more muscular and visceral and overtly romantic and direct and I’m dying for you to hear it (will do some of these live at Sawdust).

I take delight in feeling out where the culture is: speaking the various languages, and getting everyone to the same, heightened place together. The album after Serving Body will begin to do that much more aggressively.

PM: That sounds interesting. If someone forced you to define your music…

NV: [Laughs] I resist genre so hard but it’s probably something like ... day-to-day mysticism. Me having a shamanic spirit animal journey on a rooftop in the middle of the city with no drugs but a cup of coffee, discovering that I am in fact a dragon, in order to complete a song commission that will pay my rent, is both a literal morning I’ve had and a good way of summing up my vibe. I now deeply believe in the long, slow, imperfect process of modern talk therapy, but I also, you know, guessed my therapist’s sun and rising sign on the first try, so the music is like that: real cosmic but real timely.

PM: So, if you were to channel your cosmic timeliness to predict this coming year, what would you say?

NV: We have the most riveting year ahead. 2018 is going to be a slow but steady upturning of an old patriarchal order to make room for newer, better, stronger, fairer, more comprehensive leadership. I feel it in my bones. I’ve never felt more relaxed - I’m a very unrelaxed person, historically. I’ve usually been very very frantic. I’ve been accused of being really intense by… everyone. I woke up really relaxed every day of the first week of this year and I think it’s a really good trend. Maybe it’s finally time to chill and let the fruits of my work speak for themselves. Maybe the climate is finally right.“The fear and uncertainty living in these other places was killing me. Now I finally feel safe because I live with people who respect me,” Sami told the Thomson Reuters Foundation in the cozy house on the outskirts of London.

“I know I can wake up and just do my make-up and be able to fully express myself without having to be afraid that someone is going to attack me or that someone is going to be judging me.”

Malik, a gay man from Bangladesh, who came to Britain in 2011, agrees.

“Since I moved into the house, I‘m happy. I have found a family,” said Malik, 35, in whose home country gay sex is illegal and many people strongly disapprove.

Leading LGBT rights activists Xulhaz Mannan and Mahbub Rabbi Tonoy were hacked to death in Bangladesh in April 2016, amid a spate of violent attacks against secular bloggers, academics, gay rights activists and members of religious minorities.

Malik found out for himself how entrenched anti-gay attitudes are in his country when his mother disowned him and his brothers threatened to kill him.

“Last time I talked to my mum, she told me ‘you just humiliate me, don’t come back’. And I can’t go back because my brothers are going to kill me,” Malik said, sitting on his bed in a bright, well-furnished room in the safe house.Jan 15 (Reuters) - Former New Mexico governor Bill Richardson said on Monday he would work towards securing the release of two Reuters journalists arrested in Myanmar in his capacity as a member of an international advisory board on the crisis in Rakhine state.

Richardson said he was chosen by Myanmar’s leader Aung San Suu Kyi to sit on the 10-member board that will advise on how to implement recommendations of an earlier commission headed by former U.N. secretary-general Kofi Annan regarding the situation in the state.

Former New Mexico Gov. Bill Richardson will travel to Myanmar next week to seek the journalists' release. Enrique de la Osa / Reuters

Richardson told Reuters he would travel to Myanmar next week, along with the chairman of the advisory board, Surakiart Sathirathai, a former Thai foreign minister, who has also called for the journalists’ release. He said he was seeking an appointment with Myanmar’s Minister of Home Affairs.

“My objective, along with the chairman of the commission, is to get them out while we are there in Myanmar,” Richardson said in a telephone interview.

Zaw Htay, a spokesman for the Myanmar government, was not immediately available for comment. A spokesman for Myanmar’s home (interior) ministry said he was not aware of any appointment for Richardson.

Reuters journalists Wa Lone, left, and Kyaw Soe Oo, were arrested in December for covering the Rohingya crisis. Reuters Staff / Reuters

According to U.N. estimates, about 655,000 Rohingya Muslims have fled from a fierce military crackdown on militants in Rakhine. The Reuters journalists, Wa Lone and Kyaw Soe Oo, had been reporting on the crisis.

They were arrested on Dec 12 after they had been invited to meet police officers over dinner. Family members have said the two told them they were arrested almost immediately after being handed some documents by the officers they had gone to meet.

Richardson, 70, was the U.S. ambassador to the United Nations and energy secretary in the administration of President Bill Clinton.

In 1995, Richardson negotiated with Iraqi President Saddam Hussein to secure the release of two Americans detained after straying over the border from Kuwait and he frequently acted as a go-between with Communist North Korea.

Myanmar prosecutors sought charges last week against Wa Lone, 31 and Kyaw Soe Oo, 27, under the Official Secrets Act, which carries a maximum prison sentence of 14 years, the reporters’ lawyer said.

Government officials from some of the world’s major nations, including the United States, Britain and Canada, as well as top United Nations officials, have called for the release of the reporters.Danish inventor Peter Madsen has been charged with murdering Swedish journalist Kim Wall on his private submarine and dismembering her body, according to prosecutors.

Danish prosecutor Jakob Buch-Jepsen described the case as “very unusual and extremely disturbing” and said Madsen either cut Wall’s throat or strangled her, according to The Associated Press. Madsen, who admitted in October to dismembering Wall’s body, also was charged with indecent handling of a corpse, as well as sexual assault without intercourse of a particularly dangerous nature.

Madsen, 46, could face life imprisonment if convicted. The trial was scheduled to start on March 8. A defense lawyer for Madsen told HuffPost she planned to meet with her client later in the day, but had no immediate comment.

Wall, a 30-year-old freelance journalist from Sweden, was working on a profile about the amateur rocket builder and entrepreneur last summer when she was reported missing.

She was last seen aboard Madsen’s 56-foot submarine as it left Copenhagen on Aug. 10. The next day, Madsen was rescued from his vessel, which police believe he deliberately sank, and Wall was reported missing.

Swedish journalist Kim Wall was researching a story on Danish inventor Peter Madsen when she went missing in August. AFP

Madsen initially told police he had dropped Wall off on shore before his submarine sank.

But 10 days after she went missing, bags containing Wall’s torso and legs were found floating in the sea near Copenhagen. Madsen then changed his story, telling police that a heavy submarine hatch had accidentally fallen onto her head and killed her. Wall’s head was found in early October.

Madsen later admitted he dismembered Wall and threw parts of her body into the sea, but maintained he didn’t kill her. He claimed she died of carbon monoxide poisoning aboard the submarine.A Japanese broadcaster on Tuesday erroneously sent a mobile app alert announcing that North Korea had launched a missile.

“North Korea likely to have launched missile. The government J alert: evacuate inside the building or underground,” warned the alert, sent by the broadcaster NHK.

NHK issued an apology minutes later and said the alert had been sent by mistake.

Residents of Hawaii received a similar alert on Saturday morning, also sent in error. A state Emergency Management Agency employee pressed the wrong button, sending people into a panic for 38 frantic minutes. The National Guard said Monday it plans to conduct a thorough review, and the employee responsible has been temporarily reassigned.

North Korea’s neighbors have been on high alert in recent months as the rogue regime continues to test launch missiles. U.S. President Donald Trump has ratcheted up tensions, threatening a military response if the country continues to expand its nuclear arsenal.Hours after the pope arrived in Chile on Monday, two small wooden churches were burned to the ground near Temuco, where Francis is due to visit on Wednesday.

The indigenous Mapuche in the area accuse the state and private companies of taking their ancestral lands. The Mapuche say the pope’s ceremony will be held on seized land.

A church in the capital was attacked during the night, causing minor damage. Vandals burned Chilean and Vatican flags at the site and tossed pamphlets with threats against the pope.

Graffiti on one Santiago church read ”Burn pope and “pope accomplice.”

About 10 blocks from Tuesday’s Mass, riot police clashed with some 200 people protesting against the sexual abuse scandal and the $17 million cost of the papal visit. “Complicit Pedophiles,” read one of the banners.Hackers linked to foreign IP addresses unsuccessfully tried to break into an election database in Knox County, Tennessee, during last week’s primaries, a new report says.

Investigators hired by the county were looking into the May 1 crash of a public website that was displaying returns on election night. In a report released Friday, Sword & Shield Enterprise Security said no election data was compromised in the apparent denial-of-service attack, but that they did discover an attempt to “exploit the backend database behind the Web server.”

Officials said the server was only storing data meant for public display, was not connected to any system where the raw votes were being tallied, and no vote tallies were compromised.

“It’s not connected to any live databases,” David Ball, the Knox County deputy director of IT, told HuffPost. “None of it is primary information that’s kept on that server. It’s a repository for being able to report to the public, and we have intentionally kept any primary data extremely isolated.”

Investigators traced two of the IP addresses involved in the attack to Ukraine and the U.K., according to the report. They also said IP addresses from an unusually high number of foreign countries ― approximately 65 ― targeted the website on election night. The most requests came from Canada, the U.K., Chile, France and Italy. Addresses associated with Russia did attempt to contact the network, according to the report, but not as many times as those associated with other countries did.

Sword & Shield analyzed web traffic on election night and saw symptoms typical of a denial-of-service attack, a type of cyberattack meant to crash or slow down a website. During the same time period, they said, they saw an attempt to breach the public-facing election results website.

Investigators re-enacted the attempted breach and discovered a vulnerability in the database behind the public website. They were not sure what exactly caused the crash on election night, but did say the website crashed when they were testing the vulnerability themselves.

“There is not a clear indication whether the Web site crash was due to the traffic of the [investigators’] scan, the vulnerability being accessed, a combination of both or another external factor,” the report said, adding that further testing would determine the cause.

Ball declined to discuss the specifics of the vulnerability, citing security practices, but said officials promptly removed it once they learned of it. The attempted breach was similar to the attacks that several states experienced during the 2016 presidential election, he said. The disclosure comes as states are working to improve their election security after attempted Russian hacking during that election.

“In this case, it was just a matter of, there was a way to get in, to look around, but that was pretty much the extent of it,” Ball said.

It’s not clear what the hackers were interested in, the IT official said, but there was a range of possibilities.

“It might have been one of those things, had the election data been actually living on that server, there might have been an attempt to alter that. Or there might have been an attempt to redirect traffic from the real website to a phony website somewhere else,” Ball said.

After discovering the exploit, investigators reviewed the county’s system for storing election results. They noted that election data is physically transported from polling places to an isolated central repository. Officials use memory cards to physically transfer the data from that central repository to separate computers to upload onto the web.

“This process provides data integrity. No data is carried back to the isolated master system that contains the official election results,” the report said. “Due to the lack of network connectivity and the fact that all data that goes into the isolated master system can be validated back to each polling station and to each polling machine, no compromise of official election data could have been carried out.”

Philip Stark, a professor of statistics at the University of California, Berkeley who is an expert on election auditing, reviewed the Sword & Shield report and said questions still remained.

“The assurance that no data could possibly flow from outside the tally system into the tally system is basically, ‘This is what Knox County told us,’” he said in an email. Also missing from the report, he said, was any indication of whether the country reused memory cards and, if so, how often it wiped them, as well as confirmation that the voting machines had no wireless functionality.

Ball said the county’s election systems don’t have any network functionality at all. The memory cards that carry the results from a central tabulator to a networked workstation are reused, he said, but “only after a low-level format and security scan.”WASHINGTON, Jan 16 (Reuters) - The United States will give a U.N. agency $60 million in aid for Palestinians but will withhold a further $65 million “for future consideration,” a U.S. official said on Tuesday.

In keeping back some of the aid, Washington appeared to carry out a threat made by U.S. President Donald Trump in a Twitter post on Jan. 2 in which he said that Washington gives the Palestinians “HUNDRED OF MILLIONS OF DOLLARS a year and get no appreciation or respect.

“They don’t even want to negotiate a long overdue peace treaty with Israel ... with the Palestinians no longer willing to talk peace, why should we make any of these massive future payments to them?” Trump added in his tweet.

The U.S. official, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said the United Nations Relief and Works Agency (UNRWA) that will receive the money needed to be fundamentally reevaluated “in the way it operates and the way it is funded.”

While the official did not link the U.S. decision to Trump’s tweet, he made a point often advanced by the U.S. president by saying the United States had been UNRWA’s single largest donor for decades and calling on other nations to do more.

“It is time other countries, some of them quite wealthy, step in and do their part to advance regional security and stability,” the official said.The cuts come at a time when many rural hospitals already are struggling to keep their doors open.

A paramedic cleans equipment in an exam room at Grady Memorial Hospital in Atlanta. Safety net hospitals such as Grady are facing substantial federal budget cuts, which may jeopardize the survival of some. David Goldman, The Associated Press

By Michael Ollove

A double whammy of federal budget cuts might force many hospitals, particularly those that serve poor or rural communities, to scale back services or even shut their doors.

The $3.6 billion in cuts this year — $2 billion from a program that sends federal dollars to hospitals that serve a high percentage of Medicaid or uninsured patients, and $1.6 billion from a drug discount program — will have the greatest effect on so-called safety net hospitals that provide medical care for all comers, no matter their ability to pay.

The cuts are in addition to other losses of federal funds as a result of Congress’ failure to reauthorize spending in 2018 on other programs affecting many hospitals, including $1.5 billion to support community hospitals, a combined $370 million for the National Health Service Corps and Teaching Health Centers, both of which support rural hospitals, and $3 billion for the “Medicare extenders” program, which provides additional funding for isolated, low-volume hospitals and other rural hospitals.

“They are placing our already fragile health system in jeopardy,” said Danne Howard, executive vice president of the Alabama Hospital Association. “More than 90 percent of our rural hospitals are already operating in the red. When you add further cuts to that, you are creating an extreme risk to our continued operations.”

The cuts come at a time when many rural hospitals already are struggling to keep their doors open. Since 2010, 83 rural hospitals have closed across the United States, according to the National Rural Health Association. An additional 673 hospitals are considered at risk of closure. Many of those hospitals are in states that chose not to expand Medicaid, the federal-state health plan for low-income Americans, meaning that they treat uninsured patients with no ongoing federal and state reimbursement for the care they provide.

Officials at some rural hospitals say Medicare, the health plan for Americans 65 and older, doesn’t reimburse them adequately. “We deliver the same services as you’d get in big cities in New York and California but are paid significantly lower reimbursement,” said Glenn Sisk, CEO of the Coosa Valley Medical Center on the western edge of the Talladega National Forest in rural Alabama.

Cuts to Two Programs

Starting Jan. 1, the Trump administration implemented a $1.6 billion cut to what is known as the 340B Drug Discount Program. Begun in 1992, the program requires drugmakers to offer deep discounts to safety net hospitals for certain drugs prescribed for Medicare patients. Those hospitals still receive full Medicare reimbursement for the drugs, but can keep the difference between the discounted price and the Medicare reimbursement to plow into enhanced services to their most vulnerable patients.

For example, Mission Health, a nonprofit safety net provider in western North Carolina, used its savings from the 340B program to ensure that discharged patients were taking their medicines appropriately and to create a medical education program to train medical students and residents in rural health. It also used 340B savings to help rural hospitals launch medical airlift systems and other emergency medical services and to enhance children’s services. Mission’s CEO, Ronald Paulus, testified to Congress in October that the 340B program also helped the health system provide financial assistance to patients with meager resources.

Over the years, the number of health facilities qualifying for the program has grown rapidly. Between 2001 and 2011, the number of 340B facilities roughly doubled, to about 16,500 sites, according to a study published in Health Affairs in 2014. The Medicare Payment Advisory Commission said in its 2016 report to Congress that there were 2,170 340B hospitals, many of which have multiple 340B sites. In testimony before Congress in July, the Government Accountability Office reported that there are now 21,554 340B hospital sites.

But as the numbers increased, so did complaints about how the program operated. According to the Health Affairs study, more and more of the hospitals that were gaining 340B status served communities with fewer lower-income patients than the earlier 340B hospitals.

The newer 340B hospitals, the study suggested, were using their 340B status not to help poorer communities, but to push into more affluent, profitable areas.

In its testimony last year, the GAO recommended tightening the requirements for gaining 340B status. The pharmaceutical industry, which loses money because of the discounts, also lobbied hard for more restrictions for qualifying as a 340B hospital.

But the Trump administration went further. In November, it announced the 27 percent cut to the 340B program. Money that once went to 340B hospitals will now be distributed far more broadly, to most hospitals.

In announcing the rule change, Seema Verma, the administrator of the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, said the new policy would save patients as much as $320 million in out-of-pocket prescription drug costs in 2018. Critics of the rule change are skeptical about that, noting that most Medicare beneficiaries have supplemental insurance policies that already cover those costs.

Medicaid’s Disproportionate Share Hospital (DSH) program is facing even larger cuts. Created by Congress in 1981, the program is designed to compensate hospitals that provide a significant amount of medical care for which they don’t receive reimbursement. In 2012, there were 2,670 such hospitals, which represented 45 percent of all hospitals, according to the Medicaid and CHIP Payment and Access Commission, a nonpartisan agency that provides analysis to Congress.

In 2017, the federal allotment for DSH payments was $12 billion, with states contributing another $9.5 billion. The commission says those payments, in the aggregate, are the difference between whether disproportionate share hospitals operate in the black or not.

Under the Affordable Care Act, the hospital program was supposed to gradually wither away, since Medicaid expansion and subsidized health insurance through the ACA’s health insurance exchanges was supposed to make it unnecessary.

However, after the U.S. Supreme Court ruled in 2012 that states didn’t have to expand Medicaid, Congress repeatedly delayed planned reductions to the program. In 2017, however, Congress did not vote to postpone the cuts, and they took effect Oct. 1. Unless Congress steps in, the cut to federal DSH payments in 2018 will be $2 billion, with far larger federal reductions to follow.

Even states that expanded Medicaid under the Affordable Care Act will feel the reduction.

For example, New Jersey hospitals’ uncompensated care costs dropped by $216 million to $911 million in 2014 when the ACA took effect, according to the Medicaid and CHIP Payment and Access Commission. But the state’s hospitals will see their DSH allotment cut by more than that amount, by $321 million. (The commission looked at uncompensated care figures from 2014, the year many states expanded Medicaid under the Affordable Care Act.)

States that did not expand Medicaid did not experience as sharp a drop in uncompensated care, so the impact of the cuts will be even more profound. In Alabama, for example, the commission reported that uncompensated care costs fell by about $11 million after the ACA, but DSH payments to hospitals in the state will fall by $93 million in 2018.

Other states where projected DSH cuts would exceed the savings on uncompensated care are Connecticut, Delaware, Georgia, Hawaii, Kansas, Louisiana, Massachusetts, Missouri, Nevada, New York, North Carolina, Pennsylvania, South Carolina, Tennessee, Texas, Vermont and Wyoming. The District of Columbia falls into the same category.

Impacts of Cuts

At the 248-bed Coosa Valley Medical Center in Tennessee, where Sisk said about a quarter of the patients are on Medicaid, he anticipates that cuts to the two programs will cost his hospital between $550,000 and $650,000 this year. He said the hospital would do everything to keep the doors open, even if that meant cutting back on services or seeking another health care partner. He noted that Coosa Valley is the largest employer in the community, so its closure would have a devastating effect beyond loss of medical care. “This is,” he said, “an extremely serious situation for us.”

The situation is also serious for Erlanger Health System, a nonprofit that operates five hospitals in the Chattanooga, Tennessee, area. The CEO, Kevin Spiegel, said an expected $5 million reduction in 340B “will definitely impede our ability to care for the uninsured and underinsured.” The health system said it would have to start looking at cuts in services, such as programs to ensure discharged patients comply with instructions for their prescription drugs.

Other hospitals mentioned the possibility of cutting back on the number of social workers, follow-ups with patients after discharge, and transportation services to help poor patients get to medical appointments.

Jeremy Alexander, interim president and CEO at the 50-bed Fort Madison Community Hospital in the southeast corner of Iowa, said the loss of 340B money could mean that the hospital will have to stop offering chemotherapy. Patients would then be faced with an hour-and-a-half drive to Iowa City. “It’s hard to swallow,” he said.

Not all the affected hospitals are in rural areas. John Jurenko, vice president for government, community relations and planning for New York City Health and Hospitals, which calls itself the largest public health system in the country, said the DSH cut would cost the health system $330 million this year. That kind of cut, he said, would impair the system’s ability to treat 410,000 New Yorkers without health insurance. Unless Congress steps in to delay the cut, he said, New Yorkers could face tax increases to keep the system operating without cutbacks.