Bloomberg via Getty Images

As 2017 ended with billionaires toasting their tax cuts and energy executives cheering their unfettered access to federal lands as well as coastal waters, there was one sector of the American elite that did not share in the champagne celebration: Washington’s corps of foreign policy experts. Across the political spectrum, many of them felt a deep foreboding for the country’s global future under the leadership of President Donald Trump.

In a year-end jeremiad, for instance, conservative CNN commentator Fareed Zakaria blasted the “Trump administration’s foolish and self-defeating decision to abdicate the United States’ global influence ― something that has taken more than 70 years to build.” The great “global story of our times,” he continued, is that “the creator, upholder, and enforcer of the existing international system is withdrawing into self-centered isolation,” opening a power vacuum that will be filled by illiberal powers like China, Russia, and Turkey.

The editors of the New York Times remarked ruefully that the president’s “boastfulness and belligerence and tendency to self-aggrandizement are not only costing America worldwide support, but also isolating it.” Discarding the polite bipartisanship of Washington’s top diplomats, Obama’s former national security adviser, Susan Rice, ripped Trump for dumping “principled leadership ― the foundation of American foreign policy since World War II” ― for an “America first” stance that will only “embolden rivals and weaken ourselves.”

Yet no matter how sharp or sweeping, such criticism can’t begin to take in the full scope of the damage the Trump White House is inflicting on the system of global power Washington built and carefully maintained over those 70 years. Indeed, American leaders have been on top of the world for so long that they no longer remember how they got there. Few among Washington’s foreign policy elite seem to fully grasp the complex system that made U.S. global power what it now is, particularly its all-important geopolitical foundations. As Trump travels the globe, tweeting and trashing away, he’s inadvertently showing us the essential structure of that power, the same way a devastating wildfire leaves the steel beams of a ruined building standing starkly above the smoking rubble.

The Architecture of American Global Power

The architecture of the world order that Washington built after World War II was not only formidable but, as Trump is teaching us almost daily, surprisingly fragile. At its core, that global system rested upon a delicate duality: an idealistic community of sovereign nations equal under the rule of international law joined tensely, even tenuously, to an American imperium grounded in the realpolitik of its military and economic power. In concrete terms, think of this duality as the State Department versus the Pentagon.

At the end of World War II, the United States invested its prestige in forming an international community that would promote peace and shared prosperity through permanent institutions, including the United Nations (1945), the International Monetary Fund (1945), and the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (1947), the predecessor to the World Trade Organization. To govern such a world order through the rule of law, Washington also helped establish the International Court of Justice at The Hague and would later promote both human rights and women’s rights.

On the realpolitik side of that duality, Washington constructed a four-tier apparatus ― military, diplomatic, economic, and clandestine ― to grimly advance its own global dominion. At its core was an unmatched military that (thanks to hundreds of overseas bases) circled the globe, the most formidable nuclear arsenal on the planet, massive air and naval forces, and an unparalleled array of client armies. In addition, to maintain its military superiority, the Pentagon massively promoted scientific research, producing incessant innovation that would lead, among so many other things, to the world’s first system of global telecommunications satellites, which effectively added space to its apparatus for exercising global power.

Complementing all this steel was the salve of an active worldwide diplomatic corps, working to promote close bilateral ties with allies like Australia and Britain and multilateral alliances like NATO, SEATO, and the Organization of American States. In the process, it distributed economic aid to nations new and old. Protected by such global hegemony and helped by multilateral trade pacts hammered out in Washington, America’s multinational corporations competed profitably in international markets throughout the Cold War.

Adding another dimension to its global power was a clandestine fourth tier that involved global surveillance by the National Security Agency (NSA) and covert operations on five continents by the Central Intelligence Agency. In this way, with remarkable regularity and across vast expanses of the globe, Washington manipulated elections and promoted coups to insure that whoever led a country on our side of the Iron Curtain would remain part of a reliable set of subordinate elites, friendly to and subservient to the U.S.

In ways that to this day few observers fully appreciate, this massive apparatus of global power also rested on geopolitical foundations of extraordinary strength. As Oxford historian John Darwin explained in his sweeping history of Eurasian empires over the past 600 years, Washington achieved its “colossal Imperium... on an unprecedented scale” by becoming the first power in history to control the strategic axial points “at both ends of Eurasia” through its military bases and mutual security pacts.

While Washington defended its European axial point through NATO, its position in the east was secured by four mutual defense pacts running down the Pacific littoral from Japan and South Korea through the Philippines to Australia. All of this was, in turn, tied together by successive arcs of steel that ringed the vast Eurasian continent ― strategic bombers, ballistic missiles, and massive naval fleets in the Mediterranean, the Persian Gulf, and the Pacific. In the latest addition to this apparatus, the U.S. has built a string of 60 drone bases around the Eurasian landmass from Sicily to Guam.

The Dynamics of Decline

In the decade before Donald Trump entered the Oval Office, there were already signs that this awesome apparatus was on a long-term trajectory of decline, even if the key figures in a Washington shrouded in imperial hubris preferred to ignore that reality. Not only has the new president’s maladroit diplomacy accelerated this trend, but it has illuminated it in striking ways.

Over the past half-century, the American share of the global economy has, for instance, fallen from 40% in 1960 to 22% in 2014 to just 15% in 2017 (as measured by the realistic index of purchasing power parity). Many experts now agree that China will surpass the U.S., in absolute terms, as the world’s number one economy within a decade.

As its global economic dominance fades, its clandestine instruments of power have been visibly weakening as well. The NSA’s worldwide surveillance of a remarkable array of foreign leaders, as well as millions of the inhabitants of their countries, was once a relatively cost-effective instrument for the exercise of global power. Now, thanks in part to Edward Snowden’s revelations about the agency’s snooping and the anger of targeted allies, the political costs have risen sharply. Similarly, during the Cold War, the CIA manipulated dozens of major elections worldwide. Now, the situation has been reversed with Russia using its sophisticated cyberwarfare capabilities to interfere in the 2016 American presidential campaign ― a clear sign of Washington’s waning global power.

Most striking of all, Washington now faces the first sustained challenge to its geopolitical position in Eurasia. By opting to begin constructing a “new silk road,” a trillion-dollar infrastructure of railroads and oil pipelines across that vast continent, and preparing to build naval bases in the Arabian and South China seas, Beijing is mounting a sustained campaign to undercut Washington’s long dominance over Eurasia.

Fortress America

During just 12 months in office, Donald Trump has accelerated this decline by damaging almost all the key components in the intricate architecture of American global power.

If all great empires require skilled leadership at their epicenter to maintain what is always a fragile global equilibrium, then the Trump administration has failed spectacularly. As the State Department is eviscerated and Secretary of State Rex Tillerson discredited, Trump has ― uniquely for an American president ― taken sole control of foreign policy (with the generals he appointed to key civilian posts in tow).

How, then, do those who have been in close contact with him in this period assess his intellectual ability to adapt to such a daunting role?

Although since his election campaign Trump has repeatedly bragged about his excellent education at the University of Pennsylvania’s Wharton School as a qualification for office, he started there in the late 1960s thinking he already knew everything about business, prompting his marketing professor, who taught for more than 30 years, to brand him “the dumbest goddamstudent I ever had.” That brash unwillingness to learn carried into the presidential campaign. As political consultant Sam Nunberg, sent to tutor the candidate on the Constitution, reported, “I got as far as the Fourth Amendment before... his eyes are rolling back in his head.”

As Michael Wolff has recounted in his bestselling new book on the Trump White House, Fire and Fury, a few months later, at the close of a phone conversation with the president-elect about the complexities of the H-1B visa program for skilled immigrants, media mogul Rupert Murdoch hung up and said, “What a fucking idiot.” And last July, as no one is likely to forget, after a top-secret Pentagon briefing for the White House principals on worldwide military operations, Secretary of State Tillerson seconded that view by privately labeling the president a “fucking moron.”

“It’s worse than you can imagine. An idiot surrounded by clowns,” one White House aide wrote in an email, according to Wolff. “Trump won’t read anything; not one-page memos, not the brief policy papers; nothing. He gets up half-way through meetings with world leaders because he is bored.” White House Deputy Chief of Staff Katie Walsh claimed that dealing with the president was “like trying to figure out what a child wants.”

Those qualities of mind are amply evident in the administration’s recent National Security Strategy report, a vacuous document that wavers between the misguided and the delusional. “When I came into office,” Trump (or at least whoever was impersonating him) writes darkly in a personal preface, “rogue regimes were developing nuclear weapons... to threaten the entire planet. Radical Islamist terror groups were flourishing... Rival powers were aggressively undermining American interests around the globe... Unfair burden-sharing with our allies and inadequate investment in our own defense had invited danger.”

In just 12 short months, however, the president ― so “his” preface indicates ― had singlehandedly saved the country from almost certain destruction. “We are rallying the world against the rogue regime in North Korea and... the dictatorship in Iran, which those determined to pursue a flawed nuclear deal had neglected,” that preface continues in a typically Trumpian celebration of self. “We have renewed our friendships in the Middle East... to help drive out terrorists and extremists... America’s allies are now contributing more to our common defense, strengthening even our strongest alliances... We are making historic investments in the United States military.”

Reflecting his administration’s well-documented difficulties with the truth, almost every one of those statements is either inaccurate, incomplete, or irrelevant. Setting aside such details, the document itself reflects the way the president (and his generals) have abandoned decades of confident leadership of the international community and are now trying to retreat from “an extraordinarily dangerous world” into a veritable Festung America behind concrete walls and tariff barriers ― in some eerie way conceptually reminiscent of the Atlantic Wall of beachfront bunkers Hitler’s Third Reich constructed for its failed Festung Europa (Fortress Europe). But beyond such an obviously myopic foreign policy agenda, there are vast areas, largely overlooked in Trump’s strategy, that remain critical for the overall maintenance of American global power.

All you have to do is note headlines in the daily media over the past year to grasp that Washington’s world dominion is crumbling, thanks to the sorts of cascading setbacks that often accompany imperial decline. Consider the first seven days of December, when the New York Times reported (without connecting the dots) that nation after nation was pulling away from Washington. First, there was Egypt, a country which had received $70 billion in U.S. aid over the previous 40 years and was now opening its military bases to Russian jet fighters; then, despite President Obama’s assiduous courtship of the country, Myanmar was evidently moving ever closer to Beijing; meanwhile, Australia, America’s stalwart ally for the last 100 years, was reported to be adapting its diplomacy, however reluctantly, to accommodate China’s increasingly dominant power in Asia; and finally, there was the foreign minister of Germany, that American bastion in Europe since 1945, pointingoh-so-publicly to a widening divide with Washington on key policy issues and insisting that clashes will be inevitable and relations “will never be the same.”

And that’s just to scratch the surface of one week’s news without even touching on the kinds of ruptures with allies regularly being ignited or emphasized by the president’s daily tweets. Just three examples from many will do: President Peña Nieto’s cancelation of a state visit after a tweet that Mexico had to pay for Trump’s prospective “big, fat, beautiful wall” on the border between the two countries; outrage from British leaders sparked by the president’s retweet of racist anti-Muslim videos posted on a Twitter account by the deputy leader of a neo-Nazi political group in that country, followed by his rebuke of British Prime Minister Theresa May for criticizing him over it; or his New Year’s Day blast accusing Pakistan of “nothing but lies & deceit” as a prelude to cutting off U.S. aid to that country. Considering all the diplomatic damage, you could say that Trump is tweeting while Rome burns.

Since there are only 40 to 50 nations with enough wealth to play even a regional, much less a global role on this planet of ours, alienating or losing allies at such a rate could soon leave Washington largely friendless ― something President Trump found out in December when he defied numerous U.N. resolutions by recognizing Jerusalem as Israel’s capital. The White House soon got a 14-1 reprimand from the Security Council, with close allies like the Germans and the French voting against Washington. This came after U.N. Ambassador Nikki Haley had ominously warned that “the U.S. will be taking names” to punish countries that dared vote against it and Trump had threatened to cut aid to those that did. The General Assembly promptly voted128 to 9 (with 35 abstentions), to condemn the recognition ― eloquent testimony to Washington’s waning international influence.

Next, let’s consider the “historic investments” in a central pillar in the architecture of American global power, the U.S. military, mentioned in Trump’s National Security Strategy. Don’t be distracted by the proposed whopping 10% increase in the Pentagon budget to fund new aircraft and warships, much of which will go directly into the pockets of giant defense contractors. Focus instead on what once would have been inconceivable in Washington: that the proposed Trump budget would slash funding for basic research in strategic areas like “artificial intelligence” likely to become critical for automated weapons systems within a decade.

In effect, the president and his team, distracted by visions of shimmering ships and shiny planes (with their predictable staggering future cost overruns), are ready to ditch the basics of global dominion: the relentless scientific research that has long been the cutting edge of U.S. military supremacy. And by expanding the Pentagon while slashing the State Department, Trump is also destabilizing that delicate duality of U.S. power by skewing foreign policy ever more toward costly military solutions (that have proved anything but actual solutions).

Starting on the campaign trail in 2016, Trump has also hammered away at another pillar of American power, attacking the system of global commerce and multilateral trade pacts that have long advantaged the country’s transnational corporations. Not only did he cancel the Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP), which promised to direct 40% of world trade away from China and toward the United States, but he’s threatened to void the free-trade pact with South Korea and has been so insistent on recrafting NAFTA to serve his “America first” agenda that ongoing negotiations may well fail.

The Crumbling U.S. Geopolitical Position

As serious as all that might be, Trump revealed the deepest damage he was capable of doing to the geopolitical foundations of the country’s global power in two key moments on his trips to Europe and Asia last year. In both places, he signaled his willingness to deliver hammer blows to Washington’s position at those strategic axial ends of Eurasia.

During a visit to NATO’s new headquarters in Brussels in May, he chastisedEuropean allies, whose leaders reportedly listened “stone-faced,” for failing to pay their “fair share” of the military costs of the alliance and, while he was at it, refused to reaffirm NATO’s core principle of collective defense. Despite later attempts to ameliorate the damage, that sent shudders across Europe and for good reason. It signaled the end of more than three-quarters of a century of unchallenged, unquestioned American supremacy there.

Then, at an Asian-Pacific Economic Cooperation meeting in Vietnam in November, the president launched “a tirade” against multilateral trade agreements and insisted that he would always “put America first.” It was as if, in an Asia in which China was rising fast, he were again announcing that Washington’s post-World War II supremacy was an artifact of history. Appropriately enough, at that same meeting, the remaining 11 Trans-Pacific partners, led by Japan and Canada, announced major progress in finalizing the TPP agreement he had so symbolically rejected ― and did so without the United States. “The U.S. has lost its leadership role,” commented Jayant Menon, an economist at the Asian Development Bank. “And China is quickly replacing it.”

Under Trump, in fact, Washington’s close relations with three key Pacific allies continue to weaken in visible ways. During a courtesy phone call upon taking office, Trump gratuitously insulted Australia’s prime minister, an act that only highlighted that country’s mounting alienation from the U.S. and a growing inclination to shift its primary strategic alliance toward China. In recent polls when asked what country they preferred as a primary ally, 43% of all Australians chose China ― a once-unimaginable transformation that Trump’s version of diplomacy is only reinforcing.

In the Philippines, the inauguration of President Rodrigo Duterte in June 2016 brought a sudden shift in the country’s foreign policy, ending Manila’s opposition to Beijing’s bases in the South China Sea. Despite an aggressive courtship by Trump and a certain temperamental affinity between the two leaders, Duterte has continued to scale down the joint military maneuvers with the U.S. that were an annual event for his country and has refused to reconsider his decisive tilt toward Beijing. That realignment was already evident in a leaked transcript of an April phone call between the two presidents in which Duterte insisted that the resolution of the North Korea nuclear issue should rest solely with China.

It is, however, on the Korean peninsula that Trump’s limitations as a global leader have been most evident. In two uncoordinated, ill-informed initiatives ― denigrating the Korean War-era U.S. alliance with South Korea and demanding total nuclear disarmament by the North ― Trump fostered a diplomatic dynamic that has allowed Beijing, Pyongyang, and even Seoul to outmaneuver Washington.

During his presidential campaign and first months in office, Trump repeatedly insulted South Korea, demeaning its culture and demanding a billion dollars for installing an American missile defense system. No one should then have been surprised when Moon Jae-in won that country’s presidency last year on a “say no” to America platform and on promises to reopen direct negotiations with the North Korea of Kim Jong-un. Then, during a state visit to Washington last June, the new South Korean leader was blindsided when Trump called the free-trade agreement between their two countries “not fair to the American worker” and blasted Moon’s proposal for negotiating with Pyongyang.

Meanwhile, Kim Jong-un oversaw 16 rocket tests in 2017 that left his country with missiles that could potentially deliver a nuclear weapon to Honolulu, Seattle, or even by year’s end New York and Washington, while testing its first hydrogen bomb. Convinced that North Korea “seeks the capability to kill millions of Americans,” Trump became obsessed with curtailingPyongyang’s nuclear program by any means, even threatening last August to unleash on that country “fire and fury like the world has never seen.”

Within days, however, then-White House strategist Steve Bannon exposed the empty bluster of all of this by telling the press, “There’s no military solution until somebody solves the part of the equation that... ten million people in Seoul don’t die in the first 30 minutes from conventional weapons.” So the threats failed and Trump flailed, repeatedly trash-tweeting Kim Jong-un as “little Rocket Man” and bragging that his own “nuclear button” is “much bigger” than the North Korean leader’s. These 12 months of bizarre, destabilizing presidential twists and tweets, almost without precedent in the annals of modern diplomacy, have pushed Seoul toward direct talks with Pyongyang ― excluding Washington and weakening what had been a rock-solid alliance.

In the war of nerves with North Korea over its missile tests, Trump’s strategy of triangulation with China (that is, Washington nudges Beijing, Beijing shoves Pyongyang) has already inflicted a major, unrecognized defeat on American power in the Pacific. For the last six months, to encourage Beijing to pressure Pyongyang, the White House has suspended the “freedom of navigation” patrols that challenge Beijing’s spurious claims to territorial control over the South China Sea, effectively conceding this strategic waterway to China.

In a deft bit of dissimulation, Beijing has made a show of cooperation with Washington by expressing “grave concerns” over Pyongyang’s missile tests and imposing nominal sanctions, while playing a longer, smarter strategic hand. In the process, it has been working to curtail joint American-South Korean military maneuvers and neutralize the U.S. Navy in what China considers its home waters.

In this diplomatic edition of The Art of the Deal, Beijing is trumping Washington.

Taking Down the Empire

Quite understandably, many Americans have focused on the damage Trump’s first months in office have done domestically, from opening pristine wilderness areas and offshore waters to oil and natural gas drilling to threatening access to medical care, skewing the progressive tax code to favor the rich, cancelling net neutrality, and voiding environmental protections of every sort. Most if not all of these regressive policies can, however, be repaired or reversed if the Democrats ever take control of Congress and the White House.

Trump’s strikingly inept version of one-man diplomacy in the context of America’s ongoing global decline is an altogether different matter. World leadership lost is never readily recovered, particularly when rival powers are prepared to fill the void. As Trump undercuts the U.S. strategic position at the axial ends of Eurasia, China is pressing relentlessly to displace the United States and dominate that vast continent with what New York Times correspondent Edward Wong calls “a blunt counterpoint... synonymous with brute strength, bribery and browbeating.”

In just one extraordinary year, Trump has destabilized the delicate duality that has long been the foundation for U.S. foreign policy: favoring war over diplomacy, the Pentagon over the State Department, and narrow national interest over international leadership. But in a globalizing world interconnected by trade, the Internet, and the rapid proliferation of nuclear-armed missiles, walls won’t work. There can be no Fortress America.HONOLULU ― Hawaii Gov. David Ige assigned a National Guard general to head a full review of the false missile alert that caused widespread panic throughout the island state.

Ige, appearing on network television Monday night, announced that National Guard Brig. Gen. Kenneth Hara would conduct a “thorough review” of the alert mistakenly sent by an Emergency Management Agency employee during a routine drill on Saturday morning.

Hara, the state’s deputy adjutant general, is also tasked with providing Hawaii residents, government officials and businesses clear instructions on what to do, where to go and how to prepare in the case of a real incoming missile threat.

“Children going down manholes, stores closing their doors to those seeking shelter, and cars driving at high speeds cannot happen again,” Ige said. “We will do a better job of educating the public.”

Saturday’s alert of an incoming ballistic missile sent residents into a state of shock and fear. Many struggled to find reliable information, but the state website temporarily shut down and police lines were flooded.

Some residents went to extreme measures to seek shelter. At least one man was seen putting his young children into a manhole, as seen in a now-viral video.

Ige on Monday night sought to restore trust.

“Let me be clear: False notifications and waiting for what felt like an eternity will not happen again,” said the governor. “You have my promise on this.”

Although Ige and Vern Miyagi, the administrator for Hawaii Emergency Management Agency, took responsibility for the botched alert, it was an emergency management employee who pushed the wrong button and triggered the false notification.

That employee, who has not been publicly identified, was temporarily reassigned to a job that does not provide access to the state warning system, officials said.

Still, the agency continues to receive death threats via anonymous calls, emergency management spokesman Richard Rapoza told USA Today.

In his address, Ige denounced the threats toward Hawaii’s emergency officials and maintained that the employee isn’t the only one at fault.

“I will not stand for scapegoating of our emergency management personnel when a number of unfortunate errors caused this event,” Ige said. “Death threats are completely unacceptable and not how we do things here.”

“I am ultimately responsible,” the governor added. “I wish I could say there was a simple reason for why it took so long to get the correction to the false alert out.”

Ige said emergency management staff “were hamstrung by a number of factors” that made it difficult to broadcast a “timely cancellation out to cellphones.”

He also acknowledged that the false alert highlights weaknesses in Hawaii’s alert system.

“It is clear what happened Saturday revealed the need for additional safeguards and improvements to our state system,” Ige said.

I signed an #ExecutiveOrder appointing Brigadier General Kenneth Hara, the Deputy Adjutant General, to oversee the comprehensive review of the state’s emergency management enterprise. Hara will also immediately implement necessary changes. More: https://t.co/8VhzsSIvVp #HiGov pic.twitter.com/kKhF1O8OLS — Governor David Ige (@GovHawaii) January 16, 2018

Hara’s review will provide the state with an initial action plan in 30 days, and a formal report for improving the state’s preparedness within 60 days.

The Emergency Management Agency has launched its own internal investigation, headed by the agency’s executive officer Toby Clairmont, according to the Honolulu-Star Advertiser.

On Sunday, Federal Communications Commission Ajit Pai called the false missile alert “unacceptable” and criticized Hawaii officials for the time it took to correct the mistake.

“It caused a wave of panic across the state ― worsened by the 38-minute delay before a correction alert was issued,” Pai said in a statement. “Moreover, false alerts undermine public confidence in the alerting system and thus reduce their effectiveness during real emergencies.”

The FCC’s own probe, launched Saturday, revealed that local officials were unprepared to deal with a mistake, Pai said.

“Based on the information we have collected so far, it appears that the government of Hawaii did not have reasonable safeguards or process controls in place to prevent the transmission of a false alert,” Pai said.

President Donald Trump made his first public remarks on the incident Sunday night while on his way to a dinner at the Trump International Golf Club in West Palm Beach, Florida.

“Well, that was a state thing. But we’re going to now get involved with them. I love that they took responsibility,” Trump told reporters.FALLOUT CONTINUES FROM TRUMP’S ‘S***HOLE’ COUNTRIES COMMENT The president took aim at Sen. Dick Durbin for revealing his remarks during a DACA meeting. A pastor blasted the comments while Vice President Mike Pence attended services at a historically black church in Maryland. Anderson Cooper had some thoughts on Trump saying he’s the “least racist person.” And a potential government shutdown lingers behind it all. [HuffPost] [Tweet | Share on Facebook]

THE HAWAII EMERGENCY EMPLOYEE WHO ‘PUSHED THE WRONG BUTTON’ HAS BEEN REASSIGNED He was attempting to send out an internal alert when he accidentally informed Hawaii that a missile was imminent. Here’s what happened for the 38 minutes while Hawaii residents panicked. And HuffPost’s Carla Herreria talks what it was like living through the false alert. [HuffPost]

SIMONE BILES, 5-TIME OLYMPIC MEDALIST, SAYS LARRY NASSAR SEXUALLY ABUSED HER, TOO “We need to make sure something like this never happens again,” she said. Over 140 women have accused the former USA Gymnastics doctor of sexual abuse. [HuffPost]

NORTH KOREA’S STATE-RUN MEDIA RESPONDED TO THAT ‘BIGGER BUTTON’ TWEET Saying it was the “spasm of a lunatic.” [AP]

AZIZ ANSARI RESPONDED TO THE SEXUAL ASSAULT ALLEGATION MADE AGAINST HIM Saying he believed the sexual encounter had been consensual. [HuffPost]

OFFICIALS WARNED JARED KUSHNER ABOUT HIS FRIENDSHIP WITH WENDI DENG MURDOCH “Unnamed sources told [the Wall Street Journal] that counterintelligence officials had warned Kushner that Murdoch, a Chinese-American businesswoman who was married to News Corp. founder Rupert Murdoch, could leverage her close relationship with Kushner and his wife, Ivanka Trump, to push the interests of the Chinese government.” [HuffPost]

13 SIBLINGS ‘HELD CAPTIVE’ IN CALIFORNIA, SOME FOUND IN CHAINS The parents were arrested after the eldest sister escaped and brought authorities to the home to find the horrifying scene. [HuffPost]

THE BASE HAS COMPLETELY AND TOTALLY ABANDONED STEVE BANNON “Just 1 percent say they side with Bannon over the president.” [HuffPost]WASHINGTON, Jan 16 (Reuters/HuffPost) - President Donald Trump’s former chief strategist Steve Bannon will meet behind closed doors on Tuesday with a U.S. House of Representatives committee that is probing whether Russia meddled in the 2016 presidential election.

Bannon’s interview with the House Intelligence Committee coincides with a New York Times report Tuesday that he was subpoenaed last week by special counsel Robert Mueller to appear before a grand jury.

This appears to be the first time Mueller has subpoenaed one of Trump’s closest advisors. It’s unclear, however, if the move will actually result in Bannon testifying before the grand jury ― or if it’s intended only to compel him to agree to an interview with investigators.

Both developments follow Bannon’s public falling out with the president over comments Bannon made to author Michael Wolff for his new book, Fire and Fury: Inside the Trump White House.

In the book, Bannon is quoted as describing a June 2016 meeting between Trump associates, including the president’s son Donald Trump Jr., his son-in-law, Jared Kushner, and a Russian lawyer, as “treasonous” and “unpatriotic.”

The meeting came after Donald Trump Jr. was told in an email that the Russian government had dirt on Democratic presidential candidate Hillary Clinton, to which he replied: “I love it.”

Bannon, a champion of Trump’s “America First” agenda, was fired by the White House in August and returned to the right-wing news website Breitbart News. He continued to speak with Trump and tried to promote the president’s agenda.

But Trump accused Bannon of having “lost his mind” when news of his comments to Wolff surfaced earlier this month. Six days later, Bannon stepped down from his post as executive chairman at Breitbart News.

Bannon is the latest high-profile figure to testify before the House committee as part of its ongoing investigation into allegations that Russia interfered in the U.S. election.

Russia has denied meddling in the election and Trump has denied there was any collusion between his campaign and Moscow.

Later in the week, the panel will hear from former Trump campaign manager Corey Lewandowski. In an interview with WABC-AM radio broadcast on Sunday, Lewandowski said he expects the closed-door meeting to take place either Wednesday or Thursday.

“I would be happy to come in and sit down. I have nothing to hide,” he told the radio station. “I didn’t collude or cooperate or coordinate with any Russian, Russian agency, Russian government or anybody else to try and impact this election.”

White House Communications Director Hope Hicks, who served as Trump’s spokeswoman during his presidential campaign after a tenure with his Trump Organization real estate business, is also expected to be questioned by the committee this week, according to a congressional source.

Democrats on the committee have accused Republicans of rushing to wrap up the probe to help give the president political cover, despite their requests to interview more witness. Republicans have denied the charge.- No whiny/reluctant/murderous psycho Luke.

- NO HALDO! She simply doesn’t exist. Her whole subplot doesn’t exist. The Kamikaze is carried out by Poe. ( = Poe dies.)

- Leia never scolds, questions nor demotes Poe.

- Lea dies. Kylo kills her.

- Kylo is more badass and much less conflicted and volatile.

- Kylo takes on more of Snoke’s guards, Rey struggles with a single one.

- No bomber heroism by china girl in the beginning.

- No Canto Bight.

- No superpowered Rey.

- Luke is not a semi-force-ghost and is smashed by the first laser cannon shot. (sorry, I just had to!)

- Phasma is finished after the first blow by Finn. (Women are naturally weaker than men, she isn’t force-sensitive, and we know nothing about any exo-skeleton in her suit)

- Asian chick speaks less, doesn’t bully Finn, Finn doesn’t try to escape, she is never formally introduced. She is just there and occasionally smiles at Finn or screams “Finn!”. She has no sister. Serves her right for all the heinous stuff she did.

- Lots of little cuts reducing the number of female facial shots. Too many to count. (Pun intended.)

- Quite a few scenes rearranged so that the flow of the shortened movie is still somewhat coherent.WASHINGTON ― Sens. Lindsey Graham (R-S.C.) and Dick Durbin (D-Ill.) blame White House staffers for standing in the way of a deal to help undocumented people who came to the U.S. as children.

“We cannot do this with people in charge at the White House who have an irrational view on how to fix immigration,” Graham told reporters Tuesday outside the Senate Judiciary Committee, where Homeland Security Secretary Kirstjen Nielsen testified at a routine oversight hearing.

Graham, who has become one of President Donald Trump’s best friends in the Senate after being a harsh critic during the 2016 White House race, added that he didn’t think the president was “well served by his staff” on the immigration issue.

Durbin said he suspects top White House aide Stephen Miller, an immigration hardliner, was trying to tank a bipartisan compromise.

“Any effort to kill immigration reform usually has Mr. Miller’s fingerprints on it,” Durbin said.

The two senators are pushing for a bipartisan plan that would bring relief to so-called Dreamers, many of whom could lose deportation protections and work permits because Trump ended the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program, known as DACA.

But they’ve been dealing with mixed signals sent by Trump. At times he’s stressed he wants to help Dreamers, but he’s also undercut a possible deal by demanding support for his signature campaign issue ― a wall along the U.S.-Mexico border ― that is a non-starter for Democrats. He’s also surrounded himself with immigration hardliners, including Miller, Attorney General Jeff Sessions and White House Chief of Staff John Kelly, who as the head of the Homeland Security Department in the administration’s early months aggressively pursued deportations and a travel ban targeting several Muslim-majority countries.

Durbin suggested Republican lawmakers who share the hardline stances on immigration ― such as Sens. Tom Cotton of Arkansas and David Perdue of Georgia ― were invited to a bipartisan meeting last Thursday at the White House in order to scuttle the negotiations on DACA.

“The idea was clearly to outnumber us and to kill our efforts,” Durbin told reporters on Tuesday.

Democrats want a deal passed by the end of the week, and many have said they won’t support a must-pass spending package unless Dreamer protections are a part of it ― something that could threaten a government shutdown if Republicans can’t approve funding on their own.

Frequent negotiations between the White House and Congress only started in earnest this month, even though Trump announced the end of DACA in September. Since then, congressional aides and other sources have warned that Miller might be trying to sink the talks, first when the White House demanded a long wishlist of changes to immigration policy in October, then again when it reiterated them earlier this month. A document sent to senators in early January with the White House’s immigration priorities was authored by Miller, according to the file.

Lawmakers said progress was being made on DACA talks last week, but the negotiations were thrown into turmoil when Trump at Thursday’s bipartisan meeting made racist comments, according to some of those at the session.The president referred to Haiti and African nations as “shithole countries” and said that instead of immigrants from those areas, he would like more from Norway, according to reports confirmed by Durbin. (Trump, backed by Perdue and Cotton, has denied he said those words; Nielsen, who was also in the room, has supported his version of what transpired, although she said there were curse words said by various people during the meeting.)

Sens. Dick Durbin and Lindsey Graham are part of a bipartisan group working to protect undocumented immigrants who came to the U.S. as children. Tom Williams/CQ Roll Call via Getty Images

The White House gathering didn’t go how Graham expected it to, he said during Tuesday’s Senate Judiciary Committee hearing. Around 10 a.m. on Thursday last week, Durbin spoke to Trump on the phone and afterward told Graham the chat had gone well, the Republican senator said. They then planned a meeting at the White House around noon.

“What happened between 10 and 12?” Graham said during the hearing.

He then made a plea directly to Trump.

“If the president’s watching: I’m still in the phone book. Don’t give my number out, but call me,” Graham said, a reference to Trump publicizing the senator’s cell phone number in 2015 when both were seeking the GOP presidential nomination.

Graham, resisting the temptation to directly use a vulgar term, added: “This has turned into a s-show and we need to get back to being a great country where Democrats and Republicans work together to do something that we should have done years ago.”

At a press briefing Tuesday afternoon, White House press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders dismissed the idea that anyone other than Trump was in control and said that he was the one who invited Cotton and Perdue to the meeting with Graham and Durbin. She said Trump shot down the senators’ proposal because it was “simply a complete failure in terms of a good deal.”

“To be very clear, the president’s running the show here at the White House,” Sanders said.Yuri Gripas / Reuters

WASHINGTON (Reuters) - A former Central Intelligence Agency officer was arrested at a U.S. airport on Monday night in connection with charges that he illegally retained highly classified information, the U.S. Justice Department said Tuesday.

Jerry Chun Shing Lee, a U.S. citizen who now lives in Hong Kong, used to maintain a top secret clearance and began working for the CIA in 1994.

The Justice Department said that in 2012, FBI agents searched his hotel rooms during trips to Virginia and Hawaii. They discovered he had two small books containing handwritten information on details such as the true names and numbers of spy recruits and covert CIA employees.

He was arrested at John F. Kennedy International Airport in New York.

The case is being prosecuted by the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Eastern District of Virginia. But Lee made his first court appearance on Tuesday before a federal magistrate judge in Brooklyn. The judge ordered Lee held without bail.

A federal public defender who represented Lee at Tuesday’s hearing declined to comment.

According to an affidavit filed by an FBI agent, Lee, 53, served in the U.S. Army from 1982 through 1986 and worked for the CIA from 1994 through 2007.

The FBI agent wrote that Lee and his family left Hong Kong in August 2012 to travel to northern Virginia. Along the way, they stayed in hotels where the FBI found the books.

The small books were discovered inside Lee’s luggage, sealed in a small clear plastic travel pack.

The handwritten information inside ranged in terms of classification, but the agent said at least one page contained top secret information, “the disclosure of which could cause exceptionally grave damage to the national security of the United States.”

The agent also noted that classified cables Lee wrote while he was a case officer describing his interactions with CIA assets were reflected in the two books.Jennifer Garner at the 2071 Baby2Baby Gala in Culver City, California. Axelle/Bauer-Griffin via Getty Images

We dare you not to aw at this “love note” written by Jennifer Garner and Ben Affleck’s son.

The “Alias” actress, who’s busy gearing up for her next action project “Peppermint,” is usually hesitant to share anything about her three children with Affleck ― Violet, 12, Seraphina, 9, and Samuel, 5, but we’re guessing this was just too adorable to keep to herself.

On Monday, Garner posted a photo of a note written by her son that he apparently left behind in a book for another reader to find.

“Hello, You are loved. I believe in you,” the note reads.

“When the librarian finds a love note your son tucked into a picture book,” Garner captioned the photo adding the hashtags #actsofkindness #spreadthelove #belikemlkjr #lovenote.

A post shared by Jennifer Garner (@jennifer.garner) on Jan 15, 2018 at 8:38am PST

Garner and Affleck initially separated in June 2015 after 10 years of marriage. Although there were rumors of reconciliation over the last year, the pair officially filed for divorce last April.

The “Justice League” actor has since entered into a relationship with “Saturday Night Live” producer Lindsay Shookus. The two were recently spotted on a casual shopping date in Los Angeles.

Meanwhile, the former couple continue to co-parent their children, reuniting last week for daughter Seraphina’s ninth birthday party at Garner’s place, as well as spending Christmas Day as a family.Award-winning Texas elementary school teacher Stacy Bailey was suspended and reassigned to teach at a secondary school after showing students last year a photo of the woman who is now her wife.

At a Mansfield Independent School Board meeting, some parents objected, with one accusing Bailey of promoting “the LGBTQ agenda,” according to Texas Values, which says on its website that it stands for “biblical, Judeo-Christian values.”

Now she’s fighting back in court.

Bailey, who teaches art, had worked at the Charlotte Anderson Elementary School near Dallas since 2008. She is a two-time recipient of its teacher of the year award and had been given excellent performance reviews.

She said she believes the school district, along with its superintendent and associate superintendent, discriminated against her because of her sexual orientation.

She filed suit with attorney Jason Smith in the Northern District of Texas federal court on Tuesday, seeking punitive damages, an apology and reinstatement at Charlotte Anderson, according to The Star-Telegram, based in Fort Worth.

“Stacy is filing this lawsuit and taking this action in hopes of pushing Mansfield out of the shadows of discrimination and into the sunshine of equal rights,” Smith told NBC 5, a local TV station.

The trouble began with that photograph.

Bailey included it with pictures of her family members, her closest friends and one of herself as a child in an Aug. 23 introductory PowerPoint presentation she used with new classes. Later in the week, according to the lawsuit, she was “informed by the principal that a parent complained to the school board and superintendent about plaintiff promoting the ‘homosexual agenda’ by discussing her ‘future wife.’”

“I don’t think you did anything wrong, but I don’t know what’s going to happen,” the principal said, according to the suit.

Bailey was suspended in early September. On Oct. 30, the school district asked for her resignation. She refused.

“The school district suspended me because they were uncomfortable with my sexual orientation,” Bailey wrote in a letter dated April 4 to district superintendent Jim Vaszauskas. It was published by The Star-Telegram.

In May, days after being notified that her contract would be renewed, Bailey received word that the district planned to transfer her to a secondary school.

“It is shocking and disappointing that Mansfield district officials treated my wife differently when she spoke about her family, just as every teacher does,” Julie Vasquez, whom Bailey married in March, said in a statement to the Star-Telegram.

The district said in a statement to NBC News that it is an “inclusive, supportive” place for LGBTQ teachers.“You know, there’s a difference between, you know, patting someone on the butt and rape or child molestation, right? Both of those behaviors need to be confronted and eradicated without question, but they shouldn’t be conflated, right?” Damon said in the interview.

Damon continued: “All of that behavior needs to be confronted, but there is a continuum. And on this end of the continuum where you have rape and child molestation or whatever, you know, that’s prison. Right? And that’s what needs to happen. OK? And then we can talk about rehabilitation and everything else. That’s criminal behavior, and it needs to be dealt with that way. The other stuff is just kind of shameful and gross.”White House press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders defended President Donald Trump to reporters on Tuesday, saying that if he’s a racist, “why did NBC give him a show for a decade on TV?”

Sanders was answering a question about comments made by Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer (D-N.Y.), who said on “The Late Show with Stephen Colbert” on Monday that the president could prove he’s not a racist by approving the DACA immigration deal a bipartisan committee has already worked out.

“Why did Chuck Schumer and all of his colleagues come and beg Donald Trump for money?” Sanders said. “If they are who they want to try and portray him as, why do they want to be with him for years and years in various activities, whether it was as events and fundraisers and other things? I think it’s just an outrageous and ludicrous excuse.”

Sarah Sanders: If Trump's a Racist, 'Why Did NBC Give Him a Show for a Decade?' pic.twitter.com/AQiK1I7eCF — Jon Levine (@LevineJonathan) January 16, 2018

Sanders was referring to Trump’s show, “The Apprentice,” and the franchise it launched. The argument’s not watertight, though: If having a TV show were proof of one’s moral or ethical character, we probably wouldn’t have had, for example, eight seasons of a sitcom starring a man whom dozens of women would eventually accuse of rape or sexual assault.

The DACA negotiations ― like spending and immigration talks ― have been embroiled in tumult lately. Trump has been blaming the “death” of DACA on the Democrats, and there isn’t a new DACA deal in the works. According to CNN, the current plan for Republicans and Democrats regarding DACA “is to keep working on the issue but focus on a short-term funding bill this week to keep the government open.”

If a funding bill is not passed by Friday, lawmakers would have to deal with the immediate possibility of a government shutdown.

AdvertisementWASHINGTON ― Homeland Security Secretary Kirstjen Nielsen testified under oath on Tuesday that she “did not hear” President Donald Trump refer to African nations as “shithole countries” during a meeting last week. However, she did not explicitly deny that Trump said something along those lines.

“The conversation was very impassioned,” Nielsen said at a Senate Judiciary Committee hearing. “I don’t dispute that the president was using tough language. Others in the room were also using tough language.”

When Sen. Patrick Leahy (D-Vt.) asked her again whether Trump used vulgar language, she again declined to deny it.

“The president used tough language in general as did other congressmen in the room, yes, sir,” Nielsen said.

Nielsen went on to say that many individuals in the room used “cuss words.”

Since Thursday, various lawmakers and members of the Trump administration have been involved in a protracted he-said-she-said over whether Trump made racist comments during a meeting that day to discuss immigration. On Friday, Sen. Dick Durbin (D-Ill.) confirmed multiple reports that Trump had referred to African nations as “shithole countries,” lamented that the U.S. couldn’t get more Norwegian immigrants instead and said Haitians should be sent out of the country.

The White House initially didn’t deny the comments, but the president has since claimed that Durbin and others are lying, arguing that he is the “least racist person” despite a long history of remarks and actions that suggest otherwise. The latest White House spin is that Trump said “shithouse” and not “shithole.”

Nielsen said Tuesday that she did not hear the president say “shithouse” but said it was possible she missed it. Nielsen said she was “more struck” by hearing profanity from others in the room in front of the president.

The entire episode has illustrated one of the chief difficulties between the White House and lawmakers as some of them seek a solution to protect the hundreds of thousands of young undocumented immigrants who could lose deportation protections because Trump ended the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program. Democrats and some Republicans want to secure those protections as a top priority, but they’re negotiating with a president who has continually derided immigrants and prioritized policies to either drive or keep them out.

That’s true of what Trump wants as part of a DACA deal: border security and a wall; an end to the diversity visa lottery; and limits to family-based immigration, which he calls “chain migration.” Ending the diversity visa lottery ― which Trump has falsely claimed involves other countries picking their “worst people” to come to the U.S. ― would heavily affect Africans from the countries he reportedly dismissed.

Separately, his administration has ended temporary protected status for about 200,000 Salvadorans, 50,000 Haitians and 2,500 Nicaraguans, meaning that whether he said “take them out” or not, he has enacted policies that would have that effect.

Both Leahy and Durbin asked Nielsen about Trump’s comments on Norwegians, whom he reportedly said he would like more of rather than immigrants from other countries.

Nielsen said Trump was alluding to his conversations with the Norwegian prime minister, explaining that people from the country “work very hard” and that Trump was “giving compliments to Norway.” She said Trump was simply using the country as an example to say he wanted “an individual merit-based system.”

Leahy, who had quipped that “being from Norway is not a skill,” asked: “Norway is a predominantly white country, isn’t it?”

“I actually do not know that, sir, but I imagine that is the case,” Nielsen said.

Trump reportedly made his remarks about Norwegians around the same time he asked why the U.S. gets so many immigrants from African nations.WASHINGTON ― Briefing reporters on the results of President Donald Trump’s first presidential medical evaluation, White House doctor Ronny Jackson on Tuesday emphasized the president’s “excellent” health and dismissed the question on many people’s minds since the recent release of Michael Wolff’s bombshell book: Is the president mentally up to his job?

As HuffPost’s S.V. Date notes, “Wolff’s book, Fire and Fury, portrays a delusional, ignorant and impulsive chief executive who may also be suffering from a loss of his cognitive skills ― a description that has brought into public discourse what had previously been off-limits.”

Some hoped Trump’s Friday’s medical evaluation would include a cognitive or psychiatric assessment of the 71-year-old president. The government recommends Medicare recipients over age 65 undergo a cognitive assessment as part of their annual physicals.

Jackson stressed that Trump’s examination at Walter Reed Military Medical Center contained a cognitive assessment that the president passed with flying colors.

He made sure to point out that the president passed a “longer, more difficult” version, and that administering it was “not driven by clinical concerns.”

“There’s no indication that he has any cognitive issues,” Jackson said, adding that Trump “is very articulate when he speaks to me.”

Later, he added that it was “impressive” that Trump “has a lot of energy and a lot of stamina,” and is “very sharp.”

As far as Trump’s basic health statistics, he is 75 inches tall, weighs 239 pounds, has 20/30 vision, and had “normal” results for his motor and cognitive functions, as well as “above average exercise capacity based on age and sex,” according to Jackson.

“In summary, the president’s overall health is excellent,” Jackson said. “All data indicates the president is healthy and will remain so for the duration of his presidency.”

Jackson said he suggested Trump should try to lose between 10 to 15 pounds over the next year, and recommended a healthier diet and “a dedicated, defined exercise program.”

“He would benefit from a diet that is lower in fat and carbohydrates,” Jackson said.

The results are in line with what Trump disclosed during his campaign, in notes from both his personal doctor and, for some reason, Dr. Oz. His personal physician, Dr. Harold Bornstein ― who once famously made the dubious claim that Trump would become “the healthiest individual ever elected to the presidency” ― reported in 2016 that Trump was 6-foot-3 and 236 pounds, took a statin to lower his cholesterol, and had no history of cancer or other major medical problems.

But Trump’s erratic behavior as president, and his age, leave many Americans wondering if he might be suffering from some sort of cognitive decline. Yale University psychiatry professor Bandy Lee, who has not personally evaluated Trump, told HuffPost that “we’re seeing signs of impairment in the sitting president ... [and] it’s been markedly getting worse.”Aziz Ansari at the 75th Annual Golden Globe Awards. WGN-TV

You’ve probably heard by now of the increasingly controversial and inflammatory piece in Babe in which Grace (not her real name) describes a date with comedian Aziz Ansari. It has not gone down well. The Atlantic called it racist “revenge porn.” Bari Weiss of The New York Times, a writer who has consistently and, it seems, deliberately misunderstood most female-driven efforts of the Trump era called the letter indicative of a lack of female agency. In short, a lot of white women in highly prestigious publications have been vocalizing a lot of hand-wringing that I’ve been hearing men doing in less prestigious and less public circles. This is not to say that these female authors are caping for men or anything of the sort. What it does mean, however, is that there are a lot of men who are reading Grace’s account in Babe and getting very nervous.

It is very easy to look at Harvey Weinstein and make a moral judgment. The man was an immensely powerful studio executive with the power to make or break careers. He stands accused of forcing himself on dozens, if not literally hundreds of women. He is, quite frankly, unattractive. In short, he fits the image of a serial rapist. We can look at his behavior and match it to what we collectively understand about rape. There is no semblance of consent anywhere in there. Men can examine their own behavior and say “I have never whipped it out and masturbated into a potted plant,” and do so with confidence. They are not Harvey Weinstein.

But Aziz Ansari is more complicated, because it is less cut and dry. There are not hundreds of women coming forward. There is no weird sexual behavior, only relatively common practices. The woman doesn’t even have a firm identity that we can use to make comparative judgments about our proximity to her. (This is not to say I don’t believe the account, just that anonymity often raises public suspicion a la Rolling Stone’s “A Rape on Campus”.) Men read Grace’s story and begin to panic. They’ve done things like that before ― had sex without communicating, had a hook-up end with someone in tears. Does this mean they too will lose their careers, their standing in the public? If it can happen to Aziz Ansari, a self-proclaimed feminist comedian, could it really happen to anyone?

Of course, that last question is deeply ironic insofar as it reflects the common refrain of anti-rape advocates (”It can happen to anyone!”) used to describe the reality of women’s day-to-day experiences. The cold sweats of men imagining that at any moment, any future or past sexual partner could say they crossed a line is just a hint of the choking panic women feel doing everyday things, like, say, walking down the street or riding the subway.

But this panic has morphed into indignation and lines in the sand. “#MeToo has gone too far,” many men and assorted women are declaring across the internet with their fists slamming the proverbial table. They say the scale of abuse is being compressed to the extent that now even a sideways glance is grounds for a public shaming. They say that we are being asked to become psychic, to peer into the minds of women who are just so not straightforward. How are we supposed to know what they’re thinking ― and not just what they say they’re thinking, but what they’re really thinking? They ask, as Bari Weiss does, why we must criminalize “awkward, gross and entitled sex.” They muse, “What if we just asked women to stand up for themselves more? That would solve a lot of problems.”

Harvey Weinstein is an anomaly, or at least a relative rarity. Aziz Ansari is not. When Weiss adds the throwaway line, “I’m apparently the victim of sexual assault” at the beginning of the piece, it has a kind of weight to it that few readers likely pick up on. It signifies that, yes, the epidemic of sexual violence really is as widespread and pervasive as we’ve been saying, because sexual violence doesn’t just entail brutal, violent acts of rape. It means that, no, it’s not just as easy as women being able to boldly proclaim their sexual agency in the same way that men do without being labeled a slut or a whore. It says that, yes, men are complicit in this system in a variety of ways and at different places within the hierarchy of abuse.

The sad fact is that Grace, whoever she may be, did not choose to have what to most men seems an unpleasant sexual encounter become so deeply upsetting. Perhaps another woman would have been disturbed but ultimately unaffected in the long term. But this is not how trauma operates. We do not get to choose when and how it affects us, or under what circumstances it can seep into us. When we freeze up, choke on our words, are unable to fully sit in our bodies it is not because we consciously choose to do so, it is because we revert to some primal instinct of self-protection.There’s a reason why you often see actress Keira Knightley portraying characters in period dramas.

The “Atonement” and “Pride and Prejudice” actress recently told Variety she really doesn’t like the way contemporary women are portrayed in movies.

“I don’t really do films set in the modern day because the female characters nearly always get raped,” she said. “I always find something distasteful in the way women are portrayed, whereas I’ve always found very inspiring characters offered to me in historical pieces.”

Knightley says she’s noticed some strong female characters and female stories on streaming services and is optimistic that they’ll help shape future female characters in film as well.

“There’s been some improvement. I’m suddenly being sent scripts with present-day women who aren’t raped in the first five pages and aren’t simply there to be the loving girlfriend or wife.”

Knightley also offered a pretty valid remedy for the problem: