Stephen Colbert marked “day four of shithole-gate” by mocking the claims made by Donald Trump supporters that the president didn’t use that word. Instead, they reportedly claimed said “shithouse” when describing Haiti and African nations in a meeting with lawmakers last week.Martin Luther King Jr. Day inspired a whole host of tributes to the civil rights activist from members of President Donald Trump’s administration.

But for the staff at satirical late night TV show “Full Frontal with Samantha Bee,” the praise rang somewhat hollow.

As the testimonials flooded in over Twitter on Monday, the show’s official account responded by pointing out the hypocrisy of the statements.

It responded to Trump’s claim that “Dr. King’s dream is our dream” with this:

1) You would have called for him to be fired. 2) You wouldn't have rented an apartment to him. 3) You call the people who actually keep his dream etched on their hearts ungrateful and disrespectful. 4) You spent today golfing. #ManySides https://t.co/UI5upEFhBc — Full Frontal (@FullFrontalSamB) January 15, 2018

And here’s how the show replied to Vice President Mike Pence calling Dr. King “a great American leader who inspired a movement.”

Three months ago, you walked out of an event in disgust because of a non-violent protest by black athletes.https://t.co/TtD9C4sgIm — Full Frontal (@FullFrontalSamB) January 15, 2018

White House press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders received a similarly curt response:

You defended your boss's racist "Pocahontas" comment.https://t.co/xPrildKwC2 — Full Frontal (@FullFrontalSamB) January 15, 2018

As did Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke:

You called removing Confederate statues a “slippery slope” and referred to Native Americans as Native “Indians” in the process. https://t.co/k90rZGCpUT — Full Frontal (@FullFrontalSamB) January 15, 2018

“Full Frontal” made this point to House Speaker Paul Ryan (R-Wis.):

You are making poor and middle class Americans pay for corporate tax cuts. https://t.co/UrzCiWhQL9 — Full Frontal (@FullFrontalSamB) January 15, 2018

It noted the duplicity in Rep. Steve King’s (R-Iowa) statement:

One month ago you tweeted "diversity is not our strength.”https://t.co/OnBWHpYTeX — Full Frontal (@FullFrontalSamB) January 15, 2018

And for Sen. Ted Cruz (R-Texas), it had this blunt message:

AdvertisementAn old photograph of President Donald Trump ranting on the stump is going viral again.

Reuters photographer David Becker originally took the image during a Trump campaign rally in Las Vegas in June 2016. Reddit user LonelyScout shared the image to the site’s so-called “PhotoshopBattles” thread on Monday.

David Becker / ReutersThe soft voice and otherworldly presence that Elle Fanning brought to “Somewhere,” “Maleficent,” “20th Century Women” and “The Beguiled” are magnified in John Cameron Mitchell ’s new movie, “ How to Talk to Girls at Parties ,” mostly because she plays an alien unfamiliar with humans, who somehow don’t eat their offspring to sustain the species. Things don’t get more otherworldly than this.

That’s just one oddity in the punk-rock bacchanalia based on Neil Gaiman’s short story of the same name. In the exclusive clip above, Fanning, playing Zan, takes the stage at a nightclub frequented by the movie’s human protagonist, Enn (Alex Sharp), and run by Queen Boadicea (Nicole Kidman, doing her best impression of David Bowie in “Labyrinth”). In the scene, Zan does not want to be thought of as a tourist on the punk scene — or as one just passing through Earth. She wants to understand the culture that she and her fellow colonists are exploring. Along the way, a little romance enters her life.She’s the Abbi to your Ilana, the ovaries you put before brovaries, and your ride or die. Show your patriarchy-smashing BFF just how much she means to you this Galentine’s Day.

In our book, there’s nothing better than ladies celebrating ladies ― except, perhaps, ladies celebrating ladies who also love books. That’s why we’ve pulled together some of our favorite finds for Galentine’s Day 2019.

Check out our 25 gift ideas for anyone who’s down with putting uteruses before duderuses:Denis Shapovalov blasts a forehand en route to his three-set victory on Monday. Michael Dodge via Getty Images

A bunch of bananas proved to be a greater challenge for tennis pro Denis Shapovalov than his opponent at the Australian Open on Monday.

As the 18-year-old Canadian was cruising to a straight-set, first-round victory over Greece’s Stefanos Tsitsipas, he tried to peel several bananas courtside, failing each time.

It looked like a modern vaudeville act.

Finally, the flustered Shapovalov was able to pry one open, and he clenched his fist in victory.

“I think I played extremely well today,” Shapovalov told news outlets.

But your snacking game needs work, kid.PeopleImages via Getty Images

Coughs and sneezes may spread diseases, but trying to hold your next sternutation completely in can cause trouble, too.

A “previously fit and well” 34-year-old man in England ruptured his throat after he pinched his nose and closed his mouth to contain a sneeze, according to a case study the British Medical Journal shared online Monday.

“Halting sneeze via blocking nostrils and mouth is a dangerous manoeuvre and should be avoided, as it may lead to numerous complications,” wrote the authors of the report, who described the damage as rare.

The unidentified man in the article developed a popping feeling in the back of his throat and swelling in his neck after the stifled sneeze. He also experienced difficulty swallowing and speaking.

The unidentified 34-year-old man reported a popping sensation in his neck after he attempted to stifle a sneeze. BMJ

Doctors at a hospital in Leicester discovered that air bubbles from the rupture were permeating the soft tissue of his neck and chest. He was hospitalized for seven days, administered antibiotics and fed via a tube so that the rupture could heal. He eventually made a full recovery.

Anthony Aymat, a consultant at University Hospital Lewisham in London, told Time magazine that “the safest thing to do, although it’s not socially acceptable, is just to sneeze loud” and catch the germ cloud in a tissue.

AdvertisementCongratulations are in order for Kim Kardashian and Kanye West ― the couple just welcomed their third child, via a surrogate mother.

TMZ, which broke the news, noted that the surrogate gave birth “to a healthy girl weighing 7lbs 6oz.” Kardashian confirmed the news on her website with a post titled, “We’re so in love”:

Kanye and I are happy to announce the arrival of our healthy, beautiful baby girl. We are incredibly grateful to our surrogate who made our dreams come true with the greatest gift one could give and to our wonderful doctors and nurses for their special care. North and Saint are especially thrilled to welcome their baby sister.

News that Kardashian and West were expecting began circulating over the summer, when TMZ reported the couple had hired a surrogate. Doctors reportedly warned Kardashian a third pregnancy would be too risky.

The reality star suffered from preeclampsia while pregnant with North, and placenta accreta during both pregnancies. The 37-year-old once called pregnancy “the worst experience of my life.”Gulf Coast Storm Center

A weather map posted on Facebook is arousing all sorts of cheeky comments thanks to the familiar shape of the storm center.

The Gulf Coast Storm Center posted the map on Monday evening, showing what looks like a male sex organ with the head firmly in Arkansas and Mississippi and about to enter Tennessee.

The report on the Gulf Coast Storm Center website suggested the possibility of freezing rain, sleet and light snow.

Yet the map’s shape seemed to inspire comments that were more on the hot and bothered side.

One woman said, “I’m sick and tired of being promised 6-7 inches and only getting 4!!!” to which another commenter replied, “Well it’s probably because your messing with the wrong weather guy.”

Another guy hoped the storm would prematurely finish and leave people “very unimpressed with the overall experience.”

Other hilarious reactions include:

“If this storm lasts longer than 4 hours, seek immediate medical attention.”

“Tennessee says, ‘Not right now Texas I’m tired.’”

“Don’t expect this storm to pull out quickly...”

“I guess you could say Mother Nature really has a hard on for the gulf coast lately.”

“Storms definitely going to penetrate deep down south.”

“There should always be a warning when it’s more than 6 inches.”

The most philosophical response to the penis-shaped weather map may be one from a woman who wondered how future generations might view it.

“In a few thousand years, some alien historian is going to stumble across this post and read the comments and finally understand, after years of study, exactly how we humans, a clever and able species, managed to let ourselves get caught in another ice age, for we were too busy making dick jokes to flee, and I’m ok with that.”Chrissy Teigen offered her support to former Olympic gymnast McKayla Maroney in a big way on Tuesday morning: The model said she’d be “absolutely honored” to pay a $100,000 penalty that Maroney might face for violating a nondisclosure agreement with USA Gymnastics if she choses to speak at the sentencing for disgraced team doctor Larry Nassar.

Maroney, best known as one of the Fierce Five at the 2012 Summer Olympics, revealed in October 2017 that she had been sexually abused by Nassar from age 13 until she left gymnastics at age 20. She has said the abuse led her to thoughts of suicide.

Chrissy Teigen (left) tweeted that she'd be "absolutely honored" to give McKayla Maroney a financial hand. Getty

In 2016, Maroney received a $1.25 million settlement from USA Gymnastics after the organization learned of Nassar’s actions. That settlement included an NDA with a $100,000 penalty if she ever spoke about the abuse she’d allegedly suffered at the doctor’s hands. The 22-year-old may have already triggered that provision with her revelations in October.

Teigen tweeted a screenshot of a Daily Mail article about the possible penalty, along with her impassioned show of financial support:

The entire principle of this should be fought - an NDA to stay quiet about this serial monster with over 140 accusers, but I would be absolutely honored to pay this fine for you, McKayla. pic.twitter.com/lsBEgEqZpD — christine teigen (@chrissyteigen) January 16, 2018

Maroney is suing USA Gymnastics, the United States Olympic Committee and Michigan State University for allegedly forcing her “to agree to a nondisparagement clause and confidentiality provision.”

Later on Tuesday, USA Gymnastics told HuffPost that they have not “sought and will not seek any money” from Maroney for “her brave statements made in describing her victimization and abuse by Larry Nassar.” They also said they will not seek money for any victim impact statement she chooses to make at this week’s hearing or “at any subsequent hearings related to his sentencing.”

“This has been her right and USA Gymnastics encourages McKayla and anyone who has been abused to speak out,” the statement read. “USA Gymnastics remains focused on our highest priority ― the safety, health and well-being of our athletes and creating a culture that empowers and supports them.”

In response to Teigen’s words, Maroney said in a statement via her attorneys that she was shocked by such generosity.

“I’m not on social media right now, but I wish I was for this! I’m shocked by your generosity, and I just want you to know how much hope your words bring to all of us! I just can’t get over the fact that someone I don’t personally know is sticking up for me, let alone a strong woman that I’ve looked up to for years,” Maroney’s statement reads.

“Thank you Chrissy, you’re so inspiring, and things are starting to change because of people like you! Just saying that was worth the decision to speak up regardless of a fine.”

Maroney said Teigen’s heart is “pure gold” and ended with “God bless. All my love, McKayla.”

There are 98 victims and family members currently scheduled to make victim impact statements at Nassar’s sentencing, which began on Tuesday and is set to run until Friday. Nassar has been accused of sexual abuse by 140 women in total, including former Olympians Aly Raisman, Simone Biles and Gabby Douglas. He faces several charges of criminal sexual conduct that could carry sentences of life in prison. He was previously sentenced to 60 years on child pornography charges.Nicky Jam performs onstage at KTUphoria 2017. Paul Zimmerman/Getty Images

Nicky Jam fans will soon get a glimpse into the reggaeton superstar’s life.

A 13-episode bio-series titled “Nicky Jam: El Ganador” is set for a global premiere on Netflix, according to Deadline. In the U.S, the series will debut first on Telemundo, then be available for streaming.

“I’m extremely excited we started on the production of my biographical series Nicky Jam: El Ganador, which people around the world will be able to see on Telemundo,” Nicky Jam said in statement sent to HuffPost. “It’s something I’ve wanted to do for a long time, so thanks to all those who supported me and have worked to make my dream come true.”

News that Telemundo had ordered a biographical series based on Nicky Jam’s life first made headlines in March 2017. Acclaimed music director Jesse Terrero will lead the project, which will delve into the artist’s beginnings in the industry, his past substance abuse, and how he reinvented himself. The series will also include information on the history of the reggaeton genre.

Filming began in Medellín, Colombia, this week, and will continue in Mexico, Puerto Rico and New York. The artist shared a photo via Instagram on Saturday, captioned “On my way to film the series,” that shows him standing in front of a private jet.A family meeting might be in order because Selena Gomez’s mother and former manager, Mandy Teefey, can’t stop spilling the tea.

A day after Teefey revealed she was “not happy” about her daughter’s rekindled romance with Justin Bieber, she weighed in on the ongoing controversy over Gomez starring in the upcoming Woody Allen film “A Rainy Day in New York.”

Three of Gomez’s co-stars on the film, Rebecca Hall, Timothée Chalamet and Griffin Newman, have already pledged to donate their salaries to stand in solidarity with victims of sexual assault. Allen’s adoptive daughter, Dylan Farrow, has repeatedly accused him of sexually abusing her as a child, despite the director vehemently denying her claims over the years.

When one of Teefey’s followers demanded Gomez apologize for her continued public support of Allen, Teefey explained that the 25-year-old is the one making the decisions, not her.

“Sorry, no one can make Selena do anything she doesn’t want to,” Teefey wrote.

Instagram

“I had a long talk with her about not working with him and it didn’t click. Her team are amazing people. There is no fall person here. No one controls her. She makes all her own decisions. No matter how hard you try to advise. It falls on deaf ears,” she continued.

The “Bad Liar” singer previously addressed the criticism regarding her collaboration with Allen in a roundabout answer that left many unsatisfied.

“To be honest, I’m not sure how to answer — not because I’m trying to back away from it. [The Harvey Weinstein allegations] actually happened right after I had started [on the movie],” she told Billboard in November. “They popped up in the midst of it. And that’s something, yes, I had to face and discuss. I stepped back and thought, ‘Wow, the universe works in interesting ways.’”

Meanwhile, Gomez’s other co-stars, including Elle Fanning, Diego Luna and Liev Schreiber, have stayed silent.

Timothée Chalamet, Selena Gomez and Woody Allen on set. James Devaney via Getty Images

Gomez’s relationship with her mother, who stopped managing the starlet’s career in 2014, seems to be on the rocks lately. They reportedly unfollowed each other for a brief period last year and clearly don’t see eye to eye when it comes to Bieber.

AdvertisementWhen someone dies, we instinctively possess the urge to find that person’s loved ones and fill their refrigerators with an absurd amount of food. For some unknown reason, we usually do this with casseroles. Really, really weird casseroles.

The result is a very specific type of cuisine that has earned the blunt name “funeral food.” It takes on different forms in different regional cultures, but in the American South in particular, refrigerators tends to fill up with jello salads and mayonnaise-based casseroles.

Perre Coleman Magness, who previously penned an entire cookbook about pimento cheese to prove her Southern street cred, has just written a new book on the subject of funeral food called The Southern Sympathy Cookbook: Funeral Food With A Twist. In it, she shares recipes like Deviled Ham, Hot Chicken Salad and a Jack and Coke Sheet Cake. But one recipe in particular stands out among the others: “That Pineapple Thing.”

Come again?

Let’s allow Magness to explain: “You’ll find this recipe in almost every Southern community cookbook, sometimes in the dessert section, sometimes in the side dish section, often alongside ham recipes. Cheesy Pineapple Casserole, Scalloped Pineapple, sometimes just Pineapple Casserole, it is there in the dog-eared, worn pages of favorite cookbooks.”

The casserole is typically made of canned pineapple chunks coated in sugar and flour, and then baked with a topping made of crumbled Ritz crackers, melted butter and often grated Cheddar cheese. Just reading the list of ingredients is enough to make you check your cholesterol and blood sugar levels.

As it turns out, pineapple casserole isn’t just limited to local, small-town cookbooks ― or funerals, for that matter. The internet is littered with recipes for it. Paula Deen has a version, of course, as do blogs such as Genius Kitchen and Real Housemoms. Even Oprah has a recipe for pineapple casserole.

On Tasting Table, Kat Kinsman recalled learning about the dish from her Southern husband over the holidays: “I grabbed the grater and got to work, swallowing down my worry as I stirred in each ingredient: canned fruit, sugar, fat, processed and salty crackers. Here goes everything. I barely had room to fit in the first bite, but I did, and a second and a third. And then I sidled back to the buffet for another helping. Like the celebration itself, yeah, it’s pretty cheesy, but wonderfully sweet at its core.”

Southern Living even has a story called, “It’s Just Not Easter Without Pineapple Casserole.” Author Caroline Rogers says, “Pineapple casserole is a quintessential Southern dish, and at Easter, you’ll always find it in the lunch spread, on the table between the sliced ham and buttery cornbread, with a serving spoon at the ready. The pineapple is a symbol for hospitality, so what better way to welcome guests?”

The more you think about pineapple casserole, the more it actually starts to sound surprisingly delicious.

Below is the recipe from Magness’ book. Make it and decide for yourself.

That Pineapple Thing

From The Southern Sympathy Cookbook: Funeral Food With A Twist, by Perre Coleman Magness

The Southern Sympathy Cookbook

Serves 6 to 8

1 (20-ounce) can crushed pineapple

1 (20-ounce) can pineapple chunks

1 cup granulated sugar

6 tablespoons self-rising flour

1/2 teaspoon kosher salt

8 ounces sharp cheddar, grated

40 buttery crackers, such as Ritz (that’s about 1 sleeve)

8 tablespoons (1 stick) unsalted butter, meltedA California couple has been charged with child endangerment and torture after police on Sunday discovered 12 of their children locked inside their home, some in chains and starving, officials said.

A 17-year-old girl managed to escape the house in Perris, California, and alerted authorities that her 12 brothers and sisters were being held captive by their parents, according to a police statement.

The Riverside County Sheriff’s Department dispatched deputies alongside officers from the Perris Police Department to meet the teenager, who they said looked “to be only 10 years old and slightly emaciated.”

Authorities went to the residence and questioned the parents, David Allen Turpin, 57, and Louise Anna Turpin, 49.

David Allen Turpin, 57, and Louise Anna Turpin, 49, have been charged with child endangerment and torture. Riverside County Sheriff's Department

“Further investigation revealed several children shackled to their beds with chains and padlocks in dark and foul-smelling surroundings, but the parents were unable to immediately provide a logical reason why their children were restrained in that manner,” the sheriff’s department said in a statement.

Perris police Chief Greg Fellows said at a press conference Tuesday that despite the “horrific” conditions, Louise Turpin, the kids’ biological mother, seemed “perplexed as to why we were at that residence.”

“There were three individuals that were chained to some type of furniture inside the residence,” Fellows said of the victims, whom he also described as starved. “I would call that torture.”

Authorities said they found five minors ― at least one of them young as 2 ― in the house, along with seven adults whose ages ranged from 18 to 29. All of the victims appeared to be dirty and malnourished. The minors were taken to Riverside University Hospital System, and the adults were sent to Corona Regional Medical Center for examination and medical treatment.

“It’s hard to think of them as adults when you first see them, because they’re small.” - Mark Uffer, CEO and managing director at Corona Regional Medical Center

Mark Uffer, CEO and managing director at Corona Regional Medical Center, said that as of Tuesday, the couple’s adult children remain together, comfortable and “in a very safe and secure environment, and I think that’s what’s most important right now.”

“It’s hard to think of them as adults when you first see them, because they’re small,” Uffer said at the press conference, saying the children’s size is a result of malnutrition. “They’ve gone through a very traumatic ordeal. I can tell you that they’re very friendly, they’re very cooperative, and I think that they’re very hopeful that life will get better for them.”

Officials credited the 17-year-old who Fellows said escaped the home through a window and used a deactivated cell phone to call for help.

The investigation remains ongoing, Fellows said, but so far there appears to be no sign that the parents are mentally ill.

David Allen Turpin and Louise Anna Turpin are seen in a family photo posted to Facebook in 2016. Facebook

Both parents were transported to the Robert Presley Detention Center, and each is being held on $9 million bail. The Turpins are set to appear in court on Thursday, Reuters reports.

Public records suggest the Turpins homeschooled their children. California’s Department of Education lists David Turpin as the principal of the Sandcastle Day School, a K-12 private school located at the Turpins’ home address that had six students enrolled last year. According to state law, parents may register their home schools as private institutions.

David Turpin’s mother, Betty, told CNN that the family was “highly respectable” and would usually take vacations, during which all of the children were dressed alike and had to be lined up according to age in order to keep track of everyone.

“They were very protective of the kids,” she said.

Neighbors of the couple have reacted with shock and horror to the news, saying they never had any idea of the abuse that was allegedly occurring inside the home.

Mike Clifford, 60, told HuffPost that the family lived across the street from him in a rental home in Murrieta, about 19 miles south of Perris, a few years ago. He rarely saw the family, he said, but he did recall incidents that stood out to him and his wife as strange.

“They used to march over and over in circles in their upstairs,” he said of the kids. This behavior, which Clifford said he would see late at night as he was getting home from work, went on “for hours.”

The couple was arrested after police on Sunday said they found the children shackled to beds inside this Perris, California, home. Sandy Huffaker via Getty Images

“The blinds would be open,” Clifford said. “You could see the kids marching in circles.”

Clifford said he once toured the rental property when it was for sale, and saw that the home’s upstairs layout allowed one to move freely from room to room in a circular way. He said he doesn’t know why the kids were doing it, but “it was happening quite often.”

“I’d notice it and I’d say, ‘Wow, those kids are marching again,’” he recalled telling his wife, who he said was on vacation at the time of HuffPost’s interview.

Another thing he found “strange” was how infrequently he saw the kids.

“I never saw more than a half a dozen of them at a time,” he said, adding that sometimes he’d see six of the kids pile into the car with their parents at 1 a.m.

He said he was shocked to learn there were 13 of them in all. “I just thought there were six of them,” he said.

Clifford said that in the two and a half years the Turpins were their neighbors, he and his wife never saw anything that made them want to call 911.

“I wish I had noticed something that would have made me want to say something, but it never got to that point.” - Mike Clifford, a former neighbor of the family

“We thought they were foster parents of mentally handicapped kids,” he said.

His wife had once met two of the daughters while checking the mail, he said, and had described them as “robotic” but friendly.

The kids seemed thin when he saw them, Clifford said, but not to any extreme. The family also seemed financially comfortable, as he saw them with “his and hers” sports cars that were traded out every year for new ones.

“I wish I had noticed something that would have made me want to say something, but it never got to that point,” he said.

Kimberly Milligan, 50, told The Washington Post that she lived next door to the Turpins for over two years but rarely heard or saw the children, who she thought were “very young ― 11, 12, 13 at the most.” Milligan’s son, Robert Perkins, remembered the children looking frail and thin.

“You knew something was off. It didn’t make a lot of sense,” Milligan told the Post. “But this is something else entirely.”

Another neighbor, Wendy Martinez, told Reuters she’d only communicated with the family once. She was passing the Turpins’ house while four of the children were installing sod in the yard.

“They were very, like, afraid,” she said of the children. “Like they had never seen people before.”

David Turpin’s mother has said that during family vacations, all of the children would dress alike and had to be lined up according to age. Facebook

In a number of family photos posted on a Facebook account belonging to the couple, they are seen appearing to renew their wedding vows with the help of an Elvis impersonator.

That impersonator, Kent Ripley, told CBS News the couple had renewed their vows at the Elvis Chapel in Las Vegas at least three times in recent years. The last time he saw them was in 2015, when all 13 kids attended the ceremony.

He expressed surprise when asked about the allegations against the couple, telling CBS that the kids looked thin, “but not excessively thin.”

“I thought they were very active as a family... I didn’t think that they didn’t eat or there was punishment or anything like that,” Ripley said. “They were just well behaved. They smiled a lot.”

Video of one ceremony posted on YouTube in 2013 shows the children singing, dancing and holding hands as a family as their parents celebrate what was then described as 28 years of marriage.

“It’s hard to believe that the people that I performed for and entertained and sat and talked [to] before and after entertaining them, that this could happen. It’s just, it’s disturbing, it really is,” Ripley said.

This story has been updated with comments from Clifford and additional details on the couple.CNN’s Jake Tapper blasted retired Air Force Lt. Gen. Thomas McInerney on Thursday for implying that Sen. John McCain (R-Ariz.) had broken under torture while he was a prisoner of war.

During an appearance on the Fox Business Network earlier Thursday, McInerney had told host Charles Payne that torture works, then claimed it was effective on McCain while he was a POW for five years in Vietnam. “That’s why they call him ‘Songbird John,’” McInerney said.

There’s no evidence that McCain ― who is currently at his home in Arizona battling brain cancer ― ever betrayed his country in captivity.

An angry Tapper defended the veteran senator: “First of all, no one calls him ‘Songbird John’ except for crazy people and jerks — and I’m using my language carefully here.”

CNN political analyst Jeffrey Toobin called McInerney’s comments “sickening and disgusting.”

...Wow



Conversation on Fox about torture: "It worked on John [McCain]. That's why they call him 'Songbird John'" https://t.co/OjCwhv2ZhI pic.twitter.com/WehsgPAqgb — Leanne Naramore (@LeanneNaramore) May 10, 2018

McInerney made his remarks while discussing Deputy CIA Director Gina Haspel, whom President Donald Trump tapped to head the agency. Haspel’s nomination is in trouble because she reportedly supervised waterboarding at a CIA black site where terror suspects were tortured.

On Wednesday, McCain urged lawmakers to reject Haspel’s nomination. Her “role in overseeing the use of torture by Americans is disturbing,” the senator said in a statement. “Her refusal to acknowledge torture’s immorality is disqualifying.”

Toobin reminded viewers that during his presidential campaign, Trump had promised “worse than waterboarding” for CIA prisoners.

The CNN analyst warned, “This is not John McCain’s Republican Party; it’s Donald Trump’s Republican Party,” and predicted, “This Republican Party will give Trump what he wants.”

Haspel vowed Wednesday in a confirmation hearing not to relaunch the CIA’s defunct torture program if she becomes head of the agency. But she refused to call torture immoral during pointed questioning.

Charles Payne tweeted an apology to McCain and his family on Thursday for McInerney’s “very false and derogatory remark” about the senator on his program.“Why do you do that to yourself, man?” Meyers asked on Monday’s “Late Night.” “If you’d just said, ‘I’m not a racist,’ then maybe you could muddy the waters and people would have to debate it. But when you say ‘the least racist person,’ you just set off alarm bells.”Singer-songwriter Brandon Stansell puts his personal twist on one of 2017′s most acclaimed country tunes, reinterpreting one artist’s career struggles as a poignant plea for acceptance.

As originally written, Ashley McBryde’s “Girl Goin’ Nowhere” is a paean to self-empowerment and overcoming adversity as a woman in the music industry. Stansell, however, says the song ― the title track of McBryde’s forthcoming debut album ― struck a chord for a different reason.

“I think everyone that I grew up with knew that I would always pursue a career in music, so I didn’t relate to the song in the way that she wrote it,” Stansell, who is based in Los Angeles but hails from Tennessee, told HuffPost. That changed, he said, once he came out as gay at age 22. “All of these people that I had loved my entire life and had known to be my biggest advocates and supporters just ... weren’t anymore,” he said.

Stansell, now 30, said those setbacks informed his take on McBryde’s song, now called “Boy Goin’ Nowhere,” in the above video. Like McBryde, he’s learned to look beyond hardship.

“Things didn’t really work out the way that I had wanted them to, but I’m really proud of the person I am,” he said. “I don’t really know if I’d be that person if I hadn’t had to go through the things that I went through, or if I hadn’t been the one who had to fight to survive.”

He added, “I know that there are people out there with similar struggles.”

“Boy Goin’ Nowhere” kicks off what’s likely to be a banner year for Stansell, who released his first full-length album, “Slow Down,” last October and was named one of Rolling Stone’s “10 New Country Artists You Need to Know” the following month.

In early February, he’ll return to Tennessee to shoot the video for “Hometown,” a new ballad which is inspired by the pain he experienced coming to terms with his sexuality. That same week, he’ll take the stage at The Basement in Nashville, marking his first performance outside of Los Angeles since the “Slow Down” release.

Stansell first gained widespread attention in 2016 with his first video, “Slow Down,” which showed him traversing the desert with a male love interest in a pick-up truck. His subsequent videos, including “Never Know,” have also emphasized LGBTQ themes.

As his music career progresses, Stansell is vowing not to shy away from expressing his authentic self in other creative ways.

“I want to make music, and I want people to like it ― I think that’s the goal of every musician,” Stansell, who described his sound as “California country” and lists the British trio Years & Years and Dolly Parton as influences, said. “But I have a strong passion for advocacy, and I want music to be the platform that gets me there.”Heather Matarazzo, right, says she popped the question to Heather Turman, left, on Jan. 11. Greg Doherty/Getty Images

Heather Matarazzo is gearing up for a happily ever after of her very own.

The “Welcome to the Dollhouse” and “Princess Diaries” star revealed on Monday that she’d popped the question to her girlfriend, Heather Turman, last week. In an Instagram post, Matarazzo explained that she and Turman, who is also an actress and a comedian, had gotten engaged Jan. 11 but opted to keep it to themselves for a bit.

A post shared by heathermatarazzo (@heathermatarazzo) on Jan 15, 2018 at 4:03pm PST

Turman, who co-wrote 2017′s “Stuck” and appeared in “La La Land,” called Matarazzo “the absolute, unequivocal love of my life” in a similar post on her Instagram account.

In their posts, both women cited Paulo Coelho’s 1988 novel, The Alchemist, and its message of pursuing one’s dreams against the odds.

A post shared by Heather Turman (@heatherturman) on Jan 15, 2018 at 3:10pm PST

It’s unclear exactly when Matarazzo, who starred in “Stuck,” and Turman began dating. But the women have been outspoken about their feelings for each other on social media for much of the past year.

A post shared by heathermatarazzo (@heathermatarazzo) on Jun 11, 2017 at 11:16pm PDT

A post shared by heathermatarazzo (@heathermatarazzo) on Jul 10, 2017 at 2:30pm PDT

AdvertisementKyle Stephens gives her victim impact statement during Larry Nassar's sentencing hearing in a Michigan court on Jan. 16. Scott Olson via Getty Images

Larry Nassar, the disgraced former USA Gymnastics and Michigan State team doctor, listened to more than a dozen of his sexual abuse victims read impact statements in an East Lansing, Michigan, court on Tuesday.

The sentencing hearing began at 9 on Tuesday morning and is set to run through Thursday afternoon. Nassar pleaded guilty to 10 counts of first-degree sexual misconduct in November. According to Michigan state Assistant Attorney General Angela Povilaitis, 98 victims and family members of victims are scheduled to read impact statements over the week.

Many of the sexual abuse survivors who spoke in court on Tuesday had been named anonymously in lawsuits and came out publicly for the first time while making their statements. Almost all of them asked Judge Rosemarie Aquilina to sentence Nassar to a minimum of 40 years and a maximum of 125 years in prison, which is in line with the prosecutor’s request.

The morning started off with a riveting address from Kyle Stephens, a family friend of Nassar’s and the only known victim who was not an athlete or a dancer. Stephens said she was sexually abused by Nassar for years, starting when she was just 6.

“You used my body for six years for your own sexual gratification. That is unforgivable,” Stephens told Nassar.

“Little girls don’t stay little forever. They turn into strong women that return to destroy your world.” - Kyle Stephens, sexual abuse survivor

The young woman said Nassar’s abuse came between her and her parents when she tried to tell them about it. They didn’t believe her for years. Her father killed himself in 2016, Stephens said, after realizing she had not been lying.

“Had he not had to bear the shame and self-loathing that stemmed from his defense of Larry Nassar, he would have had a fighting chance,” she said, referring to her father’s suicide.

Stephens looked directly at Nassar as she concluded on a powerful note: “Little girls don’t stay little forever. They turn into strong women that return to destroy your world.”

"Sexual abuse is so much more than a disturbing physical act. It changes the trajectory of a victim's life and that is something that no one has the right to do," one of Larry Nassar's victims tells court https://t.co/kuNqrRlYMc pic.twitter.com/cJRRIdALwZ — CBS News (@CBSNews) January 16, 2018

Nassar has been accused by 140 women of serial sexual abuse during his past tenures as the team doctor for USA Gymnastics, the doctor for various Michigan State University sports teams and the sports medicine doctor at the Michigan gymnastics training gym Twistars. Of those women, 125 have filed lawsuits against Nassar, USA Gymnastics, MSU and Twistars.

Olivia Cowan, now married and a mother of two young daughters, was visibly emotional as she talked about the after-effects of Nassar’s abuse.

“This case has taken all of me, every ounce of my being, to press forward,” she said, adding later, “I will educate my children about monsters like you and pray to God they will never experience pain like this.”

“This case has taken all of me, every ounce of my being, to press forward.” - Olivia Cowan, sexual abuse survivor

Cowan also addressed MSU and USA Gymnastics, which have been accused of covering up the doctor’s behavior for two decades.

“It’s horrifying that MSU and USA Gymnastics are not stepping up to the plate to admit their wrongdoing. … I want MSU and USAG to know what they have done is on the very same level of accountability as the crime Nassar has committed,” Cowan said with tears streaming down her face. “MSU knew what was being done to these athletes and decided to turn a blind eye to keep their reputation strong and their pockets full. If they would have only taken action upon the first reporting, they would have saved me and all these other women standing before us today.”

The university has denied hiding Nassar’s behavior in any way.

“Any suggestion that the university covered up Nassar’s horrific conduct is simply false,” MSU spokesperson Jason Cody told HuffPost earlier this month. “Nassar preyed on his victims, changing their lives in terrible ways. As [MSU] President Simon has said, MSU is truly sorry for the abuse all victims suffered, the pain it caused, and the pain it still causes.”

Larry Nassar (bottom right) listens to victim impact statements in court on Tuesday, Jan. 16. Scott Olson via Getty Images

Cowan also brought up the news last month that former Olympic gymnast McKayla Maroney was paid by USA Gymnastics to keep quiet about the abuse she endured at the hands of Nassar.

“Shame on you [USA Gymnastics] for looking the other way when this was brought to your attention,” Cowan said. “A public apology after you’ve hid behind this monster for over 20 years will never be enough. Where were you when we needed you? If you would have only listened to the women who brought complaints and concerns over all these years, this would have saved so many children and women from being abused and from all the scars this has created.”

In one of the most moving statements of the day, Donna Markham spoke on behalf of her daughter Chelsea, who was abused by Nassar.

“She never really recovered,” Markham said of her daughter, whom she described as her “best friend.”

“He was supposed to help her heal. But he didn’t do that. He abused her,” Markham told the court. “He had the audacity to do it while I was sitting in the room.”

She went on to reveal why Chelsea wasn’t delivering this impact statement. “She took her own life because she couldn’t deal with the pain anymore,” Markham said. “It will be 10 years in March that I lost my baby. She was 23 years old. … Every day I miss her. Every day. And it all started with him.”

Nassar sits in court on Tuesday with his attorneys. Scott Olson via Getty Images

Judge Aquilina repeated to every victim who spoke that the abuse they’d endured was not their fault.

“You are worthy,” she told survivor Danielle Moore. “This was done to you. It was not done by you.”

The judge assured the 17-year-old Jessica Thomashow that she will heal. “You talk about being broken. He’s going to break while you’re healing and I believe that he will remain broken,” she said.

In another powerful moment, survivor Kate Mahon quoted the writer Jasmin Kaur when she said: “Scream so that one day a hundred years from now, another sister will not have to dry her tears wondering where in history she lost her voice.”

Mahon added that she came forward to speak on the behalf of all survivors of sexual abuse.

“By publicly speaking out against Larry Nassar, I’m not just speaking out for myself,” she said. “I’m speaking out for all the girls and women of the past, present and future that have been or will be affected by sexual assault.”YouTubers Aaron and Austin Rhodes, or “The Rhodes Bros,” established themselves as LGBTQ rights advocates when both came out as gay to their father, Rodney, in an emotional 2015 video.

The video, titled “Twins Come Out To Dad,” is YouTube’s most-watched coming out video of all time, with more than 25 million views. (According to statistics provided by YouTube to HuffPost in October, video blogger Ingrid Nielsen’s coming out video is in second place with over 17 million views.)

To mark the three-year anniversary of their coming out, the 22-year-old twins produced a new video of themselves revisiting the original clip with Rodney Rhodes, who joined his sons via Skype. Though the original video helped put Aaron and Austin Rhodes on the map and landed them roles on the Fox horror comedy series, “Scream Queens,” the Ohio-born brothers said they’ve rarely re-watched it since its release.

The new video, released Sunday, is a poignant trip down memory lane for both father and sons. Rodney Rhodes recalled feeling “a sense of relief” when Aaron and Austin opened up to him, noting, “I made a promise to myself I would never, ever [abandon] my kids.”

“It’s one part of a person. They’re still the same person,” the father said. “I think too many people think [their sexuality] defines them. I don’t agree with that.”

The Rhodes Bros, who now boast more than 716,000 YouTube subscribers, felt similarly. “After that video, all of our relationships just got that much stronger,” Austin said, “and everything changed.”

Meanwhile, Aaron told his father that he hopes to keep the memory of the experience when he establishes his own family.

“I just hope I can a dad like you are to us,” he said.It’s a fact of life: Nice family photos never go viral, as one family in St. Louis recently discovered.

Pam and Dave Zaring hired a photographer to take what they assumed would be lovely family photos.

When they received the final prints, they were shocked because the images had been retouched to the point where the family looked more like Legos or robots rather than their usual selves.

Their 8-year-old son, Connor, couldn’t believe what he was seeing.

“I was thinking, like, ‘What the heck is this?’” he told “Inside Edition.”

Pam Zaring was also shocked ― especially after she paid $250 to a person who claimed to be a professional photographer.

“This is too funny to keep to ourselves,” she told “Inside Edition.”

“We laughed until we cried,” Dave Zaring added.

So the Zaring shared the bizarrely retouched pics with the world via Facebook:

As the Zarings noted in their post, the photographer blamed the botched pics on the fact they were taken on a sunny day, which made for really awful shadows. Also, the photographer claimed her professor never taught her to retouch photos properly.

Pam Zaring said the problems with the photographer began long before they were given the strange-looking pics.

“I passed my furious mark months ago when she wouldn’t send us anything,” she told WTVD-TV. “I was fully prepared to be scammed, money gone, and no final product! So the humor was much easier to find. Trust me, at one point my blood boiled anytime I was asked about the status of our photos!”

However, it seems people prefer the bizarrely botched pics to regular, normal ones: The Zarings’ post has been shared nearly 390,000 times since Saturday.

As for the photographer, the Zarings insists the laughs from the photos were so great that they wouldn’t be asking for a refund.cmannphoto via Getty Images

In Texas, a transgender teenager said his high school discriminated against him for almost two years. He was not allowed to use the bathroom that corresponded with his gender identity. When he traveled overnight with one of the school’s teams, he wasn’t allowed to room with his male peers, he alleged.

But Donald Trump’s Department of Education did not think it could help this student.

The teenager’s case is one of at least three involving transgender students’ experiences navigating school bathrooms or gender-specific sports teams that the Department of Education’s Office for Civil Rights has dismissed in the past several months, with the explanation that these issues do not fall under its jurisdiction, according to documents obtained by HuffPost and a source familiar with the matter.

The Trump administration’s view of these cases diverges sharply from that of the Obama administration, which contended that Title IX ― the federal law that deals with sex discrimination ― included discrimination based on gender identity. The Obama administration issued guidance holding that schools should allow students to use the facilities that align with their gender identity.

But a month into Trump’s presidency, the Department of Justice and Department of Education rescinded this guidance, saying that these issues should be decided at the local level and that the original guidance did not contain enough legal analysis. Since then, it has been unclear how exactly the Office for Civil Rights, or OCR, would handle these cases. An internal OCR memo from June directed employees to still take the complaints of transgender students seriously. It said employees may dismiss complaints related to bathroom issues, but it did not specifically direct them to do so.

In June, The Washington Post reported that the OCR had closed two cases regarding transgender students’ use of facilities. HuffPost is reporting for the first time on the existence of three additional cases in which officials specifically said they were not required to deal with this type of discrimination.

In response to the Texas complaint, the OCR sent a letter citing the rescission of the Obama-era guidance as a reason for dismissing the case. The case also contained other allegations outside of the facilities issue that the OCR dismissed for other reasons.

“OCR determined we do not have subject matter jurisdiction over Allegation 1, insomuch as the alleged discriminatory conduct you described does not raise any prohibitive bases under the civil rights laws OCR enforces,” the OCR’s letter read, per documents obtained by HuffPost.

Advocates for LGBTQ students say that the administration’s behavior is not consistent with a wave of court decisions that have protected the rights of transgender students under Title IX.

“That’s an understanding of Title IX that is inconsistent with a majority of court cases in the last several years,” said Nathan Smith, director of public policy for the GLSEN. “I think what’s important to note is it’s not that the Obama administration came out of the blue to say Title IX now covers transgender students. There’s a wave of court cases from district and circuit courts that have upheld that understanding.”

From January 2017 to January 2018, the Office for Civil Rights received significantly fewer complaints regarding the overall treatment of transgender students than it did from January 2016 to January 2017. The number of complaints filed has dropped about 40 percent, HuffPost has learned through a source familiar with the matter.

Advocates for LGBTQ students say that in the Trump era, transgender students may be more reluctant to file complaints with the Department of Education because they doubt it will help them.

“This is not surprising, but it does seem to me consistent with the idea that students who are facing discrimination, who really are suffering in their ability to get an education, don’t believe that OCR will protect them,” said Harper Jean Tobin, director of policy at the National Center for Transgender Equality.

Complaints do ebb and flow naturally, so it might also be a matter of coincidence that the number complaints for the most recent year have dropped. A spokesperson for the Department of Education did not respond to requests for comment about the number of complaints or the Trump administration’s policy regarding treatment of transgender children.

Previous reporting from Politico confirms that investigators have been working through cases at a faster rate than in the past ― and that there has been a sharp increase in dismissals ― as a result of a directive from Candice Jackson, the acting assistant secretary for civil rights, to reduce the backlog. Indeed, Jackson directed staff members to focus less on systemic issues and more on individual issues, the outlet reported.

Jackson’s days as acting assistant secretary for civil rights are limited. The administration has nominated Kenneth Marcus, current president and general counsel for a nonprofit Jewish advocacy group Louis D. Brandeis Center for Human Rights Under Law, for the post.

In a written questionnaire from Sen. Patty Murray (D-Wash.), the ranking member on education, Marcus did not say whether or not he thinks transgender students should be able to access facilities that are consistent with their gender identity.

“Title IX prohibits discrimination based on sex,” wrote Marcus. “The question as to whether Title IX provides additional protections to transgender students beyond those described above, and the nature and scope of such protections, is currently being litigated.”

LGBTQ advocates say they’re not optimistic that Marcus will work to protect these students.WASHINGTON ― President Donald Trump’s Homeland Security Secretary Kirstjen Nielsen said Tuesday that she doesn’t know if Norway is predominantly white.

Testifying under oath before the Senate Judiciary Committee, Nielsen dodged questions about the president reportedly saying last week, in a White House meeting about immigration, that African countries are a “shithole” and that he preferred that immigrants come from Norway instead. Sen. Patrick Leahy (D-Vt.) pressed Nielsen on the racism driving Trump’s comments, but Nielsen wouldn’t acknowledge it.

“Being from Norway is not a skill,” Leahy said. “What does he mean when he said that?”

“What he was referencing is, from a merit-based perspective, we’d like to have those with skills who can assimilate and contribute to the United States, moving away from country quotas and to an individual merit-based system,” Nielsen replied.

“Norway is a predominantly white country, isn’t it?” continued Leahy.

“I actually do not know that, sir,” Nielsen said, “but I imagine that is the case.”

Here’s a video of their exchange:

LEAHY: "Norway is a predominantly white country, isn't it?"



NIELSEN: "I actually don't know that, sir." (via ABC) pic.twitter.com/SMIFgFe7B3 — Kyle Griffin (@kylegriffin1) January 16, 2018

Norway, of course, is one of the whitest countries in the world. It’s residents are 83 percent Norwegian, who are ethnic North Germanic people, and another 8 percent is European, according to the CIA’s World Factbook.

Sen. Kamala Harris (D-Calif.) questioned Nielsen’s ability to do her job if she doesn’t know the general makeup of other countries.

“When you say you don’t know if Norway is predominantly white when asked by a member of the United States Senate, that causes me concern about your ability to understand the scope of your responsibilities and the impact of your words, much less the policies that you promulgate in that very important department,” said Harris.

Nielsen’s answer is bad either way you cut it. If she did know this but wanted to give cover to Trump, she may have just lied under oath. If she somehow did not know that Scandinavian countries are whiter than a pack of arctic foxes rolling through a snow drift, the head of the Department of Homeland Security is unaware of basic global demographics.Thinkstock

Written by Candace Todd

“I’m just tired.”

When people ask you what’s wrong, that’s what you say.

You say I’m tired.

Like you just didn’t get enough sleep last night. Like maybe if you get a couple extra hours tonight, or rest up this weekend, you’ll be better on Monday.

But deep down, deep beneath all the fake smiles and the jokes you make to lighten the mood, you know that’s not it.

You might be tired, yes, but you know sleep won’t fix it.

Because it’s life you’re tired of. You’re tired of people treating you like you don’t matter. You’re tired of feeling like you have no future. You’re tired of getting lost in your own head, of drowning in the thoughts and self doubts that pester you every second of every day, while you fight to keep your head above the tides.

Those same tides that threaten to wash away the makeup you carefully paint on every day so you look more like a person and less like a hollow shell of who you used to be.

Can’t they see that what you’re really tired of is pretending? How do they not notice that your porcelain smile is chipping more every day, your body armor has dents in it, your face paint is running, and the rivers in your eyes are bursting the dams you so carefully construct so as not to drown everyone around you.

“The funny part is, knowing that others felt this way helped me start to feel more awake.”

So when they ask you, “Are you OK?” you just say “I’m tired.” Because you believe it’s the only way to keep them safe as you self-destruct on the inside, the only way to protect them from the disaster that is you. You believe you have to lie so the ones you love don’t look too close.

But you’re so, so tired.

And that’s OK. If there’s anything I’ve learned, it’s that it’s OK to be tired sometimes. “Normal,” even. And you don’t always have to have a reason. Because sometimes just keeping it together is exhausting.

When you feel like this, it’s important to know you’re not alone. You are not the only one who feels this way. In fact, I think most people would be surprised at the number of people around them who feel the same way. I was. I started reaching out to those around me who often answered with, “I’m tired” and found out they feel a lot like I do.

And the funny part is, knowing that others felt this way helped me start to feel more awake. It’s like we all share this secret code now — when we say “tired,” we really know it means “I’m not OK.” And then we talk, and maybe cry, and sometimes we laugh. And we feel better.

So to all of you out there who feel like being tired is just the way you have to live now, I tell you this: You are all members of a club, and yes, the key to membership is kind of awful. But the plus side is you now have hundreds of allies who fight the same battle you do. You know the code word. Reach out to them. Talk to them. Accept their support. And maybe tomorrow, you won’t feel as tired.

More from The Mighty:As “Grey’s Anatomy” returns from winter hiatus for its 14th season, I’m asking myself questions about its latest Hijabi character. Queen Shonda, please allow me to introduce myself.

It’s been on my mind for some time now! I contemplate Shonda’s deeper messages while stretching in my living room.

I’m a fellow “dark and twisty” sister writing to you in a time of need. What’s my story? I’m an Egyptian-American-Muslim who was born and raised in the USA. My parents immigrated in the early 80s from Cairo, Egypt to the sunny suburbs of Miami, Florida. I was 5 years old when 9/11 occurred. At a time where Olivia Pope and her gladiators didn’t yet exist, the curly haired kindergartner at Gulliver South Miami Gymnastics school became my very own “gladiator in a suit” ― well, it was more of a shiny black gymnastics leotard, but still.

We’re the same, you and I. Growing up, I had never seen someone on television who looked like me on the outside or the inside. I woke up every morning and sat crisscrossed on my living room floor, eating Eggo waffles and watching the screen. But I never found my reflection.

In this post-9/11 world, Muslims were represented on-screen as either ignorant people in need of Western guidance, or terrorists seeking to destroy the world. So, I had to form my very own gladiator advance team.

I was willing to do whatever it took to prove to my teachers and classmates in Miami that this stereotyped part of the world wasn’t so dark and twisty after all. You know better than anyone that gladiators don’t just give up so whether it was teaching the girls how to belly dance in the school bathroom, dressing up as Cleopatra on Halloween year after year, or abstaining from food ― not for a smaller booty, but for Ramadan.

Halloween, 2002. Who needs a polyester costume from Party City when you can wear a made-in-Egypt vintage Cleopatra costume? Although it had funky stains from the '90s, it was iconic to the Amer sisters. It was passed down from my sister who actually wore it for Halloween at the same school, just eight years before. Sarah Amer

No one really understood the complexity of being American, Arab, Muslim, and ― wait for it ― female. There was no nuance to me at school and definitely not on the screen.

Could I blame my classmates? Of course not. This was the image that was imprinted in their minds from every news outlet and almost every movie they watched. So when the opportunity came to be Princess Jasmine at the end-of-year gymnastics show, it was a dream come true. Although my gladiator efforts of bellydancing in the bathroom got me early suspension from school ―according to Gulliver Gymnastics, belly dancing in the bathroom is apparently a fire hazard ― it did convince the administration to rethink the entire show’s theme and change it to “Aladdin.” I would be Jasmine, the Princess of Agrabah, the fictional place loosely based on Arab, South Asian and Middle Eastern culture.

As you said in your recent TV Hall of Fame speech, “You cannot be what you cannot see.” In this world, where Arabs and Muslims were only portrayed as terrorists and suicide bombers, Jasmine was all I could hold onto. As the lights of the auditorium glistened above me, I turned around and danced toward the audience to “Arabian Nights.” I had my own solo to the opening lyrics, “Oh, I come from a land from a faraway place where it’s flat and immense and the heat is intense, it’s barbaric, but hey, it’s home.”

Gulliver South Miami Gymnastics School, 2004

Although “Aladdin” represents the popular imagination of the Middle East ― filled with “street rats” and sandy deserts ― I knew that in this post-9/11 world this film might have never been created at all. I danced with no complaints. It was all I had to work with.

Then, Shonda, you came along and brought with you an array of characters that were well-defined and well-drawn. You were that sprinkle of “bright and shiny” that we all needed. You understood the danger of the single story and you liberated entire groups of people who had been chained by it for so long.

With “Scandal,” you gave the world the fearless Olivia Pope, played by Kerry Washington ― the first black female lead in a network drama in nearly 40 years. Time and time again you showed us that Olivia Pope is not a fantasy: She is reality. Black women today are powerful and successful women who continue to have an everlasting influence on American culture.

A year later, you gave us Viola Davis’s character, Annalise Keating, in “How to Get Away With Murder.” With this show, you moved the needle not only for African Americans but the LGBT community as well.

You fought hard for the LGBT community and created groundbreaking shows with gay or bisexual leads. People freaked out when you revealed in “Grey’s Anatomy” that Dr. Callie Torres was bisexual, but you made it your mission to fight them.

“Same sex marriage is the civil rights fight of our era,” you wrote. “Back when being a person of color was the civil rights fight, people like Norman Lear put black people on TV and helped change some minds.”

Years later you created Scandal’s beloved Cyrus Beene, a white, Republican, gay chief of staff. Today, there are so many shows with female leads, African Americans and LGBTQ characters, but you were Moses, leading the imprisoned bystanders in the back of the scenes to the center of our screens.

From my childhood eating Eggo waffles while watching TV every morning to my young adulthood hosting weekly TGIT gatherings, I continued hoping that one day I would see myself on screen. There’s a reason why I never gave up on you. It’s because you know what it feels like to not be invited to the campfire and given the opportunity to share our stories.

But now ISIS and Donald Trump have hijacked our narrative, becoming the sole writers of our stories.

“The lack of inclusion on television is limiting the imaginations of our country,” you said so eloquently in your TV Hall of Fame speech. “People don’t know or have any knowledge of other people and they don’t see them, and they may have never seen them... So is it any surprise that we’re afraid of one another?”

How is it that in 2015, 30 percent of GOP voters and 19 percent of Democratic voters said they were in favor of bombing Jasmine and Aladdin’s Agrabah, not knowing it was a fictional place?

It took thirteen seasons of “Grey’s Anatomy” to cast a Hijabi-wearing Muslim doctor as an extra walking in the halls of Grey Sloan Memorial. You placed it as a symbol. A subtle reminder of reality of the world we live in.

The Muslim extra.

In this current 14th season you recently introduced a new set of interns to the show, one of whom, Dahlia, is veiled. Why she is wearing a veil? Is it because her father forced her? Will you regurgitate the singular stereotype of the oppressed Muslim woman who needs to be saved? Or is she wearing it on her own terms? Is the veil only one aspect of her complicated and flawed identity which we will finally explore as an audience?

I personally don’t wear the veil but my aunt does. She has two PhDs, and is a practicing doctor. She doesn’t need to be saved ― she’s saving people every day. It’s laughable to think the veil defines her. If you do not explore this symbol that you’ve put on the screen, Shonda, then what you’re doing is tokenizing her.

The Muslim character.

In one of your early interviews about “Grey’s Anatomy,” you said you spent a lot of time thinking about who your characters are by asking yourself, “What’s in their lockers?” You discuss how you knew what was in every single intern’s locker. So here I am Shonda, standing beside the billion accomplished Arabs and Muslims in this world asking you, what’s in this veiled girl’s locker?

Here I am, Shonda, following your advice. I’m not “staring at the sky” or starting sentences with “I want to be” or “I wish.” I’m “ditching the dream and being a do-er.” I’m not going to sit and hashtag #MuslimsLivesMatter or pray every time news of a shooting breaks, “Please don’t let it be a Muslim.” I shouldn’t be made to feel like the deranged terrorist’s face splashed across the news is an extension of myself.

I always thought I wanted to work in news growing up because I felt it was my duty to continue being a “gladiator” in this dark world. I even came to NYU intending to study political science and journalism, but after a few semesters, I ditched that dream and realized what I should really be doing. I created my own concentration and called it storytelling. I want to be a “do-er,” like you preach. I want to be a member of your “dark and twisty” writing rooms. I want to represent me.

It is my dream to join your gladiator advance team so that today’s young children who are sitting in their living room eating Eggos, listening to Donald Trump threatening to ban Muslims from this country, know that every Thursday night they can see switch on the TV and see themselves. And for all the other viewers to see a friend.

I can only say this to you because taking a scalpel and cutting skin-deep into the souls of the misunderstood is the crux of who you are. You’re the queen of television and now that you’ve officially opened the doors of Shondaland to Muslim characters, I believe that you will provide a space for us to exist fully.

Your gladiator advance team has the power to save the world because Shondaland is the golden thread that can bind us all.

Much love from your dark and twisty Muslim sister,