I remember vividly how he methodically drew the shades and turned down the lights; how he cranked up the air-conditioning to what felt like freezing levels, where exactly he placed me on one of the two hotel room beds, what movie he put on the television (Coneheads); how he disappeared in the bathroom and emerged, naked, bearing nothing but a small hand towel held flimsy at his mid-section. I remember what I was wearing (my favorite white denim shorts, thankfully, secured enough for me to keep on). I remember how he laid me down on the bed, wrapped me with his gigantic writhing body, and rubbed all over me. He spoke these words: “You’re not going to sleep on me now sweetie, stop pretending you’re sleeping,” as he rubbed harder and faster against my catatonic body. When he was ‘finished’, he suggested, “I think we should be careful…,” [about telling anyone] he meant.President Donald Trump on Thursday canceled a highly anticipated summit with Kim Jong Un, claiming the North Korean leader had passed up a great opportunity at lasting peace. But experts tell HuffPost it was Kim who provoked Trump to ax the June 12 meeting ― isolating the U.S. from its Asian allies and indefinitely postponing talks of Pyongyang’s denuclearization.

“Kim baited Trump into pulling out of the summit, and Trump took the bait,” said Vipin Narang, a professor of international relations at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.

The Breakdown

The meeting was always a risky endeavor. Trump and Kim spent the better part of 2017 trading insults and threats over North Korea’s aggressive development of nuclear warheads. But on March 8, South Korea’s national security adviser announced from the White House that Trump and Kim had agreed to meet. As discussions over the details of the summit unfolded ― where would it take place, and what exactly would be at stake ― Trump boasted that the development was proof his belligerent stance against Pyongyang could bring the regime to the negotiating table.

But many analysts were unsurprised that a Trump administration short on foreign policy experience wasn’t able to pull it off. “They clearly don’t have the personnel in place and the mindset to accomplish much in these delicate sorts of exchanges,” said Joshua Pollack, a senior research associate with the Middlebury Institute of International Studies at Monterey. “We can’t even reach and stick to trade agreements with close partners.”

Presidents Bill Clinton and George W. Bush spent years trying to reach agreements with North Korea to curtail its nuclear and missile programs, but the talks proved fraught with complications. North Korean diplomats are experts in sending mixed signals, often suggesting a willingness to compromise before reversing tack. During negotiations with the Trump administration, North Korea announced it would not agree to a summit if the U.S. insisted on denuclearization, the major focus of the talks. Just this week, North Korea proudly announced it would destroy a nuclear test site, but at the same time reportedly put off the Trump administration’s questions about arrangements for the summit.

“I’m not at all surprised the whole thing blew up,” said Van Jackson, a North Korea expert at the Victoria University of Wellington. “The structure of the situation and the basic conflict of interests had not changed at all from last year.”

As more and more fractures emerged in the lead-up to June 12, it became clear Trump wouldn’t get the easy public relations victory he’d envisioned.

“This was never taken seriously as an arms control negotiation, it was only taken seriously as a stage show to make Donald Trump look big and powerful,” said Stephen Schwartz, an independent nuclear policy consultant. “I felt that as things drew closer and Trump realized like he wasn’t going to get the grand submission with Kim on his knees, that things were not going to go well.”

Bruised egos were at least partly at the core of the summit’s collapse, said Jeff Lewis, the director of the East Asia nonproliferation program at the Middlebury Institute.

“North Korea did the one thing Trump couldn’t handle: humiliate him. I think Trump was prepared to swallow the idea of Kim keeping his nuclear arsenal, but he is not prepared to swallow his pride,” Lewis said. “Trump is the one who’s going to take the blame for this.”

The Risks

Trump’s haphazard attempt at a deal, followed by his abrupt exit, may have far-reaching consequences, analysts fear. The lead-up to the summit provided Kim with an opportunity to reduce tensions and sanctions, and its breakdown brought North Korea the added benefit of creating a rift between the U.S. and its Asian allies.

“I felt that as things drew closer and Trump realized like he wasn’t going to get the grand submission with Kim on his knees, that things were not going to go well.” - Stephen Schwartz, nuclear policy consultant

“Kim also wanted to drive a wedge between the U.S. and South Korea, the U.S. and Japan, the U.S. and China, and he’s done that,” Schwartz said. “Donald Trump fell right into it, and he has no one to blame but himself.”

Thursday’s news was devastating to Seoul, which appeared blindsided by the announcement. South Korean President Moon Jae-in has been performing diplomatic gymnastics behind the scenes to minimize the possibility of a military confrontation on the Korean Peninsula.

At the same time, the cancellation eases pressure on China, North Korea’s closest ally and trading partner. For months, the U.S. had strong-armed Beijing to pressure Kim’s regime into denuclearization. It’s unlikely the Chinese will once again be willing to ratchet up the pressure after the negotiations provided a softening of relations.

“The maximum pressure campaign is broke,” Pollack said. “It’s over.”

What’s Next

It’s unclear how international negotiations with North Korea will unfold following Trump’s decision. Experts worry the U.S. may find itself diplomatically isolated, with few options to limit Pyongyang’s nuclear program through sanctions or negotiations. At the same time, Trump’s new national security adviser, John Bolton, has made it clear he wants to keep military options open.

“If North Korea starts testing missiles or nuclear weapons again, then we’re back to 2017 or worse, and we now have a national security adviser that’s gone on the record talking about a first strike of North Korea. We could be in a very different world,” Narang said.

Jackson also fears that tensions between Washington and Pyongyang could flare up to dangerous levels yet again.

“With no summit in the offing, the preventive war narrative is likely to make a comeback,” he said. “Dangerous times ahead.”Famous people can receive bizarre texts from their parents, too!

Ahead of Mother’s Day on Sunday, Jimmy Kimmel on Thursday night asked celebrities to read aloud the weird messages their moms have sent them.

Anna Faris, Ike Barinholtz, Jack McBrayer, Adam Scott, Kristen Bell, Tony Hale, Patton Oswalt, Will Forte, YG and Anthony Anderson each had a go in the comedy bit.

But can you guess whose mother messages solely using emojis?Demonstrators hold up Haitian flags and shout as President Donald Trump's motorcade passes in West Palm Beach, Florida, on Jan. 15, 2018. Kevin Lamarque / Reuters

Members of the Haitian community in South Florida gathered Monday to protest President Donald Trump’s comments about immigrants from “shithole” countries.

Trump opted to spend Martin Luther King Jr. Day at his golf resort in West Palm Beach. Hundreds of protesters responded to news he’d be in town with a march across a bridge connecting Palm Beach to West Palm Beach. The group carried signs demanding an apology from the president for his disparaging remarks last week.

“If Dr. Martin Luther King were alive today, he’d be here marching with us,” James Leger, a radio show host and one of the protest organizers, told the Sun Sentinel. “We’re going to pray for America and pray for President Trump. People make mistakes. We’re not asking for impeachment. We just want an apology.”

Across the street from the protesters, a group of Trump supporters also gathered to cheer the president’s passing motorcade.

In an Oval Office meeting with lawmakers Thursday, Trump reportedly described Haiti and African nations as “shithole” countries and slammed the idea of restoring protections for immigrants from those places.

“Why are we having all these people from shithole countries come here?” the president said, according to The Washington Post. Trump reportedly then suggested the U.S. should welcome more immigrants from countries like Norway.

Sen. Dick Durbin (D-Ill.), who was at the White House meeting, later confirmed Trump made the comments. Trump has denied he “said anything derogatory about Haitians.”

In November, the Trump administration announced a July 2019 date to end a special status given to about 59,000 Haitian immigrants who were affected by a devastating 2010 earthquake. The decision gives the impacted Haitians 18 months to return to their home country or legalize their status in the U.S., likely putting tens of thousands at risk of deportation.Jonathan Ernst / Reuters

Now that the president of the United States appears to have become unhinged to the point of personal despair, everyone appears to be lining up to be the first one jumping from the train. Where and when the Trump Express will run off the rails nobody yet knows, but preparing for the inevitable wreck has become something of a cottage industry both within and without the media world which encircles Trump.

You may recall that during the 2016 campaign it was Republicans, not Democrats, who tried to stop Trump. The Democrats, stupidly, figured that the New York landlord would be the easiest candidate to defeat; there were many within the establishment circle of the GOP who felt the same way. This latter group fell by the wayside after the election results rolled in; now they have been revived thanks to the craziness of Trump himself.

Chief among GOPers who believe that Trump’s worst enemy is himself is a political operative named Rick Wilson who has carved out a neat niche for himself as a Republican political consultant loudly opposed to Trump’s craziness since at least 2015. And now that the Republican media has to at least pretend to be somewhat concerned about Trump’s possible demise, Wilson has begun popping up here and there, giving a dose of invective not to Democratic supporters, but to pundits and influencers on the red-state side.

But whatever Wilson does to burnish his credentials within the anti-Trump, pro-GOP camp, it doesn’t prevent him from taking on the real opposition which in this case is a woman who happens to be loudly and publicly disgusted with the GOP. And the reason our friend Shannon Watts doesn’t find anything positive to say about the party of Lincoln is because she happens to run an organization – Moms Demand Action for Gun Sense - which has become a pain in the neck for one of the linchpins of Republican support, namely, the NRA. Until Shannon came along and stirred things up, the boys from Fairfax had the legislative playing field all to themselves, and while red-state Congressional toadies are still in a position to block meaningful gun laws at the federal level, Shannon and her Moms have won some significant victories in various blue and even red states.

Last week Shannon sent out a tweet that listed a group of conservative pundits who have taken anti-NRA positions during the Age of Trump. The list didn’t include Rick Wilson, which must have really pissed him off. After all, he’s gone out of his way to create an image of himself as a good conservative, so why not group him with people like Bill Kristol, Jennifer Rubin and David Frum? Wilson went after Shannon back in September and then went after her again the other day. He seems mortally offended that anyone would question his anti-Trump creds just because he supports the NRA.

Want to know how and why this paragon of conservative virtue pimps for the NRA? Back in 2015 Wilson was given an opportunity to spiel about gun politics on the talking-heads video show hosted by Cam Edwards for the NRA. When he was asked why Democrats were going to have a problem if they supported a gun violence prevention (GVP) strategy, he accused the GVP of wanting to “disarm America,” and “trying to demonize folks who own guns.” It goes without saying, according to Wilson, that the gun-grabbers also want to “eliminate a fundamental Constitutional right.” And what’s behind this entire nefarious effort to make America a gun-free zone? None other than Mike Bloomberg whose uses his money to promote “massively intrusive federal gun laws.”Hall of Fame umpire Doug Harvey died on Saturday at the age of 87, the Hall announced.

One of just 10 umpires enshrined in Cooperstown, Harvey worked the National League for 31 years, 18 of those as a crew chief.

Adam Fenster / Reuters

The Hall said he had been in hospice care recently in Visalia, Calif. and had died of natural causes.

From 1962 through 1992, Harvey worked five World Series and 4,673 games during the regular season.

“You always respected him because he came out to his job and (did it) with a lot of class,” former manager Joe Torre once said of Harvey. “He was very consistent, and that’s the highest compliment you can pay anybody.”

Torre was the first player ejected by Harvey during the umpire’s rookie season in 1962.

AdvertisementDrew Angerer via Getty Images

I am a Cuban refugee who arrived in the United States at the age of 11, shortly after the Castro revolution. My parents sacrificed everything to flee a regime they wanted no part of, whose economics and ideology they distrusted. America welcomed us with open arms.

Because of the machinations of Cold War politics, we were given asylum, green cards and a path to citizenship. My parents were not educated people – my father was an auto mechanic and my mother a homemaker – but they used every possible means to impress upon my sister and me the importance of education to get ahead in our new homeland.

My father would make his point by holding his hands up in front of me. The hands of a mechanic who has worked on engines for more than 40 years have a very distinctive look. Forty years of getting burned on hot engines, cut with fan belts, soaked in grease and gasoline, and being exposed to countless harsh conditions turned my father’s hands into vivid reminders that he was a man who did hard labor. He would say, “Look, Gera, look at my hands. I want you to get an education so that when you’re my age your hands don’t look like mine.”

I did attain a college education. In fact, I became an academic and in 2000 reached the pinnacle of my academic career. I was named dean of the School of Education at Indiana University, one of America’s premier educational institutions. Along the way I made many contributions to my profession and society. Among them, as a college student, the first in my family, I founded Boost Alcohol Consciousness Concerning the Health of University Students (BACCHUS), which became America’s leading collegiate organization for preventing alcohol abuse. When I left the organization in 1986 to pursue other academic interests, I received a letter from then-president Ronald Reagan that in part read, “Nancy and I are proud of the work you have done to help make a safe and healthy tomorrow for our nation’s young people. That’s a fine contribution to your adopted homeland.”

I sat in my office and read and reread President Reagan’s words: “your adopted homeland.” The president of the United States. I was overwhelmed. The president — the man in the White House — wrote those words. His words confirmed that for poor people and immigrants like me, education was the key to success. Without a college education, I could never have accomplished what I’d done.

President Reagan inspired me to do for other young people what the United States had done for me. Speaking to a special assembly for Hispanic and Latino high school students in Frankfort, Indiana, I shared my immigrant’s story and my struggles to learn the language in American schools. The students listened intently. I stressed the importance of studying hard and preparing for college. When I finished, a student remained in her seat crying. I asked her “What’s the matter, why are you crying?”

She said, “Because everything you said is true.” She continued, “I want to go to college, and I know it’s important, but I can’t.” I asked her why. She replied, “Because I’m undocumented. I’m afraid that if I apply to college immigration will come to take my parents away.”

I was dumbfounded. Nothing I could say would have alleviated that girl’s fears of losing her parents because of something she might do. It was hard to leave that school, knowing a motivated and talented student would be denied an education and thus the opportunity to achieve the American dream.

The plight of immigrants, especially Hispanic and Latino immigrants, is one of our nation’s greatest tragedies. For many years, the U.S. Congress tried but failed to pass various versions of the DREAM Act — Development, Relief and Education for Alien Minors — designed to protect from deportation young immigrants brought to the country illegally by their parents. Frustrated by Congress’s failures, in 2012 then president Barack Obama signed an executive order creating the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program. DACA allowed illegal immigrants who entered the country as minors, had not committed serious crimes, and met certain other conditions to receive a renewable two-year permit deferring them from deportation and making them eligible for work permits. Nearly 800,000 so-called “Dreamers” signed-up for the program. But on September 5, 2017, President Donald Trump ordered an end to the program and gave Congress a six-month deadline to pass legislation to come up with a replacement.Carlos Barria / Reuters

In disparaging desperately poor countries whose “wretched refuse,” in poet Emma Lazarus’s eloquent lyric, seek refuge on our shores, Donald Trump urged America to seek more immigration of the “best and the brightest,” specifically mentioning Norway.

The problem, of course, is that few Norwegians want to come. In fiscal year 2016, exactly 362 Norwegians become permanent legal residents of the United States. Short of kidnapping Norwegians and using extreme rendition to coerce them to enter our shores, there is no way to increase Norwegian immigration.

And why should they come? Norway has full employment, a competitive private economy, one of the world’s most comprehensive welfare states, paid parental leave of a year after a child is born, universal health insurance, and free higher education. Its life expectancy far exceeds ours, its GDP per capita is $70,912, compared to $57,638 in the U.S. Citizen satisfaction surveys rate Norway as the world’s happiest country. And this was the case before they struck oil.

The place is pristine and almost crime-free. Indeed, from the perspective of Norway, it is America that looks like kind of a dritt hull – that’s Norwegian for shit-hole.

I wish I could end this piece right here. All the U.S. needs is to become a successful social democracy, like Norway, and all would be well, right?

Alas, we surely need Norway’s economic policies ― but the challenges do not end there. Because Norway, like the U.S., is currently facing a serious backlash against immigration.

Not surprisingly, people don’t want to leave Norway. People want to come to Norway.

The Norwegians are a tolerant people. In World War II, occupied by the Nazis, they mounted relentless guerilla operations against the Germans. They rescued Jews.

In their generosity, the Norwegians, who have a homogenous nation of just 5.3 million people, have one of the world’s highest rates of immigration relative to population. About 14 percent of the population is foreign-born. In the U.S., long accustomed to assimilating immigrants, the figure is 13 percent.

Migration to Norway, especially the 49 percent of migrants who come from outside Europe, has produced backlash. Norway, whose usual government was Labour-led for most of the postwar era, today is governed by a conservative coalition which includes members of the right-wing populist Progress Party.

As a condition of joining the coalition, the party demanded a much tougher policy on admitting refugees. In 2015, Sylvi Listhaug of the Progress Party was named Norway’s first minister of immigration, and has supervised the crackdown.

So while neighboring Sweden admitted 160,000 refugees in 2016, Norway took in just 30,000. And this year that has been cut to just 2,000.

Meanwhile, support for the Progress Party held steady at more than 16 percent of the vote in last September’s elections, some of it at the expense of the Labour Party, which is more open-minded on refugees and immigrants.

In Sweden, which has maintained a more open policy on refugees, the Social Democratic party governs in a weak, three-party coalition, and its stance on migrants has driven some of its historic working class base into the arms of ultra-nationalist populists. In Denmark, the Social Democratic Party, now in opposition, has suffered a similar fate and now takes a much harder line on immigrants.

What’s the takeaway? Though Trump’s language and plain racism were disgusting, even in the world’s most tolerant countries there is an anti-immigrant backlash.

Reconciling a strong democracy and a resilient economy with a socially tolerable level of immigration is tricky. It is even harder when the president is a crude, racist demagogue like Donald Trump, but not easy even with the most enlightened leadership.

Robert Kuttner is co-editor of The American Prospect and professor at Brandeis University’s Heller School. His forthcoming book is “Can Democracy Survive Global Capitalism?”

Like Robert Kuttner on Facebook: http://facebook.com/RobertKuttnerTORONTO, Jan 15 (Reuters) - An alleged attack on an 11-year-old girl wearing a hijab as she walked to school did not happen, Toronto Police said on Monday.

Police had been investigating the incident as a hate crime after the girl said that a man wielding a pair of scissors cut her hijab as she walked to school with her brother on Friday morning.

By Monday police concluded that no crime had occurred.

“We put together a lot of evidence, we considered the evidence and came to the conclusion that what was described did not happen,” Toronto police spokesman Mark Pugash told Reuters, adding that the investigation is over.

The girl’s family could not immediately be reached for comment.

Staff at the girl’s school made the call to police on Friday, “as they would in any other case,” Toronto District School Board spokesman Ryan Bird wrote in an email. “We are very thankful that this assault did not happen.”

Monday’s revelation comes amid heightened pressure on Canadian governments to combat anti-Muslim sentiment as the first anniversary of a fatal mosque shooting approaches.

Researchers have documented an increase in far-right extremist activity in Canada, much of it targeting Muslims.

A survey conducted last year by Ontario’s Human Rights Commission found that more people reported harboring “very negative” feelings about Muslims than about any other group.

“All of us are deeply worried about the fallout of all of this,” writer and human rights advocate Amira Elghawaby said, adding that the girl’s false claim could make people less likely to come forward if they’re the target of hate crimes, or less likely to be believed when they do.

“The biggest concern is that this would cause those who already hold hateful views of Muslims to use it as an ‘aha’ moment,” she said.

On Jan. 29 last year six people were shot to death at a Quebec City mosque. A French-Canadian university student has been charged with murder in what Prime Minister Justin Trudeau called a “terrorist attack.”

The National Council of Canadian Muslims has called on Canadian governments to declare the day of the mosque shooting a day of remembrance and action on Islamophobia.

Quebec Premier Philippe Couillard on Monday said he opposed such a designation. Trudeau has not said whether he would support it.Pogonici

Six years ago, I was diagnosed with cancer. I had just finished graduate school three weeks earlier and was preparing to join the Peace Corps when life took an unexpected turn.

During a routine physical I told my doctor about minor knee pain and swelling around the joint. I was otherwise healthy and didn’t think much about it but my doctor suggested I get an MRI to be safe, and I soon got the news that would change everything. I was diagnosed with an aggressive but relatively early-stage tumor in my femur. My life flashed before my eyes. This was my first experience with a serious medical condition and I had hundreds of questions.

Months earlier, realizing I would have a nine-month gap in my health insurance coverage before starting my job, I enrolled in health insurance under my parents’ plan because of a provision in the Affordable Care Act (ACA). As a healthy 25-year-old, a short nine months without health insurance didn’t seem like a big deal. In fact, the small risk I thought I was taking seemed worthwhile if it meant I could save money in the short term. But my parents prevailed on me and convinced me to get insurance. Never could I have imagined that it would save my life. As the current annual open enrollment period comes to an end, I reflect on how one seemingly inconsequential decision not only saved my life and allowed me to afford the quality health care I desperately needed, but also how it set me on a new path to help others understand the importance of getting health insurance. My life depended on it and I know countless others across the country face similar situations every day.

After a year of chemotherapy, five surgeries, a knee replacement, and relearning how to walk, my team of doctors declared me cancer-free! While the physical treatment was over, my experience left a lasting effect that set me on a new path to help people like me understand why getting health insurance is both easy and one of the most consequential decisions you’ll make. Rather than head to the Peace Corps as originally planned, I channeled my passion for helping others into a new job with the New York City Public Engagement Unit, an innovative government initiative that conducts targeted outreach and provides personalized assistance to help ensure all New Yorkers get covered and receive access to the quality care they deserve.

With President Trump creating confusion about the law and attempting to prevent people from getting the coverage they deserve, it is especially important for local governments to fill the void and lead the effort to protect their communities. Formed by Mayor de Blasio, the Public Engagement Unit oversees GetCoveredNYC, which proactively knocks on doors, calls homes, and works in local communities, including the neighborhood where I live in Brooklyn, to help people sign up for health insurance. We are meeting New Yorkers where they are. I get to help my community and neighbors through every step of the process of getting insurance and getting the care they deserve and need – the same care that helped me survive cancer. Even with everything I’ve been through, I never could have imagined just how rewarding this experience would be.

During the current open enrollment period, which began on November 1 and runs through January 31, 2018 for New York, GetCoveredNYC has been taking calls nonstop to schedule appointments for insurance enrollment and we’re seeing lines at office hours and community events to sign up. Many of the people I enroll are healthy and with their new insurance they can regularly access preventative care. But I’ve also helped people with any number of medical issues, ranging from diabetes and depression to cancer patients like I was several years ago. Too often I meet New Yorkers who don’t know about their options under the ACA, let alone that they’re eligible for low- or no-cost health insurance. I know better than most that the purposely misleading rhetoric out of Washington is flat out dangerous, which is why I’m so encouraged by the high enrollment numbers in New York and across the country.

My story is but one of millions across the country. Sadly it is not unique there are many people with similar circumstances who fare far worse than I did because of one crucial difference: health insurance. But for my health insurance, I would not have had access to a routine screening, I would not have been able to afford the MRI, and I can only imagine that my story would have played out far differently. It’s often too easy to get caught up in ongoing debate about the ACA and lose focus on the lifesaving impact this law has on people across the country. People just like me who face a new reality at the blink of an eye. People just like me who would otherwise be unable to manage the severe financial burden that’s unfortunately part and parcel of a cancer diagnosis. Over 20 million people across the country receive health care through one of the ACA’s provisions but millions more are eligible and can enroll in coverage, many times at little or no cost.Actress Penelope Cruz and photographer Mario Testino pose during a photo call before a screening of "Zoolander 2" in Madrid, Spain, February 1, 2016. Sergio Perez / Reuters

Publisher Condé Nast will no longer be working with two of the fashion world’s most prominent photographers, Bruce Weber and Mario Testino, following allegations of sexual exploitation.

In a piece published on Saturday, more than two dozen current and former male models who worked with Weber or Testino recounted unwanted sexual advances to The New York Times. The alleged incidents, some of which were said to have occurred as far back as the mid-1990s, involved nudity, inappropriate touching, masturbation and other sexual demands.

“I saw him with his hands down people’s pants at least 10 times,” said Thomas Hargreave, a shoot producer who once worked with Testino.

“We are deeply disturbed by these accusations and take this very seriously,” Anna Wintour, artistic director of Condé Nast and editor of Vogue, and Robert A. Sauerberg Jr., chief executive of Condé Nast, said in a statement. “In light of these allegations, we will not be commissioning any new work with Bruce Weber and Mario Testino for the foreseeable future.”

Wintour, in a separate statement, acknowledged that the stories have been “heartbreaking” for her.

“Both are personal friends of mine who have made extraordinary contributions to Vogue and many other titles at Condé Nast over the years, and both have issued objections or denials to what has emerged,” she wrote. “I believe strongly in the value of remorse and forgiveness, but I take the allegations very seriously.”

Weber denied any wrongdoing, while Testino’s lawyers disputed some of the accounts included in the Times piece and questioned the credibility of the accusers.

Brands, including Stuart Weitzman, Michael Kors and Burberry also announced their own plans to cease relationships with both photographers over the weekend.

Condé Nast released a new set of protocols Saturday in an effort to provide safer work environments and prevent sexual harassment. These include setting the minimum age for models to 18, the prohibition of drugs and alcohol on sets and the advance approval of any shoot involving nudity, sheer clothing, lingerie, swimwear, simulated drug or alcohol use or sexually suggestive poses. The company added that it plans to release a complete code of conduct by the end of January.President Donald Trump insisted Sunday night that he was not a racist, after days of people pointing out that his recent comments on immigration were racist.

Trump reportedly called Haiti and multiple African nations “shithole” countries on Thursday during an Oval Office meeting with lawmakers. The president slammed the idea of restoring certain protections for immigrants from such regions and asked why the United States didn’t take in more immigrants from countries such as Norway.

Politicians, reporters, celebrities and activists quickly condemned Trump’s remarks and called the president a racist. On Sunday, he fought back against that criticism while speaking with the White House press pool at the Trump International Golf Club in West Palm Beach, Florida.

“No, I’m not a racist. I’m the least racist person you will ever interview,” Trump told the reporters.

“No, I’m not a racist. Least racist person”. @realDonaldTrump tonight to WH pool in comments as he entered dinner. — Kelly O'Donnell (@KellyO) January 15, 2018

Although Trump has also denied making the “shithole” comment, Sen. Dick Durbin (D-Ill.) said on Friday that the president not only made the remark, but said “hate-filled things” repeatedly. Sen. David Perdue (R-Ga.) gave a conflicting account on ABC’s “This Week” on Sunday, claiming the president did not use that “vulgarity” to describe Haiti and African countries.

Most Republican lawmakers remained relatively silent on the matter over the weekend. House Speaker Paul Ryan (R-Wis.) said Friday that the president’s words were “very unfortunate” and “unhelpful.”

On NBC’s “Meet the Press” on Sunday, Sen. Rand Paul (R-Ky.) characterized the backlash as “unfair” to Trump and said that no one should “draw conclusions that he [Trump] didn’t intend.”“May our memory of Dr. King buoy our hope for unity, greatness, [and] ‘charity for all,’” the former Republican presidential candidate added.

The poverty of an aspiring immigrant’s nation of origin is as irrelevant as their race. The sentiment attributed to POTUS is inconsistent w/ America’s history and antithetical to American values. May our memory of Dr. King buoy our hope for unity, greatness, & “charity for all.” — Mitt Romney (@MittRomney) January 15, 2018

Romney’s criticism of Trump on Monday comes amid reports that the former Massachusetts governor is considering a run for Utah’s Senate seat.

Last Thursday, Trump had disparagingly referred to Haiti and African countries as “shithole countries” while discussing immigration reform with lawmakers at the White House, according to various reports.

The president has since denied that he used those exact words. He told reporters on Sunday night that he is “the least racist person you have ever interviewed.”

Former Massachusetts Gov. Mitt Romney (R) has said President Donald Trump's reported comments about Haitians and African countries are "antithetical to American values." Lucas Jackson/Reuters

Sen. Dick Durbin (D-Ill.), who was in the room during Thursday’s White House meeting, has backed the reports about Trump’s comments, stating that Trump said “these hate-filled things and he said them repeatedly.”

Sen. Tim Scott. (R-S.C.), who did not attend the meeting, said that Sen. Lindsey Graham (R-S.C.) told him that media reports on Trump’s comments were “basically accurate.”

Graham has declined to confirm Trump’s exact words publicly. He told the Post and Courier on Monday: “My memory hasn’t evolved. I know what was said and I know what I said.”

Meanwhile, Republican Sens. Tom Cotton (R-Ark.) and David Perdue (R-Ga.), who also attended the meeting, have said that they don’t recall hearing Trump “saying these comments specifically.”

Romney has been an outspoken critic of Trump, though Trump reportedly considered him as a potential candidate for secretary of state in 2016.

Former Massachusetts Gov. Mitt Romney (R) shakes hands with then President-elect Donald Trump following a meeting in New Jersey in 2016. Mike Segar/Reuters

Most recently, Romney urged Roy Moore ― the Republican candidate in Alabama’s Senate race whom Trump ultimately backed ― to step aside following accusations that Moore had sexually assaulted and pursued underage girls.

Romney also spoke out against Trump’s presidential ambitions in 2016, at one point calling the then-presidential candidate a “phony” and “a fraud” whose “promises are as worthless as a degree from Trump University.”

He also criticized the president for lacing “his public speeches with vulgarity.”Actress Ali Wentworth knows she bears a striking similarity to porn star Stormy Daniels.

So much so that many people believed it was Wentworth playing the role of President Donald Trump’s alleged former lover on last weekend’s broadcast of “Saturday Night Live,” Wentworth revealed on Thursday’s “Late Night.”

“But look at me from the neck up,” she joked to host Seth Meyers.

“I never really read comments on social media, but I was looking at Twitter and there are all these Twitter people saying, ‘Oh my God, I thought that was Ali playing Stormy Daniels on SNL,’ and I thought I can’t tell if that’s a compliment or not,” Wentworth continued.

“Then I was looking at pictures of her, she’s an attractive woman, and then I started thinking, ‘What would it be like to do porn?’” she jokingly added.

Check out the interview above, and the real Daniels’ appearance on “SNL” here:Former Secretary of Defense Chuck Hagel, pictured in January 2015, called President Donald Trump "an embarrassment" in a recent interview. Larry Downing/Reuters

The president is “doing great damage to our country internationally,” said Hagel, a former two-term Republican senator from Nebraska.

“He’s an embarrassment,” Hagel added, reacting specifically to comments Trump reportedly made last week in a closed-door meeting about Haiti, El Salvador and nations in Africa being “shithole” countries.

Hagel, who served as defense secretary under President Barack Obama, also criticized the way Trump has handled relationships with foreign allies and antagonists alike.

Trump’s decision to pull the U.S. out of the Trans-Pacific Partnership trade agreement, for instance, did “significant damage” to America’s influence in Asia, Hagel said. Referring to Trump’s taunting tweet about North Korean leader Kim Jong Un’s “nuclear button” being smaller than his own, Hagel said Trump was spouting “irresponsible kind of talk.”

Hagel has criticized Trump’s leadership before. Last May, he said Trump didn’t understand governing and needed to “listen and learn” but was “doing just the opposite.”

“I hope he will take a different tack soon, before it’s too late, before he loses the credibility and the confidence to govern,” he told the Omaha World-Herald.

Months later, Hagel, a decorated Vietnam War veteran, said he was “offended” by Trump’s handling of a call to a widow of a soldier killed in Niger and the president’s accusations that Obama had not called the families of fallen soldiers when he was in office.Jonathan Bachman/Reuters

Roughly two-thirds of Trump voters now view Bannon unfavorably, with just 13 percent still viewing him favorably, the poll finds.

Bannon’s ignominy among members of the president’s base is a relatively new development. Even after his ouster from the White House, 38 percent of Trump voters viewed the former top adviser positively and only 26 percent held a negative view of him, according to a survey taken last August

But Bannon’s remaining ties to Trump were strained in January, after he was quoted describing a meeting between the president’s son Donald Trump Jr., son-in-law Jared Kushner, other Trump associates and Russian operatives as “treasonous” and “bad shit.”

“Steve Bannon has nothing to do with me or my Presidency,” Trump said in an official statement after Bannon’s comments were made public. “When he was fired, he not only lost his job, he lost his mind.”

Asked whether they side more with Trump or Bannon, 66 percent of Trump voters say they back the president, with just 1 percent siding with Bannon. Another 21 percent don’t agree with either, with the remainder unsure.

Trump voters now say by a 69-point margin that Trump made the right decision in firing Bannon last year, up from a 42-point margin in a separate August poll. Half of Trump voters currently say that Bannon’s exit from the White House was a good thing for the country.

About one-third of Trump voters say they read Breitbart News either sometimes or regularly. Among those who do, 23 percent view Bannon favorably, compared to just 9 percent of those who read Breitbart rarely or never. But that doesn’t mean they’re in his camp against the president: Seventy-eight percent of the Breitbart readers say they’re on Trump’s side, and just 2 percent that they’re on Bannon’s.

Among those who voted for Democratic presidential nominee Hillary Clinton, Bannon’s reputation is even worse, with about three-quarters viewing him unfavorably and more than 60 percent saying that Bannon’s departure from the White House was a good thing for the country. However, Clinton voters are still more likely to side with Bannon than with Trump. A 46 percent plurality of nonvoters and third-party voters say they don’t have an opinion of Bannon.

Use the widget below to further explore the results of the HuffPost/YouGov survey, using the menu at the top to select survey questions and the buttons at the bottom to filter the data by subgroups:

The HuffPost/YouGov poll consisted of 1,000 completed interviews conducted Jan. 9-10 among U.S. adults, using a sample selected from YouGov’s opt-in online panel to match the demographics and other characteristics of the adult U.S. population.

HuffPost has teamed up with YouGov to conduct daily opinion polls. You can learn more about this project and take part in YouGov’s nationally representative opinion polling. More details on the polls’ methodology are available here.Bernice King says those honoring her father on Martin Luther King Jr. Day should also remember another incredibly important figure in the civil rights movement: her mother, Coretta Scott King.

“Without #CorettaScottKing, there would be no #MLKDay,” Bernice tweeted Monday.

As you honor my father today, please remember and honor my mother, as well. She was the architect of the King Legacy and founder of @TheKingCenter, which she founded two months after Daddy died. Without #CorettaScottKing, there would be no #MLKDay. #MLK50Forward #MLK pic.twitter.com/qhwSnX9Qmh — Be A King (@BerniceKing) January 15, 2018

Martin Luther King Jr. may be the United States’ most well-known civil rights activist of all time, but there’s no denying that his wife was a hero in her own right.

Scott King, born and raised in Marion, Alabama, graduated from high school as valedictorian in 1945. She had been studying singing at the New England Conservatory of Music in Boston when she met her future husband in the early 1950s.

After the two were married in 1953, they moved to Montgomery, Alabama, and had four children. Scott King devoted much of her time to raising their children during King’s career as a pastor and activist, though she would often speak about civil rights at churches, colleges and other organizations.

Two months after her husband was assassinated in 1968, Scott King founded The Martin Luther King Jr. Center for Nonviolent Social Change, a 23-acre national historic park in Atlanta that includes King’s birthplace and hosts over 1 million visitors a year, according to the center’s website.

“We have a lot more work to do in our common struggle against bigotry and discrimination.” - Coretta King Scott

After fighting to make her husband’s birthday a federal holiday for nearly two decades, Scott King oversaw the first nationally observed Martin Luther King Jr. Day on Jan. 20, 1986.

“This holiday honors the courage of a man who endured harassment, threats and beatings, and even bombings,” she wrote in an essay for The King Center. “We commemorate the man who went to jail 29 times to achieve freedom for others, and who knew he would pay the ultimate price for his leadership, but kept on marching and protesting and organizing anyway.”

Scott King continued to make history throughout her life. She was the first woman to deliver the annual Class Day address at Harvard University and the first woman to preach at a worship service at St. Paul’s Cathedral in London. During her remarkable life, she received over 60 honorary doctorates and helped found dozens of organizations dedicated to advancing human rights. She was a leader in the women’s movement and a fierce defender of LGBTQ rights.

“We have a lot more work to do in our common struggle against bigotry and discrimination,” she said in a speech during the National LGBTQ Task Force conference in Atlanta in 2000. “I say ‘common struggle’ because I believe very strongly that all forms of bigotry and discrimination are equally wrong and should be opposed by right-thinking Americans everywhere.”

Bettmann via Getty Images

In March 1986, Scott King wrote a letter to Congress urging lawmakers to block the federal judgeship nomination of Jeff Sessions, who was then a U.S. attorney.

“Mr. Sessions has used the awesome powers of his office in a shabby attempt to intimidate and frighten elderly black voters,” she wrote. “For this reprehensible conduct, he should not be rewarded with a federal judgeship.”

Scott King accused the Alabama Republican of pursuing “politically-motivated voting fraud prosecutions” and blasted him for prosecuting civil rights leaders. Allegations of racism against Sessions, including those Scott King mentioned in her letter, led the Senate to kill his nomination.

The letter came back to haunt Sessions in February 2017, when Sen. Elizabeth Warren (D-Mass.) read it aloud on the Senate floor during his nomination hearing, but Sessions still became attorney general.In 2016, after reading through “Harry Potter And The Half-Blood Prince,” a few filmmakers began crowdfunding the fan film “Voldemort: Origins Of The Heir,” which follows Voldemort’s path to evil. Word quickly reached Warner Bros. and the kickstarter was shut down due to copyright laws.

But then, something surprising happened. The creators Gianmaria Pezzato and Stefano Prestia had a private meeting with Warner Bros. and ― after some discussion on restrictions, we’re guessing ― the studio agreed to let them go forward with the film.

“The only thing we can say is that they let us proceed with the film, in a nonprofit way, obviously,” director Gianmaria Pezzato told Polygon.

The film follows Grisha McLaggen (a noncanonical character played by Maddalena Orcali), the heir of Gryffindor and an auror trying to stop the rise of Tom Marvolo Riddle aka Voldemort (played by Stefano Rossi), whom she was close with at Hogwarts.

McLaggen is captured trying to steal back Tom Riddle’s diary from Russian aurors. Through McLaggen’s interrogation, we flashback through Riddle’s life as he lies, manipulates and murders to acquire some very familiar heirlooms: Helga Hufflepuff’s Cup, Salazar Slytherin’s Locket and Rowena Ravenclaw’s Diadem. Fans will recognize these as the items later to become Voldemort’s horcruxes, objects containing a piece of his soul.

While not quite reaching the quality level of the official “Harry Potter” films, “Voldemort: Origins Of The Heir” is very impressive for a low budget, fan production filmed at various Italian locations. The set design, costumes and visual effects are particularly striking.Despite the denial, Durbin told the press he personally heard the president make the comments and said the news reports he’d seen were accurate. He was in the meeting with Trump, along with Sens. David Perdue (R-Ga.) and Tom Cotton (R-Ark.).

Perdue and Cotton, who are loyal to Trump and have tried to work closely with the president on immigration policy last year, have not confirmed Durbin’s version of events. Perdue told ABC’s “This Week” that the press was offering a “gross misrepresentation” of the president’s comments. Cotton agreed with Perdue, releasing a joint statement saying they did not recall the vulgar language described by the press.U.S. officials warned Jared Kushner earlier this year that his friendship with Wendi Deng Murdoch could be used as a conduit by the Chinese government, The Wall Street Journal reported on Monday.

Unnamed sources told the outlet that counterintelligence officials had warned Kushner that Murdoch, a Chinese-American businesswoman who was married to News Corp. founder Rupert Murdoch, could leverage her close relationship with Kushner and his wife, Ivanka Trump, to push the interests of the Chinese government.

The Wall Street Journal is owned by News Corp.

Among U.S. officials’ reported concerns was a proposed garden in Washington, D.C., funded by the Chinese government. The $100 million project has reportedly been declared a national security risk due to a tall tower that’s part of the design, which intelligence officials worry could be used for surveillance.

Murdoch’s spokesman told the Journal that she “has absolutely no knowledge of any garden projects funded by the Chinese government.”

The outlet notes that no one has been accused of wrongdoing, but said officials gave the warning “to highlight to Mr. Kushner, who was new to government, the need to be careful in his dealings with people whose interests may not align with those of the U.S.”

The meeting was described as a “routine senior staff security briefing.”

It’s unclear what, if any, reason officials had to single Murdoch out in their warning to Kushner or why they suspect her interests are not aligned with those of the United States. There is a long history of Chinese-Americans being falsely accused of working for China.

China’s embassy in Washington pushed back against the assertions made in the article, and told HuffPost the story was “full of groundless and completely false information.” The embassy said both China and the U.S. had been working toward the completion of the garden for years.

“We do not comment on the internal affairs of the U.S., but it seems that some people have wild imagination[s],” the embassy said in a statement. “The fact is, over the years, the two governments have been working very hard to make continuous progress on the project in a transparent manner.”

Michael Wolff, the author of a controversial expose on the first year inside the Trump administration and a 2008 book about Rupert Murdoch, alluded on Twitter that the News Corp. executive chairman has made claims similar to those from U.S. intelligence officials in the Journal’s piece for years. Wolff has often drawn the displeasure of those he’s profiled but has also been praised for his unfettered access to his subjects.

Since their divorce, Murdoch has been telling anybody who would listen that Wendi is a Chinese spy--and had been throughout the marriage. — Michael Wolff (@MichaelWolffNYC) January 16, 2018

Marcus Brauchli, a former managing editor of the Journal, also expressed skepticism about the warning officials gave Kushner, noting that American “counterintelligence has slurred people before with flimsy suspicions, especially those people with ties to China.”

Count me deeply skeptical. US counterintelligence has slurred people before with flimsy suspicions, especially those people with ties to China (e.g., ethnic Chinese). I’d warrant Trump does more for Russia than Wendi ever did for China. https://t.co/2rLmBlTqn7 — Marcus Brauchli (@mbrauchli) January 16, 2018

Kushner and his wife have long been friends with Murdoch. In 2016, Ivanka Trump posted several photos of Murdoch on her Instagram account, including an image of the two traveling together in Croatia.Dolores O’Riordan, the singer of the 1990s Irish band The Cranberries, died Monday in London, according to media reports. She was 46.

The cause of death was not immediately made public.

O’Riordan lived in Ireland but was in London for a short recording session, according to the BBC.

The Cranberries formed in 1989 and rose to international fame in 1993 with the release of their debut album, “Everybody Else Is Doing It So Why Can’t We,” and its accompanying hit single, “Linger.”

The followup album, “No Need To Argue,” kept up the momentum thanks to the worldwide smash “Zombie.”

The band went on hiatus in 2003, and O’Riordan launched a solo career in 2007. The Cranberries reformed in 2009 and toured North America and Europe.

Although The Cranberries had scheduled a European tour last year, they were forced to cancel it because of O’Riordan’s ongoing back problem, according to CBS News.

O’Riordan posted on Facebook in December, saying she was “feeling good.”

O’Riordan is survived by her son and two daughters with former husband of 20 years, Don Burton: Taylor, 20, Molly, 16 and Dakota, 12.

Many celebrities have started to pay their tributes to the singer on Twitter.

Nooooo!! Have always adored her songs and voice https://t.co/asBAt1RJl1 — josh groban (@joshgroban) January 15, 2018

I once met Delores O’Riordan when I was 15. She was kind and lovely, I got her autograph on my train ticket and it made my day. She had the most amazing voice and presence. So sorry to hear that she’s passed away today x — James Corden (@JKCorden) January 15, 2018

I’m really shocked that #DoloresORiordan has passed so suddenly

- I was talking to her a couple weeks before Christmas she seemed happy and well - we even spoke about maybe writing some songs together - unbelievable god bless her pic.twitter.com/Pk2QyAaaBw — Dave Davies (@davedavieskinks) January 15, 2018

Devastated for fans and her family- Dolores O’Riorden had such an exquisite voice, so distinctive and defining of an era. She would have continued to be a rare musical treasure late into a long life #gonetoosoon https://t.co/2QH2cPgRf6 — Liz Phair (@PhizLair) January 15, 2018

Statement by the Irish President Michael D. Higgins, on the death of #DoloresORiordan pic.twitter.com/KZGfjenLVS — Dianne Gallagher (@DianneG) January 15, 2018“I think Melania is a very beautiful woman and I think any designer should be proud to dress her,” he said, according to Women’s Wear Daily. “Ivanka [Trump] is equally as beautiful and smart, although she wears her own clothes. I don’t think people should become political about it.”

Carolina Herrera, who worked with five first ladies including Michelle Obama, shared similar sentiments in early 2017 ― just after making Ivanka Trump’s inaugural ballgown.

”I don’t have a problem dressing the first lady of this country, whoever it is,” Herrera said after her Fashion Week show. “I think it’s out of respect for the United States.”(Reuters) - New Jersey Governor Chris Christie signed a law on Monday making it illegal to fly an unmanned drone aircraft after too many drinks, a spokesman said on the Republican’s last day in office.

The law prohibits flying a drone with a blood alcohol content of 0.08 percent or higher, the same as for driving a vehicle, or while drugged. Violators face up to six months in jail, a $1,000 fine or both.

The measure, which passed the Democratic-controlled state legislature earlier this month, also bars flying a drone near a prison or in pursuit of wildlife.

The drone measure was among 109 bills that Christie signed into law on his last full day in office, spokesman Brian Murray said by email. Christie’s successor, Democrat Phil Murphy, is to be sworn in on Tuesday.

At least 38 states are considering restrictions on drone flying this legislative year, according to the National Conference of State Legislatures.A cheesy action-film director couldn’t have staged this any better. But this car crashing into the second floor of a building was real. Fortunately, no one was seriously injured.

A speeding car driven by a man authorities said had been using drugs soared off a median divider and into a second-floor dental office in Santa Ana, California, early Sunday. And the vehicle lodged there as cops and rescuers arrived to extinguish a small fire and help extract one of the occupants, the Orange County Fire Authority noted in a series of tweets. Another car occupant exited unassisted. Both had minor injuries.

OCFA in Santa Ana with a vehicle that crashed into the second floor of a small Office building. The vehicle hit the center divider and went airborne and landed into the building. One person self extricated, the other person is still trapped in the vehicle. USAR from OCFA On scene pic.twitter.com/Lm5b4oyCIm — OCFA PIO (@OCFA_PIO) January 14, 2018

“The driver, who admitted to using narcotics, will be admitted to a local hospital for observation,” Fire Authority said in a statement, per the Orange County Register.

Authorities are pursuing a DUI charge against the driver, whose name wasn’t released, police told the newspaper.

OCFA on scene in SANTA ANA of a vehicle into a building. One person still trapped inside the vehicle. pic.twitter.com/sWmtovu0Kd — OCFA PIO (@OCFA_PIO) January 14, 2018

A fire department wrecker truck removed the car from the building.

Police said a dirt mound in the median contributed to the car flying so high, according to ABC’s Los Angeles affiliate.

Here is obstructed surveillance video of the wreck.America’s oldest known living man turned 112 on Friday, but to him it was just another day.

“I love to have a birthday,” Richard Overton told the Austin American-Statesman. “That’s another day. I hope I live another five years.”

The Gerontology Research Group, an organization that tracks and verifies people around the world 110 years of age or older, has named Overton the oldest man in America and the second oldest man in the world. However, dozens of women around the world are older than Overton, making him the sixth oldest person in the United States and the 36th oldest known person worldwide.

Richard Overton is the third oldest verified person in the world and the oldest known person in the United States. The Washington Post via Getty Images

Overton was born in Bastrop County, Oklahoma, when it wasn’t yet a state, according to the Fort Worth Star-Telegram.

During World War II ― when Overton was in his late 30s ― he served in the Pacific Theater with the Army’s all-black 1887th Engineer Aviation Battalion from 1942 to 1945. His tour of duty included Angaur, Peleliu and Iwo Jima.

These days, Overton’s life is less combative. He often sits in front of his home in Austin where he has lived for 70 years and waves to passers-by.

The supercentenarian is in great shape for his age, but no doctor worth their degree would recommend his health regimen, which includes enjoying whiskey and smoking a dozen cigars a day, according to The Dallas Morning News.

Hey, it works for him.Homeland Security Secretary Kirstjen Nielsen, who also attended, said she takes offense at claims that her boss is racist and couldn’t recall exactly what he said.

“I think he has been clear, and I would certainly say undoubtedly the president will use ― continue to use ― strong language when it comes to this issue because he feels very passionately,” Nielsen added.

CORRECTION: A previous version of this story mistakenly indicated that Sen. Jeff Flake (R-Ariz.) was at the immigration meeting with Trump.Though the “Saturday Night Live” cast was under NBC’s constraints regarding the use of inappropriate language when talking about President Donald Trump — they quickly ignored the rules.

Cast members skewered Trump’s reported comments about immigrants from “shithole” countries. They had been instructed by the network to say “s-hole” when referring to the president’s remarks, according to “Weekend Update” co-host Colin Jost.

In one bit, Jost quipped about a fantasy sequel to Michael Wolff’s bombshell book Fire and Fury: Inside the Trump White House. The sequel is called S―hole Countries.

“That’s what NBC asked us to say, by the way, ‘s―holes,’” Jost told viewers. “Even though the president can say shithole ... oops.”

He added: “I feel bad for parents at this point with young children. Every word you tell your kid not to say, they can be like, ‘But the president gets to say it.’”

“Update” co-host and co-head writer Michael Che backed Jost up with his own “shithole” joke.

Interestingly, the issue about language came up during the same episode in which guest host Sam Rockwell accidentally dropped an uncensored F-bomb. In the scene, Rockwell, playing a science teacher in a spoof of PBS kids show, gets frustrated with two cast members playing children (Cecily Strong and Mikey Day) in his classroom. “You can’t be this fucking stupid,” he snapped in an improvised line. The audience laughed as Rockwell instantly put his hand to his mouth and stammered, “I’m sorry .. but.” Strong put her fingers in her ears, but the sketch proceeded as if nothing was amiss.

It was the first F-flub since NBC began streaming the program live in the spring. But the word was scrubbed, as was “shithole,” from the West Coast feed, which has a slightly longer delay, Variety reported.

Rockwell joins a handful of guests and cast members who have uttered the f-bomb on “Saturday Night Live.”

Prince, Samuel Jackson, Paul Schaffer, Kristen Stewart and Stephen Tyler have all let her rip. Cast members Charles Rocket (in 1981) and Jenny Slate (2009) also famously made the gaffe, and both were fired shortly after.

The uproar over Trump’s comments, meanwhile, refused to abate Sunday as Sen. David Perdue (R-Georgia) and Sen. Tom Cotton (R-Ark.) continued to insist that the president did not refer to African and Latin American nations, as well as Haiti, as “shithole countries.” Other witnesses, including Sen. Dick Durbin (D-Ill.), did hear the comments.