Sen. Rand Paul (R-Ky.) says politicians and members of the media who call President Donald Trump “a racist” are imperiling a potential immigration deal between Democratic and Republican lawmakers.

″You can’t have an immigration compromise if everybody’s out there calling the president a racist,” Paul said during an appearance on NBC’s “Meet the Press” on Sunday. “They’re actually destroying the setting ... in which anything meaningful can happen on immigration.”

Sen. @RandPaul: "You can't have immigration compromise if everybody's out there calling the president a racist." #MTP pic.twitter.com/pe7U9jI9DZ — Meet the Press (@MeetThePress) January 14, 2018

Trump faced fiery backlash after it was reported Thursday that he questioned why the United States should accept immigrants from Haiti, El Salvador and “shithole countries” in Africa rather than from places like Norway during a meeting on immigration policy earlier in the day.

Despite two meeting attendees, Sens. Dick Durbin (D-Ill.) and Lindsey Graham (R-S.C.), confirming the “shithole” reports, Trump has seemingly denied making those specific comments. While he admitted to using “tough” language during the meeting, Trump claimed he never said anything “derogatory” about Haitians.

World leaders and Democratic lawmakers erupted in outrage over Trump’s alleged remarks, including Rep. John Lewis (D-Ga.), who called the president “a racist” during an appearance Sunday on ABC’s “This Week.”

But Paul said Sunday that it was “unfair” to describe Trump as a racist.

“I don’t think the comments were constructive at all, but I also think that, to be fair, we shouldn’t draw conclusions that he didn’t intend,” Paul said.

Last week wasn’t the first time Trump has been accused of being racist. During his 2016 presidential campaign, Trump referred to Mexican immigrants as drug dealers and “rapists” and repeatedly called for a ban on Muslim immigrants. Before entering politics, Trump was repeatedly accused of discriminating against black people throughout his real estate career. He was also a driving force behind the birther movement, a racist conspiracy theory claiming former President Barack Obama wasn’t born in the U.S.

Meanwhile, Trump has already dubbed the immigration talks as “probably dead.”

DACA is probably dead because the Democrats don’t really want it, they just want to talk and take desperately needed money away from our Military. — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) January 14, 2018Amber Tamblyn is calling out Disney for its lack of diversity.

The 34-year-old actress took to Twitter on Sunday to publicly push The Walt Disney Company to add women of color to its board of directors. Disney has potential openings on its board, which is predominately white, according to The Wall Street Journal. Four members of the 12-person board are stepping down, and the company has already appointed two replacements to begin on Feb. 1 this year.

Tamblyn tweeted at Disney and its CEO Bob Iger, urging them to use the two remaining openings to bring more diversity to the board.

“Hi @ Disney and @ RobertIger,” Tamblyn tweeted. “It looks like you’re about to have two seats open on your board of directors. We call on you to choose women of color for these seats. Be a shining example for your fellow studios. We’re watching. #TIMESUP.”

Hi @Disney and @RobertIger . It looks like you’re about to have two seats open on your board of directors. We call on you to choose women of color for these seats. Be a shining example for your fellow studios. We’re watching. #TIMESUP https://t.co/N6aQiaZrA0 — Amber Tamblyn (@ambertamblyn) January 14, 2018

Tamblyn has used her platform to promote equality and respect for women in the workplace. Her message to Disney included the hashtag #TimesUp, which refers to a legal defense fund for women to fight harassment, abuse or discrimination in the workplace.

Facebook COO Sheryl Sandberg and Twitter Chief Executive Jack Dorsey disclosed on Friday that neither would be seeking re-election to Disney’s board, leaving two openings on the board of one of the most powerful companies in the world.

“Given our evolving business and the businesses Ms. Sandberg and Mr. Dorsey are in, it has become increasingly difficult for them to avoid conflicts relating to board matters,” a Disney spokeswoman told the Journal.A Pegasus Airlines Boeing 737 passenger plane was stuck in mud on an embankment after landing at Trabzon's aiport on the Black Sea coast on Sunday. Getty Images

Terrifying images captured Saturday night at Trabzon airport on Turkey’s northeast coast showed a passenger plane teetering precariously on a steep slope, its nose pointing toward the waters of the Black Sea below, after the jet skidded off the runway as it was attempting to land.

Incredibly, none of the 168 passengers and crew members on board the Pegasus Airlines flight were hurt in the incident, according to Reuters. Everyone was safely evacuated.

Pegasus Airlines is a Turkish low-cost airline with headquarters in Istanbul. Anadolu Agency/Getty Images

The Turkish airline said in a statement that the Boeing 737-800 aircraft had been flying from Ankara to Trabzon and “had a runway excursion incident” as it landed.

“We tilted to the side, the front was down while the plane’s rear was up. There was panic; people shouting, screaming,” a passenger named Fatma Gordu told state-run news agency Anadolu.Days after a federal judge in California temporarily blocked President Donald Trump’s efforts to pull the plug on the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program, or DACA, the federal government said on Saturday that it would resume accepting renewal applications for the program “until further notice.”

U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services said in a statement on its website that DACA will be “operated on the terms in place before it was rescinded on Sept. 5, 2017.” That was the date on which Trump announced his decision to terminate the Obama-era program that shielded some 700,000 young undocumented immigrants from deportation.

“Due to a federal court order, USCIS has resumed accepting requests to renew a grant of deferred action under DACA,” the agency said.

Renewal applications will, however, only be accepted from people who previously received DACA and whose deferred action had expired on or after Sept. 5, 2016.

Former DACA recipients whose grant expired before that date cannot request a renewal, but they can file a new request, the agency said. No new applicants will be accepted.

Marielena Hincapié, executive director of the National Immigration Law Center, warned on Saturday that the window for renewal applications may be “short.” She urged those eligible for renewal to prepare their applications promptly.

This might also be a short window to file #DACA renewals given feds are likely to appeal. Count on @NILC_org to keep you informed. — Marielena Hincapié (@MarielenaNILC) January 14, 2018

Use this weekend to get well-informed re requirements & prepare your renewal #DACA application. Remember new applicants aren’t eligible. — Marielena Hincapié (@MarielenaNILC) January 14, 2018

The USCIS announcement comes on the heels of U.S. District Judge William Alsup’s issuance on Tuesday of a nationwide injunction blocking the Trump administration’s effort to rescind the program.

Alsup ruled that the federal government must “maintain [DACA] on a nationwide basis” while legal challenges to ending the program proceed in court.

“Plaintiffs have clearly demonstrated that they are likely to suffer serious irreparable harm absent an injunction,” Alsup wrote in an opinion explaining the injunction. “Before DACA, Individual Plaintiffs, brought to America as children, faced a tough set of life and career choices turning on the comparative probabilities of being deported versus remaining here. DACA gave them a more tolerable set of choices, including joining the mainstream workforce.”Trump has said he would end the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals, or DACA, and his Twitter comments on Sunday came as lawmakers worked on a bipartisan compromise on immigration policy.

Efforts to extend the program are further complicated because it could make a funding bill to avert a government shutdown due Friday more difficult.

“DACA is probably dead because the Democrats don’t really want it, they just want to talk and take desperately needed money away from our military,” Trump said on Twitter. But he left a door open that a deal could be reached with Democrats in Congress.

A U.S. judge ruled last Tuesday that DACA should remain in effect until legal challenges brought in multiple courts are resolved.

The debate over immigration policy became increasingly acrimonious after it was reported on Thursday that the president described immigrants from Haiti and Africa as coming from “shithole countries” in a private meeting with lawmakers.

The comments led to harsh recriminations from Democrats and Republicans alike, even as bipartisan talks continued in Congress. It has distracted from the policy discussion of not only DACA, but of broader issues like immigration based on merit, which the president says he favors over a policy of family reunification, what he calls “chain immigration.”

“I hope that we are actually going to work on fixing DACA,” said Representative Mia Love on CNN’s “State of the Union” program on Sunday. “We cannot let this derail us.”

Love, whose parents are from Haiti, had criticized Trump for his remarks and called on him to apologize.

Trump denied making the remarks Friday, although U.S. Senator Richard Durbin, who was in the White House meeting, said the president had used the term.

Lawmakers hope to reach an immigration deal before Jan. 19, when Congress must pass a funding bill or the government will shut down. Some Democrats insist that the DACA question be addressed by then.

Lawmakers are trying to combine some form of relief for DACA immigrants along with enhanced border security, including a wall along the Mexican border, sought by Trump. The president’s inflammatory comments left lawmakers struggling to find a path forward.

“I hope we can move beyond that. What was reported was unacceptable. But what we have to do is not let that define this moment,” said Republican Senator Cory Gardner on CBS’s “Face the Nation” program.

Republican Senator David Perdue, who was at the same White House meeting and had said he did not recall whether Trump made the comment, was more explicit Sunday. He called the new stories a “gross misrepresentation.”

“I‘m telling you, he did not use that word,” he said on ABC’s “This Week” program.

However, Republicans and Democrats have both said they either heard Trump say it, or heard directly from colleagues who did.

Republican Senator Jeff Flake said Sunday he was told about the remarks by colleagues who attended the meeting, before the news reports emerged.

“I heard that account before the account even went public,” he said on “This Week.”

One of Trump’s top advisers, Homeland Security Secretary Kirstjen Nielsen, said on “Fox News Sunday” she did not recall if Trump used “that specific phrase.”The Los Angeles Police Department has launched a sexual assault investigation against actor Steven Seagal, who in recent weeks has faced several allegations of sexual misconduct including rape, according to multiple reports.

A spokesperson for the LAPD told TheWrap that the incident allegedly occurred in 2005. No other details of the case have been made public.

Several women, including actresses Portia de Rossi, Julianna Margulies and Rae Dawn Chong, have recently accused Seagal of sexual harassment. In a November tweet, de Rossi claimed Seagal “unzipped his leather pants” during an audition in the actor’s office. Margulies said Seagal had attempted to sexually harass her in his apartment when she was 23, and Chong accused Seagal of once showing her “his junk” in his hotel room and leaving her multiple “sex messages” on her machine.

A woman named Regina Simons, who worked as an extra on the 1994 film “On Deadly Ground,” which starred Seagal, told The Wrap this month that the actor raped her at his home.

Simons, who was 18 at the time, said she’d believed she was attending a wrap party for the film — but when she arrived, discovered she was the only one there.

“[Seagal] took me into this room and then just closed the door and started kissing me,” Simons said of the alleged incident. “He then took my clothes off and before I knew it he was on top of me, raping me. … I wasn’t sexually active yet. People always talk about fight-or-flight. But no one talks about the freeze.”

According to The Wrap, more than a dozen women have accused Seagal of sexual misconduct.Sen. Jeff Flake (R-Ariz.) says President Donald Trump’s attacks against the press are reminiscent of similar tactics employed by Soviet dictator Joseph Stalin.

During his first year in office, Trump has repeatedly blasted the nation’s news media as “fake” and dishonest, even going so far as to call it “the enemy of the American people” last year.

Appearing on ABC’s “This Week” program on Sunday, Flake, a frequent critic of the president, said he planned to give a speech Wednesday about the president’s behavior.

“When you reflexively refer to the press as the enemy of the people or fake news, that has real damage,” Flake said on Sunday to ABC host George Stephanopoulos. “It has real damage to our standing in the world. And I noted how bad it is for a president to take what was popularized by Joseph Stalin, the enemy of the people, to refer to the press.”

Stalin infamously used the phrase “enemies of the people” to consolidate power during the early years of the Soviet Union, sending critics and detractors to suffer in labor camps.

Meanwhile, Trump on Wednesday is also expected to announce the winners of something he dubbed as the “The Fake News Awards.” The prizes, he said, will go to “the most corrupt and biased” news organizations.

Trump over the weekend disputed The Wall Street Journal’s account of an interview he did with the paper last week in which he was quoted as saying he probably has a very good relationship with North Korean leader Kim Jong Un. Trump claimed on Twitter that he actually said “I’d have a good relationship with” the authoritarian leader, a distinction he called a “big difference.”

The Wall Street Journal, however, posted audio of the interview on Sunday and said it stood by its reporting.Bill Murray returned to his old “Saturday Night Live” stomping grounds to do Steve Bannon in the program’s cold open the way Bannon has never been done before.

The sketch scorched Bannon, “shithole” diplomacy and even journalist Michael Wolff in an “SNL” take on “Joe In The Morning.”

Before Bannon pops up and pulls off his grim reaper hood to reveal Murray’s old familiar face, Wolff (played by Fred Armisen, another show alum) gets a grilling on Fire and Fury: Inside the Trump White House. Mika Brzezinski (Kate McKinnon) wants to know what Wolff didn’t put in the book.

“There were baby races,” says Armisen. “Trump would ask to have two babies placed in his office, usually of different ethnicities. Someone would put a bowl of Goldfish crackers on the other side of the room. Trump would say, ‘A thousand bucks on the black one.’”

When he’s asked if that’s really true, Armisen shrugs, “Yeah.”

As for the truth of the rest of the book, he says, “You read it, right? You liked it? You had fun? What’s the problem? You got the gist, so shut up. Even the stuff that’s not true, it’s true.”

Even the “Bannon Cannon” admits that everything he’s quoted as saying in the book is pretty much true. But don’t count him out now that he has been exiled by the Trump crew. He’s already working on a web series for Crackle, a line of wrinkled barn jackets called Frumpers for Guys and a skin-care line called Blotch.

And he’ll be a kingmaker again. “I convinced this country to elect … Donald ... and I can do it again,” he threatens. Next on the list could be controversial vlogger Logan Paul or incarcerated businessman Martin Shkreli. “It’s time for America to slide down the Bannon-ster,” he chortles. “The Bannon dynasty is dawning.”

But just when everyone is feeling bleak about the future, up pops Leslie Jones to yell “OPRAAAAAAAAAH.”A Texas man has been charged with capital murder in the death of his 3-year-old adopted daughter, who was found to have died from “homicidal violence.”

Wesley Mathews, 37, who authorities have said admitted to causing the child’s death and then hiding her body in October, could face the death penalty or life in prison if found guilty of the charge, the Dallas County District Attorney’s Office said Friday.

“We have not yet decided if we are going to actually seek death. We do go through a process to make that determination,” District Attorney Faith Johnson said at a news conference after a grand jury returned the indictments.

Wesley Mathews, 37, and Sini Mathews, 35, both face charges related to their 3-year-old adopted daughter, Sherin. Dallas County Jail

Mathews was additionally charged with abandoning a child and tampering with evidence, both in the second degree and carrying two to 20 years in prison, Johnson said. He was previously charged with injury to a child, which is a first-degree felony.

Mathews initially told authorities that his daughter, Sherin, had gone missing after he left her outside as punishment for not drinking her milk in the early morning hours of Oct. 7.

Authorities said he later admitted to physically forcing her to drink the milk, causing her to choke and die. He said he then moved her body, which was found two weeks later, an affidavit stated.

Earlier this month, authorities revealed that an autopsy found the child died from “homicidal violence,” though additional details were not released. Her death came a little more than a year after she was adopted from an Indian orphanage, The Associated Press reported.

Sherin Mathews, 3, was reported missing to police on Oct. 7. Her body was found about two weeks later. Richardson Police Department

“We do want to make sure that justice is done, on behalf of this little 3-year-old, and we will seek justice as we do always,” Johnson said at Friday’s news conference. “We are going to be the voice for her in this office and we’re going to do all that we can do to make sure that the fair thing, the right thing, the just thing is done.”

Mathews’ bond on Sunday was set at $2.25 million, Dallas County jailhouse records show.

Mathews’ wife, Sini Mathews, 35, was also charged on Friday with a separate child abandonment count, which NBC 5 reported is related to her and her husband allegedly leaving the toddler home alone on the day before she was reported missing. She remains jailed as of Sunday on $250,000 bond.

Johnson noted that the child abandonment charge carries a possible two- to 10-year prison sentence.Homeland Security Secretary Kirstjen Nielsen on Sunday bristled at the notion that her boss, President Donald Trump, is racist.

“I take a little offense to allegations that the president is racist,” Nielsen said during an interview on “Fox News Sunday.”

Trump sparked a firestorm of criticism this week when he reportedly questioned why the U.S. accepted immigrants from “shithole countries” in Africa as well as from Haiti and El Salvador during an immigration reform meeting with lawmakers at the White House. The quote was later confirmed by Sen. Dick Durbin (D-Ill.), who attended the meeting.

Homeland Security Secretary Kirstjen Nielsen said she takes "a little offense to allegations that the president is racist." Yuri Gripas/Reuters

Nielsen, who was also in the meeting with Trump, said Sunday she could not recall him “using that exact phrase” to describe giving visas to individuals from certain countries.

“I think he has been clear, and I would certainly say undoubtedly the president will use ― continue to use ― strong language when it comes to this issue because he feels very passionately,” Nielsen added.

Nielsen, a longtime aide to White House chief of staff John Kelly, was tapped to lead the Department of Homeland Security after Kelly was given the chief of staff role last year.

Sens. David Perdue (R-Ga.) and Tom Cotton (R-Ark.), other participants in the meeting, seemed to backtrack on a prior statement regarding the president’s language in separate interviews on Sunday. While Perdue and Cotton initially said after the meeting that they could not recall whether Trump used the phrase, Perdue told ABC’s “This Week” that Trump “did not say that word.”

“This is a gross misrepresentation, and this is not the first time Sen. Durbin has done it,” Perdue said, referring to his Democratic colleague.

Cotton told CBS’s “Face the Nation” that he “didn’t hear” the president say the word.

Trump’s comment drew outrage from both Democrats and some Republican lawmakers, who criticized the president’s choice of words and called for him to apologize.

Rep. Mia Love, a Utah Republican and the only Haitian-American in Congress, agreed Sunday that Trump’s comments were racist.

“I think that they were unfortunate,” Love said of Trump’s comments during an interview on CNN’s “State of the Union.” “I don’t know if they were taken ― I wasn’t in the room. I know the comments were made. I don’t know which context they were made. I’m looking forward to finding out what happened, but more importantly, I’m looking forward to trying to fix the problem. I think we need to ― we have to hold ourselves to a higher standard.”

Rep. John Lewis (D-Ga.) went further during an interview on ABC’s “This Week,” however, stating that he thought Trump “is a racist.” Asked if he will attend the president’s first State of the Union address this month, the civil rights icon replied, “In good conscience, I cannot and will not sit there and listen at him as he gives the State of the Union address.”

Trump, meanwhile, defended himself Sunday on Twitter.Environmental Protection Agency Administrator Scott Pruitt’s expensive trip to Italy last year included dinner with Vatican treasurer George Pell, a climate denier since charged with child sex abuse, according to documents unearthed by The New York Times.

Emails obtained by Times reporter Eric Lipton and shared Thursday on Twitter reveal that planning for the June dinner began a month earlier. EPA staffers were fully aware that Pell, a cardinal who is the Vatican’s third-ranking official, was at the time under investigation, but it appears they sought to cover up Pell’s attendance rather than alter Pruitt’s schedule, Lipton found. Pell was charged with sex crimes in Australia three weeks after the dinner.

Pruitt’s dinner with Pell at a fancy Roman restaurant was omitted from four official EPA calendars. They mention the dinner itself, but the list of attendees didn’t include Pell.

The scandal-plagued EPA chief and the Vatican executive discussed a Wall Street Journal op-ed advocating the creation of a “red team/blue team” process to debate climate science, according to an email obtained via the Freedom of Information Act.

Here are a few more documents. FOUR different calendars that have been put out by the EPA covering this day. None of them mention that Cardinal Pell was at the dinner. Here is the FIRST pic.twitter.com/uXv1qL91Vh — Eric Lipton (@EricLiptonNYT) May 10, 2018

Pell was charged with “historical sexual offenses” from his time as an archbishop in Australia, including charges of sexual abuse. The charges were filed in June 2017, but newspapers reported he was under investigation in July 2016.

Pell, a known climate skeptic, has long called for debate surrounding climate science.

“The appeal must be to the evidence,” he wrote in a 2011 op-ed, arguing that claims of global warming don’t always add up. “First of all we need adequate scientific explanations as a basis for our economic estimates. We also need history, philosophy, even theology and many will use, perhaps create, mythologies. But most importantly we need to distinguish which is which.”

Pruitt spoke to Breitbart about the red team-blue team debate idea in a June 2017 interview.

“The American people need to have that type of honest, open discussion, and it’s something that we hope to help provide as part of our leadership,” he said.

Other EPA emails obtained by The Washington Post show that EPA staff also reached out to several conservative groups about setting up the exercise in the weeks ahead of Pruitt’s comments.

“[T]he ‘Red Team’ idea is superb,” Rodney Nichols, a science and technology policy consultant for the CO2 Coalition, said to Pruitt aide Lincoln Ferguson in a May 2017 email. “We will be glad to help the initiative in any way we can.”

Pruitt reportedly recruited a friend, Leonard Leo, head of the Federalist Society, to help him plan the trip to Italy, and stuck taxpayers with a travel tab of at least $120,000 for the visit.

Pruitt has been under investigation for a wide variety of ethical lapses, including lavish spending on travel and security. The White House admitted for the first time on Thursday that the pile of allegations “have raised some concerns,” according to spokesman Raj Shah.Courtesy of the author

Yesterday, Eliza Dushku published her account of having been molested during the shooting of the movie “True Lies,” in which I played her mother. She had shared that story with me privately a few years ago. I was shocked and saddened then and still am today.

We have all started to awaken to the fact that the terrible abuses now commonplace in daily news reports have been going on for a very long time. Unconscionably, those reports frequently come along with claims by the perpetrators that, as adults, those perpetrated against had some part in it.

Eliza’s story has now awakened us from our denial slumber to a new, horrific reality. The abuse of children.

I have pretended to be the mother of young actors for a long time. Even at 19, when I was in the original “Halloween,” I was the babysitter to then-child actor, Kyle Richards. After I hit the mom-in-movies age, I have pretended to be the mom of the future Harry Potter (Daniel Radcliffe) and Frodo Baggins (Elijah Wood) and have worked with numerous other young actors, including Macauley Culkin, Anna Chlumsky, and Lindsay Lohan.

It is a complicated relationship working with children as they are being asked to do adult work with you in an adult field, surrounded by hundreds of adults who want them to perform for them, and yet are still inherently children. I have wrestled with my role as a mentor, colleague, surrogate, and friend, and each relationship is individual and unique. Are we really friends? Are we work mates? Children are not mature enough to recognize that subtle difference. I was so conscious of my adult self and foibles that I implemented the use of a swear can on the set of “My Girl.” I knew that we had children present and that adult language was inappropriate. Naturally, I was the biggest contributor to the can and handed Macauley and Anna the lucrative contents on their last day.

There are industry-wide legal protections for these young performers that have been long-held and hard fought. There are always teachers and advocates and adult family members or surrogates for the children on set and rigid rules that need to be followed. Yet sadly, as with any rules, these are often broken.

We’ve recently heard reports of agents abusing their young actor clients and now this story from Miss Dushku. What compounds the difficulty here is that the stunt coordinator in question was literally in charge of our lives, our safety. Stunts always require an enormous amount of trust and on that movie in particular we all were often suspended by wires and harnesses, very high in the air. In my case, I was suspended under a helicopter by a wire, holding onto the hand of the man who is now being accused of abuse.

I hope today that what can come from all of these exposures are new guidelines and safe spaces for people ― regardless of age, gender, race or job ― to share their concerns and truths and that all abusers will be held accountable.

All of us must take some responsibility that the loose and relaxed camaraderie that we share with our young performers has carried with it a misguided assumption that they are adults in an adult world, capable of making adult choices.

Many of us involved in “True Lies” were parents. Jim, Arnold and myself. Parents of daughters. What allegedly happened to Eliza, away from the safety net of all of us and our purview is a terrible, terrible thing to learn about and have to reconcile.Lindsay Lohan may be single, but she’s not looking to mingle.

The 31-year-old “Mean Girls” star popped by “The Wendy Williams Show” Friday for a no-holds-barred interview in which she opened up about her sexuality, her career and her new life abroad.

When Williams pressed for details on Lohan’s love life, the singer-actress simply said she was “in work mode” and had no interest in dating anyone at the moment.

“Relationships—I’ve had enough of them,” said Lohan, who broke off her engagement to Russian business heir Egor Tarabasov in 2016. “I’m 31 years old, and when it happens, it will happen.”

The ever-inquisitive Williams hasn’t forgotten about Lohan’s on-again, off-again romance with DJ Samantha Ronson, which the star herself once described as “toxic.” But when Williams asked her if she identified as sexually fluid, Lohan seemed to take pause.

“No, I like men,” Lohan said in the interview, which can be found in full below. When the host mentioned she’d “liked a girl at one point,” she added, “Yeah. I was living in L.A. I’m not saying it’s a bad thing.”

Lohan and Ronson split in 2009.

(Lohan’s comments about her relationship with Ronson start at about 12:26)

As for those who are anxious about a sequel to 2004′s “Mean Girls,” rest assured: Lohan shares your enthusiasm.

The star said she’s “harassed” writer-star Tina Fey, producer Lorne Michaels and other members of the “Mean Girls” creative team about a follow-up movie “so many times, it’s becoming a bit stalker-ish.”

With Fey currently focused on mounting the hotly anticipated Broadway musical version of the iconic film, Lohan might have to wait a bit longer to reprise her role as Cady Heron. Career pursuits aside, she insists she’s found “serenity” in her adopted home of Dubai, which she’s found particularly helpful when it comes to maintaining her sobriety.Actor Liam Neeson spoke up this week for two celebrities accused of sexual harassment. While he said the effort to expose sexual harassers was generally “healthy,” he called the #MeToo movement a “bit of a witch hunt.”

Neeson cited the cases of fellow actor Dustin Hoffman and writer and radio personality Garrison Keillor during an interview on Ireland’s “The Late Late Show” that was posted online Friday.

“There is a bit of a witch hunt happening,” said Neeson.

“There’s some people, famous people, being suddenly accused of touching some girl’s knee or something, and suddenly they’re being dropped from their program,” he said, referring to Keillor.

The former host of “A Prairie Home Companion” was fired by Minnesota Public Radio for inappropriate behavior. Keillor has claimed he was called out for simply patting a woman on the back to console her. His hand touched bare skin, he said, and he apologized.

Neeson also described himself as “on the fence” about Hoffman, who has been accused by several women of sexual harassment.

“When you’re doing a play and you’re with your ‘family’ — other actors, technicians — you do silly things,” Neeson said. Some actors can become “superstitious” about certain actions, he explained, and may believe that if they don’t to perform those actions every night, it will “jinx” the show.

“I think Dustin Hoffman ... I’m not saying I’ve done similar things like what he did, you know ... apparently touched another girl’s breasts and stuff, but it’s childhood stuff,” said Neeson.

Last year, actress Kathryn Rossetter accused Hoffman of groping her each night before a particular scene when she was appearing with him in a 1983 Broadway production of “Death of a Salesman” ― and later after filming the 1985 television adaptation.

“Along with the nightly sexual harassment, he eroded my confidence, my dignity,” she wrote in a December guest column in The Hollywood Reporter. “He humiliated and demeaned me. He robbed me of my joy in the experience and he left dirty fingerprints on my soul.”

In November, another woman said Hoffman had sexually harassed her when she was a 17-year-old intern working on the TV adaptation of “Death of a Salesman.” Hoffman said in response to her allegation that he felt “terrible that anything I might have done could have put her in an uncomfortable situation.”

Neeson weighed in earlier this week on another issue concerning women: the gender pay gap. During an interview about his latest film, “The Commuter,” he called the pay disparity between men and women “fucking disgraceful.” He said men need to step up and help fix the problem.Larry Nassar, the disgraced former Michigan State University and USA Gymnastics team doctor, has been accused of sexual abuse by 140 women. That’s nearly as many victims as the Jerry Sandusky, Bill Cosby and Harvey Weinstein scandals combined.

Yet Nassar’s name is not dominating national news. It doesn’t have people protesting outside his home. It hasn’t become a punchline for every late-night television host.

Days before his sentencing on Jan. 16, many of Nassar’s victims are wondering the same question: Why does no one seem to care about their story?

“I remember when the Penn State scandal was talked about at length for months and months and even years. This is nearly five times the size and no one knows about it,” sexual abuse survivor Morgan McCaul told HuffPost.

A dancer and first-year college student, McCaul is one of the dozens of plaintiffs anonymously named in lawsuits against Nassar, MSU and USA Gymnastics. The 18-year-old said that Nassar began sexually abusing her when she was just 12 years old in 2012. The abuse continued for three years.

McCaul described how she’s repeatedly had to explain to professors why she needs to miss class or an exam because of an upcoming court date. Often times, she said, they have no idea about the Nassar case.

“It’s been hard to reckon with, especially because these are people that I expect to be educated,” said McCaul, who attends the University of Michigan in Ann Arbor, which is only an hour away from MSU. “Even people that are teaching at universities don’t know that this went on.”

‘I Haven’t Sensed The Outrage’

HuffPost spoke with six survivors who are suing Nassar, MSU and/or USA Gymnastics: McCaul, Alexis Alvarado, Jessica Smith, Christine Harrison, Larissa Boyce (who have all come out publicly since the lawsuits were filed) and “Jane Doe” (who wants to remain anonymous). All six women ― three gymnasts, two dancers and a soccer player ― shared a similar sentiment, that the country doesn’t seem to care what happened to them.

“I haven’t sensed the outrage,” said Boyce, who alleges that Nassar began abusing her when she was 16 and continued from 1997 to 2001.

“A lot of people seem to believe it’s only Olympians that this [abuse] happened to, which isn’t true.” - Nassar accuser Alexis Alvarado

Alvarado believes the country has essentially ignored the trauma inflicted on her and the other women because they’re not famous athletes. The 19-year-old said that Nassar sexually abused her for six years starting when she was 12.

“A lot of people seem to believe it’s only Olympians that this [abuse] happened to, which isn’t true,” she said.

Nassar survivors Larissa Boyce, Alexis Alvarado, Christine Harrison and Jessica Smith (left to right) pose for a picture in court after the Nov. 22, 2017, hearing in which Nassar pleaded guilty to criminal sexual conduct. JEFF KOWALSKY/AFP/Getty Images

Other survivors believe their stories haven’t made front-page headlines because they’re female athletes.

“I think it plays into the importance that we put on male athletics versus female athletics,” McCaul said. “This is a case of gymnasts and dancers and figure skaters, not football players or basketball players. I think it’s sexism, to be honest. There’s no other explanation for why this many women have come forward and it’s not big news.”

Smith, who said that Nassar abused her for a few months when she was 17, also sees a connection between the identities of Nassar’s victims and the lack of public attention.

“It’s hard to feel like, if I was an Olympic gymnast, maybe this would be different. If I was a football player at MSU or a basketball player at MSU, then maybe the public and MSU as an institution would care more,” she said.

Decades Of Abuse By A Trusted Doctor

Nassar, 54, sexually abused young athletes ― many of whom were top-tier gymnasts and dancers ― for decades under the guise of medical treatment. According to court documents, he gained the trust of girls and their families, which then gave him cover as he used his exams to fondle and digitally penetrate the girls in the vagina and anus.

He treated many of these athletes for years during his tenures as the team doctor for USA Gymnastics, the doctor for various MSU sports teams and the sports medicine doctor at the Michigan gymnastics training gym Twistars.

Larry Nassar and members of the U.S. national gymnastics team prepare the day before the London 2012 Olympic Games began. Brian Snyder / Reuters

In November, Nassar also pleaded guilty to 10 counts of first-degree sexual misconduct and is awaiting sentencing for those crimes. He said in a statement to the court that he’s “so horribly sorry” for what he did and he hopes the victims and the community can heal.

Nassar faces a minimum sentence of 25 years in prison for the sexual misconduct counts. The Michigan attorney general’s office has reportedly asked the judge to sentence him to 40 to 125 years.

‘Sick Of MSU Trying To Look Good Instead Of Be Good’

It’s safe to say that Nassar has been condemned as a sexual abuser by both the law and public opinion, and will likely die in prison. But what about the institutions that enabled his crimes to go on for so long?

Many of Nassar’s victims say they told parents, coaches, MSU trainers and even police what was happening behind closed doors. Time and time again, the girls’ claims were allegedly disregarded or swept under the rug.

“I’m sick of MSU trying to look good instead of be good,” Smith said.

Multiple university employees allegedly did not comply with mandatory reporting regulations when they were told about the abuse. MSU doctor Brooke Lemmen and MSU gymnastics coach Kathie Klages have both resigned in the face of mounting accusations. The dean of MSU’s College of Osteopathic Medicine, William D. Strampel, took a medical leave from his position in December. The president of USA Gymnastics, Steve Penny, resigned in March 2017 after public scrutiny of the matter.

None of them, Smith and the other women who spoke to HuffPost believe, have faced sufficient punishment for their failures.

“I think that everyone that either was reported to by victims, or that had knowledge that this was going on and didn’t do anything, should have been terminated immediately, and that’s not the case,” McCaul said. “I feel like that sends a big message to victims that there are no consequences for what these people did.”

“It’s insulting as a victim to have to beg for answers as to why Nassar was enabled for as long as he was.” - Nassar accuser Christine Harrison

Boyce knows all too well the consequences of people in power not following mandatory reporting regulations. She said that she told Klages about Nassar’s behavior in 1997 and that the coach told her she must have misunderstood the medical procedure. At 16, Boyce was so ashamed and confused that she continued seeing Nassar for years, during which time he kept abusing her.

Klages did not immediately respond to HuffPost’s request for comment.

“It seems like MSU, USAG, and Twistars only see us as a financial burden that needs to be silenced and squashed, devalued and discredited all while trying to say they are sorry it happened to us and are on our side,” Boyce said. “They are denying any responsibility, saying they didn’t know a predator was among them. That is like a slap in the face to the seven girls who over the past 20 years told multiple MSU employees and [they] did nothing about it. How is that not showing their complete negligence?”

The university’s response to the allegations has made an already grueling process that much more difficult, Harrison said.

“It’s insulting as a victim to have to beg for answers as to why Nassar was enabled for as long as he was,” she said. “MSU did not take ownership of what they let go on. ... The enablers should be charged and a thorough investigation should be set in motion, but we have yet to see any of those actions put in motion.”

MSU has denied covering up Nassar’s behavior in any way.

“Any suggestion that the university covered up Nassar’s horrific conduct is simply false,” MSU spokesperson Jason Cody told HuffPost earlier this month. “Nassar preyed on his victims, changing their lives in terrible ways. As [MSU] President Simon has said, MSU is truly sorry for the abuse all victims suffered, the pain it caused, and the pain it still causes.”

MSU and Twistars filed separate motions on Friday to dismiss the lawsuits against their organizations. USA Gymnastics filed a similar motion last month, citing the statute of limitations.

“Nassar’s conduct is disgusting, and USAG deplores Nassar’s crimes. But Nassar, not USAG, is liable for Nassar’s criminal actions,” USA Gymnastics attorney Andrew Portinga wrote in court documents.

‘We Aren’t Just Jane Does ― We Are Individuals With Feelings’

McCaul and dozens of other Nassar victims plan to read impact statements at his sentencing hearing, which starts on Tuesday. In McCaul’s impact statement, she grapples with her dream of becoming a doctor.

“I am studying pre-medicine, and I sometimes question whether or not I still believe physicians can be good people,” she writes.

All six women who spoke to HuffPost talked about how hard it’s been to come forward with their stories. More than one described the experience as an “emotional roller coaster.” Many plan to use their impact statements to discuss the after-effects of Nassar’s abuse: depression, anxiety, post-traumatic stress disorder, extreme migraines, panic attacks, stomach issues, shame, insomnia, nightmares, suicidal thoughts ― the list goes on and on.

All of them agreed, however, that they’ve found solace and comfort in one other.

Harrison said she hopes the public understands that behind every Jane Doe in these lawsuits, there is a young woman working through years of trauma.

“The abuse that happened to us survivors is something that will affect us for the rest of our lives,” Harrison said. “I came forward to share my story and identity because others need to know we aren’t just Jane Does ― we are individuals with feelings.”

Now a dance teacher, Smith said that back in November she looked around at her students ― many of whom are young girls ― and realized she had to come forward with her story. The day her accusations went public, a 7-year-old student gave her a card decorated in glitter and hearts that read, “You’re my hero.”

“I just looked at her and held back tears, and she was beaming smiling,” Smith said. “She had no idea how her small gesture gave me so much assurance.”Woohae Cho via Getty Images

TOKYO (Reuters) - Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe on Friday rejected South Korea’s call for more steps to help “comfort women”, a euphemism for women forced to work in Japan’s wartime military brothels, and urged Seoul to honor a 2015 pact on the divisive topic.

Japan and South Korea share a bitter history that includes Japan’s 1910-45 colonization of the peninsula and the “comfort women” issue is especially touchy. The U.S. allies are key to efforts to rein in North Korea’s nuclear and missile programs.

South Korea said this week that the 2015 agreement, struck by President Moon Jae-in’s conservative predecessor, had failed to meet the victims’ needs and resolve the feud.

The 2015 agreement was “a promise between the two nations. Keeping this promise is an international and universal principle. We cannot accept South Korea’s unilateral demands for additional measures,” Abe told reporters.

“We have been sincere in executing every promise we made. We want to continue to strongly ask South Korea to do the same.”

Seoul is not seeking to renegotiate the agreement, which the two sides had said would “finally and irreversibly” end the feud if both sides stuck to it. Under the deal, Japan apologized again and promised 1 billion yen ($8.99 million) for a fund to help the women.

But South Korea has urged Tokyo to take added steps, including a fresh apology.

Japanese media reports have said Abe may not attend the Winter Olympic Games in Pyeongchang, South Korea next month because of the feud, although the government’s top spokesman said on Thursday that it had not been decided.

($1 = 111.2100 yen)Max Ostrozhinskiy

In response to the Saturday, Aug. 12 happenings in Charlottesville, Virginia, in which a woman was killed by a driver while protesting an “alt-right” rally, Richard Spencer, the American editor of Altright.com, issued a statement that laid out what it means to be “alt-right.” A friend of mine alerted my husband and I to this statement when my husband posted about the tragedy on Facebook. She liked or agreed with almost everything on their statement page.

I am an open-minded person, so I read Spencer’s statement in hopes of better understanding the mindset and belief system that drives the “alt-right” movement.

And after reading the statement, I can only say that I was even further dismayed and disturbed.

The problem, see, is that while Spencer appears to be an intelligent human being, he also appears to be well practiced in manipulation and rhetoric — which, unfortunately, those who are unpracticed in the art of writing and the training of rhetorical composition, will be unable to recognize. So this is my humble attempt to do it for them.

1. Race

I’m a word person, so you’ll have to bear with me. Race, as defined by the New Oxford American Dictionary, is “each of the major divisions of humankind, having distinct physical characteristics; a group of people sharing the same culture, history, language, etc.; an ethnic group; a group or set of people or things with common feature or features.”

Okay. Race is important, yes, as it pertains to a shared culture and history. Race as a determining factor of who is better than whom is not important. It is not a matter that defines us. My race is not a part of my identity insofar as it defines who I am at my core, what I can contribute to the world, or how important or unimportant that contribution is. Race may be important as a small piece of someone’s history and heritage, but it should not tell the whole story of a person’s value to the world. Therefore, race is NOT the foundation of identity and never will be.

Here’s the hard part about race: On my mother’s side, I am descended from a long line of Spaniards (who immigrated to America sometime in the 17th century). I also have Choctaw Indian in my blood. On my father’s side, I am descended from the World War II general George S. Patton. My race is convoluted, impure. Does that mean I’m not technically “white?”

In the words of the great James Baldwin: “I am what time, circumstance, history, have made of me, certainly, but I am, also, much more than that. So are we all.”

2. Jews

Spencer’s viewpoint about Jews is, in whole, a disturbing paradox of inclusiveness. He uses the term “European” and yet Jews are separate from that distinction, though they are, in actuality, a segment of European people (I read a lot of science. This is true genetically as well as locationally. Jews immigrated to Europe as early as the 3rd century BCE). So, by separating Europeans and Jews, Spencer is excluding a population of European people from the European distinction because of their religious ideology. Historically, the European people were all over the map—Celts believed in gods and goddesses (even into their Christian days), the Irish did as well, the Roman Catholic Church was something separate from Protestant religion. So it would be more fair to differentiate ALL of those religious ideologies, rather that just the Jewish one.

He also says, “The preservation of their identity as Jews was and is contingent on resistance to assimilation, sometimes expressed as hostility towards their hosts.”

Two things:

a. I have never known a hostile Jew.

b. Who are the hosts of Jews? Again, let’s go back to the dictionary for a satisfactory definition of host: “a person who receives or entertains others as guests.” This word choice denotes that Jews, by their very being, are guests. Of whom? Of European Americans? The non-Jew European Americans? So we are, in essence, the owners of the land in which Jews find themselves? This inadvertently supposes that Jews do not belong here.

Well, I am not the hostess of anyone except, arguably, my children, who are here for a time and will fly from the nest after that time is finished. And even that hostess situation is a stretch.

3. The Ethno-State

Again, Spencer is very subtle with his erroneous thinking here. We can probably all agree with the first point: “Nations must secure their existence and uniqueness and promote their own development and flourishing. The state is an existential entity, and, at its best, a physical manifestation of a people’s being, order, and will to survive.”

And then comes this: “Racially or ethnically defined states are legitimate and necessary.”

I liken our country and all its many different races and ethnicities (which have been around for a very long time, most of them since at least the Industrial Revolution times, many of them well before then) to a human body. Each part is necessary to the whole. We don’t define our country by race or ethnic; we define it by humanity, and that is what has always been great about America.

We are a melting pot, and we have been since the very beginning (refresh your memory with some history books. If you need any recommendations, I have plenty). Each part needs the other to function and define the nation’s existence, uniqueness, and beauty.

Without the Lebanese, we would not have the word “Bible” (it comes from the name of their city BYBLOS). Without the Appalachian Americans the Appalachian Mountains would have been called by another name. Without the Irish Americans, we would likely not have labor unions protecting the rights of American workers. Without Mexican Americans we would not have the founding of St. Augustine in 1565. Without Black Americans, we would not have the desegregation of schools that began in 1946 and continues today. And on and on it goes.

We are creative, we are inventive, we are powerful, but we do not all share the same European heritage. This is the REAL ethno-state.

4. Metapolitics

Spencer says, “Spirit is the wellspring of culture, and politics is downstream of that. The Alt-Right wages a situational and ideological war on those deconstructing European history and identity. The decrepit values of Woodstock and Wall Street mean nothing to us.”

We won’t go into all the ways this piece of the statement is vague and questionable.

But I will go into this: What does it mean to deconstruct European history and identity? Does Spencer refer to this deconstruction in the same way the European Americans deconstructed the history and identity of the Native American people who settled in this land before the Europeans immigrated here? What exactly is our history and identity? What is the acceptable version of it?

These are questions, I believe, that not enough people are asking. We have smoothed over many inconvenient parts of our history, such as the hostile stealing of land from the Mexican Americans and the Native Americans (read Cormac McCarthy; his novels provide a clear picture of it), the brutal treatment of slaves (Harriet Beecher Stowe can teach us a lot about this), the inhumane ways Europeans spread religion, ideology, and their rewritten version of history. We all want a history that doesn’t make us feel ashamed or guilty, and the more oppressed voices of history that emerge, the more likely they will be silenced in the face of “European history.”

“The American Negro has the great advantage of having never believed the collection of myths to which white Americans cling: that their ancestors were all freedom-loving heroes, that they were born in the greatest country the world has ever seen, or that Americans are invincible in battle and wise in peace, that Americans have always dealt honorably with Mexicans and Indians and all other neighbors or inferiors, that American men are the world’s most direct and virile, that American women are pure. Negroes know far more about white Americans than that; it can almost be said, in fact, that they know about white Americans what parents—or, anyway, mothers—know about their children, and that they very often regard white Americans that way. And perhaps this attitude, held in spite of what they know and have endured, helps to explain why Negroes, on the whole, and until lately, have allowed themselves to feel so little hatred. The tendency has really been, insofar as this was possible, to dismiss white people as the slightly mad victims of their own brainwashing.”

—James Baldwin, The Fire Next Time

“The real names of our people were destroyed during slavery. The last name of my forefathers was taken from them when they were brought to America and made slaves, and then the name of the slave master was given, which we refuse, we reject that name today and refuse it. I never acknowledge it whatsoever.”

—Malcolm X

I will not forget the voices of those who were silenced.

5. White America

Spencer says that “The founding population of the United States was primarily Anglo-Saxon and Protestant.”

Have we altogether forgotten the story of the Native Americans? Scholars estimate that by the time European explorers discovered America in the 15th century, there were already more than 50 million people living here. White people, despite what we like to think, were not the first ones here. We put people on reservations and told them not to bother us.

Spencer also says, “Other races inhabited the continent and were often set in conflict or subservience to Whites. Whites alone defined America as a European society and political order.” Spencer is perpetuating a dangerous assumption: that whites were entitled to be here, were entitled to rule over those who fought desperately for the preservation of their homes, land, and cultures, and, too, those whom the earliest settlers brought with them as slaves. This strikes me as a pompous, ridiculously flawed statement. White people staked their claim, and everyone else? Well, they lost their homes, their names, and their dignity.

6. Europe.

I won’t even waste words on Spencer’s first statements. But this one gives me greater pause: “The so-called “refugee crisis” is an invasion, a war without bullets, taking place on the fields of race, religion, sex, and morality. At stake is Europe’s very identity—whether the continent will be the locus of our people’s shared story, or become just another Islamic outpost.”

There are several problems I have with this statement, but here are three things worth mentioning:

a. Since Spencer uses the words “another Islamic outpost,” perhaps it would behoove us to consider that, behind Christianity, Islam is the second largest religious belief system in Europe. It entered Europe as early as the 7th century. Let’s think about this for a minute. The first American colony (Jamestown, Virginia) was founded in 1607. That means Islam had 1,000 years to percolate into the European society before Europe sent its first settlers to the New World. Perhaps, from this, we can ascertain that Islam was as much part of the European population as Roman Catholicism and Christianity. Perhaps there was even a possibility that some of the early American settlers practiced the religion of Islam.

b. If the Islamic religion lived in the European culture for 1,000 years, isn’t it more accurate to say that an Islamic outpost should be included in Europe’s identity? That is, if we’re operating under the declaration that America is a manifestation of Europe’s identity, would Islam not be included within that umbrella as part of Europe’s history?

c. I won’t even delve deeply into the violent words Spencer uses to describe the refugee crisis and all the assumptions that play into it.

7. The family.

“The family—a man and woman in a loving relationship that produces offspring—is an essential, indispensable foundation for a healthy and functioning society” is what Spencer says.

Boy, this is hard to wrap my mind around. My mother was a single mother. So, by Spencer’s definition, my mother was not “an essential, indispensable foundation for a healthy and functioning society.” I have very good friends who are married but have chosen not to have children. By Spencer’s definition, these couples are not, “an essential, indispensable foundation for a healthy and functioning society.” Some of my favorite friends are gay, lesbian, transgender, bisexual, and by Spencer’s definition, they are not “an essential, indispensable foundation for a healthy and functioning society.”

I beg to differ.

8. Human nature.

“Man is not a blank slate on which to be written, nor was he born a guileless, noble savage. Human nature—the reality of race, sex, heritability, and innate endowments—is the most powerful force shaping individuals, families, societies, and nations,” Spencer says.

Once again, let’s turn to the good old dictionary for a definition of human nature. “The general psychological characteristics, feelings, and behavioral traits of humankind, regarded as shared by all humans.” By definition, human nature is not race, gender, heritability or, as Spencer calls them, “innate endowments.” Human nature is what we think, feel, and do. It is part of our psychology and neurology, not part of our biology. It’s a subtle difference, and one that will not be noticed by those who aren’t looking closely enough. So the very foundation of Spencer’s statement is moot.

What’s more, human nature is a copout. It’s an excuse, a rationality for the banality of violence, prejudice, and pomposity that has become a defining characteristic of certain populations within our country. Human nature is NOT the most powerful force shaping individuals, families, societies and nations. How we shape our human nature, the ways we subdue our human nature (which generally tends toward self-protection, self-rights, self-preservation), how we use our carefully shaped, lovingly informed human nature to accomplish things within the realm of human rights is what shapes individuals, families, societies and nations.

I believe it was Jean-Jacques Rousseau who said, “We do not know what our nature permits us to be.” That is precisely why we actively, perhaps even obsessively, work to shape our human nature so that it remains pliable to truth, resistant to rhetoric, and sensitive to the multitude of human liberties. With much practice, our human nature can become, rather than self-focused, other-focused. It won’t happen without practice and work.

9. Women and sex

“Women, as mothers and caregivers, are key to the future of our race and civilization. We oppose feminism, deviancy, the futile denial of biological reality, and everything destructive to healthy relations between men and women,” Spencer says.

(Cue the screeching of a record, or maybe, more accurately, nails against a chalkboard.) Wait, wait, wait. Am I reading this wrong, or is Spencer implying that my value and worth as a woman is tied up in being a mother and a caregiver? What century are we living in?

I am a feminist. I will be a feminist until my dying day. I will fight for equal rights in the workplace, equal rights in the home, equal rights in society. I contribute just as much as a man does to both the future of civilization and the fabric of the American workplace. I’m happy doing both, but don’t pigeonhole me into a corner that says my only key to the future of this civilization (I won’t even use the term race) is my ability to be a mother and a caregiver. I’m not the least bit interested in that kind of civilization.

(And this comes from a mother of six children.)

I’m tired. I haven’t even made it through half of Spencer’s statements. I haven’t even gotten to his other points: foreign affairs, speech, firearms, globalization, the left, economics, urban life, the natural world, the ’68ers, education, and personal duties.

Like I said, I’m tired.

But maybe you’re getting my point, which is this: Question everything. Analyze everything. Think critically about what you’re reading and what you’re seeing. Filter it through your own beliefs and ideologies, yes, but look deeper into the nuances of rhetoric and language, which, clearly, not enough people do anymore. Take nothing at face value. See the whole picture. Don’t be content with blind spots. Rip them open, fill them with information, and work actively to change your own internal biases (and we all have them. If you think you don’t, go here: https://implicit.harvard.edu/implicit/).

Be a study of human nature. Learn your own psychology. Shape it for the better. You’ll be doing the world a favor. Be munificent (a word that is a step above generous) in your lack of assumptions. Respond, don’t react.

And as for Spencer and my friend, I can say, wholeheartedly, that I do not and will likely not ever identify with the alt-right movement, nor will I likely ever understand it. There are too many paradoxes, indignities, and blatant contradictions to what it means to be human, what it means to be in community, what it means to be LOVE.

The danger in not reading things as they are presented to us (and the world has a really hard time with this because attention spans are spastic), is that we don’t get the whole picture. I’d prescribe some other deep reading, including but not limited to:

And I’ll leave you with some of my favorite words from some of my favorite human beings, whose voices would have continued being silenced if not for the civil rights movement, one piece of what has made America the melting pot it is today.

“Goddamnit, look! We live here and they live there. We black and they white. They got things and we ain’t. They do things and we can’t. It’s just like livin’ in jail.”

—Richard Wright, Native Son

“If the concept of God has any validity or any use, it can only be to make us larger, freer, and more loving. If God cannot do this, then it is time we got rid of Him.”

—James Baldwin, The Fire Next Time

“Americans, unhappily, have the most remarkable ability to alchemize all bitter truths into an innocuous but piquant confection and to transform their moral contradictions, or public discussion of such contradictions, into a proud decoration, such as are given for heroism on the field of battle.”

—James Baldwin, Notes of a Native Son

“In this country American means white. Everybody else has to hyphenate.”