The Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Marches in Memphis with Ralph Abernathy (right). His message in Memphis Is More Sobering Than his I Have a dream speech five years earlier.

This weekend the nation celebrates the birth of the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.

But does the nation know him as much as we claim? Do we understand the message he plaintively preached while in his full maturity — at the height of his intellectual and moral power?

The incomplete narrative Americans embrace about King focuses preponderantly on his formative years as a civil rights leader between 1956 and 1963. This was a period when King’s public theology was developing but not yet tested by the many pernicious racial experiences encountered as he ministered across the country over a span of a 13-year ministry.

There are two general narratives on King: The early-narrative King and the late-narrative King.

The early-narrative King is characterized by the Montgomery boycott movement and King’s work with Rosa Parks, E.D. Nixon and Ralph Abernathy. The famous I Have A Dream speech at the Lincoln Memorial in the summer of 1963 also stands at the center of early-narrative King paradigm. So does his fight against segregation in Birmingham where King writes his famous epistle from jail.

Each of these early-narratives of King evoke his implacable democratic optimism, irrepressible civic liberalism, and a universal agape love. They characterize King as an ebullient emissary of democracy.

But King died in 1968, nearly five years after the March on Washington. By that time he had run the gauntlet of American racism — experiencing its totalizing effects in cities as diverse as St. Augustine, Florida and Albany, Georgia, and as different as Paris, Tennessee and Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.

The result was the formation the late-narrative King witnessed by Americans from 1965 — after the Selma campaign — until his death.

The late-narrative King possesses a fuller grasp of social evil and complexities of democracy; he is wiser and more ponderous. His persona is seasoned and sober. Gone is the exuberant optimism of I Have A Dream speech.

By 1968 — when King gave his Mountaintop speech in Memphis, Tennessee while protesting with the city’s sanitation workers — he was clearly more cautious about the American cultural terrain, its military industrial complex and the predatory propensities of casino capitalism.

King’s unbounded buoyancy of the state of American democracy had diminished. Gone was the adrenaline about easily transcending the dreaded “three evils of American materialism, militarism and racism.”

The mature King was emergent in his Mountaintop sermon. The extemporaneous speech was admonishing, rebuking, cautionary. While retaining hopefulness, it reprimanded the path America would take if it failed to reverse the monstrous apartheid system it created.

In the Mountaintop speech King’s soaring oratory blends with warning and foreboding about the consequences of social sin. Political intransigence mired in the muck of unremitting racial practices in the North and the South are treated as adumbrations of civic death. Racial income inequalities are treated with rebuke. The dignity of the striking garbage workers are asserted with unapologetic force.

Black Garbage Workers Protest 50 Years Ago. (Photo Credit: Walter Reuther Library)

The irony is that while we celebrate his birth, King’s most consequential message was delivered on the night before his death. It’s an unforgiving message shot through with deep moral expression and a concern for the survival of American democracy.

Clearly, at the time of his death, King had cast his vision and social justice efforts toward the plights of those suffering in the inner cities — working against the poverty and hyper-segregation that consigned its residents into the economic and political margins.

In his last public message, King was demanding that we become increasingly committed to creating a “new Atlanta, a new Philadelphia, a new Los Angeles, a new Memphis, Tennessee.”

The prescriptions King espoused at the end of his life should be reflected upon as remedies for the nation today and beyond.Amr Alfiky / Reuters

The debate over U.S. immigration policy is a very personal one for me. It’s about my family’s history and the hardships they faced coming to America. It is also about who we are and who we aspire to be as an American people.

In the waning days of the Ottoman Empire, my father’s family, like many others in the mountains of Lebanon, facing economic hardship, sent their oldest son, Habib, then only 14 years old, to America to start a new life, plant roots, and pave the way for the rest of the family to join him.

A few years after Habib left, facing increased pressures from the raging World War, the family was forced to leave their village seeking safety in the Bekaa Valley. Conditions were not good and my grandfather became ill and died in exile leaving my grandmother with six children, the oldest being my father, Joseph, who was then 20.

The war ended, the family returned to their village, and after a time learned that Habib had opened a small business and was asking that they join him in America. They secured visas and embarked on the arduous journey to the New World.

My father was waylaid in Marseille where in an act of great kindness he gave his visa to a Lebanese woman who was visa-less and desperate to join her family in the U.S. While he thought he could apply and receive another visa, he was shocked to discover that visas had been frozen for Syrians (which is what the Lebanese were called then).

In the 1920s, the U.S. Congress was in the grips of a nativist xenophobic fervor. Congressional debates termed Syrians as “parasites” with one Senator saying, “we don’t need any more Syrian trash coming here.” Visas for Syrians and other “undesirable countries” were to remain frozen for almost three decades.

Facing an uncertain and lonely future in France, my father secured a position on a ship leaving for Canada. On arrival, he disembarked and eventually made his way across the border into the U.S. to find his family in Upstate New York.

Undocumented, he lived in fear for a decade, sometimes forced into hiding, until in the mid-1930s he benefited from an amnesty program. He finally became a proud naturalized American citizen in 1942.

My family’s trajectory in the New World is like that of many immigrants. I often look at the picture of my grandmother and her seven children when they were first united on my father’s arrival. They looked gaunt and a bit haggard, but with the proud smiles of a family that after a decade of war, loss, and the hardship they had to endure, knew they were beginning a new life together.

From that little band of eight, great things were to follow. Collectively, three generations of Zogbys are an extended family that has founded dozens of businesses creating employment for hundreds of our fellow Americans. Among us are doctors, lawyers, professors and teachers, elected and appointed officials, members of the military and law enforcement, and others who have distinguished themselves in other forms of public and social service. All of them, are proud contributing members of American life.

In short, this is my story. I am the son of an undocumented immigrant from a once reviled country and a member of a family that benefited from provisions that allowed for families to be unified.

What, to me, is remarkable about our story is that it is not remarkable, at all. Millions of Americans can tell the same story because it is the American story. It is who we are.

Given this personal history, I recoil in disgust at the way some Republicans and President Trump have attempted to reframe the terms of the immigration discussion and, in the process, have denigrated our American story. “Family unification” has come to be termed as “chain migration”. The “diversity lottery” that has provided opportunities for immigrants from countries once excluded from the old quota system that favored northwest Europe, is now spoken of with a snarl (or, more recently, by our President, as immigrants from “shithole” countries). Immigrants and refugees from the country from which my family fled, escaping war and hardship, are now banned. My father would be described as an “illegal”. “Compassionate Amnesty” that allowed my father to stay and become a citizen is now a taboo term. And, if it were not for amnesty, my sister, brother, and I would be seen as “anchor babies” or as “Dreamers”.

And so, this is a very personal issue for me and should be for all Americans. As I look at the Republicans who are leading the charge against immigration and those working to reframe the debate casting immigrants and refugees in disgraceful and racist terms, I see descendants of Germans, Irish, Italians, and Jews — all of whom were once reviled, locked out, and victims of bigotry.

Tragically, this inclination to forget our history, to succeed in America and then try to close the door and exclude those seeking to take advantage of the same opportunities that benefited our ancestors, is also part of our American story.

In every generation, these two threads of our national narrative — the one that advocated for openness and the other that was exclusionary — have been in competition. In the past, because of hard work and the fact that some leaders listened to “the voices of our better angels”, the vision of the welcoming “Lady in the Harbor” has won out. It is our fight today to make sure she wins again. The soul of America is at stake. We dare not lose.The Trump administration on Friday told Kentucky it can go ahead with its controversial Medicaid overhaul ― an initiative that would reduce benefits, require some beneficiaries to work, and generally make it more difficult for people to stay on the program.

Administration officials and their Kentucky counterparts have portrayed the plan as a way to improve the health of low-income residents and encourage self-sufficiency among poor but able-bodied adults. “The result will be a transformational improvement in the overall health of our people and will provide a model for other states to follow,” Matt Bevin, the state’s Republican governor, said at a press conference Friday.

But there’s scant evidence that Kentucky’s changes will have the effects that Bevin and his allies are promising. In fact, of the roughly 95,000 people expected to lose coverage, some will almost surely be people who are working ― or have reasons why they can’t work ― but who failed to satisfy the new system’s paperwork requirements.

Almost by definition, the people likely to lose coverage already have some combination of financial and medical problems, and without coverage, both are likely to get worse. It’s not clear how much this worries Bevin and his allies in Washington ― or whether it worries them at all.

In the new scheme, most working-age adults in Kentucky would have to demonstrate that they have spent at least 80 hours a month working or engaged in employment-related activities, like searching for a job or performing community service. Many would also have to pay premiums, of up to $15 a month.

Anyone who does not pay their premiums or submit paperwork to show their eligibility would lose their coverage and would not be able to reapply for six months, although people who don’t pay premiums could restore coverage by completing a financial literacy course (the details of which aren’t yet clear).

The Kentucky initiative also eliminates a transportation benefit, designed to get poor people to the doctor or hospital when they don’t have the means to do so. And it ends “retroactive” eligibility, under which Medicaid covers bills from the past three months for people who sign up for Medicaid only after they’ve had a medical episode that landed them in the hospital.

Kentucky’s proposal is likely to prompt legal challenges. If it survives, then the result will almost certainly be a smaller Medicaid program. Both the state and the federal government would likely end up spending less money than they would otherwise. But fewer people would be on Medicaid: The number of beneficiaries would drop by roughly 95,000 within five years, according to official state estimates.

By comparison, Kentucky’s total Medicaid enrollment ― including kids on the Children’s Health Insurance Program ― is about 1.25 million right now, according to official statistics.

In theory, the new requirements would not affect children, the elderly, pregnant women, primary caregivers or the “medically frail,” because Kentucky’s proposal explicitly exempts them. But those categories are narrower than they might seem, experts warned Friday as they pored over the final proposal and checked it against previous versions. (Every analyst studying it has warned that their conclusions are still a little tentative.)

“Medically frail,” for example, doesn’t appear to include people with serious chronic diseases that make jobs difficult to find and keep. And the new paperwork requirements will be difficult for some people to satisfy ― because they can’t get the right documentation, for example, or because overwhelmed state offices won’t be responsive to questions.

As a result, some people who remain eligible for Medicaid will almost surely end up losing coverage anyway. It’s happened that way before, when states introduced work requirements for food stamps and straightforward cash assistance.

Most coverage of KY Medicaid waiver focuses on work req. but just as important are multiple "lockouts" if you don't pay your premium, report a change in income, or miss a paperwork deadline you are forced to be uninsured for 6 months. Too high a price to pay. — Joan Alker (@JoanAlker1) January 12, 2018

“The policy could allow many people to fall through the cracks, including those with chronic health conditions, and those with mental health or substance use disorders such as opioid addiction,” Hannah Katch, a senior analyst at the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, told HuffPost. “And for those who are eligible for an exemption, the policy could still require someone who is medically frail, for example, to jump through administrative hoops to demonstrate that they are eligible for an exemption.”

Kentucky isn’t the only state that wants to impose these kinds of restrictions on Medicaid. Nearly a dozen states have similar requests sitting in Washington, awaiting approval from the Trump administration that they’re almost certain to get. More could follow soon.

Friday’s approval of Kentucky’s new plan came one day after the Trump administration announced it would approve work requirements. This represented a considerable policy shift. Previously, the Obama administration had rejected such requests, arguing that work requirements violate Medicaid’s guarantee of health care for poor people. These are the same arguments that advocates for the poor are likely to make if and when they sue to block the changes.

Trump administration officials, like their Kentucky counterparts, know this. In their letter approving the proposal, they previewed their defense by making the same argument they did on Thursday ― that requiring able-bodied Medicaid recipients to work would improve their health outcomes and help them become familiar with the way private health insurance works. That is why, the administration said, it was within its rights to approve Kentucky’s request as a “demonstration project.”

But there’s very little evidence to suggest Kentucky’s overhaul will improve health outcomes, and quite a lot of evidence to suggest it will actually worsen them. Multiple studies, some of them focusing on Kentucky specifically, have shown that giving people Medicaid makes them healthier and more financially secure, which in turn makes it easier for them to find and hold on to jobs.

There is also little reason to think these changes would make Kentucky’s Medicaid program more efficient. On the contrary, new requirements such as checking to make sure people have jobs will inevitably require more administrative work ― not just for the people who want Medicaid, but for the state government as well.

Retroactive eligibility ― a key if underappreciated provision of Medicaid in most states ― doesn’t simply help low-income people avoid crippling medical debt. It also helps finance the operation of safety net hospitals. Ending it, as Kentucky plans to do, would likely hurt both. When another state, Indiana, experimented with having Medicaid recipients contribute toward the cost of their Medicaid, large numbers did not, and they ended up losing coverage as a result.

Those are just some of the reasons to think the real motivation for these changes has little to do with health outcomes, efficiency or the economy as a whole. A more plausible explanation is that Republican officials ― including Bevin and Seema Verma, the Trump administration official in charge of Medicaid ― think too many able-bodied adults are on the program. In fact, Verma has said this explicitly before.

Many Americans ― quite possibly most ― would have no problem linking Medicaid and work. But nearly 80 percent of people on Medicaid are already in families where somebody is employed, and nearly 60 percent work themselves, according to data from the Henry J. Kaiser Family Foundation. And of those who don’t work, most are in school or caring for a family member, or have a medical condition that they say prevents them from working. Other studies have yielded similar findings.

That all of this should be happening in Kentucky is ironic. Although a relatively conservative state, smack in the heart of what now qualifies as Trump country, Kentucky enthusiastically embraced the Affordable Care Act when it became law. It took advantage of new federal money to expand its Medicaid program, so it would be available to all people with incomes below or just above the poverty line.

Between 2013 and 2016, the share of Kentucky’s residents without insurance fell from 20.4 percent to 7.8 percent. That was the single biggest drop of any state in the country.

But that change took place while Steve Beshear, a Democratic governor enthusiastic about helping poor people get health insurance, was in charge. Bevin, his successor and a loud critic of “Obamacare,” campaigned on a promise to roll back the expansion. Although he backed off that promise ― perhaps because many of those who supported him would have been among the hundreds of thousands losing coverage ― he has continued to suggest Medicaid needs radical changes because, he says, it encourages dependency.

Bevin has also made a threat that if he can’t get his way on the work requirement and other changes, he will go ahead and roll back the expansion after all. That would leave a much larger number of Kentucky residents, perhaps approaching half a million, without health insurance.Helen Mirren was a year ahead of her time.

The British Academy Award-winning actress had the most uplifting reaction to finding out she was a year younger than she’d thought on Thursday’s broadcast of “The Ellen DeGeneres Show.”

Mirren was utterly convinced that she was 73, and she couldn’t contain her delight when host Ellen DeGeneres and the show’s producers informed her she was in fact only 72.

“This is fantastic. This is amazing. I’ve just made a whole year. Wow,” said Mirren.

“The Leisure Seeker” star explained how it wasn’t the first time she’d gotten confused over her age, as both she and her husband recently incorrectly thought they were 74.

“So we both went ‘oh this is fantastic we’ve got a whole year, a whole extra year,’” said Mirren. “And now I’ve got a whole other year. This is amazing. Thank you.”

AdvertisementMeghan McCain and her co-hosts on “The View” wasted no time Friday morning before launching into a response to White House aide Kelly Sadler’s shockingly insensitive comment on Meghan McCain’s father, Arizona Sen. John McCain (R), who is battling cancer.

“Don’t feel bad for me or for my family,” Meghan McCain, 33, said on the show. “We’re really strong.”

She also took a swipe at President Donald Trump’s White House.

“I don’t understand the kind of environment you’re working in where that would be acceptable and you could come into work the next day and still have a job,” she said.

John McCain, 81, has been vocal about his opposition to Trump’s pick to lead the Central Intelligence Agency, Gina Haspel.

Sadler mocked the senator’s illness in front of about two dozen communications staffers during a closed-door meeting on Thursday, The Hill first reported and other outlets confirmed.

“It doesn’t matter. He’s dying anyway,” she reportedly said.

Another White House official told CNN that the joke “fell flat.” White House press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders refused to comment on Sadler’s remark, saying she would not “validate a leak.”

On “The View,” Meghan McCain said her father is “actually doing really well right now.”

“Kelly, here’s a little news flash,” she continued, “This may be a bit intense for 11 o’clock on a Friday morning, but we’re all dying.”

“It’s not how you die. It’s how you live,” she added.

John McCain issued a statement Wednesday urging his colleagues to stand against Haspel, citing “her involvement in the so-called enhanced interrogation program” after 9/11. “Her refusal to acknowledge torture’s immorality is disqualifying,” he wrote.

If approved, Haspel will fill the spot left vacant by Mike Pompeo, who was confirmed as secretary of state last month, replacing Rex Tillerson.

John McCain was held as a prisoner and tortured during the Vietnam War and has used his platform in government to campaign against such harsh techniques.

In July, he announced that he was diagnosed with primary glioblastoma, a type of brain cancer.

Cindy McCain, his wife of nearly 38 years, rebuked Sadler directly on Twitter:

@kellysadler45 May I remind you my husband has a family, 7 children and 5 grandchildren. — Cindy McCain (@cindymccain) May 10, 2018

A Fox Business Network guest this week, retired Air Force Lt. Gen. Thomas McInerney, argued in favor of torture techniques by alleging they “worked” on John McCain in Vietnam.

“That’s why they call him ‘Songbird John,’” McInerney said.

Fox Business host Charles Payne later apologized for the comment, saying he did not hear it at the time because he “had the control room in his ear telling me to wrap the segment.”

On Twitter, Cindy McCain told Payne and Fox Business, “Please choose your guest more wisely.”

“I just really want to emphasize, it was a hard day yesterday,” Meghan McCain said of McInerney’s comment. “But I get to come into work surrounded by women I love, and my father’s legacy is going to be talked about for hundreds and hundreds of years.”Stephen Colbert made a gross guess about what President Donald Trump really gets up to during his so-called “executive time” on Friday’s “Late Show.”

Axios recently reported that Trump’s daily schedule was getting shorter and that he dedicated several hours of the day to “executive time” ― which allegedly consist of him watching television or tweeting while alone.

Colbert suggested an alternative theory, however, which he then backed up with examples.Jesse Jackson campaigns for president in 1984 at a stop in Texas. Cheryl Chenet/Corbis via Getty Images

When the Rev. Jesse Jackson announced in November that he’d been diagnosed with Parkinson’s disease, he was not spared by the ruthless news cycle.

Jackson’s name scrolled along bright red tickers for only the brief, intermittent moments between chaos. His announcement was largely crowded out by news of the GOP tax bill and sexual assault allegations against Democratic Sen. Al Franken. As his revelation traveled across the Web, unfounded rumors of his imminent death caused a brief reflection on what Jackson meant to his nation.

But Jackson’s legacy is worthy of deeper scrutiny — albeit a scrutiny spurred by his ill condition — particularly as the United States feels the tremors from waves he helped create.

Race is the most potent force in American politics, and no one has navigated it and manipulated it for longer, and with greater stature, than the Rev. Jesse Jackson. His complicated history reveals one whose influence is perhaps further reaching and more implicative of our nation than any other since its beginnings.

Barack Obama’s presidency unveiled a flood of overt racism that has, to date, imperiled the United States domestically and exposed the nation abroad. And to credit Obama for this is also to credit Jackson for providing Obama with a methodology for political success, thus influencing the arc of our national history in incomparable ways.

Jesse Jackson with then-Sen. Barack Obama (D-Ill.) as the 109th Congress is sworn in on Jan. 4, 2005. Tom Williams via Getty Images

In the 1970s, Jackson emerged as the civil rights movement’s foremost vestige. He’d outlived or outgrown his cadre of activist contemporaries from the late-1960s — the Rev. Martin Luther King Jr. among them — and spent a significant portion of the decade compiling a portfolio of global activist work.

By the 1984 Democratic primaries, Jackson had reified himself in American culture as a thought leader on civil rights, to the dismay of some who’d accused him of carpetbagging for years, and any study of Jackson’s political significance requires noting the privileges afforded him. A concoction of racism and sexism had, up to then, inhibited Americans from allowing black women to ascend similarly in politics, even though a Shirley Chisholm or Barbara Jordan may have been more qualified.

Nonetheless, Jackson consolidated enough heft among Southern blacks and disillusioned whites to win contests in Louisiana, Mississippi and South Carolina during his 1984 bid.

His soaring speech at the 1984 Democratic National Convention conceded victory to his opponents, but it provided a framework for Democratic politics that still holds.

“Our flag is red, white and blue, but our nation is a rainbow ― red, yellow, brown, black and white,” Jackson said, “and we’re all precious in God’s sight.”

Jackson concluded his speech by professing, “Our time has come. Suffering breeds character. Character breeds faith. In the end, faith will not disappoint.”

Twenty years later, these broad appeals to human goodness would characterize Obama’s foray into national politics and ultimately identify the Democratic Party as a whole.

When, in his famous address at the 2004 Democratic National Convention, Obama said “there is not a black America, and a white America, and Latino America and Asian America — there’s the United States,” he, too, was making the proclamation to white Americans and not the black, Latino or Asian Americans who knew otherwise.

At their heights, Jackson and Obama mastered such sermons to white Americans about their greater selves. Disregarding the validity of these arguments, the political expediency in them is clear: Historically, politicians have stood a greater chance at coalescing white voters by assuring them of their good faith, not by citing injustices that favor them.

This strategy proved fruitful for Jackson in the 1988 election cycle. Jackson tripled his share of white voters from 1984 to 1988, improved upon his support in the South and captured victories in 13 contests, including Michigan. His failed-but-competitive candidacy modeled a path forward for Democrats, who, as today, sought to encircle rural white voters in the electorate when it seemed they’d secured the black vote reliably.

Obama praised Jackson during his 2008 candidacy, saying he “set a precedent for African Americans running for the highest office in the land.”

The Rev. Jesse Jackson hugs former New York congresswoman and presidential candidate Shirley Chisholm in 1983 after announcing his candidacy for the U.S. presidency. Cheryl Chenet/Corbis via Getty Images

America’s first black president inflicted a psychic trauma upon his nation.

In his absence, it becomes easier to interpret Obama’s presidency as a denouement in the American experiment. The semblance of order and rightness during Obama’s reign has been followed by overt racist fragility, lawlessness and grift, and studies link these shifts to a national recoil to the first black president and his accompanying implications.

A majority of white Americans now believe whites face racial discrimination in the U.S., with a near-majority of Trump voters believing whites face more discrimination than any other group. And ahead of the 2016 election, polling found that 72 percent of registered Republicans expressed doubt about Obama’s citizenship.

Tracing this all back, it was Jackson’s 1984 and 1988 presidential campaigns that provided Obama with a blueprint for electoral success.

The Rev. Jesse Jackson speaks with reporters aboard a plane during a 1988 campaign stop in Ohio. Diana Walker via Getty Images

American media has frequently portrayed Jesse Jackson as a cabal leader whose sycophants — 40 million-plus blacks in the U.S. — animate at his whim.

In a 2013 segment, for example, Fox News host Tucker Carlson confessed that he didn’t “know how [he felt] about George Zimmerman,” who fatally shot 17-year old Trayvon Martin in Florida, but that he was “positive that people like Jesse Jackson and Al Sharpton do not deserve to be called civil rights leaders,” after he accused them of inflaming racial tension.

His is a name which riddles racist message boards and comment threads.

This assignment of messianic stature has always caricatured Jackson in many ways.

But the enduring question concerning him, lobbed earnestly from his good-faith dissenters and cynically from those opposed to his anti-racist activism, concerns whether or when his willingness to engage for the sake of political access is driven by self-interest.

When, for example, candidate Bill Clinton campaigned at Jackson’s 1992 Rainbow Coalition conference and denounced musician Sister Souljah for her remarks about race in America, Jackson labeled Clinton’s behavior a “character flaw.”

When, as president, Clinton endorsed the 1994 crime bill, Jackson professed black voters would be best served by not granting their power “without merit” to Democrats in the South.

When Clinton signed a 1995 law to retain disparate sentences for crack and powder cocaine, Jackson deemed it a “moral disgrace” and suggested Clinton sacrificed “young black youth for white fear.”

But in 1996, when it came time to endorse Clinton, Jackson did so on the stage of the Democratic National Convention.

It is reasonable to attribute these decisions to pragmatism — to deem them the begrudged acts of a conflicted man. But when juxtaposed against Jackson’s more recent history, the result is a Rorschach test: He means something to everyone, and that something varies greatly from person to person.

President Bill Clinton embraces Jesse Jackson at a Rainbow/Push Coalition event in New York City in 2000. Reuters

Jackson’s wavering politics on matters of abortion and end-of-life rights soured many, and news of his extramarital affair in 2001 disappointed those who expected more of their civil rights icons.

His initial reticence to support Obama, and his later comments condemning Obama and calling for his castration, cleaved his support among blacks and ostracized those already skeptical of his motives.

And presently, in a rapidly changing activist environment guided by a vast, non-centralized network of teens and twenty- and thirtysomethings, Jackson has seen his esteem wane among some who, at once, may be unfamiliar with his bona fides but also wish to depart from his style of leadership.

Further, Jackson is a black man who, uniquely, saw his name establish enough clout to garner political favor for his family, and he eventually saw that favor ensnare his family in scandal.

But he is also one who exposed the truth about American activism: that it is inherently desperate work. One is driven to act only in response to some sort of outside, unbearable pressure. And the urgency with which those enduring this pressure seek to alleviate it — either for themselves or their community — can beget strange bedfellows, because the underlying objectification in allyship is clear: In a white male-driven society, accessing the levers of power often requires partnering with, and using, those who deem your cause unworthy.Rep. John Lewis (D-Ga.) blasted President Donald Trump’s characterization of Haiti and African nations as “shitholes,” adding that being racist “must be” in Trump’s DNA.

“It’s frightening to have someone in the office of the president in 2018 speaking the way that he’s speaking,” the civil rights legend told Katie Tur on MSNBC on Friday.

Lewis was one of several U.S. and international leaders who condemned Trump’s comment in an Oval Office meeting with lawmakers Thursday. Trump reportedly referred to Haiti and African nations as “shithole” countries, and slammed proposals to restore protections for their immigrants, most of whom are black. He wondered why more people from places like Norway weren’t immigrating to the U.S.

Lewis called it “unreal” and “unbelievable” to “hear the president of the United States of America saying something like this.” He added: “We’re one people, we’re one family. We all live in the same house, the American house. I don’t think language like this is in keeping with the future of our country, the future of the planet.”

He said Trump’s “words and his actions tend to speak like one who knows something about being a racist. It must in his DNA, in his makeup.”

Lewis said the president “must be a leader. He must be a headlight and not a taillight.”

Lewis plans to skip the president’s State of the Union address Jan. 30 because, he said, he cannot in “all good conscience” be in the same room with the president “with what he has said about so many Americans. I just cannot do it. I wouldn’t be honest with myself.”

When Tur asked what Martin Luther King Jr. would say to Trump if he were alive today, Lewis, who marched with King during the civil rights movement, responded: “Mr. President, wake up. You need to do what is right. You need to do what is fair. You need to be a little more human. And respect the dignity and the worth of every human being. And stop putting people down because of their race, their color or their nationality.”

Lewis clashed dramatically with Trump shortly after he won the presidential race when the congressman questioned the legitimacy of Trump’s victory in the face of Russian interference in the election. Trump shot back, calling Lewis’ Atlanta district “crime infested.”

In December, Lewis refused to attend the opening of the Mississippi Civil Rights Museum because Trump’s planned attendance and his “hurtful policies are an insult to the people portrayed,” the congressman said in a statement.When Georgia mom Kristin Johnston was pregnant with her son, Theodore, there was no food she craved more than Taco Bell.

So when she did a maternity photo shoot in December, it seemed natural to do it at the place that had given her so much joy during her pregnancy.

“I want to do something a little different,” the 33-year-old mother of two told ABC News. “So I said, ‘I have to take my maternity pictures there. I’m spending so much time and money there with my cravings. That’s the place I’ve got to go.’”

Johnston enlisted her friend Kelly Daniels to take the photos, and they showed up near sundown when the light would be best.

A post shared by Kristin Johnston (@strollersandstilettosblog) on Dec 21, 2017 at 1:18pm PST

The two showed up together at a Taco Bell in Smyrna. Then Daniels just started snapping photos of Johnston, who wore a long red dress accessorized with pearls.

“This was one of those things where I firmly believe that it’s better you ask for forgiveness than permission,” Johnston told Today.com. “Nobody said anything.”

A post shared by Kristin Johnston (@strollersandstilettosblog) on Dec 17, 2017 at 10:08am PST

Once inside, employees did ask what was up but didn’t have a problem with it. It helped that Johnston purchased food, including her No. 1 pregnancy craving: the Nacho Cheese Doritos Locos Tacos Supreme.

Courtesy of Kristin Johnston/Kelly Daniels at Cosmic Creativ

Johnson gave birth on Jan. 5 to her second child, Theodore, whom she brought home from the hospital the next day.

The complete photo shoot can be seen at Johnston’s blog, Strollers and Stilettos, where she posted possible plans for a future maternity shoot.

“Maybe God-willing we will be blessed with a third and I can take one of those stunning mountaintop or beachside photos, but for now, I felt inspired to have my maternity shoot at one of my favorite places, a place that I can turn to anytime I get a craving or just don’t have the energy to cook dinner - a place that many of us have a fondness for in our hearts - TACO BELL.”“Game of Thrones” star Maisie Williams jokingly added some more names to her character’s chilling mental file of who she’s seeking revenge on during Friday’s broadcast of “The Graham Norton Show.”Forget for a brief moment Trump’s vile, unabashed racist “shithole nations” slur of Haiti and African nations. This was simply Trump being Trump. There were two more telling things that came out of the latest Trump debacle.

The first is what the GOP senators in the room with him said and did about the slurs. They ducked, dodged, denied, and played a hear no evil, see no evil, game. When the public furor couldn’t be ignored any longer, they retreated into silence. The one exception was South Carolina Senator Lindsay Graham. When the heat got to much, he belatedly claimed that he chided Trump, reminding him that this is a nation of diversity, not of race. Now, all we have is Graham’s word that he dressed his party’s titular head down for his racism. Maybe yes, maybe no. The point is that whatever he did or said came after the fact.

The other even more telling thing is that anyone would be the least bit surprised that the GOP’s wise men said and did nothing about Trump’s slurs. Trump’s slurs, then his denials, and then his clam up about it, was simply Trump taking his cue from his party.

On a cable talk show appearance in 2010, Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell flatly refused several direct, angled, and nuanced efforts to discuss racism in the Tea Party. McConnell’s none too subtle refusal to weigh in on the issue was in direct response to the NAACP’s resolution demanding that the Tea Party speak out, and speak out loudly against the racists among them.

Long before the NAACP stirred debate on Tea Party racism with its resolution, a legion of Democrats, civil rights leaders, and even an online petition from an advocacy group begged the GOP to speak out against its naked bigots. No go.

There’s a good reason. The GOP would cut its throat if it denounced its racists and racism, and really meant it. The shouts, taunts, spitting, catcalls, Obama as Joker posters, n-word slurs, Confederate and Texas Lone Star flag waving by some Tea Party activists, and the deafening silence from GOP leaders during Obama’s early years in office, was and still very much is an indispensable political necessity for the party.

Trump has time and again when he gets caught with his racist drawers down bragged that he’s just as popular as ever with his base. That being white, male, rural, evangelical, with no college degree. He’s right about that and the polls pretty much back him up. The point is when he pops off they love it, and slap their thighs with howls of laughter. To them that’s Trump telling the GOP establishment and anyone else to shove it, and saying it in the vilest of street language. The “shithole nations” dig was no exception. The only add-on to that was that he crudely said what legions of his backer’s believe and fear about immigrants of color allegedly flooding this country from alleged hellholes like Haiti and African nations.

The spark to reignite the GOP’s traditional conservative, white male loyalists, and increasingly white female supporters, has always been there. The GOP could not have been competitive during the 2008 and 2012 campaigns, and most importantly the 2016 campaign, without the bailout from white male voters. Much has been made that they are a dwindling percent of the electorate, and that Hispanics, Asian, black, young, and women voters will permanently tip the balance of political power to the Democrats in coming national elections. Blue-collar white voters have shrunk from more than half of the nation’s voters to less than 40 percent.

The assumption, based solely on this slide and the increased minority population numbers and regional demographic changes, is that Trump and the GOP’s white vote strategy is doomed to fail. This ignores three political facts: 1) Elections are usually won by candidates with a solid and impassioned core of bloc voters; 2) White males, particularly older white males, vote consistently and faithfully; 3) they voted in a far greater percentage than Hispanics and blacks.

The GOP leaders have long known that blue-collar and a significant percent of college educated, white male voters, who are professionals, can be easily aroused to vote and shout loudly on the emotional wedge issues, with immigration now front and center on the list.

These are the voters that GOP presidents and aspiring presidents, Nixon, Reagan, Bush Sr. and George W. Bush, McCain and Romney, and an endless line of GOP governors, senators and congresspersons have banked on for victory and to seize and maintain regional and national political dominance.

The GOP Senators in the room that day with Trump, when he took his racist shot really didn’t hear him say anything racist. With elections to win, they couldn’t afford to.

Earl Ofari Hutchinson is an author and political analyst. He is the author of the forthcomingThe Oslo Court in Norway where a trial has been taking place after the Norwegian government was sued by climate activists. Greenpeace Nordic

If you mention “Norway”, people might think of stunning landscapes of raw nature, deep fjords or hand-knitted sweaters to beat the cold.

Some might also think of us as green frontrunners, paving the way for electric cars and one of the first countries in the world to ratify the Paris Climate Agreement. Norwegians are proud of our environmental awareness, but do we deserve to be seen as a country taking our global responsibility seriously in the fight against climate change?

I would love to say so, but sadly it’s far from the truth.

We got new proof of the insatiable Norwegian thirst for Arctic oil last summer when the government opened a new oil frontier in the north, knowing full well that the combustion of oil causes climate change and fuels extreme weather events. In response, Greenpeace and the environmental NGO Nature and Youth took the Norwegian government to court in a historic lawsuit, arguing that drilling for new oil is in violation of the right to a safe and healthy environment for current and future generations, as stated in the Norwegian Constitution.

Ketil Lund former Supreme Court judge representing Grandparents Against Climate Change Truls Gulowsen head of Greenpeace Norway Ingrid Skjoldvaer head of Nature and Youth (left-right). Greenpeace Nordic

A win and a new era of environmental rights

This is the first time that the “environmental article” 112 has been invoked in a Norwegian courtroom. Even though the judge did not ultimately rule in our favour to invalidate the oil licenses, the District Court of Oslo ruled that the right to a healthy environment is indeed protected by the Norwegian Constitution as an individual right – and places on the Norwegian government a duty to uphold it. The court also ruled that this right can be enforced in courts – a significant blow to the government’s position, which strongly advocated against the establishment of a human right to a healthy environment.

It’s therefore hard for me to overstate the importance of this judgement.

By being so clear on the environmental rights, this judgement can open up a whole new era of environmental rights in Norway, and I hope it will also inspire other lawsuits around the world. Around 90 countries have similar constitutional rights to a healthy environment, and this lawsuit can have a ripple effect helping guide other jurisdictions on how to interpret these rights in their legal systems. This is huge!

A bittersweet judgement

However, the Oslo District Court also found the Norwegian government not responsible for breaching the Constitution by granting new licenses for this summer’s oil glut in the pristine Norwegian Arctic waters of the Barents Sea.

For anyone trying to profit from oil-drilling it is convenient that the judgement ignored the internationally accepted concept of a carbon budget. However, there is no way we can keep ignoring responsibility for exported emissions. The very people to whom the court is granting the right to a healthy environment in Norway are the same people affected by climate change caused by burning Norwegian oil anywhere on the planet.

As a Norwegian, global citizen and believer of local solutions to battle the global climate changes we’re all facing, I find it extremely disappointing that we have a government, and now also a court, that neglects Norway’s responsibility for damaging the planet’s climate.

Climate change is indeed a global issue that knows no borders, and needs to be solved as such. It’s simply not acceptable that the government rejects taking responsibility for its greenhouse emissions beyond Norwegian borders. This interpretation of what constitutes a healthy environment and where responsibility ends cannot stand, and has already received severe criticism from legal academics, activists and the financial sector.

My God... Norway... "We are not responsible for emissions caused by us drilling oil and selling it" https://t.co/hpHYj0iucr — Sasja Beslik (@SasjaBeslik) January 5, 2018

If you are producing landmines, you also have to take responsibility for the dire consequences in the minefield. In my view, it is clear that the same principle must apply to decisions to open up new oil fields for oil that the global climate can not afford be burnt.

Not in sync with the Paris Agreement

So, is Norway really that clean? If you scratch the surface, which is what this lawsuit has been all about, you realise we are talking about a government that is aggressively drilling for more new, Arctic oil at the most critical time for our climate.

Norway is the largest producer and exporter of oil and gas in Western Europe. Our exported emissions account for more than 10 times our nationally reported ones, and we are still aggressively searching for more. It should be clear that the government is not in sync with the global climate agreement from Paris nor its own Constitution. It’s scientific consensus that the world has already burnt more oil than we can afford to.

We are now in a process to consider if and how we and our partners in Nature and Youth will appeal this judgement to a higher court. Many experts have already advised us to do so, based on the weak and absurd premise that Norway is not to be held accountable for allowing even more fossil fuel resources, but no final decision has yet been made. Please wish us luck, and advice and support is more than welcome.Carlos Barria / Reuters

The renowned moral philosopher Immanuel Kant’s message was simple: do the right thing and for the right reason. The Republican Party must not have even heard of Kant, much less studied him.

The Republican Party manages miraculously to hang together to pass laws that support their donors and their personal interests, such as was the case in their tax legislation, but they seem to be invisible and amorphous when it comes to upholding morality, values and the average person’s fair shot at success. They say little when President Trump disparages all of Africa, Haitians, Salvadorans, Muslims and billions of humans who are black or brown or who live in developing countries. They espouse family values and are mum when President Trump disparages women and cuts benefits for childcare. They express outrage at sexual misconduct and harassment when the perpetrator is a Democrat, but “launder” accusations against the President. They make inane excuses when Trump utters falsehood after falsehood as if the truth does not matter. I could go on and on but the message is clear. Morality is being pushed aside in favor of passing legislation and executive orders that benefit a privileged few and appeal to the basest of human values. And importantly, what seems to matter is the here and now for the “base” with little consideration for all Americans, the longer-term and wider fallout.

What could Republicans do? They could come together as a party and express their united outrage condemning the president’s statements, tweets and behavior. A vehicle for this could be done through a “sense of the House,” “sense of the Senate,” or “sense of the Congress.” Members of his cabinet and staff could resign and publicly voice the reasons for their inability to serve this president, as has the U.S. ambassador to Panama. If they continue to serve they are simply enablers. A few Republican lawmakers expressing their disbelief or rebuking the President’s behavior and statements carry little moral force. This Republican Congress appears set on destroying the Party of Lincoln in a short span of two years.

What can the Democratic Party do? Develop a platform now in January 2018 to represent Democratic priorities for the long haul, for at least a decade. Include in the platform elements that incorporate tax reform with a commitment to fairness and justice, initiatives that provide fair access to quality education and skill training for all, infrastructure enhancement at the national level, healthcare that is available to all at an affordable cost, a program to control budget deficits and the national debt, and a strong stand against money in politics and gerrymandering. Form small groups of ordinary citizen on each of these critical point in the platform; empower these groups to travel around the U.S. to explain the party’s proposal on the item of their focus, such as tax reform or education; all along committing to informing and interacting with Americans every day of the year and in each and every year, not just in election years.

What can the average citizen do? Americans must take the time to be better informed. They must increase their political participation—vote in each and every election and consider running for political office. Most important, stand up and oppose injustice and wrongdoings at all times, even and especially when it does not affect them directly because someday, and in all likelihood, they will be a victim of a similar injustice.

If the fallout of presidential and party behavior were temporary, one could be less alarmed, but it is not. This behavior is seeping into America’s social and political fabric and dividing the country as never before. Will ethnic and religious minorities — African Americans, Hispanics and Muslims — continue to serve and defend the country with their utmost devotion? With growing disparity, will Americans feel that they have fair chance for advancement as long as they work hard? Will the country continue to come together when threatened? The fallout of the Republican Party’s failure is not only domestic. Will America’s image be irreparably tarnished abroad? Will the vast majority of the world who have admired and respected the United States change their tune and see America as racist and oppressive to minorities and to certain foreigners? Will America be seen as a nation of religious bigotry? Once ingrained into customs, norms and behavior, such fallouts are hard to reverse.The Trump presidency is certainly unlike any administration we’ve seen in recent memory. And so with no previous frame of reference, explaining the behavior of this White House has been tricky.

But maybe we just needed the right ’90s teen drama.

AdvertisementMovie star Sean Penn has taken aim at President Donald Trump for reportedly calling Haiti a “shithole” country.

The Academy Award-winning actor — who founded the J/P Haitian Relief Organization following the devastating earthquake that struck the Caribbean island in 2010 ― called Trump “an enemy of compassion” in a new op-ed piece for Time magazine.

Penn labeled Trump “an enemy of Americans, Republicans, Democrats, Independents and every new child born” in the article, published online Friday.

“An enemy of mankind. He is indeed an enemy of the state,” Penn added.

Sean Penn says Haiti is not a shithole. Read our founder’s piece on @TIME: https://t.co/yCaesux1Ky — J/P HRO (@jphro) January 13, 2018

Trump sparked global outrage with the comment that he reportedly made during an Oval Office meeting with lawmakers on Thursday.

The Washington Post first reported that Trump asked, “Why are we having all these people from shithole countries come here?” while arguing against reinstating protections for immigrants from Haiti and some African nations.

AdvertisementThe past few weeks have seen a spate of news stories about white Americans calling the police on people of color who appear to be simply going about their lives ― whether waiting at a Starbucks, golfing, attending a university tour, leaving an Airbnb, napping or barbecuing.

These incidents have sparked fierce debate about racism in the U.S. In most of these cases there was no apparent threat of harm, making it hard to avoid the conclusion that the people who called the police did so because of a conscious or unconscious belief that people of color simply don’t belong, or that they inherently pose a danger or threat.

Ironically, the real danger in such encounters often comes from white Americans calling 911 on their neighbors of color ― effectively deploying the threat of violence, as police interactions with black people in particular are disproportionately likely to end in excessive force or death.

“When you engage law enforcement in these kinds of things you are opening the door for things to go very wrong,” Oakland, California, mayoral candidate Cat Brooks told KRON News this week, after a white woman called the police on black residents barbecuing in a local park in an area designated only for non-charcoal grilling. Brooks cited “the potential for arrests like in Philadelphia with those two black men or worse physical assault or death.” “I don’t believe in this day and age that white folks don’t know that,” she added.

HuffPost spoke to two experts from grassroots anti-violence organizations, Oakland’s Critical Resistance and the Arab American Association of New York’s Accompany Project, which hold workshops addressing the complications of calling police, and educating people on when ― and when not ― to do so.

In some cases, like those above, the solution would appear obvious: “Mind your business,” as journalist Kara Brown put it on the “Keep It” podcast this week.

But even in cases where the possibility of actual harm seems to exist, these experts suggest that Americans, particularly white people, challenge their immediate response and think twice before calling police.

“On the face of it, people need to not call the cops when it’s merely just the presence of people of color in a public place. That’s just obvious,” said Mohamed Shehk, a spokesman for Critical Resistance, which provides trainings on alternatives to policing.

“But further, people need to think about, [in] situations that actually need to be addressed... what are police going to do?” he added. “And is there a way that someone else could do what would be beneficial in this situation?”

Protesters march in Philadelphia on April 19, a week after two black men were arrested at a local Starbucks. Dominick Reuter / Reuters

Many Americans, white people in particular, have been socialized to think of police as providing safety, social worker Rachel Blum Levy, who is white, told HuffPost. As a community organizer and facilitator with the Accompany Project, she leads “bystander trainings” to teach New Yorkers how to intervene in situations of potential violence, particularly against Arab or Muslim people, and help de-escalate. The trainings ― one of which HuffPost attended last year ― challenge participants to check their biases around race and policing. The group goes over the potential risks of engaging police, especially in cases involving people of color or undocumented people.

As Blum Levy noted, many white people have a very different relationship with police than many people of color, who are often taught growing up that police involvement can come with the threat of violence.

A 2015 Reuters poll showed that black and white Americans tend to hold drastically different attitudes toward police. While 54 percent of all Americans said they “trust the police to be fair and just,” only 30 percent of African-Americans did. And when asked if police “tend to unfairly target minorities,” 69 percent of black Americans agreed, while just 29 percent of whites did.

Some studies have shown that black Americans call the police slightly less than whites do. Other reports show that calls to the police from black communities tend to decline specifically after instances of police violence.

“White people need to challenge what ‘safety’ is. We’ve all been taught to read certain people and situations as being inherently dangerous,” Blum Levy told HuffPost. “Sometimes, taking actions which make us feel ‘safe’ and comfortable put others in danger.”

Sometimes, when police are called on a person of color because of a perceived ― but ultimately nonexistent ― threat, things escalate quickly toward irreversible tragedy.

Tamir Rice was 12 years old in 2014 when he was playing with a toy gun in Cleveland. A man called the police on him. The cops shot Tamir dead within seconds of arriving at the scene.

In Sacramento, California, in March, 22-year-old Stephon Clark was shot dead by police in his own backyard, after they responded to calls of someone breaking car windows. Police say they thought Clark was holding a gun. It was a cellphone. The man who called the cops, who was white, later told reporters he regretted it. “It makes me never want to call 911 again,” he said.

In at least some cases where calls to police have ended in violence, gentrification and its attendant tensions and misunderstandings may have played a role.

“Saheed Vassell was shot a couple blocks away from where I live,” Blum Levy said, referring to a 34-year-old black father who was shot dead by police in Brooklyn, New York, last month, after someone called police to report a man wielding a gun. The object Vassell held, and allegedly pointed at cops, was later found to have been a pipe. In the aftermath, locals said it was widely known among long-term residents of the neighborhood that Vassell had a mental illness.

“That to me speaks to police brutality, but also gentrification,” Blum Levy said. “New migrations of people, presumably white, coming into a community that don’t have a connection to its history and culture, and taking actions that give them feelings of safety [but] don’t take into consideration the community at large.”

A good thought experiment for everyone to do is to list all the things they might consider calling the police for and then thinking of ways those situations could be resolved without police — de bleck penta (@fivefifths) May 11, 2018

For community initiatives that provide alternatives to calling police, like the Accompany Project or Critical Resistance, the tactics taught in the trainings are relatively straightforward: Assess the situation, looking to challenge your initial response to determine if there is actually a threat. If so, see if you can de-escalate it using simple tactics ― such as loudly saying “no,” naming the perpetrator’s harmful behavior or addressing them as a “we” to make them feel you’re on their team. If that’s not possible, trainers recommend delegating the intervention to another community member, such as a trusted neighbor or church leader.

Shehk says it’s important for all Americans to educate themselves on the potential harm of involving police in everyday situations. And to a large degree, that onus is on white people. Many people of color already know all too well that bringing the police into a situation often results in someone getting hurt or killed.

“Given that white people are positioned to be protected by police and are also prone to see black and brown people as criminals and are quicker to call the cops, I do think it’s important that white people make a commitment that they will challenge their communities to not call the cops,” he said.

A clear limit of such grassroots efforts is their modest reach: The Accompany Project in New York and Critical Resistance in Oakland are relatively small-scale, with workshops once or twice a month, often with around 20 or so participants. There is far more work to be done if the majority of Americans are to stop seeing police involvement as the “go-to” solution, as Shehk put it.