President Donald Trump will nominate Adm. Harry Harris to be the U.S. ambassador to South Korea, according to reports. Jonathan Ernst / Reuters

President Donald Trump has pulled his choice for U.S. ambassador to Australia and will send him to South Korea instead, according to several media reports.

The White House had tapped Adm. Harry Harris, the commander of U.S. Pacific Command, to be the next envoy to Australia in February. But officials told The New York Times that Harris would instead be nominated for the posting in Seoul just weeks before Trump is set to meet with North Korean leader Kim Jong Un.

Australian officials confirmed that Harris would not be coming to the country.

“We understand this sort of thing happens and we also understand the challenges the United States has on the Korean peninsula,” Julie Bishop, Australia’s foreign minister, told reporters.

Harris, who oversees about 375,000 military and civilian personnel, has taken a hard line against North Korea in the past, saying at a Senate confirmation hearing in 2014 that he viewed the country as “our most dangerous and volatile threat.”

Diplomatic relations between the U.S. and North Korea have thawed in recent months, but there has been no American ambassador on the Korean peninsula since 2016. The embassy in Seoul has been run for the past year and a half by Charge d’Affaires Mark Knapper.

In his confirmation hearing to become secretary of state, CIA Director Mike Pompeo had promised to officially fill the role as soon as possible. Harris has reportedly already said he’s willing to swap roles, and officials are waiting for approval from the White House, according to The Washington Post.Host James Corden said on Tuesday’s “The Late Late Show” that he got special access to see what’s beyond the cropping of celebrity Instagram photos.Nickelodeon’s ’90s game show “Double Dare” is coming back.

A reboot of the show hits the air this summer, with 40 new episodes. It’s not clear whether original host Marc Summers will return.

Summers hosted the show’s first run from 1986 to 1993. Jason Harris took on hosting duties in 2000, when the show was revived for a brief run as “Double Dare 2000.”

For the unfamiliar, “Double Dare” is a physically demanding game show that has two teams face off by answering trivia questions, conquering wacky (and extremely messy) physical challenges ― and taking on an obstacle course that features a human hamster wheel, a massive sundae, and a giant nose.

Contestants haven’t been announced yet, but reports say “several unnamed guests from the show’s earlier years” will appear.

Fans of the show could not help but share their excitement and memories on social media:

I watched this show growing up! I loved it! So excited! #DoubleDare https://t.co/k1pSxwbWbD — Christopher Thornton (@ChrisRThornton) April 25, 2018

Me as soon as I found out Double Dare is coming back to Nickelodeon pic.twitter.com/tjHfM4kkSj — Dyllmonger (@HornikGSN) April 25, 2018

I’ve been wanting to be on Double Dare (2000) since I was like 7. The minute I saw that ice cream sunday challenge I knew that was my calling. — Leslie (@_JustLeslie) April 25, 2018

Nickelodeon's Double Dare getting a reboot!!?? My inner 8 year old is excited! I always wanted to dig in a giant nose filled with green slime and run on a giant human hamster wheel! #DoubleDare pic.twitter.com/B9z5Zo6MGx — ⚾️MiSFit⚾️ (@Missfit916) April 25, 2018

Maybe now I can *FINALLY* be on Double Dare. https://t.co/uZ2mByDsX6 — Dr. Rosenrosen (@babystew) April 25, 2018

"Double Dare" being brought back to Nickelodeon. I think the world is gonna make it after all. https://t.co/MdS1WoNRGM — David James (@bevo14) April 25, 2018

the first season of Double Dare was the first thing I ever watched on Nickelodeon back in the '80s when my family got cable, and it definitely helped shaped my super-sloppy world view https://t.co/hDomwdhkxf — Shane Bettenhausen (@ShaneWatch) April 25, 2018Police proscecutor Jakob Buch-Jepsen, who presented the case against Danish inventor Peter Madsen for the murder of journalist Kim Wall, holds a press briefing at Copenhagen Police Yard in January. Ole Jensen - Corbis via Getty Images

Danish inventor Peter Madsen was handed a life sentence without parole on Wednesday for the gruesome murder of Swedish journalist Kim Wall last year on his submarine, where he mutilated her and tossed her body parts into the ocean.

Madsen plotted to kill Wall either by suffocation or by slitting her throat, prosecutors said, and his vessel was equipped with tools to torture her. Additionally, he had threatened to torture and kill another woman aboard the submarine, according to text messages that the legal team uncovered.

Prosecutor Jakob Buch-Jepsen described the killing as “so heinous and repulsive that as a prosecutor, it renders you speechless.” He called Madsen “not normal” and a “danger to society.” A court-ordered psychiatric report determined the inventor possessed psychopathic tendencies.

Wall went missing after boarding Madsen’s submarine on Aug. 10. She had planned a two-hour voyage to interview Madsen for an article. The submarine sank the next day and Madsen was rescued, but Wall was missing. Her mutilated torso was found almost two weeks later in the waters near Copenhagen after a passerby spotted it. Other body parts weren’t discovered until October.

Madsen gave a variety of accounts to authorities, first telling police that he had placed her ashore and then alleging that she accidentally died aboard the vessel, leading him to cut her to pieces and scatter them into the sea.Rapper Meek Mill celebrated his highly anticipated release from prison Tuesday as the guest of honor at the Philadelphia 76ers NBA playoff game against the Miami Heat.

Shortly after the 30-year-old rapper was freed, 76ers co-owner Michael Rubin picked him up in a helicopter and brought him directly to the Wells Fargo Center, where he was greeted by fans and his hometown NBA team.

Meek Mill, also known as Robert Rihmeek Williams, opened Game 5 by ringing the ceremonial pre-game bell ― a replica of the Liberty Bell ― as fans in the arena erupted in cheers.

Williams had been serving two to four years at the Pennsylvania State Correctional Facility for violating probation that stemmed from a decade-old drug and guns violation. The probation violations involved 2017 arrests for a fight and for popping wheelies on a dirt bike.

His original sentencing, which took place on Nov. 6, sparked large protests and drew hundreds of demonstrators, including a number of celebrities and athletes, to the streets of Philadelphia to demand justice for the rapper.

Williams’ allies argued that his sentencing was an example of how the justice system treats people of color unfairly. In a November op-ed for the New York Times, Jay-Z pointed out that Williams was 19 when he was arrested on gun and drug charges and had already served an eight-month sentence.

“What’s happening to Meek Mill is just one example of how our criminal justice system entraps and harasses hundreds of thousands of black people every day,” Jay-Z wrote.

On Tuesday, a Pennsylvania Supreme Court ordered Williams’ release and directed a judge to grant him bail due to “credibility issues” with a police officer who was a witness in his 2008 conviction.

Meek Mill is home. pic.twitter.com/IaRWX7Exxf — Karen Civil (@KarenCivil) April 24, 2018

After his release, Williams said in a statement that the five months he spent in prison “have been a nightmare.”

“To the Philly District Attorney’s office, I’m grateful for your commitment to justice,” Williams said. “I understand that many people of color across the country don’t have that luxury and I plan to use my platform to shine a light on those issues.”

Pennsylvania Gov. Tom Wolf responded to Williams’ statement by calling for criminal justice reform.

″[Meek Mill’s] case has brought hundreds of thousands to call for change in PA,” Wolf tweeted. “We need to make our system more fair, more equitable, and more focused on rehabilitation.”

Comedian Kevin Hart said he and Rubin had visited Williams in prison earlier Tuesday.

“I think what the support did is bring the overall problem of the criminal justice reform that’s needed to light,” Rubin told CNN on Tuesday, referring to the celebrities who, like Hart, have backed Williams’ release. “There’s so many other people that have been wrongfully convicted.”

Hart watched the game with Williams in courtside seats after celebrating with him behind the scenes.

Williams was expected to speak at a news conference after the game, CBS News reported.Lena Waithe and Greg Berlanti will both accept the Trevor Project's Hero Award in New York. Getty Images

Lena Waithe and Greg Berlanti are set to be recognized for their respective efforts in helping to move the cultural needle on LGBTQ representation.

The queer Hollywood heavyweights will both accept The Trevor Project’s Hero Award at the 2018 TrevorLIVE gala in New York on June 11. Also set to be honored at the ceremony is Dominic Barton, managing partner of the global consulting firm McKinsey & Company, who will receive the 20/20 Visionary Award.

Collectively, Barton, Berlanti and Waithe “have each made an unprecedented positive impact on the lives of young LGBTQ people in the last year,” Amit Paley, The Trevor Project’s CEO and executive director, said in a press release. “We’re incredibly excited to honor them for their commitment to fostering an accepting environment for LGBTQ youth through their innovative work and leadership at TrevorLIVE New York as we join together to continue The Trevor Project’s important and life-saving work.”

It’s the latest in a series of accolades for Waithe, best known for her work on the smash shows “Master of None” and “The Chi.” In September, the actress, producer and screenwriter made Emmys history as the first black woman to win for comedy writing. She also graced the April cover of Vanity Fair, the first issue under the magazine’s new editor, Radhika Jones.

Being recognized by The Trevor Project, which is focused on LGBTQ youth suicide prevention, is “one of the greatest honors of my life,” Waithe said in a press release.

“The work that they do is invaluable to the community, and I hope to continue to do work that is worthy of this honor,” she added.

Berlanti, meanwhile, is coming off the success of “Love, Simon.” The film, which Berlanti directed, earned near-universal praise from critics and fans as Hollywood’s first mainstream coming-of-age comedy to center on a gay teen.Netflix

A year after the first season of Netflix’s “13 Reasons Why” sparked a debate over its unsettling depiction of teenage suicide, showrunner Brian Yorkey has unfurled a new, increasingly graphic batch of episodes.

One in particular, however, has people talking. And it features not one but two significant events that, when taken together, equate to a highly disturbing finale.

(Warning: The below description may be unsettling to some readers.)

“13 Reasons Why” Season 2 picks up where the last season left off, focusing primarily on how the students of Liberty High School are recovering from the tragic death of Hannah Baker (Katherine Langford) and the ensuing legal battle between her parents and the school. But the final episode stands apart from Hannah’s narrative. It features one of the most horrifying and heartbreaking scenes I’ve ever seen on television.

The scene occurs midway through Episode 13, dubbed “Bye.” Tyler (Devin Druid), who recently returned to school following a stint in behavioral rehab after he was caught vandalizing the baseball field, is confronted in a bathroom by Monty (Timothy Granaderos) and two other student-athletes. Monty, a close friend of villainous jock Bryce (Justin Prentice) ― who has somehow gotten away with raping both Hannah and Jessica (Alisha Boe) ― is still reeling over the fact that Tyler ruined Liberty’s baseball season. When Monty sees that Tyler’s back at school, he plans to make him suffer.

So Monty and his friends initiate a sequence of male-on-male violence rarely seen on-screen. First, they smash Tyler’s head against a mirror and sink. Then they shove his head in a toilet, pinning him down. Monty proceeds to sodomize Tyler with a mop handle, aggressively pushing it deeper into Tyler’s rectum as the teen cries out in agony. When the heinous act is completed, the young men leave Tyler there, petrified, bleeding and bruised.

It’s a stomach-churning two minutes worth of storyline, which Druid ― along with fellow cast members Boe, Dylan Minnette, Ross Butler and Christian Navarro ― discussed in an interview with HuffPost on Tuesday.

“It was incredibly intimidating because you’re suddenly given this responsibility to portray this horrific thing that unfortunately happens to many people around the world, and to a lot of young people these days.” - Devin Druid

“When it did come time to get to the final episode and [showrunner] Brian [Yorkey] was walking me through this idea of what would happen to Tyler, it was incredibly intimidating,” he told me during a Build Series segment in New York City. “Because you’re suddenly given this responsibility to portray this horrific thing that unfortunately happens to many people around the world, and to a lot of young people these days.”

“But then you think about what you’re doing and the greater impact that it will hopefully have on people’s lives,” he added, “and it does kind of fill you with a sense of bringing justice to something and saying, hopefully, this is helping someone and that will make me feel much better about what we’re doing here.”

The “horrific thing” Druid mentioned, “that unfortunately happens to many people,” is a reference to the sexual assault his character was forced to endure. But it could also refer to the violence Tyler almost enacts on his peers: Shortly after the assault scene, “13 Reasons Why” has Tyler attempting to seek revenge on his classmates by showing up to a school dance with an automatic weapon.

This is how the season ends. With a panicked Clay (Minnette), rifle pointed at his chest, pleading with Tyler outside the school to reconsider his next move as sirens blare in the background. “I don’t want you to die,” Clay tells him, tears streaming down his face. Tyler appears to be questioning his motives as Clay lowers the gun. “We’ll figure it out, I swear,” he tells Tyler. That’s when Tony (Navarro) pulls up in his car and screams at Tyler to get in, leaving Clay, weapon in hand, alone as the cops approach.

It’s a plot decision that ― like Hannah’s suicide scene from last season ― has caused a divisive rift in the show’s fandom.

13 reasons why does not “raise awareness for mental health, bullying, etc.” it’s a disgusting show that show’s horrific/traumatizing/triggering scenes. that is NOT raising awareness. — shay (@shaylapham01) May 22, 2018

13 reasons why is a good show, it discusses things (in my opinion) in a respectful manner, but what we must be aware of is that it IS graphic and it warns of this many times.

If you are suffering with mental Illness this will hit hard, I am not a professional but I wouldn’t- — Amybeth (@AmybethMcnulty) May 22, 2018

13 reasons why just exploits the idea of mental illnesses for cash money — b rock (@yungtoliet) May 22, 2018

Y’all don’t like “13 Reasons Why” because it makes you talk and think about uncomfortable topics such as Rape, Suicide and Sexual Assualt. All these topics that people try their best to ignore and you see what happens when you ignore it? All these things continue to happen. — Sam (@samoffficial) May 22, 2018

I really don’t know how 13 reasons why manages to get away with showing the kind of scenes that they do, I’m not a sensitive person but they turn my stomach, god knows what affect they have on those who have experienced it — Clo (@_chloehutchison) May 22, 2018

you can shit on #13ReasonsWhy as much as you want, but if only 1% can relate to it and feel better about their situation or less lonely with their struggles the series has it job done. every1 suffers differently from mental illness so it's impossible to represent every1 out there — Domé Je (@dome_je) May 22, 2018

“I was aware that there were some warning precautions, but the [assault] scene was very vulgar and unnecessarily uncomfortable ― not for the sexuality part but for how much emotion and intensity it had,” Kendal Wiley, a 19-year-old fan of the show from Burleson, Texas, told HuffPost.

Yorkey himself defended the scene to Vulture:

We’re committed on this show to telling truthful stories about things that young people go through in as unflinching a way as we can ... the fact is that, as intense as that scene is, and as strong as our reactions to it may be, it doesn’t even come close to the pain experienced by the people who actually go through these things.

Netflix

“We all take this very seriously and I think it’s a big responsibility for each of us, but it’s a privilege, as well,” Navarro emphasized to HuffPost, noting that, as actors on “13 Reasons Why,” the cast is often expected to speak to the series’ controversial subject matter.

“I don’t think any of us imagined we would be on a show with this level of importance,” he said. “The impact that it’s had here in the States and than globally took us for a surprise, so we’re still dealing with that every day.”

The show, Navarro said, was written and produced before the various instances of violence on school properties in 2018. “But [school shootings are] prevalent and our show helps to spark a conversation,” he added, “as it did last year with suicide and bullying and sexual assault. Hopefully the same conversation will be sparked this year with gun violence.”

“That’s our goal with the show,” Minnette said, “to speak to teens, to speak to people any age, really, and just start conversations. Important ones.”

Of course, public debates about gun violence existed before the second season of “13 Reasons Why” premiered. They existed before 2018, too, but ramped up in the wake of the Parkland, Florida, shooting. Moreover, the conversation that the show has started is not limited to school shootings. It entwines a brutal instance of sexual assault with a disturbing brush with gun violence, making it seem as though the former caused the latter.

The character of Tyler faced his fair share of mistreatment throughout the series, from Hannah’s rejection of his apology for photographing her through her bedroom window to Clay’s decision to share a private photo of him with the entire school. Those moments led bullies like Bryce and Monty to incessantly belittle Tyler, mooning and pantsing him in the hallways. By the end of Season 1, we watch as Tyler purchases guns; by the conclusion of Season 2, we see him ready to use them.

To foreshadow his storyline is one thing. To cram Tyler’s tragic rape scene and school-shooter narrative into the last 30 minutes of a finale episode is another. The juxtaposition of these moments is unsettling, prompting viewers to question the motives of the storytellers they’re trusting to convey the lives of fictional teens. There was a sense that Tyler was happy and healthy after his time in treatment, a sensibility quickly muddled by Monty’s unimaginable cruelty, leading Tyler to retaliate against not only his perpetrators but the entire Liberty community. Was this all too much to take in? And was it fair to unravel his breakdown in just a few short minutes?

Yes, “13 Reasons Why” does a fair job of presenting real-life teen issues to a loyal, interested audience. (According to Variety, the drama immediately took over the top spot among all U.S. digital original series following its release last Friday.) But it also fails to take full responsibility for those depictions, instead pointing viewers in the direction of a resource website, discussion guide and after-show with the cast. If more time had been spent on the emotional aftermath of Tyler’s rape, his storyline could have made a greater impact.

Surely Netflix is using these new tools to try and make amends for the backlash that greeted the first season, but leaving their young fan base with even more unanswered questions about the correlation between extreme bullying and gun violence is not necessarily the way to go.WASHINGTON (Reuters) - President Donald Trump’s administration goes before the U.S. Supreme Court on Wednesday to defend the legality of his travel ban targeting people from several Muslim-majority countries, one of the most contentious actions of his presidency.

Trump’s travel ban - the third version of a policy he first sought to implement a week after taking office in January 2017 - blocks entry into the United States of most people from Iran, Libya, Somalia, Syria and Yemen. Chad was on the list announced in September, but Trump removed it on April 10.

The conservative-majority, nine-member court has never heard arguments on the legal merits of the travel ban or any other major Trump immigration policy, including his move to rescind protections for young immigrants sometimes called Dreamers brought into the United States illegally as children.

It has previously acted on Trump requests to undo lower court orders blocking those two policies, siding with him on the travel ban and opposing him on the Dreamers.

A ruling is due by the end of June.

The state of Hawaii, which argues the travel ban violates federal immigration law and the U.S. Constitution’s prohibition on the government favoring one religion over another, is the lead challenger in the case.

The Supreme Court on Dec. 4 signaled it may lean toward backing Trump when it granted on a 7-2 vote his administration’s request to let the ban go into full effect while legal challenges played out.

Trump has generated controversy with his hardline immigration policies, also including actions taken against states and cities that protect illegal immigrants, intensified deportation efforts and limits on legal immigration.

Trump has said the travel ban is needed to protect the United States from terrorism by Islamic militants.

The challengers have argued the policy was motivated by Trump’s enmity toward Muslims, pressing that point in lower courts with some success by citing statements he made as a candidate and as president. As a candidate, Trump promised “a total and complete shutdown of Muslims entering the United States.”

The Justice Department argues Trump’s statements as a candidate carry no weight because he was not yet president.

In defending the ban, the administration has pointed to a waiver provision allowing people from targeted countries to seek entry if they meet certain criteria.Questlove has some serious skills when it comes to naming Prince’s songs.

On Tuesday’s broadcast of “The Tonight Show,” The Roots’ drummer demonstrated an astonishing talent for identifying the late musician’s tracks.

Host Jimmy Fallon played Questlove amazingly short snippets of Prince tunes ― one second, half-second and then quarter-second clips. And he correctly named their titles, each and every time.

It shouldn’t come as a huge surprise, however. Questlove has previously dubbed Prince, who died at age 57 in 2016, his “idol.”After a Florida police officer killed a man during a traffic stop, the victim’s family is accusing detectives of entering a funeral home to use the dead man’s finger to unlock his iPhone.

A Largo police officer killed Linus Phillip after he allegedly tried to drive away before an officer could search him, according to the Associated Press.

Police said they approached Phillip because his vehicle had illegally tinted windows, according to ABC Action News. Officers alleged they smelled marijuana coming from the vehicle when they got close.

Police also alleged Phillip tried to drive away while dragging an officer who tried to get in the car.

Matt Steiner, the officer who shot Phillip, was cleared of any wrongdoing after the Florida state attorney’s office ruled that the shooting was a “justifiable homicide,” according to ABC News.

Phillip’s family said that two detectives later visited the funeral home where his body was sent. Officers reportedly tried to unlock the phone by holding the body’s hands up to the fingerprint sensor.

Phillip’s fiancee, Victoria Armstrong, said the officers went too far.

“So they are allowed to pull him out of the refrigerator and use a dead man’s finger to get to his phone. It’s disgusting,” Armstrong told ABC Action News.

Armstrong believes the staff at the funeral home should have at least let her know what was happening.

“I just felt so disrespected and violated,” Armstrong told local newspaper The Tampa Bay Times. “Nobody even calling us from the facility to let us know detectives were coming there at all is very disturbing. I’m very skeptical of all funeral homes now.”

Largo Police Department spokesman Lt. Randall Chaney confirmed to the paper the officers did visit the funeral home. He said the detectives didn’t believe a warrant was needed because there’s no expectation of privacy after death.

His family is now demanding police release video from the incident at the Wawa gas station in Clearwater where he was killed.

Officers said they reviewed multiple Wawa cameras, claiming there is no footage showing the shooting of Phillip.

Fourth Amendment protections do not cover deceased individuals, but some experts believe investigators’ actions are “ethically unjustifiable.”

Greg Nojeim, director of the Freedom, Security and Technology Project at the Washington-based Center for Democracy and Technology, told the Tampa Bay Times there should be some dignity in death.WASHINGTON, April 25 (Reuters) - Conservative U.S. Supreme Court justices on Wednesday signaled they are likely to uphold President Donald Trump’s travel ban targeting several Muslim-majority countries, one of the most contentious policies of his presidency.

Both Chief Justice John Roberts and Justice Anthony Kennedy, a frequent swing vote on the conservative-majority, nine-member court, indicated unwillingness to second-guess the president on the national security justifications offered for the policy.

Trump has said the travel ban - the third version of a policy he first sought to implement a week after taking office in January 2017 - is needed to protect the United States from terrorism by Islamic militants. The current travel ban, announced in September, prohibits entry into the United States of most people from Iran, Libya, Somalia, Syria and Yemen.

The challengers, led by the state of Hawaii, have argued the policy was motivated by Trump’s enmity toward Muslims and that it violates federal immigration law and the U.S. Constitution’s prohibition on the government favoring one religion over another.

Liberal justices indicated sympathy toward Hawaii’s arguments.

But conservative Justice Samuel Alito said the text of Trump’s proclamation announcing the ban “does not look at all like a Muslim ban.”

Fellow conservative Roberts questioned whether the president could be restricted from taking action on foreign policy emergencies, such as the civil war in Syria, if he is prevented from targeting specific countries.

Kennedy, a conservative who sometimes joins the liberals in major rulings, pushed back on the notion pressed by the challengers that the ban was permanent, noting that the policy includes a requirement for ongoing reports that could potentially lead to the removal of a targeted country.

In an exchange with Hawaii’s lawyer, Neal Katyal, Kennedy indicated it was not practical for a president to predict that six months after the ban was announced there will be a “safe world.”

Trump’s own conservative appointee to the court, Neil Gorsuch, suggested that the lawsuits challenging the ban brought by Hawaii and others should not have been considered by courts in the first place.

Referring to statements Trump made during his campaign for president such as calling for “a total and complete shutdown of Muslims entering the United States,” Trump administration lawyer Noel Francisco said those should be off-limits for courts to scrutinize because he was not the president at the time.

In the first half of the argument, Kennedy did signal that courts should be able to review words from candidates from the campaign trail. Kennedy gave the example of a local mayor who makes discriminatory statements and then two days after taking office acts on them.

“You’re saying that everything he said is irrelevant?” Kennedy asked Francisco.

‘HEART OF HEARTS’

Liberal justices Elena Kagan and Sonia Sotomayor pressed Francisco on what kind of campaign trail behavior could be considered by courts. Kagan asked whether a hypothetical vehemently anti-Semitic candidate would be subject to court review if upon taking office he announced policies targeting Israel.

Would the president’s national security rationale suffice, she asked, “even if in his heart of hearts he harbored animus?”

The court is due to issue a ruling by the end of June.

Until Wednesday, the court had never heard arguments on the legal merits of the travel ban or any other major Trump immigration policy, including his move to rescind protections for young immigrants sometimes called Dreamers brought into the United States illegally as children.

It previously acted on the Republican president’s requests to undo lower court orders blocking those two policies, siding with Trump on the travel ban and opposing him on the Dreamers.

Trump’s hardline immigration policies have been a key part of his presidency, also including actions taken against states and cities that protect illegal immigrants, intensified deportation efforts and limits on legal immigration.

The Supreme Court on Dec. 4 signaled it may lean toward backing Trump when it granted on a 7-2 vote his administration’s request to let the ban go into full effect while legal challenges played out.

Chad was on the list of countries targeted by Trump that was announced in September, but Trump removed it on April 10.

Venezuela and North Korea also were targeted in the travel ban. Those restrictions were not challenged in court.

U.S. Attorney General Jeff Sessions in a statement on Wednesday cited the president’s “broad discretion and authority to protect the United States from all foreign and domestic threats.”

About 150 people demonstrated against the travel ban outside the courthouse on a rainy morning in the U.S. capital. Seema Sked, 39, stood before the court’s plaza with a homemade sign that read, “Proud American Muslim.”

“The Muslim ban offends freedom of religion, which is a protected right,” said Sked, who immigrated with her parents from Pakistan when she was a toddler and now lives in Virginia. “It hurts me because it is singling out and demeaning Muslims because of their faith.”A still image from the video of the shooting, which can be found below. YouTube

Newly released video footage from October shows a white police officer in Virginia shooting and wounding a black teen who’s sprinting away from cops after allegedly committing a burglary.

“I was just pretty much trying to get away, showing no aggression,” Deontrace Ward, 18, told The Virginian-Pilot.

The dramatic video comes from a body camera worn by Portsmouth police Officer Jeremy Durocher on the afternoon of Oct. 29. Durocher, who at the time had been a cop for about six months, was responding to a call of a crime in progress.

Ward first appears about 16 seconds into the video, running from the front yard of a house. The teen, who police say was armed with a .45-caliber handgun, runs diagonally across the yard, away from Durocher.

The video is grainy, so it’s impossible to tell if Ward is holding a weapon.

The teen scrambles up the side of a privacy fence as Durocher commands him to stop.

WARNING: The following video is graphic and may be disturbing to some viewers.

“Hey! Get on the ground,” Durocher says, before firing two shots in Ward’s direction.

Seconds later, as Ward clears the fence and sprints through a neighboring yard, Durocher trains his gun on the teen and fires two more shots. Ward collapses to the ground.

Two other officers arrive on the scene. One of them, who has not been identified, warns Ward not to reach for a gun.

“I swear to God you will regret it,” the unidentified officer says.

Durocher told the officers he was frightened when Ward waved a gun at him.

“He didn’t shoot, but he had it [pointed] at me as he come out the window,” the officer said. “That scared me so bad, when I saw the gun waved at me.”

Authorities say a loaded handgun was found in Ward’s right pant leg. This is not shown in the video.

At the end of the six-minute clip, Durocher is heard describing the incident to another officer as he switches off his body camera.

Deontrace Ward's jail booking photo. Hampton Roads Regional Jail

Ward, who reportedly has a prior conviction for felony theft, is accused of stealing jewelry from the residence he is seen fleeing in the video. He faces six felony charges, including armed statutory burglary, assault of a police officer and possession of a firearm by a felon. His trial is scheduled to begin on May 1, according to The Associated Press.

The teen, who reportedly still has a bullet in his abdomen, told The Virginian-Pilot there was “no reason” for the officer to shoot him.

Durocher was placed on administrative duty following the shooting, which is still under investigation by Virginia state police. Commonwealth’s Attorney Stephanie Morales is also investigating whether the use of force was justified, CBS News reports.

Durocher’s attorney, Nicholas Renninger, contends the shooting was “absolutely justified.”

“The suspect was armed, had burglarized a home and was clearly a danger and a threat in that regard,” Renninger told The Virginian-Pilot. “I have no qualms whatsoever in saying that my client’s actions in protecting himself and those around him were justified.”French President Emmanuel Macron extolled the Franco-American relationship on multiple fronts but issued a stern warning about the need to address climate change during his address to a joint session of Congress on Wednesday.

Speaking entirely in English, Macron laid out the numerous ways ― human rights, trade, terrorism ― in which both the U.S. and France must strengthen multilateral ties in order to confront what he called a “new world order” marked by violence and conflict.

His most forceful comments came in the form of a veiled rebuke against President Donald Trump on climate policy. Macron has emerged as a leader in the fight to protect the legitimacy of the Paris climate agreement after Trump announced that the U.S. would withdraw last June. Minutes after Trump’s announcement, Macron tweeted a slogan riffing off of Trump’s own campaign rallying cry: “Make our planet great again.”

On Wednesday, he demanded again that the U.S. do its part to provide future generations with “a planet that is still habitable in 25 years.” Some people, he continued, feel that securing jobs and restoring industry are more urgent concerns, yet he insisted that the long-term goal of creating a low-carbon economy is primordial.

“What is the meaning of our life, really, if we work and live destroying the planet, sacrificing the future of our children?” he asked as the room erupted, mostly among Democratic members of Congress, in applause.

He’s confident, he added, that the U.S. and France can work out their disagreements on the matter because “on the long term we will have to face the same realities.”

Travis Nichols, media director for Greenpeace USA, applauded Macron’s address. “Donald Trump should never have rejected the Paris Climate Accord in the first place, and he should by all means reverse course immediately,” Nichols said on Wednesday. “Trump must listen to not only President Macron, but the majority of people in this country who want the United States to stay in the Paris Agreement. As climate-fueled disasters around the world continue to worsen, even Trump should now see that the Paris terms are immensely favorable when compared to climate inaction, denial, and isolation. Destruction wrought from climate change is only going to get worse, and the rest of the world already knows it.”

Macron’s time in Washington, D.C., this week marks the first official state visit of the Trump administration. Macron and Trump have quickly developed an affability that the U.S. leader hasn’t displayed toward other key allies. A series of praiseworthy comments ― Trump at one point called Macron “perfect” ― plus a variety of hugs and handshakes during public events on Tuesday pointed to the warmth between the two.

French President Emmanuel Macron clasps hands with U.S. President Donald Trump after their joint news conference at the White House Tuesday, April 24. Jonathan Ernst / Reuters

Yet a handful of thorny international issues are on the table as the two leaders meet, most notably the Iran nuclear deal and Western involvement in the ongoing civil war in Syria.

Many view Macron as the only person with a shot at getting Trump to change his mind about pulling out of the Iran nuclear agreement. Trump has long railed against the deal signed during the Obama administration. He yet again called the agreement “insane” and “ridiculous” on Tuesday but did signal a willingness to negotiate a new deal.

Trump set a deadline of May 12 to determine the fate of the current Iran deal. In classic Trump fashion, he has so far not indicated what he plans to do.

“Nobody knows what I’m going to do on the 12th, although Mr. President, you have a pretty good idea,” Trump said on Tuesday, addressing Macron. “We’ll see also if I do what some people expect, whether or not it will be possible to do a new deal with solid foundations.”

Macron said Wednesday that France doesn’t plan to leave the agreement but is happy to work with Trump in crafting a new, more comprehensive deal that addresses some of the issues that both countries feel were left out of the current deal.

As for Syria, Macron is thought to be playing an integral role in influencing Trump’s decisions. He said in a recent interview that he was the one to convince Trump not to pull troops out of the beleaguered country.

“We’ll be coming home but we want to leave a strong and lasting footprint,” Trump said Tuesday of his decision to leave troops in Syria.

Macron also took credit for persuading the president to carry out joint strikes with France and the U.K. on Syrian military targets following a deadly chemical attack on civilians earlier this month.An Indiana pizzeria that sparked an uproar when it vowed not to cater same-sex weddings in the wake of the state’s since-revised Religious Freedom Restoration Act has closed.

A sign in front of Memories Pizza, located in Walkerton, Indiana, indicated that the restaurant had shut its doors sometime last month, the South Bend Tribune reported Monday.

News of Memories Pizza’s closing comes three years after the eatery got caught in the national debate over LGBTQ rights and religious liberty. In spring 2015, owners Kevin and Crystal O’Connor spoke out in support of the state’s Religious Freedom Restoration Act, which allowed business owners to cite their faith as a legal defense for turning away customers.

Kevin O’Connor told local station ABC 57 that his restaurant would not cater same-sex weddings because of his religious beliefs.

“That lifestyle is something they choose. I choose to be heterosexual. They choose to be homosexual. Why should I be beat over the head to go along with something they choose?” he said at the time.

The story went viral, and the restaurant temporarily shuttered after “being flooded by threatening phone calls and social media postings.” It reopened just days later, following an online fundraiser that garnered more than $840,000 from supporters. (Check out a 2015 video report on the fundraiser above.)

Meanwhile, then-Gov. Mike Pence signed a revised version of the Religious Freedom Restoration Act, hoping to quiet criticism that the original law encouraged businesses to discriminate against LGBTQ people. The new version explicitly bars businesses from denying services on the basis of categories that include sexual orientation and gender identity, but discrimination against LGBTQ people is otherwise still legal in Indiana.A funny bit on “Jimmy Kimmel Live” Tuesday imagined that first lady Melania Trump found a friend in Colonel Sanders for the state dinner with French President Emmanuel Macron and his wife Brigitte.

A put-upon White House staffer in the sketch receives a note that reads “No French stuff!” That opens the door for one of President Donald Trump’s favorite foods, KFC.

Because nothing says international diplomacy like a bucket of chicken.

Dignitaries at the real White House state dinner on Tuesday actually were served rack of lamb and nectarine tart ― but wouldn’t it have been great if the White House meal had been finger-lickin’ good?

Watch the full clip above.OMB Director Mick Mulvaney indicated that President Trump wants to claw back spending agreed to in the $1.3 trillion omnibus deal. Chip Somodevilla via Getty Images

WASHINGTON ― Despite grumblings from corners of both parties, the White House is planning to send Congress a package of spending cuts in the coming weeks that could once again imperil the bipartisan appropriations process and lead to yet another spending standoff.

Mick Mulvaney, director of the Office of Management and Budget, has told some lawmakers that President Donald Trump intends to deliver a so-called “rescissions package,” which would claw back some of the money Congress and the president agreed to last month in their $1.3 trillion omnibus legislation.

The suggested cuts wouldn’t greatly affect the overall price tag of the omnibus. Rep. Tom Cole (R-Okla.), who chairs one of the House Appropriations subcommittees, told reporters on Wednesday that, based on his conversations with Mulvaney, he believed $25 billion would be the “ceiling” for any package. But the move could still undermine bipartisan negotiations on next year’s appropriations bills, as well as hold up agency spending over cuts that most lawmakers don’t believe will ever be enacted.

The top Democrat on Cole’s subcommittee, Rep. Rosa DeLauro (D-Conn.), and her counterpart on the matching Senate subcommittee, Sen. Patty Murray (D-Wash.), sent a letter to the National Labor Relations Board on Wednesday urging the NLRB, long a target of Republican spending cuts, to not freeze funds out of some expectation that the administration may try to slash its programs.

“We remind you that Congress, not the administration, has the ultimate authority to set funding levels for executive branch agencies,” DeLauro and Murray wrote.

“Any attempt to go back on the deal we made would be an extreme act of bad faith, in addition to being bad for workers and a violation of the law,” they added.

Democrats are worried that the White House’s mere proposal of a rescissions package could drive agencies to put some plans on hold until questions about their budgets are resolved, even though, as DeLauro and Murray point out, agencies aren’t supposed to withhold funds until the president at least sends a formal spending impoundment message to Congress.

But communication from this White House to Congress has been spotty at best.

House Appropriations Chairman Rodney Frelinghuysen (R-N.J.) told reporters Wednesday morning that there’s been “no communication” from the administration on what a rescissions package would look like. He said there’s also been “zero” communication from House leadership.

“We had a caps deal,” Frelinghuysen said Wednesday, referring to the agreement between Republicans and Democrats to set spending limits for two years. “We made a decision ― leadership made a decision ― and obviously there may be aspects in the rescissions package that violates that agreement.”

Frelinghuysen added that presidents have made rescissions proposals in the past, and there could be valid reasons for some of the cuts. But GOP lawmakers acknowledged to HuffPost that such an exercise now could poison the well for appropriators and make it more difficult to move spending bills through the chambers. And the whole process of suggesting cuts could be pointless, as Republican senators already seem cool to any proposal.

“I’m hearing that more than half the Republicans would vote against the rescission package in the Senate,” one GOP lawmaker told HuffPost on Wednesday.

Asked whether a rescissions package could delay spending bills reaching the House floor, Cole said that it was a possibility and that appropriators would have to “stop and take a look” at the proposed cuts.

Cole also said it would be one thing if the package were just taking back so-called unobligated funds ― money that agencies didn’t spend in the past ― and another thing if it were attacking the new spending in the omnibus deal. If it went after new spending, Cole said that would make it “much more difficult to get an agreement next year.”

The whole rescissions idea seems to be more messaging than substance ― a scheme cooked up between House Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy (R-Calif.) and Trump himself. While McCarthy has enthusiastically backed the notion, other House leaders have been more cagey about their support, and Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.) has signaled open opposition to the idea.SAUL LOEB via Getty Images

Peter Thiel, the Silicon Valley investor who helped fund a devastating lawsuit against Gawker Media, is no longer trying to take over what remains of the site.

The PayPal co-founder has specifically agreed to not remove Gawker’s content from the internet or to pay anyone else to do so on his behalf, according to documents filed Wednesday with the U.S. Bankruptcy Court of the Southern District of New York.

By agreeing to not purchase Gawker Media, Thiel will avoid potentially embarrassing legal retaliation over his funding of the lawsuit, which ended up awarding $31 million to retired professional wrestler Hulk Hogan. Gawker published a video in 2012 showing Hogan, whose real name is Terry Bollea, having sex with a woman then-married to radio personality Bubba the Love Sponge.

Once Thiel’s involvement in the Hogan case became public, a theory that he had fostered a long-simmering grudge against Gawker swiftly arose ― the site had outed him as gay in 2007. A billionaire who serves on the board of Facebook, Thiel belongs to a small pool of conservative Silicon Valley bigwigs and largely keeps his private life under wraps.

For his part, Thiel said he threw his support behind Hogan simply to curb Gawker’s “bullying.”

While Gawker’s past content remains accessible online, the site ceased publishing new content and filed for bankruptcy in 2016.

When he submitted a bid to purchase the site earlier this year, speculation swirled over whether he might use the opportunity to purge stories he felt were damaging to his personal reputation ― or maybe even wipe Gawker completely off the map.

The agreement between Thiel’s firm, Thiel Capital, and lawyers handling the liquidation of Gawker Media’s assets must still be approved by the court. If approved, it may finally clear the path for a sale of Gawker Media, which includes the Gawker.com domain name and a 200,000-plus article archive. Lawyers believe the package will fetch a higher price without Thiel in the picture, according to the filings.

Under his settlement with Gawker Media, Hogan will be entitled 45 percent of proceeds from the sale, too.We will always think of Madonna‘s daughter Lourdes “Lola” Leon as this big-eyed little beauty.

But on Monday, with the debut of her new ad campaign for the Converse x MadeMe collaboration by designer Erin Magee, she, again, reminded us that — hello! — she’s not that little girl. The kiddo — the one Madonna sang “Little Star” about as a baby — was wearing a big star in the ad as she posed under a hoodie in what Vogue calls the “new cool woman’s uniform” (so it must be).

She looked down.

She looked up.

She looked through shades.

And, yes, she showed off her armpit hair.

That’s been her thing — proudly — so suck it internet trolls and other haters. Clearly, she has a rebel heart like her mama — in addition to other traits. We mean — she looks so much like the music icon, but with a uniqueness that is all her own.

The eldest of Madonna’s six kids, Lola first teamed up with New York-based “by girls, for girls” brand MadeMe last year. She offered to shoot this campaign after she saw some drawings in designer Erin Magee’s office, reports Vogue.

The kid we’ve watched grow up has long been into fashion since she and her mom had the Material Girl line at Macy’s. Remember her blog? She would write about her mom’s goofy dancing, share her household rules under the pop queen, including when she would finally be able to dye her hair for the first time, and detailed her summer job folding underwear for Madonna during her MDNA tour. (Is that job on her official resume?!) Lola would also make up words: obsessivo, fabnosity, for rizzle, to the point that she had her own online dictionary.

Birthday 🎉🎂🎈🇮🇹♥️ A post shared by Madonna (@madonna) on Aug 18, 2017 at 7:20pm PDT

Lola previously modeled for Stella McCartney, because celebrity kids modeling apparently sells a lot of clothes. And she’s popped up at a few fashion shows, including Jeremy Scott’s in September and Alexander Wang with mom.

Lourdes Leon attends the Jeremy Scott 2018 Spring/Summer Presentation on Friday, Sept. 8, 2017, in New York. Photo: Brent N Clarke/Invision/AP

Lola’s always been an artsy kid since her days at the so-called Fame school (Fiorello H. LaGuardia High School of Music & Art and Performing Arts) in New York City, when she starred in musicals — and dated Timothée Chalamet. (Yes, we’re serious.)

We’re not sure if she’ll have an official full-time summer job this year in addition to striking a pose — or if you’re looking at it here. Does one ad campaign like this — that gets international attention — count for three months of work? If so, that sounds like a dream job for a coed. And, for Lola, a definite step up from folding mom’s undies all summer.

Last summer, Lourdes Leon spent a lot of time vacationing. Here she is on a trip to Miami. Photo: Splash News

Though there’s a possibility Lola, whose dad is celebrity trainer Carlos Leon, will also be taking some summer classes. While People magazine reported in September that she’s a senior in college — she attends the University of Michigan in her mama’s home state — she doesn’t appear on the recent grad list. (Not that there is anything wrong with the four-and-a-half or five-year plan, especially if your famously wealthy mother is footing the bill.)

It seems like there’s no rush when she’s already landing attention-getting work.By Tim Marema, Daily Yonder Editor

New annual job numbers from the Bureau of Labor Statistics confirm that the effects of the Great Recession went deeper and have lasted longer in rural America than they did in the rest of the nation.

The 2017 annual jobs report shows that rural counties (defined as nonmetropolitan) still haven’t gotten back to levels of employment they saw in 2008 at the beginning of the recession.

Rural counties had 750,000 fewer jobs in 2017 than they did in 2008. That’s a drop of 3.5 percent over the nine-year period.

Daily Yonder/Bureau of Labor Statistics

Meanwhile, the nation’s largest metropolitan areas (those with populations of 1 million or more) climbed out of their job deficit by 2012. In 2017 they had 10 percent more jobs than they did in 2008. That’s an increase of 7.8 million jobs. (Major metropolitan counties are shown in the red line in the graph at the top of the story.)

Rural employment did grow slightly from 2016, the report shows. An increase of 0.4 percent added another 78,000 jobs to rural counties in 2017. Rural counties that were closer to metropolitan areas (the light blue line in the graph) had a slightly better growth rate over the last year than more remote counties (orange line).

The report also shows that the gap between the biggest and smallest counties is increasing over time. In general, the more urban the county, the bigger the rate of job growth. The nation’s largest metropolitan areas increased employment by about 2 percent from 2016 to 2017. The nation’s smallest metropolitan areas (purple line) added employment at about half that rate.

The BLS annual job reports provide an easy way to compare year-to-year figures without having to account for factors like seasonal employment, which skew employment figures.

(The Daily Yonder also tracks monthly job reports, but those reports only allow us to compare the same months in previous years. Nonetheless, our reporting on monthly figures confirms the pattern of large counties adding jobs at a faster rate than smaller counties.)

The 2017 employment pattern also roughly matches trends revealed in the most recent county population figures from the U.S. Census. Rural counties closer to metro areas had more U.S. residents move there than leave. But rural counties not adjacent to metro areas had a net loss in population due to domestic migration.The state Capitol building in Nashville, Tennessee. Education Images via Getty Images

Republicans in Tennessee are trying to erect a monument “in memory of the victims of abortion” on the grounds of the state Capitol.

The state’s Senate passed a bill 23-3 on Monday that would require the Capitol to “develop and implement a plan for the commissioning of the Tennessee Monument to Unborn Children,” the Associated Press reports.

The state House passed a version of the bill last week in 63-15 vote. The newest version of the legislation is set to head back to the House for another vote before legislators send it to Tennessee Governor Bill Haslam (R).

Two Republicans, Rep. Jerry Sexton and Sen. Steve Southerland, sponsored the HB 2381 bill. According to the legislation, the monument will be “funded by non-state sources” but will be erected on the state grounds. The memorial will also include the inscription: “Tennessee Monument to Unborn Children, In Memory of the Victims of Abortion: Babies, Women, and Men.” There are currently no specifics about what the statue would look like and how large it would be.

When the legislation was first introduced in March, Rep. Bill Dunn (R) likened the memorial to current statues memorializing victims of the Holocaust and slavery.

“Both of these monuments that are already here recognize the atrocities occurred because human beings were treated as less than human,” Dunn said, according to Memphis Daily News. “In both cases, the vulnerable and defenseless were subjected to the will of the powerful. The taking of life of the baby in the womb is related to this brand of inhumanity.”

He added that the memorial would also be for “other victims” of abortion including “women coerced into abortions, the fathers who can’t protect their unborn child, the brothers and sisters who lose a sibling and the society as a whole who becomes coarsened because life is cheapened.”Trevor Noah dissected what appears to be President Donald Trump’s growing friendship with French counterpart Emmanuel Macron on Tuesday’s broadcast of “The Daily Show.”

The comedian said it was “no accident” that Macron had become Trump’s first state dinner guest “because from the very beginning, while other leaders seemed to clash with Trump, Macron was the Belle to Trump’s Beast.”

Noah noted the serious reason behind Macron’s visit ― namely to prevent Trump from scrapping the Iran nuclear deal. But he also broke down the most meme-worthy moments of the trip so far (such as the pair’s tree-planting ceremony, their awkward kiss and that bizarre “dandruff” incident).

“We all know that Trump is not the sentimental type, but clearly Macron made him feel a way that he’s never, ever felt before: Human,” said Noah.

He ended the segment with this tribute to the two leaders blossoming “bromance”:Don Blankenship, a former coal CEO turned Republican U.S. Senate candidate, is seen during a campaign event in West Virginia in February. Bloomberg via Getty Images

Don Blankenship, a Republican U.S. Senate candidate in West Virginia, suggested that Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.) may have conflicts of interest in foreign relations because his father-in-law is a “wealthy Chinaperson.”

Blankenship, whose fiancée was reportedly born in China, began by telling host Dimitri Vassilaros he doesn’t have “any problem with China.”

“But I have an issue when the father-in-law is a wealthy Chinaperson and there’s a lot of connections to some of the brass, if you will, in China,” he said, targeting the father of McConnell’s wife, Elaine Chao, who is the U.S. secretary of transportation. Chao’s father, James Chao, was born in China but launched his shipping company, the Foremost Group, in New York.

Elaine Chao is seen being sworn in as the transportation secretary with her father, James Chao, holding a Bible. Her husband, Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, bears witness. NurPhoto via Getty Images

Blankenship, Massey Energy’s former CEO, went on to criticize Elaine Chao, accusing her of once being part of an “environmental extremist group” that he claims “damaged West Virginia and the permitting process for coal and energy.”

The transportation secretary, until 2015, served on the Bloomberg Family Foundation’s board of directors. The foundation worked to help cities transition away from coal use and instead toward energy sources that limit carbon emissions.

Though Blankenship tried to throw scrutiny over McConnell’s extended family and his ties to China ― calling it “one small example” of conflicts of interest seen in Washington ― he has many ties of his own.

A protester holds a sign behind Don Blankenship, who had been chairman and CEO of Massey Energy Co. until a deadly explosion at one of his mines killed 29 people. Scott J. Ferrell via Getty Images

Blankenship’s fiancée is Farrah Meiling Hobbs, who was born in Beijing and moved to the U.S. in 1996 where she founded her second trading company, according to The New York Times, citing a website belonging to her.

In 2009, Blankenship also discussed with the Charleston Gazette-Mail his desire to move to Asia and seek dual citizenship in China. He also praised China’s government, saying: “Americans confuse the words communism and dictatorship.”

Despite these contradictions, Blankenship, who is an outspoken supporter of President Donald Trump, said on Monday that he’s read books that criticize McConnell as being “too soft on China.”

Though he added that U.S. senators need to be “more transparent” about their business ties, last week he reportedly told the Times that he believes nobody “should have to disclose private information.”Lauren Cohan as Maggie Greene/Rhee on “The Walking Dead." AMC

Maggie isn’t leaving the Hilltop yet.

Lauren Cohan, who plays Maggie Greene/Rhee on “The Walking Dead,” confirmed at CinemaCon in Las Vegas Tuesday that she will return for the ninth season of AMC’s hit zombie drama, which begins shooting next week.

“I’m going back,” Cohan told Entertainment Weekly. “There’s a lot more Maggie story to tell.”

Cohan, however, was tight-lipped when it came to divulging details about the grieving widow (R.I.P. Glenn!) turned leader of the Hilltop community’s journey in the next season.

“You know we’re not allowed to tell you anything, but it’s good,” she said.

Cohan joined the cast of “The Walking Dead” in Season 2 and has played a key and beloved character in the dystopian blockbuster ever since.

In February, it was reported the Cohan was one of the most in-demand actresses during pilot season and had signed on play the female lead in ABC’s “Whiskey Cavalier” opposite Scott Foley, which alarmed many fans of “The Walking Dead.”

In March, TVLine reported that Cohan’s “The Walking Dead” contract with AMC was set to expire at the end of Season 8, and that she had been negotiating for salary parity with her male co-stars Andrew Lincoln (Rick) and Norman Reedus (Daryl) if she were to return for Season 9 and beyond.

It appears that Cohan’s battle for equal pay on the show became so intense that one of her co-stars, Khary Payton (King Ezekiel), supported the actress on social media. Payton posted a photo of Cohan as Maggie to Instagram with the caption: “Pay the woman.”Hank Azaria’s eyes “have been opened” to the issues at play with his controversial voice portrayal of the character Apu Nahasapeemapetilon in “The Simpsons.”

In 2017, comedian Hari Kondabolu’s documentary “The Problem With Apu” shone a light on how Apu’s characterization propagated racial stereotypes about South Asians living in America. The film sparked conversations about the future of the character and the importance of representation in television.

On Tuesday’s broadcast of “The Late Show with Stephen Colbert,” Azaria said he was “perfectly willing and happy to step aside” from voicing the role of Springfield’s Indian Kwik-E-Mart owner.

Azaria told Colbert that “the idea that anyone young or old, past or present, being bullied based on Apu really makes me sad.”

“I’ve given this a lot of thought, really a lot of thought, and as I say my eyes have been opened,” said Azaria. “And I think the most important thing is we have to listen to South Asian people, Indian people in this country and they talk about what they feel and how they think about this character and what their American experience of it has been.”

Azaria, who voices numerous other characters on Fox’s animated comedy, including Moe Szyslak, Chief Wiggum and Comic Book Guy, said he was willing to help the character transition “into something new.”

Advertisement