Reason I canceled my trip to London is that I am not a big fan of the Obama Administration having sold perhaps the best located and finest embassy in London for “peanuts,” only to build a new one in an off location for 1.2 billion dollars. Bad deal. Wanted me to cut ribbon-NO!

While Trump claimed he was calling off the trip because he was “not a big fan of the Obama administration having sold perhaps the best located and finest embassy in London for ‘peanuts,’” many tweeters suggested it was more likely that he didn’t want to see any anti-Trump demonstrations. Others were just thrilled he planned to stay in America:NEW YORK ― Republican lawmakers in Colorado are embracing a Democratic colleague who quit his caucus this week after nearly a dozen women, including a female Democratic state representative, accused him of sexual harassment.

Eleven women ― including a former legislative aide, several lobbyists and fellow state Rep. Faith Winter (D) ― accused state Rep. Steve Lebsock (D) of sexual harassment in November. Winter, a married 37-year-old lawmaker, says Lebsock aggressively came on to her at a bar in 2016.

“I said ‘no’ five times to leaving the bar to go have sex with him,” Winter told HuffPost. “He wouldn’t take no for an answer.”

Lebsock denies the allegations, which are being formally investigated by House leadership. On Tuesday, the day before Colorado’s 2018 legislative session began, he sent his colleagues a bizarre 28-page manifesto defending himself and detailing the sexual history of one of his accusers. He offered an alibi for one of the incidents, in which he allegedly tried to unbutton a woman’s blouse at a bar, claiming that he was playing a “Ms. Pac-Man” arcade game that night and recorded a very high score.

The document did not win Lebsock any sympathy from his caucus. Several Democratic lawmakers, including Colorado House Speaker Crisanta Duran, wore black on the first day of the legislative session in protest and called for Lebsock to resign. Duran received a standing ovation when she told colleagues in her opening speech that “we must confront these issues head-on and successfully reform the culture of the Capitol.” State Rep. Matt Gray (D) said he would introduce a resolution to expel Lebsock from his seat.

Lebsock refuses to resign, but he was so frustrated by the rebukes from his Democratic colleagues that he abruptly quit the caucus on Wednesday. He thanked Republicans for literally embracing him.

@rickenstrom I will not caucus with House dems this session. Thank you to several Republican House members coming up to me and giving me hugs. #copolitics — Steve Lebsock (@RepLebsock) January 10, 2018

Lebsock is not switching parties ― he’s still running for state treasurer as a Democrat. But Republicans have been much warmer to him than members of his own party. State House Minority Leader Patrick Neville (R) defended Lebsock in his speech at the start of the new legislative session Wednesday.

“I perfectly understand and share a sense of outrage when we hear stories of bad behavior, but when accusations appear where the law is made, we must observe due process so that we fairly and objectively handle complaints and workplace issues,” Neville said.

And Rick Enstrom, a top Republican donor in Colorado, had kind words for Lebsock on Twitter.

You’re a good legislator, Steve. Represent your district and keep working to make CO an even better place to work and live. — Rick Enstrom (@rickenstrom) January 10, 2018

Lebsock, Neville and the Colorado GOP did not respond to requests for comment.

Lebsock told 9NEWS on Thursday that the accusations against him are “lies.”President Donald Trump continued to insult and criticize Haiti and African nations while denying he called them “shithole countries” during a meeting with lawmakers on Thursday.

In tweets posted Friday, Trump denied using that language during the meeting, but did say the language he used was “tough.”

The language used by me at the DACA meeting was tough, but this was not the language used. What was really tough was the outlandish proposal made - a big setback for DACA! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) January 12, 2018

Sadly, Democrats want to stop paying our troops and government workers in order to give a sweetheart deal, not a fair deal, for DACA. Take care of our Military, and our Country, FIRST! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) January 12, 2018

He later tweeted that he “never said anything derogatory about Haitians.”

Never said anything derogatory about Haitians other than Haiti is, obviously, a very poor and troubled country. Never said “take them out.” Made up by Dems. I have a wonderful relationship with Haitians. Probably should record future meetings - unfortunately, no trust! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) January 12, 2018

Sen. Dick Durbin (D-Ill.) confirmed Trump made derogatory remarks during the Thursday meeting, calling his comments “hate-filled, vile and racist.”

“I’ve seen the comments in the press,” Durbin said. “I’ve not read one of them that’s inaccurate.”

CNN’s Jake Tapper suggested Trump may have tweeted the latter denial because he only referred to African nations as “shithole countries” while discussing the diversity visa lottery and merely questioned why “we need more Haitians” in America during a separate part of the conversation.

First, when talking about “temporary protected status” countries as part of the immigration deal it was mentioned that Salvadorans, Hondurans and Haitians have that status. 3/ — Jake Tapper (@jaketapper) January 12, 2018

“Haitians?” the president said. “Why do we need more Haitians? Take them out” —- meaning take them out of the deal.



4/ — Jake Tapper (@jaketapper) January 12, 2018

“Why are we having all these people from shithole countries come here?” Trump asked, before suggesting the U.S. should welcome more immigrants from countries like Norway, according to people in the room.You done messed up, A-P.

On Thursday, The Associated Press mistakenly tweeted a photo of “Get Out” writer and director Jordan Peele in a tweet that mentioned actor James Franco’s recent sexual misconduct allegations.

The since-deleted tweet was part of the news agency’s coverage of the Critics’ Choice Awards, during which Peele had accepted the Best Original Screenplay award for his successful horror film.

“James Franco, facing new sexual misconduct allegations, is an early winner at the Critics’ Choice Awards,” the tweet read, with a photo of Peele accepting his own award from the ceremony attached.

The Los Angeles Times report in which five women accused Franco of sexual misconduct had come out that morning. Four actresses told the newspaper the actor asked them to perform sexually inappropriate and coercive scenes.

The tweet caught Peele’s attention before it was deleted. The star tweeted, “Um ... weird photo choice?” in response to the mistake.

The AP addressed the mistake in a tweet later in the night. The outlet said it “deleted a tweet about James Franco winning at the Critic’s Choice Awards because it featured a photo of another person.”

The agency did not offer an apology to Peele. There there was no mention of Peele or the sexual misconduct allegations in the tweet.

We’ve deleted a tweet about James Franco winning at the Critics’ Choice Awards because it featured a photo of another person. A new tweet about the awards is upcoming. — The Associated Press (@AP) January 12, 2018

Franco won a Best Actor award for “The Disaster Artist” at Thursday night’s award ceremony. The actor did not attend the event to accept the award, which was not presented in the televised ceremony, but instead in an online-only segment before the event.

Before the LA Times report was published, several Twitter users had come forward alleging that the actor had harassed them. Franco denied any wrongdoing during an appearance on “The Late Show with Stephen Colbert” Tuesday, saying the allegations “are not accurate.”Megyn Kelly Comes Out As Pro-Fat Shaming: "Some Of Us Want To Be Shamed" pic.twitter.com/qOgSCJxuYK — Jon Levine (@LevineJonathan) January 11, 2018

What was Megyn Kelly’s secret to staying thin in law school? Wait for it ― fat shaming.

“Some of us want to be shamed,” the NBC personality said Thursday on “Megyn Kelly Today.” “When I was in law school, I was gaining weight. I said to my stepfather, ‘If you see me going into that kitchen one more time, you say, “Where you going, fat ass?’” And it works!”

The revelation triggered nervous laughter in the audience.

Kelly made the remark in a segment featuring controversial “fit mom” blogger Maria Kang, who Kelly even encouraged to “parlay the shaming thing into a professional business.”

Kang, 37, tried to get into the spirit of the confession by admitting: “My husband does that to me all the time. I tell him my goals, and if it’s early in the morning and he sees me still in bed, he’s like: ‘What are you doing in here?’”

Kang said she’s “in your face” when it comes to helping people stay fit. But she switched her old “What’s your excuse?” harsh approach after it was attacked in 2013 as bullying and fat shaming. Now, she asks: “What’s your reason?” and encourages women to focus on why they want to get fit.

Maria Kang

Twitter wasn’t nearly as easygoing as Kang about Kelly’s rattling revelation.

I was publicly fat shammed early on in my career and it sent me to therapy. Trust me, there are real life ramifications for fat shaming of any kind, it is NEVER acceptable. We should be fostering a healthy culture that celebrates all women of all sizes. https://t.co/dFn3hGwot6 — Meghan McCain (@MeghanMcCain) January 11, 2018

Megyn Kelly:

Some women want to be fat-shamed.

"Where are you going fat ass?"

Megyn should realize some women want to say to her

"What are you thinking dumb ass?"#ThursdayThoughts #MAGAhttps://t.co/mpewWXTP6B — CC (@ChristiChat) January 11, 2018

Turned on the Today Show to catch @megynkelly share her dieting hack: FATHER-IN-LAW holds her accountable by saying “Where you going, FATASS??!” when he sees her heading into the kitchen. Genius! — Justine Harman (@JustineHarman) January 11, 2018

@megynkelly suggesting that women should still shame other women into being “fit.” Get a new job, “fat-ass.” Still #cringeworthy — Honey Boo Boo (@Crowleen) January 11, 2018

Megyn curbs food cravings by always keeping a foot in her mouth. — PedanticSemanticist (@antifah_Q) January 11, 2018

That's like saying some women like to be sexually harassed... What a bonehead @megynkelly — Lauren Sue Rosenberg (@LaurenS41) January 11, 2018

UPDATE: Jan. 12 ― Kelly addressed her controversial comments on Friday’s show, stating that she “absolutely” does not support body-shaming and that she was merely acknowledging that Kang’s message “does actually appeal to some people.”

“Close to forty percent of Americans are obese,” Kelly said. “They need support, they need kindness and one thing they definitely do not need is to be body-shamed. I said something yesterday on the show that clearly struck a nerve, and I think it’s a conversation we need to have openly.”WASHINGTON, Jan 12 (Reuters) - U.S. Ambassador to Panama John Feeley, a career diplomat and former Marine Corps helicopter pilot, has resigned, saying he no longer felt able to serve President Donald Trump.

Feeley’s departure had been communicated to State Department officials on Dec. 27 and was not a response to Trump’s alleged use of the word “shithole” to describe Haiti and African countries at a meeting on Thursday, U.S. officials said.

Trump denies using the term.

Feeley, one of the department’s Latin America specialists and among its senior most officers, made clear that he had come to a place where he no longer felt able to serve under Trump.

“As a junior foreign service officer, I signed an oath to serve faithfully the president and his administration in an apolitical fashion, even when I might not agree with certain policies,” Feeley said, according to an excerpt of a resignation letter read to Reuters on Friday.

“My instructors made clear that if I believed I could not do that, I would be honor bound to resign. That time has come.”

A State Department spokeswoman confirmed Feeley’s departure, saying that he “has informed the White House, the Department of State, and the Government of Panama of his decision to retire for personal reasons, as of March 9 of this year.”

Speaking to reporters, Under Secretary of State Steve Goldstein said he was aware of Feeley’s planned departure on Thursday morning, before Trump’s alleged use of the vulgar term, and said the ambassador was leaving for “personal reasons.”

“Everyone has a line that they will not cross,” “Goldstein told reporters at the State Department. “If the ambassador feels that he can no longer serve ... then he has made the right decision for himself and we respect that.”

U.S. officials declined to discuss Feeley’s reasons for leaving the department after a long career, much of which was spent working on Latin American issues.

Some of Trump’s policies have been widely regarded within the region as hostile to Latin America.

The Trump administration has taken a tougher stance on immigration from Latin America, most notably with moves to expel hundreds of thousands of immigrants from El Salvador, Haiti and Nicaragua who benefited from temporary protection status after natural disasters. Feeley’s career included serving as the No. 2 official in the State Department bureau that deals with Latin America, as deputy chief of mission at the U.S. embassy in Mexico City and as director for Central American affairs in Washington.Miley Cyrus and Liam Hemsworth at a movie premiere in Hollywood on Oct. 10. Rich Polk via Getty Images

Miley Cyrus is VERY excited about boyfriend Liam Hemsworth’s 28 birthday on Saturday.

So much so that she wished him a VERY happy birthday a day early.

On Friday, the “Malibu” singer posted a sweet Instagram story for her beau, accompanied by some VERY cute couple photos.

“Today is very special,” she wrote. “Because it’s someone VERY special’s birthday.”

The birthday tribute in question. mileycyrus via Instagram

It seems like the couple is VERY into extending their birthdays.

Hemsworth also wished Cyrus a VERY happy birthday the day before her 25 in November by giving her a personalized necklace.

My man killin the game already! This is just pressie #1! Thank you LiLi! @LiamHemsworth pic.twitter.com/9eNPiNUeQ0 — Miley Ray Cyrus (@MileyCyrus) November 23, 2017

Man, these two are VERY sweet.The former wife of filmmaker Paul Haggis is defending him against accusations that he sexually assaulted at least four women.

In a statement to Deadline.com on Thursday, Deborah Rennard said she has come forward because while she has “an unwavering support for the brave women, and some men, who have come forward to speak out against sexual predators in the film business,” she “cannot sit by in silence″ while Haggis “is being impugned.”

Rennard was married to Haggis for 12 years starting in 1997, and she still works with him on various movie projects.

The “Crash” director is accused of raping one unidentified woman, sexually assaulting another and sexually harassing a third. In addition, Haggis’ former publicist Haleigh Breest filed a $9 million lawsuit last month accusing him of raping her in 2013.

Haggis quickly filed a countersuit against Breest. Rennard said he told her he cannot directly address any charges until that case plays out in court.

Deborah Rennard and Paul Haggis at the 33rd Deauville American Film Festival in September 2007. Vincent Kessler / Reuters

In her statement, Rennard said that her ex-husband is “not the type of man who would ever commit an act of violence or aggression against a woman.”

She then attacked two of the allegations made against Haggis, including that from Breest.

Rennard claimed that at the time Breest was allegedly raped, January 2013, Haggis had just had “serious back surgery” and wore a brace under his shirt until early March. Since he had to be careful how he stood or sat, his former wife said he “was no physical condition to restrain a young woman against her will.”

Rennard criticized Haggis’ other accusers for not identifying themselves:

I don’t know the women who are making these allegations against Paul; because they are anonymous. How is it even possible, in America in the year 2018, that someone can destroy another’s reputation and not even have to give their name?

Then she focused on the allegation made by one of the anonymous accusers. That woman said she was working for Haggis as an in-house publicist when the alleged rape occurred, but Rennard said that wasn’t possible:

There was no in-house “publicist” working in our offices – I would know, I had the office adjacent to Paul’s. We frequently worked late, and I always stayed with Paul and we always left together. Although we were not yet married, we were living together, and together we would make the half hour drive home. Every morning. Every night.Michael Avenatti has a warning for Michael Cohen, the embattled personal attorney to President Donald Trump: There’s more.

“We haven’t even scratched the surface with this email today and the information that we released earlier in the week,” Avenatti said on CNN on Thursday. “We’ve got emails, we’ve got text messages, we’ve got other financial information, and people better be very careful in the representations that they make.”

Avenatti earlier this week released a trove of documents linking Cohen’s consulting firm to numerous payments, including $500,000 from a company tied to a Russian oligarch.

Cohen used that same consulting firm to pay $130,000 to Avenatti’s client Stormy Daniels as part of a nondisclosure agreement just before the 2016 presidential election.

Daniels, a porn actress whose real name is Stephanie Clifford, is suing to get out of the deal so she can talk about an alleged 2006 affair with Trump.

“I’m speaking to you, Michael Cohen,” Avenatti warned on Thursday. “You’d better be really careful in the representations you make in court filings and to the American people because we’re going to prove you wrong if the need be, period.”

AdvertisementLate-night TV hosts reacted in their own horrified ways to Donald Trump’s reported remark calling Haiti and some African nations “shithole countries.”

On Thursday’s broadcast of “Late Night,” host Seth Meyers had to walk away to process the news of the president’s comment:

“The Daily Show’s” South African host Trevor Noah said that, “as someone from South Shithole,” he was “offended.”

Tonight at 11/10c, as someone from South Shithole, Trevor is deeply offended by the president’s remarks. pic.twitter.com/4dTaMapmSG — The Daily Show (@TheDailyShow) January 12, 2018

Jimmy Kimmel couldn’t quite believe what Trump said:

Everyone, please relax. It’s just locker room cartography.https://t.co/7iGoeDv5db — Full Frontal (@FullFrontalSamB) January 11, 2018One Republican congresswoman is demanding that President Donald Trump apologize for describing Haiti and African nations as “shithole countries.”

Rep. Mia Love (R-Utah), who made history in 2014 as the first Haitian-American woman elected to Congress, released a statement on Thursday responding to reports that Trump insulted multiple countries during negotiations on restoring federal protections for some immigrants.

When lawmakers at the Oval Office meeting proposed granting visas to individuals from Haiti, El Salvador and a range of African nations, Trump reportedly said, “Why are we having all these people from shithole countries come here?”

He followed his comment by suggesting that the U.S. “should have more people from places like Norway,” sources told NBC News.

Rep. Mia Love had earlier criticized the president's decision to end a key protection for Haitian immigrants. Bill Clark via Getty Images

The following day, Trump claimed on Twitter that he hadn’t used those specific words, but Sen. Dick Durbin (D-Ill.) ― who was in the room at the time ― swiftly contradicted him, saying that the president had in fact “said these hate-filled things and he said them repeatedly.”

The congresswoman, one of the few Republican lawmakers who called out Trump, continued:

This behavior is unacceptable from the leader of our nation. My parents came from one of those countries but proudly took the oath of allegiance to the United States and took on the responsibilities of everything that being a citizen comes with. They never took a thing from our federal government. They worked hard, paid taxes, and rose from nothing to take care of and provide opportunities for their children. They taught their children to do the same. That’s the American Dream. The President must apologize to both the American people and the nations he so wantonly maligned.

This wasn’t the first time Love stood up for Haitian immigrants. In November, she said she disagreed with the Trump administration’s decision to end the temporary protected status granted to Haitians who had fled their country after a devastating earthquake in 2010.

“I’m going to do everything I can to work with the administration, but this is a place where we disagree, really disagree,” Love told a Utah radio show, according to the Deseret News.

She added, “There is going to be a full-court press on the president on this issue because this is a bad decision.”

Two Florida Republicans joined Love on Thursday in condemning the president’s ugly comments.

“The president calling #Haiti a ‘shithole country’ ignores the contributions thousands of Haitians have made to our #SoFla community and nation,” Rep. Ileana Ros-Lehtinen tweeted. “Language like that shouldn’t be heard in locker rooms and it shouldn’t be heard in the White House.”

Rep. Carlos Curbelo also stood up for immigrants under temporary protected status, saying that “under no circumstances is it acceptable to degrade, denigrate or dehumanize” them.

The men and women who have status under the TPS program are among the most humble and hard working in our country. They improve quality of life in our communities and many Americans depend on them to support family life. — Rep. Carlos Curbelo (@RepCurbelo) January 11, 2018

Under no circumstances is it acceptable to degrade, denigrate, or dehumanize #TPS immigrants. The White House must immediately explain the situation and leave no doubt regarding what was said and in what context. — Rep. Carlos Curbelo (@RepCurbelo) January 11, 2018

Moreover delivering a permanent solution for #TPS beneficiaries should be a major component of any #immigration deal. — Rep. Carlos Curbelo (@RepCurbelo) January 11, 2018A fourth San Francisco swimmer has been injured in a sea lion attack in the latest of a bizarre series of encounters that began in the middle of last month. All of the attacks have occurred in Aquatic Park Cove, a popular spot for swimmers off the city’s north coast.

In the latest attack a woman was bitten in the knee. A retired paramedic who was also swimming in the cove around 7 a.m. Thursday when the attack occurred helped the woman as she exited the water. She was taken to a nearby hospital for treatment, according to a statement by the San Francisco Fire Department.

The bite was “not severe, but anytime you get bit it’s a bad thing,” a spokeswoman for the San Francisco Maritime National Historical Park, which is in charge of the cove, told ABC-7 TV.

Alice Ma, who was swimming near the woman, told the San Francisco Chronicle that the pinniped grabbed the victim’s leg and tried to drag her underwater.

“It chomped down onto her,” said Ma. “It bit her and pulled.”

The cove was shut for five days after the last December attack, when a male swimmer suffered a “severe bite” close to his groin and was rushed by ambulance to a nearby hospital. One swimmer who has come to the cove for 50 years said he had never before heard of anything like the string of attacks.

Some officials have speculated that a single animal could be responsible for all of the attacks, but that hasn’t been confirmed.

Sea lions and harbor seals are powerful enough to seriously harm a swimmer, according to Claire Simeone, a veterinarian at the Marine Mammal Center in the Marin Headlands, who has studied bites by the animals.

The area won’t be closed, but warning signs have been posted. The fire department is also urging people to swim in pairs and keep an eye out.

City agencies and the National Park Service are investigating the incident.Taraji P. Henson’s new movie, “Proud Mary,” opens in theaters on Friday, but one person who has no plans to see it is songwriter John Fogerty, the man who composed the 1960s classic rock song that inspired the film’s title.

Henson plays a hitwoman in the film, which took a big hit itself in a blistering tweet from Fogerty posted Thursday afternoon.

The Rock and Roll Hall of Famer, one of the founders of Creedence Clearwater Revival, griped about how the movie has little to do with his song and how he wants little to do with the movie.

Fogerty said he wrote the song 50 years ago and calls it his “very first good song.”

That said, it “irks” him when people “seek to capitalize on the popularity of his music and the good will it has earned with the public” for financial gain.

Fogerty said that he’d like people to associate the words “Proud Mary” with “leaving painful stressful things behind for a more tranquil and a more meaningful life” and not a movie “about killing people for money.”

The complete tweet appears below:The attack comes as Canada approaches the first anniversary of a deadly shooting in a Quebec City mosque that killed six people at prayer. A French-Canadian university student has been charged as the sole suspect.

Last month, a Quebec judge suspended a law banning people from wearing niqabs and other face coverings while giving or receiving public services.

Researchers have documented an increase in far-right extremist activity in Canada, much of it targeting Muslims.

A survey conducted last year by Ontario’s Human Rights Commission found that more people reported harboring “very negative” feelings about Muslims than about any other group.

The National Council of Canadian Muslims has called on the federal government to declare Jan. 29, the day of the mosque shooting, a day of remembrance and action on Islamophobia. The government has not said whether it will do so.Joshua Black Wilkins

You might describe Anderson East’s career as a slow climb. The singer self-released his debut album in 2009, followed by a sophomore effort three years later. It wasn’t until 2015 ― when his major-record label debut “Delilah” came out ― that things started to pick up, and critics and listeners began to take notice.

“I say it’s about damn time!” East said, before quickly clarifying, “I’m just kidding!”

That’s the thing you’ll notice quickly about East: He has a fun, even self-deprecating, sense of humor. On top of that, he seems truly humble.

“Every day I’m just incredibly grateful and freaked out that we’re in the position we’re in and people actually do care,” East told HuffPost.

It’s just days before his new album, “Encore,” is scheduled to arrive, and when asked how he’s feeling, East said, “really positive.” That’s mainly because “Alabama won the national championship,” he said.

Ah, of course.

East, who grew up in Athens, Alabama, is a big college football fan. Though he attended Middle Tennessee State University and later set roots in Nashville, Alabama is clearly still close to his heart.

But Nashville is where East spends a lot of his time these days. It’s where he recorded “Encore” ― at the historic RCA Studio.

“For me at least, this record is kind of a yearbook. When you get all the club photos, that’s a snapshot of the time frame between ‘Delilah’ and making this record,” he said.

That snapshot includes East’s girlfriend Miranda Lambert. The two have been romantically linked since late 2015, and East said Lambert served as a great sounding board for “Encore.”

“It’s like any relationship, you have a level of trust that they’ll tell you their honest opinion on things. And she is arguably one of the best singers of all time. So you got a pretty good opinion right there,” he said.

But you won’t hear Lambert’s vocals on “Encore.”

Anderson East and Miranda Lambert in Nashville. Rick Diamond via Getty Images

“She just makes me look bad,” East said. “She’s unbelievably more talented than I will ever be. She’s more better-looking as well … She’s the best … She was sweet enough to have me sing on her new record.”

The husky-voiced singer did have quite a few official collaborators on the album. Ryan Adams’ electric guitar riffs can be heard on “This Too Shall Last.”

There’s also “All On My Mind,” a song co-written with Ed Sheeran. After Sheeran and co-writer Johnny McDaid sent East a “sketch” of the track, they did a “digital dance” and tinkered with it before East recorded it for “Encore.”

Chris Stapleton also co-wrote a few of the new songs. When asked what the country singer brings to the songwriting fold, East joked, “his beard,” adding, “I’m a really big fan of facial hair. Let’s be honest. I personally can’t grow one, so I’m always drawn to those who can.”

Beard aside, they’ve actually known each other for years, so the writing collaboration came together seamlessly.

Anderson East and Chris Stapleton in Las Vegas. Rick Diamond/ACMA2017 via Getty Images

“You can never tell if you got a good song or not when you write with him because if he sings it, it sounds really good … I don’t think we’ve ever spent more than 30 minutes on a song … It’s like you can get rid of your lunch in the time it takes you to write a song,” East said.

“Encore” also features two covers, including Willie Nelson’s “Somebody Pick Up My Pieces.”

“I never met him. It would be the highlight of my life if he enjoyed it. But it would crush me if he didn’t … I mean, it’s Willie Nelson. I’m a huge fan and I can talk all day about [him]. I think he has the perfect voice honestly. I would be far too afraid to hear his opinion of me,” East said.

In the end, East said he wanted to make an album that he can enjoy playing in concert.

“We didn’t have pressure really of any kind except our own,” he said. “We wanted to make something that impressed us — from production, arrangement to song choices to the songwriting and the performances themselves.”

East is getting a chance to perform the new songs live on tour. With dates lined up through May, he said he appreciates every show, especially because of the effort fans put in to get there.

“I’m more reminded more and more how precious time is, especially going to a show is really hard. You have to get babysitters, you have to get dressed … You gotta figure out where you have to park. Whether you’re going to get something to eat before that. And it costs money to get in there,” he said. “And the drinks are expensive … And they’re coming to see us, that’s incredible. It’s their right to see something amazing, and I always want to treat it as such. It’s a special moment for everyone.”By Trish Bendix

Andrea Gibson’s spoken word is so affecting, they frequently make their audience cry.

“Sometimes it’s hard for me to look directly at people, and sometimes it’s amazing that it can pull me through a piece that is hard for me to read,” the poet tells INTO. “It’s one of the things that I love about spoken word is that it’s one of the main art forms that asks the performers to have eye contact with the audience throughout. It can be really intense, and then it can really overwhelm me with this feeling of connection, like I know somebody, and get what they are experiencing.”

With six albums, seven books (including Take Me With You, available January 23), and a handful of awards from renowned poetry slam competitions, Gibson is one of spoken word’s most prolific poets. Their national tours are consistently successful, with venues full of devotees; some with Gibson’s quotes tattooed on their bodies, lots of them LGBTQ-identified. (Gibson, who uses they/them/their pronouns, identifies as nonbinary.)

The crying crowds are responding to Gibson’s guttural style; their marriage of personal and political in lyrical storytelling that would elicit an emotional response in the coldest of hearts. The crying, Gibson says, isn’t just for the the crowd.

“I cry so much,” they say. ” And I cry when I am writing, and it just spills out onto everyone. I woke up crying this morning and then it was a great day, and I thought ‘God I should start my day every day with, like, five minutes of crying and see how every day goes.’”

Which isn’t to say that Gibson’s work is all heavy or sad or joyless, but that it’s affecting. Gibson says that the connection they establish with fans is often as freeing as it can be painful, which is to say there are no trigger warnings before performances despite the content including themes of violence, racism, homophobia, and otherwise difficult topics to navigate pertaining to identity and general personhood.

“Sometimes something that is resonating is something really joyful for somebody,” Gibson says, “and then something else, you know, might be a piece about sexual assault. And to watch that resonate with so many people in the audience is intense.”

Gibson says they believe in finding comfort through the sharing of even the most harrowing and tragic of experiences.

“It always feels nurturing to me to have that experience,” they said. “Not that I am wishing negative experiences on anybody, but it definitely feels like a place of feeling and in some ways just to be talking about something and to know you are not the only one that has experienced it.”

On their new album “Hey Galaxy,” Gibson isn’t afraid to touch the third-rail. In a piece titled “Letter to White Queers,” Gibson asks their audience, which inevitably includes a bevy of white queers like themself, to question their culpability in a perpetually racist society. The poem, Gibson says, was inspired by the reactions some of their fans were having to Facebook posts the poet made in support of Black Lives Matter and subsequent social actions to hold law enforcement accountable for their actions that resulted in the needless deaths of Black people.

“One of the first times I read it,” Gibson says, “I was reading it near St. Louis and there was a police officer from Ferguson at the show who asked me to come on a ride with her and spend a day with her in the patrol car, so I could get a more ‘well-rounded’ perspective. And I said no.”

Gibson says performing poems like “A Letter to White Queers” can prove difficult in some spaces more than others. One of the “main issues” they have with the piece, they say, is that “depending on how I might read it, I sort of lean in the direction of it being riddled with white guilt that I don’t find ultimately helpful.”

“Sometimes I can’t read it because I am having moments of, ‘Okay, so I’m going to read this piece, but how am I not taking this moment to call out the white supremacy of the president of the U.S?’ Like I am addressing the community specifically in it,” they said. “And that’s also hard when I am reading in a space that I feel like is occupied by a lot of straight people, and then to read a piece unpacking the racism of white queer people and in that space sometimes will feel tricky to me. But generally, I read the piece and am just open to discussion afterward. I learn a lot from talking to people after shows about the pieces I have written and have changed a lot of lines and deleted whole poems from my set because of conversations I have with people.”

Gibson isn’t afraid to self-edit, even after having published, recorded, and performed pieces for years, which creates an ongoing revision process based on their own evolution.

“I have even had pieces that I may have written two to three years ago that I can look back and think ‘God, that is so ablest or racist or that’s maybe homophobic,‘” they said. “I just didn’t know enough at the time to have written something, so I have actually gone back and deleted them from albums online and reprinted the album without those tracks on there. I am changing things constantly. There are for sure things that after the album came out, I thought ‘God, I don’t like how that sounds.’”

In modern America, where callout culture has become the norm, Gibson says they aren’t afraid of being called on something that others might find hurtful or offensive.

“It’s just something you have to go in and dive in and say, ‘If I’m going to be an artist these days, and I’m going to have any sort of political message, or if I am invested in writing things that might be of service to the world, I have to recognize that I am learning at the pace that I am learning at, and there are people who are learning faster than I am, and so there are people who are going to catch somethings that might be harmful to people,’” Gibson says. “And just to have a constant willingness to be wrong.”

Gibson finds a refusal to listen to others’ constructive criticism as limiting to creation, which inevitably requires audience response.

“It’s part of the process of being an artist and being a learner,” they say, “and also being willing to listen to people and know you are going to mess up and just try to mess up with grace and try to learn as fast as you can.”

“Hey Galaxy” includes another poem, “Orlando,” that might elicit more tears from a queer and allied audience as they embark on their winter/spring tour. An ode to the 49 who lost their lives at Pulse, and the community who has suffered in their wake, Gibson says it took them some time to be able to formulate the thoughts and emotions that turned into an impassioned plea for humanity.

“It varies for me, depending on where my mental health is at the moment, and if I am in a place where writing is actually helping,” Gibson says. The election, they say, made creating more difficult.

“I went into this place of political despair that I don’t think I have ever personally experienced in my life, and so it took me a long time to actually start writing piece,” Gibson says. “I was writing maybe what you would call think pieces on social media, but I couldn’t get myself to try to write poems about it for quite a while because I couldn’t even stomach the idea. I think art is beautiful even if its gut-wrenching, but I couldn’t even grapple at that time with what I was feeling inside.”

Those feelings forever affected the mood and theme of “Hey Galaxy,” which was intended to be more about love, Gibson says, until the election. But inevitably, they wrote toward the hope they wanted to have, and to give others. They cling to the quote “Art should comfort the disturbed and disturb the comfortable” as a guiding force.

“I want to comfort the people that need to be comforted, and I want it to disturb the people who need to be disturbed,” Gibson says. “That’s what I was thinking throughout. I wanted it to be a balance of truths that are maybe harder for us to look at but also sprinkling some kind of positivity or hope throughout.”

And while they struggled to find their own hope in 2017, Gibson says they have created a space for themselves and others to remain optimistic about a reimagined future — one that is inherently more political and progressive because it has to be.

“I have bits of that love album still on there because I never want to do away with that,” Gibson says, “because sadly, love is political — queer love is political, maybe all love is political right now since it’s sort of opposite energy of what is ruling our country. I just wanted a balance of lots of things, I didn’t want it to leave anybody despairing, and I didn’t want it to leave anybody feeling bubbly about the world.”

Those who see Gibson on tour or take a listen to “Hey Galaxy” could instead leave with tear-stained cheeks, inspired by empathy, nostalgia, sadness, or maybe even joy. But largely, it will be because they feel seen and heard and beautifully articulated. And should they find something problematic or worth talking to Gibson about, they’re just happy to have started the conversation.

“I think a lot of what spoken word does intends to make people uncomfortable with its emotion and its sort of a brutal truth in a way,” Gibson says, ” so I think sometimes it’s not for everyone. But I have seen it positively grow, and also have watched it impact what we think about the world. It’s certainly changed my politics just listening to poetry and learning through that process.”Donald Trump accused FBI agent Peter Strzok of “treason” in a Wall Street Journal interview published Thursday. Strzok was pulled from special counsel Robert Mueller’s investigation in December, following the discovery of text messages where Strzok called Trump an “idiot” in an exchange with FBI lawyer Lisa Page.

“A man is tweeting to his lover that if [Hillary Clinton] loses, we’ll essentially do the insurance policy. We’ll go to phase two and we’ll get this guy out of office,” Trump told the newspaper, presenting his version of Strzok’s text messages.

“This is the FBI we’re talking about — that is treason,” the president said. “That is a treasonous act. What he tweeted to his lover is a treasonous act.”

In a 2016 text, Strzok wrote to Page: “I want to believe the path you threw out for consideration ... that there’s no way he gets elected. But I’m afraid we can’t take that risk. It’s like an insurance policy in the unlikely event you die before you’re 40.”

The Wall Street Journal reported in December that Strzok’s “insurance policy” likely referred to an aggressive investigation into possible collusion between the Russians and the Trump campaign. His intention, the paper said, was to respond to a colleague who believed the agency could relax its investigation since it seemed inevitable that Clinton would win.

Strzok’s lawyer Aitan Goelman told the newspaper that it is “beyond reckless for the president of the United States to accuse Pete Strzok, a man who has devoted his entire adult life to defending this country, of treason. It should surprise no one that the president has both the facts and the law wrong.”

The crime of “treason” is defined in the Constitution as “levying war” against the nation or aiding enemies to hurt the U.S.; criticizing a presidential candidate falls outside these parameters. As David A. Graham of The Atlantic pointed out in December, “While the Justice Department has a clear code of ethics, it does not preclude employees from holding political views or expressing them to acquaintances in their private lives.”

Strzok was also the lead in the investigation into Clinton’s use of a private email server while she was secretary of state. His texts have been used by Trump and supporters to make a case that the Mueller investigation hasn’t been objective.Sex workers in San Francisco who come forward to report assault cannot be penalized for prostitution or petty drug crimes under new guidelines announced by city officials.

In an announcement titled “Prioritizing Safety for Sex Workers,” San Francisco District Attorney George Gascón said the new policy, which was announced on Thursday, was intended “to create an environment where individuals who are victims or witnesses of violent crime are able to come forth to report violence.”

Sex workers who come forward as “victims or witnesses of sexual assault, human trafficking, stalking, robbery, assault, kidnapping, threats, blackmail, extortion, burglary or other violent crime” will not be prosecuted for their involvement in sex work or for misdemeanor drug offenses, Gascón said.

“So long as the person making the report does so truthfully, any statements they make shall not be used against them in the current investigation or in any future criminal action against them,” the district attorney said.

Gascón’s announcement also noted that the district attorney’s office won’t report the immigration status of victims or witnesses of violent crimes to any government agency.

San Francisco Police Chief William Scott made a similar announcement in a department bulletin dated Dec. 19, 2017. The bulletin “institutionalizes” existing practices, Scott said, which aim to “create a climate” where sex workers feel safe to report abuse.

“Sex workers are vulnerable to violence and face barriers in reporting violent crimes to law enforcement in San Francisco,” Scott wrote. “The criminalization of sex work is one of the primary barriers to reporting violence to law enforcement. Sex workers report fear of arrest as a barrier to reporting violent crimes.”

The new policy from the city’s district attorney, described as the first of its kind in the country, met applause from sex worker advocates.

Briq House, communications director for Sex Workers Outreach Project-USA, called San Francisco’s new guidelines “a wonderful step in the right direction.”

“I hope we see cities all over the United States rethinking their approach to violence against sex workers,” House said.

She added that the policy might also serve to educate law enforcement on the difference between consensual and non-consensual sex work and particularly the vulnerability of victims of sex trafficking.

But House noted that police officers can also be among the perpetrators of abuse toward sex workers, and said she hoped the new policy might also “deter predators in law enforcement.”

Scott also alluded to that in his bulletin, referencing recent news coverage of police officers coercing sex workers into engaging in intimate acts. As an additional measure for ensuring the safety of those engaged in sex work, Scott said that any officer found to be using their position of power to retaliate against or coerce sex acts from sex workers would be “subject to disciplinary and/or criminal action.”President Donald Trump is friendly with NFL owners like the New England Patriots' Robert Kraft (right). SAUL LOEB/AFP/Getty Images

WASHINGTON ― Though Republicans talked a good game about getting rid of it, their new tax law preserves a tax exemption that helps billionaire team owners build sports stadiums at public expense.

Republicans haven’t said much about why they kept this particular tax break, which benefits wealthy sports bigwigs who donate heavily to Republican candidates for office and are friendly with President Donald Trump and gave generously to fund his inauguration.

“This is the classic political economy problem of special interests,” said Victor Matheson, a College of the Holy Cross economist who has studied the economic impact of stadiums.

Under the law as it still stands, cities and states can issue tax-exempt bonds to build stadiums where enormously profitable major league sports teams play. The bonds issued since 2000 alone will ultimately cost the federal government about $3.2 billion over their terms, according to the Brookings Institution, a centrist think tank.

“That is about $10 per person in the U.S., hardly an amount that gets people to rise up in the street,” Matheson said. “But the use of tax-exempt financing can easily save an individual NFL owner $20 million in financing costs for the new stadium for every year of his lease.”

The House version of the tax bill eliminated the stadium subsidy, but the Senate bill didn’t. When the two sides came together to hammer out the differences, the Senate ― and the rich owners of NFL, NBA and MLB teams ― won this round. As a result, every American taxpayer will keep helping to finance increasingly expensive stadiums.

“The point of those bonds is to help communities to build infrastructure and when you have teams that make billions of dollars, that’s probably not the best use of our tax structure,” Rep. Diane Black (R-Tenn.), who was a member of the conference committee that negotiated the final bill, told HuffPost.

Sen. John Thune (R-S.D.), another member of the conference committee, said that even some Senate Republicans didn’t want to preserve the stadium subsidy.

“I think it was probably controversial on our side,” Thune told HuffPost. “The use of private activity bonds and some of the things that the House did away with, there was a lot of support for in the House, but there was also strong support for in the Senate. But I think a lot of those were part of the negotiation, and it was a lot of give-and-take on both sides.”

Sen. Dean Heller (R-Nev.) took credit for killing the House provision in a statement last month. “Heller was able to protect the tax exemption for stadium bonds, which is critical to preserving the influx of business and growth associated with the construction of the Raiders stadium in Las Vegas,” his office said on its website.

Nevada approved a plan last year to put a record $750 million in taxpayer money into a new stadium for the NFL’s Oakland Raiders, who will relocate to Las Vegas as soon as 2020.

The sports tax break was a creation of the 1986 tax overhaul. It provides a federal subsidy to stadium projects through discounted interest rates on the tax-free bonds and was originally written in the hopes of curtailing public spending on stadiums.

Instead, it helped spark a boom in new stadium construction. Cities and states dumped more than $17 billion in public money into stadiums between 1986 and 2012, according to a Bloomberg analysis. The building explosion has only continued since.

Government watchdogs and lawmakers on both sides of the aisle have lamented stadium subsidies for more than a decade, for good reason: while new stadiums have helped double the value of sports franchises, there is near-consensus among economists that the costs of new stadiums for the taxpayers far outweigh the minuscule economic benefits they provide cities and states.

Repealing the tax break for sports facilities would have led to only modest savings over the next decade ― an estimated $200 million, according to the Joint Committee on Taxation ― and it wouldn’t have stopped taxpayer-financed stadium construction. But it would have removed federal taxpayers from the equation ― someone living in St. Louis, for instance, would no longer help pay for a new billion-dollar arena in Las Vegas.

It would have also raised the costs of such projects for both team owners and state and local governments, potentially adding millions of dollars a year in interest payments to stadiums’ already exorbitant price tags. No surprise then that the broad support for repealing the subsidy was countered by vocal and bipartisan opposition, particularly from lawmakers with new or pending stadium projects in their districts.

Rep. Dina Titus (D-Nev.), whose district includes the new Raiders stadium, said the repeal provision of the House bill was “one of the many reasons why the GOP tax bill is bad for Nevada.” Rep. Joe Barton (R-Texas) said he would try to ensure that a new stadium for baseball’s Texas Rangers would still get the tax break even if it were repealed.

Rep. Peter King (R-N.Y.), who opposed the tax bill primarily because it curbed a deduction used by high-income taxpayers to write off what they pay in state and local taxes, said pressure from lawmakers in stadium districts likely killed the subsidy repeal.

“I would assume it’s people from areas where that would benefit,” King said.

MLB and the NFL lobbied Congress on “issues related to tax reform” throughout 2017, according to federal lobbying disclosures. The NFL publicly opposed the effort to eliminate the stadium tax break. Neither the NFL nor MLB immediately responded to a request for comment.

In the final stretch, preserving the tax break became “a priority” for President Trump, a Republican aide told The Wall Street Journal in December.

Though Trump made a show of threatening NFL-related tax breaks in the fall ― a bit of political theater rooted in his opposition to football players protesting police brutality and racial injustice during the national anthem ― he is also friendly with several influential NFL owners, including New England Patriots owner Robert Kraft, who donated $1 million to Trump’s inaugural committee, and New York Jets owner Woody Johnson, who now serves as Trump’s ambassador to the United Kingdom.

NFL owners collectively gave Trump’s inaugural committee more than $7 million. The league itself contributed $100,000. During the 2016 election cycle, NFL owners donated more than $8.5 million to political candidates and causes, with the vast majority of their money ― slightly more than $8 million ― going toward Republican candidates and right-leaning causes. Overall, team owners from the four major American men’s leagues gave $23 million to Republican candidates and committees during the last election cycle ― 10 times more than they contributed to Democrats.

Just before the tax law passed, Sen. James Lankford (R-Okla.) pushed an amendment to end the stadium subsidy. But the Senate never adopted it.

“We’re really disappointed, and we’re not giving up,” Lankford’s spokesman told HuffPost. “We’re exploring other avenues in the Senate.”“Fox & Friends” host Pete Hegseth trashed the “failing New York Times” on Friday for supposedly not reporting on the recent capture of five ISIS leaders, apparently unaware the paper beat Fox News to the story.

“I looked for the five ISIS leaders captured in the failing New York Times,” Hegseth said, flipping through the newspaper. “And in the print edition today, I have not seen it yet.”

Hegseth didn’t find the story in Friday’s New York Times because the paper covered it on Wednesday. Hegseth’s own station, Fox News, reported on the Times’ coverage a day later, on Thursday.

Here's Fox & Friends' Pete Hegseth mocking the New York Times for failing to cover the ISIS capture story the paper broke two days ago https://t.co/4BDxdXr23N pic.twitter.com/RXdfKj2y3U — Aidan McLaughlin (@aidnmclaughlin) May 11, 2018

Hegseth and his co-hosts were discussing President Donald Trump’s tweet on Thursday announcing that ISIS five leaders were “just captured.”

Five Most Wanted leaders of ISIS just captured! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) May 10, 2018

So the Times reporting also beat Trump’s. The paper published the news on Wednesday, describing Iraqi news broadcasts referring to a sting operation that took place earlier in the spring.

Like the president, though, Fox hosts have made it a pastime to label the Times and other media outlets they perceive as left-leaning as “failing” and “fake news.”

Hegseth borrowed his mocking nickname for the Times directly from Trump.

The Failing New York Times foiled U.S. attempt to kill the single most wanted terrorist,Al-Baghdadi.Their sick agenda over National Security — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) July 22, 2017

The Failing New York Times purposely wrote a false story stating that I am unhappy with my legal team on the Russia case and am going to add another lawyer to help out. Wrong. I am VERY happy with my lawyers, John Dowd, Ty Cobb and Jay Sekulow. They are doing a great job and..... — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) March 11, 2018

In multiple instances, however, Fox News has itself confirmed reports about the president first covered by the Times.

In January, a Times report revealed that Trump attempted to fire special counsel Robert Mueller last June, alleging conflicts of interest in Mueller’s investigation of Russian interference in the 2016 U.S. election. Fox News and other media outlets quickly confirmed the report.

“Fox & Friends” co-host Ainsley Earhardt dismissed that report at the time, saying: “It’s something we have to tell you about because it is a headline in The New York Times.”

“What do you think about that? Do ya even care?” she asked.

Earhardt and her co-hosts didn’t mention that their own network had also confirmed the report. Instead, they showed a video of Trump denying the story.WASHINGTON, Jan 12 (Reuters) - The U.S. Supreme Court on Friday agreed to hear a bid by Texas to revive Republican-drawn electoral districts for state legislative and U.S. congressional seats that were thrown out by a lower court for diminishing black and Hispanic voters’ clout.

The high court in September put both lower court rulings that had invalidated the Republican-drawn districts on hold in September. The justices were divided 5-4, with the five conservatives backing the Texas Republicans and the four liberals dissenting, suggesting they could be similarly divided when they issue their eventual ruling on the merits of the case.

The case is the latest in which the justices will ponder a practice known as gerrymandering in which state electoral districts are drawn in a way that amplifies the power of certain voters — in this case white voters — at the expense of others. It is the latest voting rights dispute taken up by the justices.

The lower court rulings in the Texas case found fault with state legislative districts and U.S. House of Representatives districts drawn by the Republican-controlled state legislature in 2013.

In one of the decisions under review, a three-judge panel sitting in San Antonio struck down two Republican-drawn U.S. House districts as discriminatory and ordered new maps to be drawn ahead of this year’s elections.

That court ruled that the 27th and 35th congressional districts were drawn in violation of the Voting Rights Act, a 1965 law that protects minority voters and was enacted to address a history of racial discrimination in voting, especially in Southern states. Texas has 36 U.S. House districts, with Republicans holding 25 of them and Democrats 11.

Republican Blake Farenthold, who announced in December that he would not seek re-election this year amid a scandal over sexual harassment allegations, currently represents the 27th district. Democrat Lloyd Doggett represents the 35th district.

A separate decision also issued in August by the same three-judge panel found similar faults with maps drawn for the Texas House of Representatives.

With both decisions on hold, no new districts will be drawn in the interim while the high court considers the Texas appeal in the cases. The electoral maps being challenged remain in use.

Voting rights advocates accused Republican lawmakers of drawing districts to undermine the influence of racial minority voters, who tend to favor Democratic candidates. The state said the redistricting plan was largely based on a map drawn by a federal court in 2012 when it threw out the state’s 2011 maps.

Race can be considered in redrawing boundaries of voting districts only in certain instances, such as when states are seeking to comply with the Voting Rights Act.

NORTH CAROLINA RULING

In its most recent case on racial gerrymandering, the Supreme Court in May 2017 ruled that Republicans in North Carolina unlawfully took race into consideration when drawing congressional district boundaries, concentrating black voters in an improper bid to diminish their statewide political clout.

In a similar case, the justices in March 2017 ordered a lower court to reassess whether Virginia’s Republican-led legislature unlawfully tried to weaken the power of black voters. The justices threw out the lower court’s decision upholding 12 state legislature districts.

The Supreme Court is currently weighing two other cases on the legality of electoral districts, involving legislative maps drawn by Republicans in Wisconsin and Democrats in Maryland. Those cases differ from the Texas dispute because they do not focus on claims of racial discrimination but rather on whether districts drawn with the aim of entrenching one party in power violate the U.S. Constitution.

Gerrymandering is generally accomplished by concentrating voters who tend to favor a particular party in a small number of districts to reduce their statewide voting power while scattering others in districts in numbers too small to be a majority.

The court is likely to decide the case by the end of June, when its current term ends.