Texas education officials violated federal law when they excluded more than 100,000 students with disabilities from programs designed to help them, the federal government announced.

The Department of Education sent a letter to the Texas Education Agency Thursday to announce it’s findings after a 15-month-long investigation. The federal government found that state officials were setting a “target” for how many students could receive special education services, The New York Times reported. Federal law insists that school serve all students with disabilities.

The state’s target created a drop of more than 100,000 students who were previously getting the tools the needed, including therapy and counseling. As the Times explains:

The target, enacted in 2004 and eliminated last year, was set at 8.5 percent of enrollment, and school districts were penalized for exceeding that benchmark, even though the state and national averages had both long been about 12 percent. As a direct result of the policy, regulators determined, the share of students receiving special education services in Texas dropped from 11.6 percent in 2004 to 8.6 percent in 2016 — a difference of about 150,000 children.

The federal investigation was prompted by a massive report from the Houston Chronicle in 2016.

“The law requires that schools base their special ed decisions on need, not opinion, or space availability, or money, or teacher training or other subjective positions,” Kerry Steiner, who worked with a Texas school district as part of a parent training project, told the publication at the time. “It was heartbreaking to see schools not do that.”

Federal investigators held public forums, went to school districts across the state, and interviewed teachers before coming to their conclusion. The DOE has now ordered Texas to create a plan to find and help students who were illegally kept out from special education programs.

“Every child with a disability must have appropriate access to special education and related services that meet his or her unique needs,” Education Secretary Betsy DeVos said in a statement. “Far too many students in Texas had been precluded from receiving supports and services.”YouTube is punishing its star vlogger Logan Paul five days after he posted, and later deleted, a disturbing video that featured the body of an apparent suicide victim in Japan’s Aokigahara forest.

YouTube on Wednesday announced that it will drop Paul’s YouTube channels, which have a combined subscriber count of more than 20 million, from its Google Preferred program, gaming news site Polygon reported. Google Preferred gives YouTube’s most popular accounts access to premium advertisers and the ability to earn higher revenue.

As part of the punishment, YouTube axed the 22-year-old from roles he had in the platform’s scripted programming, including the fourth season of the YouTube Red show “Foursome.” The company also put on hold a project for a feature-length movie starring Paul, “The Thinning: New World Order.” YouTube released the prequel, “The Thinning,” in 2016.

Although his YouTube channels are being dropped from Google Preferred, Paul’s videos will still be eligible to earn money through YouTube’s normal monetization program, a company spokesman confirmed to The Guardian.

Dear @LoganPaul,



How dare you! You disgust me. I can't believe that so many young people look up to you. So sad. Hopefully this latest video woke them up. You are pure trash. Plain and simple. Suicide is not a joke. Go rot in hell.



Ap — Aaron Paul (@aaronpaul_8) January 2, 2018

Paul faced a firestorm of criticism after he published a vlog featuring his trip to the Aokigahara forest, known as the “suicide forest,” on the slopes of Mount Fuji. In the 15-minute video, Paul and his friends enter the forest and discover the body of a man who appears to have killed himself.

The vlogger blurred the man’s face, but the body could be clearly seen. The video earned 6 million views within 24 hours.

Logan claimed he published the video in an attempt to spread mental health awareness, though thousands of people, including a number of celebrities, were disgusted by the video’s tone (Paul and his friend continued to laugh and make jokes throughout the episode).

Days after it was posted, a Change.org petition earned more than 190,000 signatures from people urging YouTube to pull Logan’s account from the platform.

Dear @LoganPaul,



When my brother found my sister’s body, he screamed with horror & confusion & grief & tried to save her. That body was a person someone loved.



You do not walk into a suicide forest with a camera and claim mental health awareness. — Anna Akana (@AnnaAkana) January 2, 2018

Responding to the backlash, Paul issued an apology on Twitter, claiming he didn’t publish the video for attention.

“I didn’t do it for the views. I get views,” Paul said in his statement. “I did it because I thought I could make a positive ripple on the internet, not cause a monsoon of negativity.”

“I was misguided by shock and awe, as portrayed in the video,” he added. “I still am.”

Before Wednesday, YouTube was also facing criticism from those who argued the company wasn’t doing enough to punish Paul.

The company published an “open letter” to its community on Tuesday that neither mentioned Paul’s name nor listed what consequences he would face.

Suicide is not a joke, nor should it ever be a driving force for views. As Anna Akana put it perfectly: "That body was a person someone loved. You do not walk into a suicide forest with a camera and claim mental health awareness." — YouTube (@YouTube) January 9, 2018

We expect more of the creators who build their community on @YouTube, as we’re sure you do too. The channel violated our community guidelines, we acted accordingly, and we are looking at further consequences. — YouTube (@YouTube) January 9, 2018

It’s taken us a long time to respond, but we’ve been listening to everything you’ve been saying. We know that the actions of one creator can affect the entire community, so we’ll have more to share soon on steps we’re taking to ensure a video like this is never circulated again. — YouTube (@YouTube) January 9, 2018Consumer protection advocate Katie Porter studied under Sen. Elizabeth Warren (D-Mass.) at Harvard Law School and now has Warren's endorsement for Congress. Katie Porter

WASHINGTON ― Four years before law professor Katie Porter launched her campaign for Congress, the single mother of three was flossing her teeth in the bathroom of her home in Irvine, California, when her then-husband barged in.

Matthew Hoffman grabbed his wife’s hands, ripped the floss out of them and threw it away, and then punched the wall so hard that he shattered the faceplate on the light switch and knocked the lights out. He would later tell a judge he was angry because his wife had been brushing her teeth too slowly.

That was in April 2013. Porter and Hoffman had separated the previous month but continued to live together while they figured out what to do. Porter said Hoffman became abusive and unhinged over those weeks in a desperate effort to stop her from divorcing him.

He pushed her into a wall, threw things at her, called her a “dumb bitch” in front of their three young children and would bang so loudly on her bedroom door at night that she had to prop a chair against it to keep him at bay. She said he shoved their 1-year-old daughter across the kitchen in her high chair, threatened to kill himself and once held the door of Porter’s car open to stop her from driving to a school meeting.

Porter cried as she told me these stories in the basement conference room of a Marriott in Washington, D.C. It was mid-April 2018, and in a few hours, female Democratic senators and celebrities would descend on the hotel for the annual EMILY’s List gala. Porter was also being celebrated that night as part of the post-election wave of women candidates vying for office. A 44-year-old Harvard-educated consumer advocate, she was the first congressional candidate EMILY’s List endorsed for the 2018 cycle and has since landed the endorsements of Sens. Elizabeth Warren (D-Mass.) and Kamala Harris (D-Calif.).

“I think it’s important that people understand that when real people run, they run with their real lives, and those lives might often include painful times.” - Katie Porter

The daughter of an Iowa farmer-turned-banker, Porter grew up during the farm crisis, watching “the entire economy around me go to hell.” When she decided to run for Congress, she had been excited to talk about the things that inspired her: consumer protection, housing fairness, women’s rights, her menteeship under Warren. She was less prepared to talk about her own experience with domestic abuse. “I thought long and hard about this,” she said. “I think it’s important that people understand that when real people run, they run with their real lives, and those lives might often include painful times.”

Porter knew that millions of women would be able to relate to her story ― 1 in 3 American women are physically abused by an intimate partner in their lifetimes, according to the National Coalition Against Domestic Violence ― but she also had little choice about coming forward. Her divorce and the protective order she obtained against her husband have become the subject of a whisper campaign in the competitive Democratic primary for California’s 45th Congressional District. Several delegates to the Orange County Democratic Party told Porter they’d heard rumors from a rival campaign that something in her divorce records might disqualify her in the general election.

The last straw for Porter was when a man in Denver named Kevin Matthews whom she’d never met referred to her as “Katie ‘Restraining Order’ Porter” on Twitter.

Twitter

According to Federal Election Commission filings, a Kevin Matthews in Denver has donated $2,000 to the campaign of Dave Min, Porter’s leading primary opponent. He is also friends with Min’s wife on Facebook. Matthews did not respond to HuffPost’s request for comment.

Porter assumes Matthews’ tweet refers to the fact that when she filed for a protective order against her ex-husband in 2013, he filed a retaliatory claim against her five minutes before their court hearing as a last-ditch effort to defend himself. He claimed Porter once charged at him in the laundry room. The judge ultimately denied his request and granted Porter a protective order and custody of their children.

“To be made to feel like I’ve done anything wrong ― I’m just outraged,” Porter said. “I have a wonderful track record. I’ve worked really hard to fight for consumers. That’s what I should be campaigning on. But I’m not going to let someone, anyone, say that because a woman’s been a victim of domestic violence, because she stood up for her children’s safety, she’s disqualified. Who will run then?”

Porter is running against three men in the June primary: Min; Brian Forde, a former science and technology advisor to President Barack Obama; and Kia Hamadanchy, a former aide to Sen. Sherrod Brown (D-Ohio.). No Democrat has won the California 45th since its creation in 1983, but the party sees it as a flippable seat in a flippable House in 2018.

Republican Rep. Mimi Walters, a Trump supporter, was elected there in 2016 at the same time the district broke for Hillary Clinton. In Congress, Walters voted to repeal limits on CO2 emissions from power plants and co-sponsored a bill to block government action on climate change ― a very unpopular position in California.

The primary race for this seat is especially awkward. Not only are Min and Porter both Harvard-educated law professors at the University of California Irvine, but Porter had actually recruited Min to the university.

While their resumes look alike, their ideological differences map neatly onto a broader division within the Democratic Party. Min, a former aide to Sen. Chuck Schumer (D-N.Y.), is the only candidate in the primary who has not called for single-payer health care, and the centrist New Democrat Coalition has endorsed him. Porter, who spent years investigating banks and home foreclosures under Warren and Harris, has the endorsement of the Progressive Change Campaign Committee.

“I’m not going to let someone, anyone, say that because a woman’s been a victim of domestic violence ... she’s disqualified. Who will run then?” - Katie Porter

Tensions boiled over in February at the California Democratic Party Convention, where Min won the state party’s endorsement by a single delegate’s vote. Under the state party’s rules, because Min won by such a small margin, his opponents could challenge his win on the convention floor by gathering 300 signatures and forcing a new vote. Some attendees said Min’s supporters responded with what they described as aggressive intimidation tactics to stop them from collecting enough signatures.

Joe Bowen, former campaign manager for Forde, said two Min volunteers followed him into the bathroom. “They literally stood silently two feet behind me while I was at the urinal,” he said. “It was pretty intense.”

Octavia Tuohey, an Orange County delegate, recalled a similar effort to stop her son and daughter from signing the petition: “My daughter was pushing my son in his wheelchair, and they surrounded him, screaming at him, ‘Don’t do this! Stop it!’” said Tuohey. “When my children went into an elevator, the Min people ran down the stairs and blocked their way out of the elevator.”

It was somewhere in the runup to the convention that the whisper campaign about Porter began, according to Hamadanchy. While they didn’t have firsthand evidence, Tuohey, Hamadanchy, Bowen and Porter said they strongly believe it originated with Min in his effort to sway delegates to his side.

“Dave basically said there’d been a restraining order and that her kids are really messed up because of it,” Hamadanchy said. “He has been telling people she’s unelectable.”

“I heard from a few people that Dave said her divorce was disqualifying,” said Bowen, the former campaign manager for Forde, “and that she’s a really nasty woman with character issues.” Bowen said he is “100 percent confident” the whispers originated with Min and not with Forde or Hamadanchy: “I ran Brian Forde’s campaign ― Kia never ran anything but a positive campaign, publicly and privately. If Kia had been talking about this, people would have said so a long time ago. He doesn’t have much incentive to dirty up Katie.”

Porter heard the whispers, too. “I’ve been hearing for months that Dave has told a bunch of people there’s something in my divorce that’s disqualifying,” she said. “At first, I didn’t know what he was talking about. ... I was naive. I thought, in the beginning, he was saying that it’s because I’m a single mom.”

Porter said she eventually realized the whisper campaign was suggesting that she did things during her divorce that were disqualifying to her as a candidate: “Basically, don’t endorse her because she’s got this shady background,” she summarized.

“I don’t have a shady background,” she added. “I’m the most boring person in America. I’m a mom of three kids, I protected my family, I ended a marriage that was troubled.”

Katie Porter and EMILY's List President Stephanie Schriock on Feb. 27, 2018, in Los Angeles. Rachel Murray via Getty Images

Paige Hutchinson, campaign manager for Min, rejected the notion that he’d relied on rumors and intimidation against his opponents.

“Dave won the endorsement of the California Democratic Party by running a positive campaign about the issues. To suggest otherwise is complete and utter nonsense,” she said in a statement.

“Dave’s wife Jane is a nationally recognized expert on domestic violence law,” Hutchinson added. “Dave and Jane support victims with their hearts, their time and their charitable contributions. Personal attacks and rumors have no place in this campaign.”

Several delegates who support Min said they had never heard him say anything about Porter’s divorce. Many delegates were reluctant to speak to the media. On April 12, the same day I first began reaching out to delegates, the Orange County Democratic Party handed down a warning. Any delegate who “publicly advocates that voters not vote for an endorsed nominee of the Democratic Party,” the note warned, would be stripped of his or her delegate status.

Porter realized after seeing Matthews’ tweet that opposition research about her personal life was becoming a real campaign issue that she would have to address. She reached out to me to tell her story. Her campaign provided all the court and police documents related to the domestic abuse and restraining order proceedings.

“This is why I wanted to tell what happened, even though I in some ways feel like it’s personal,” she said. “I do not understand why being a victim is disqualifying. I’m not embarrassed that this happened to me because I didn’t do anything wrong.”

Porter said she wished Min had just said to her face what he or his associates were allegedly telling delegates behind her back. “How dare you shame me,” she said, imagining the confrontation. “Shame on you, Dave. … It’s just outrageous to be blamed.”

She’d grown hoarse by then and was talking through tears. “I mean, what part of Me Too isn’t soaking in?”

Although Porter might’ve preferred that her candidacy tell a different story, it’s now become an object lesson in the comprehensive failures of America’s domestic violence response. She pointed out that she’d been afraid to call the police on her husband for weeks, despite his escalating violence. The first time officers had come to her house, they scared her into thinking that if she called them again, someone would take her kids away.

“It just goes to show you, if I, as a lawyer who went to Harvard and knows Elizabeth Warren, hears it that way, what happens to millions of other women who are not lawyers?” Porter asked.

She continued: “I sought help from the courts. I called 911. I went through this horrible experience. I put everything we had suffered in that last few weeks in the public record to get help for my kids, and then [Hoffman] hits me with this bullshit fake motion. Now four years later, I’m in the public eye doing what’s right, fighting this amazing race, and here it is — retaliation again for having sought help. Because if I’d never called 911, there never would be a police record. But look what there might be? I could be dead. Someone could be hurt. Matt could have killed himself.”

“That was not an alternative,” she said. “I did literally the only thing I could and should have done. This should never come back to haunt someone in the political space.”

“Half of all the moms in America are single moms, and there should be more of us in Congress.”” - Katie Porter

Things between Porter and Hoffman are relatively peaceable now. There had been little disagreement about what had happened in their home, as borne out by the cops’ notes and the court record. After spending a few days in jail for domestic battery, Hoffman agreed to all of Porter’s demands: anger management counseling, supervised visitation, a very slow phase-in of custody, and parental coaching. He now lives in Oregon and sees the children four times a year. He didn’t respond to a request for comment.

It’s still rare to hear a congressional candidate or elected official come forward as a domestic abuse survivor ― Rep. Gwen Moore (D-Wis.) became one of the first to do so in 2012, and Oregon Gov. Kate Brown (D) alluded to her own experience with domestic violence in a 2016 debate. Christina Reynolds, the vice president of communications for EMILY’s List, said the Me Too movement is likely to draw out more of these personal stories.

“This is not the first cycle in which we’ve had women who have been through sexual assault or domestic violence, but they’re speaking out knowing that it helps those women who don’t have the same kinds of platforms,” Reynolds said. “We are grateful to women who tell these stories and hope they find that they have a community of support.”

Reynolds said Porter’s experience reflects in part why many women hesitate to run for office. In addition to having painful experiences from her past become a campaign issue, Porter is constantly having to answer the question of how a single mother can be a congresswoman.

“People come up to me and say, ‘If you win, who will care for your children?’” Porter said. “I’m a tenured professor ― I’m doing it. I had three babies on the tenure track and took no delay. I know how to raise kids and work. Half of all the moms in America are single moms, and there should be more of us in Congress.”

Porter hopes that because she’s in a spotlight race this year, her story will embolden other single mothers and survivors of domestic or sexual violence to come forward and run for office.

“What happens here matters, because voters around the country are gonna see ― does this mean you can’t run for office, because you’ve been hurt or a victim?” Porter said. “I think it’s really important to stand up for that. We don’t silence victims, and we don’t silence women for having experiences that are frankly all too common among us.”Farrow’s reporting, as well as similar reporting by The New York Times’ Jodi Kantor and Megan Twohey, revealed years of sexual harassment and assault by Weinstein, with stories from dozens of women, including actresses and former employees.

Their stories last fall led to a cascade of sexual misconduct allegations against powerful figures in politics, media, entertainment and business, and sparked a groundswell of conversations about sexual misconduct and gender inequality in the workplace, across all industries.

According to HBO, Farrow will develop and host investigative documentary series and programming for the network and other HBO platforms, while continuing to report for The New Yorker as a contributing writer.

“Ronan Farrow’s extraordinary, revelatory reporting for the New Yorker has helped to propel a string of other investigations, breakthroughs and overdue conversations,” Casey Bloys, HBO’s president of programming, said in a press release announcing the three-year deal. “His work has contributed to this watershed moment in our culture, and we are excited to provide a platform for this dogged reporter to pursue projects that continue to speak truth to power.”

Farrow previously served as a reporter and anchor for MSNBC and NBC, focusing on investigative reporting and human rights issues. Before entering journalism, he worked for the State Department.Men’s Health: We’re asking a lot of men, in light of the #MeToo movement, how men can grow in 2018.

Mayweather: The who?

MH: The #MeToo movement. Women speaking out about sexual assault.

Mayweather: Oh. ’Coz when you say “me too,” my thing was this, when somebody be like, “I got a Rolls Royce,” I be like “me too.” When somebody say they got a private jet, I say, “Me too. I got two. Me too.”

MH: This is a very different...

Mayweather: Well, I didn’t know! I didn’t know. My “Me Too” movement from the beginning was whenever somebody said what they have I’m like, “me too.” Somebody say they got a billion dollars, I say, “I made a billion dollars, me too.”

MH: I know you have a sensitive side. You’ve talked about your sensitive side before.

Mayweather: Of course. I mean, you live and you learn. I think everyone, if you’re in an uncomfortable position, you have to pray about it, you know, talk about it, and I think that, you know, sexual harassment, I don’t think it’s cool at all.“Anchors sent us letters saying that was one of the greatest meetings they’ve ever witnessed,” Trump said at the first Cabinet meeting of the year. “They probably wished they didn’t send us those letters of congratulations, but it was good. I’m sure their ratings were fantastic.”

Cooper could not get enough of Trump’s claim.

“First of all, major kudos to the United States Postal Service for delivering those letters so fast ― so fast it’s almost like it wouldn’t be humanly possible,” Cooper said. “Quick question, though ― who are these anchors who wrote letters congratulating the president on ‘one of the greatest meetings they’ve ever witnessed,’ which is a highly believable, totally normal thing that would absolutely happen.”

The CNN host then joked that he did not send a letter, opting instead to offer his congratulations on a large cookie cake or an Edible Arrangement.Ellen DeGeneres got emotional about the deadly mudslides that have devastated the Southern California community of Montecito where she and neighbor Oprah Winfrey reside.

On her talk show Thursday morning, the host became visibly upset recounting the series of natural disasters that have ravaged her hometown of late. After fires swept through large swaths of the state last month ― including Montecito ― the slides triggered by recent rainfall have killed at least 17 people in the area and injured 28. With several other people reported missing, the death toll may rise.

DeGeneres said that she and wife Portia de Rossi were forced to evacuate their home this week, along with much of the rest of the tight-knit community of about 10,000 people. The couple previously had to evacuate during the fires.

“This room is always so full of positivity and love and today I really need it. So many times over the past 15 years people have come up to me and say to me that when they’re going through a tough time this show helps them through it,” Ellen told her audience. “Today, I need you because there’s a lot going on in my life right now.”

Ellen DeGeneres calls Oprah Winfrey on her daytime talk show. Ellen

“They’re finding people and bodies and I mean, you hear the word mudslide and you have no idea the impact that it has, but after the largest fire in California history, it’s catastrophic,” she added. “It is beyond recognizable.”

While DeGeneres works in Los Angeles, Montecito is her home, and she expressed pride over signs around the community thanking fire fighters and first responders.

“I just love this place,” she said. “It’s not just a wealthy community, it’s filled with a lot of different types of people from all backgrounds. And there are families missing, there are people who are missing family members.”

She then FaceTimed Winfrey from Montecito, who recently shared her video of the mudslide’s impact on her 65-acre estate in the area.

“Everyone was saying to me, ‘How’s your property?’” the “Wrinkle in Time” star said from her estate. “I’m looking out the front window, I think everything’s fine, everything’s fine, and it wasn’t until I put my boots on and went outside walking and I realized everything wasn’t indeed fine.”

“Where I am right now, which is, like, on the east side of my property, I was walking down here and ... all of my neighbors’ homes are ... gutted. All of the neighbors’ homes are gutted,” she said.

“I’m standing right now ... still in a lot of mud but not as much mud as yesterday,” she continued. “I walked out back, you know, where we share a fence line and the neighbors out back, they’re houses are gone, just gone. It is as devastating as it can be,”

During the phone call, Winfrey encountered firefighters from the nearby city of Ventura.chain45154 via Getty Images

Corporate America has a continued diversity problem. It’s a problem that has always existed and one that has become a buzzword as of late across several industries. Industries including tech, advertising, media and entertainment, legal, finance, health care, law enforcement, government and politics, consumer packaged goods, etc. have all come face-to-face with the fact that they lack diversity and need to take steps to do something about it.

This past year many companies within those same industries have appointed chief diversity officers, diversity and inclusion departments and initiatives to help put an end to this issue. But is it enough?

When you take a look at statistics you find that we are actually in the midst of a downward trend when it comes to diversity and inclusion efforts. Looking specifically at Fortune 500 companies, 2018 will bring the number of Black CEOs down to three once Kenneth Chenault, CEO of American Express Co. steps down from his role on February 1. Compared to the time period between 2005 and 2011 when there were a total of eight Black CEOs at Fortune 500 companies, this is disappointing at best. Even worse, Black men and women only hold 6.7 percent of the 16.2 million management positions in America today.

While it may be hopeful to see pushes toward diversity efforts from major corporations for the future, the fact still remains that Black men who are seeking corporate jobs today have the unique challenge of facing corporate environments where they are the only Black man. In some cases, like in several of my previous roles, they’ll even be the only minority. This has major implications in the success rate of these individuals. After working 10 years in corporate America, including launching my own marketing firm at 24, I’ve realized that there aren’t enough men in the workplace who look like me or who face my same set of challenges. For me, this has meant that many times I did not have many professional peers that I could look to for inspiration, mentorship and the ever-so-important introductions needed to take my career to the next level.

This isn’t an experience that is unique to me and it’s been one that I’ve personally been looking to help solve. Last month, I announced the introduction of a first-ever camping event for young, Black professional men to develop their career skills, enjoy outdoor activities and bond over brotherhood. Black Boys Camp will take place from August 31 – September 2, 2018 in New York’s Adirondack State Park.

During the three-day weekend, attendees will learn from a variety of sessions such as “Old Money vs. New Money: Building Generational Wealth” to “Managing to Lead: How to be a boss in Corporate America” and “Grill Master: How to Throw Down at Your Next Family Cookout.” In addition, all attendees will learn survival skills for the wilderness, participate in a fitness boot camp, socialize at nightly parties and adventure throughout the campgrounds. Black Boys Camp will offer dozens of activities including kayaking, ropes course, swimming, jet skiing, basketball, tennis, fishing and many more.

It is my hope that hosting experiences like Black Boys Camp help tackle issues of diversity and inclusion in the workplace by allowing young Black professionals to find communities where they can freely be themselves and make valuable connections that can lead to career success. Together, with the new initiatives to come from Corporate America, events and networks such as these can fully prepare Black professionals for exciting careers in America.

Tickets for Black Boys Camp go on sale January 15 and can be purchased at http://www.blackboyscamp.com.

About Black Boys Camp / Kyle RosenbaumTurkey’s top court on Thursday ruled that two jailed journalists be released, local media reported, a decision lawyers said could set a precedent for dozens of other reporters jailed in a widespread crackdown under President Tayyip Erdogan.

The Constitutional Court ordered the release of Mehmet Altan and Sahin Alpay, ruling their rights had been violated, CNN Turk and other local media reported. The two, in prison for more than year, have been accused of links to terrorist groups and attempting to overthrow the government, charges they deny.

Officials at the Constitutional Court were not immediately available for comment. Lawyers for thejournalists did not immediately respond for requests for comment.

The two, along with a third journalist, Turhan Gunay, had argued their arrests were not legal and their rights and freedoms had been violated in pre-trial detention. Eleven of the court’s judges ruled in their favor, and six against, the opposition Cumhuriyet newspaper reported.

Gunay, a Cumhuriyet journalist, had already been released in September in a decision in a separate case. The court ruled on Thursday that Gunay’s rights were also violated by his time in detention, Cumhuriyet said.

Altan, a professor of economics and a frequent commentator in liberal media, and Alpay, a columnist, were jailed in the aftermath of a failed coup in 2016, when Erdogan launched wide-ranging purges that put more than 50,000 people in jail and led to the closure of more than 130 mediaoutlets.

Around 160 journalists have been jailed, according to the Turkish Journalists’ Association. International journalism groups say Turkey is now the world’s largest jailer of journalists.

Many of the jailed reporters have been charged with spreading propaganda for the outlawed Kurdistan Workers Party (PKK) or the network of U.S.-based cleric Fethullah Gulen, whom Ankara accuses of masterminding the abortive putsch.

LEGAL PRECEDENT

Alpay wrote for the now-defunct Zaman, widely seen as the Gulen movement’s flagship newspaper before its seizure and subsequent closure by authorities. Gulen, a former Erdogan ally, has lived in self-imposed exile in the United States since 1999. He has denied orchestrating the coup and condemned it as against democracy.

Lawyers have said the case could set a legal precedent for how the court treats other reporters - including foreigners - now in jail in Turkey.

“The decision by the Constitutional Court on Mehmet Altan and Sahin Albay is correct, but insufficient,” Baris Yarkadas, a lawmaker from the opposition CHP party said on Twitter. “The (Court) should take a step to ensure the freedom of all arrested journalists. It should carry out its mission and end victimization.”

Erdogan has said that some journalists helped nurture terrorists through their writing. “Terror doesn’t form by itself,” he said last week at a joint news conference with French President Emmanuel Macron. “Terror and terrorists have gardeners. These gardeners are those people viewed as thinkers.”The U.S. Court of Federal Claims has been called the “People’s Court” and the “keeper of the nation’s conscience” because this is where U.S. citizens can seek monetary redress when they feel they’ve been wronged by their government.

The court has nationwide jurisdiction, meaning it can affect Americans in many areas, including international trade, government contracts, patents and monetary claims by federal employees and veterans.

In view of its vast power, it would follow that the court’s judges, who serve 15-year terms and can be reappointed, should be experienced and unbiased. That’s even more true when you factor in that successive reappointments, or subsequent appointment to a higher court, can lead to a lifetime career on the federal bench. But the recent administration nominations of Damien Schiff, Ryan Holte and Stephen Schwartz to this court seem to favor ideology over credentials, bias over impartiality. Unfortunately, the manner in which Federal Claims Court judges are chosen allows unqualified individuals to get through with a minimum of scrutiny.

For other federal judgeships, senators from the home state are asked to signal their approval of a candidate by returning what is know as “a blue slip.” In addition, the American Bar Association reviews and then rates each candidate’s qualifications. But both of those fail-safe measures don’t apply to the Claims Court, allowing the president to nominate, if he wants to, problematic nominees – essentially turning the court into a convenient “side door” for getting youthful, underqualified but hard-core conservatives into the federal justice system.

And that’s exactly what he has done.

Schiff, Holte and Schwartz are three white males who share an age bracket—all are in their thirties—and an ideology: profoundly conservative.

Of the three, Schiff has garnered the most attention because of his outrageous statements, such as calling U.S. Supreme Court Justice Anthony Kennedy “a judicial prostitute.” In anonymous blogging activities that he eventually owned up to, he has expressed strong opposition to, among other things, civil rights, LGBTQ rights, women’s rights, environmental protection and unions. He has made no secret of his desire to see the judicial branch turn back the clock, stating that “the Supreme Court, with just five votes, can overturn precedents upon which many of the unconstitutional excrescences of the New Deal and the Great Society eras depend.”

Less flamboyant but equally dangerous is Ryan Holte, who openly admits that he’s never tried a case. Why would someone with so little experience be tapped to serve on one of the most important federal courts in the country? Because what he lacks in experience he makes up in a conservative ideological agenda. He is a member of the Teneo Network, which was described by the National Review as “a network of young conservatives doing what they can to advance conservative principles” and, ominously, was founded by Evan Baehr, who received a fellowship from the Alliance Defending Freedom—described by the Southern Poverty Law Center as a hate group.

Stephen Schwartz shares the ultraconservative agenda of these other two and has opposed civil rights for immigrants, minorities, women, environmentalists and LGBTQ people. His career has been a defense of the indefensible—from voter registration barriers in North Carolina, laws restricting access to abortion care in Louisiana, and the denial of driver’s licenses to Deferred Action Childhood Arrivals (DACA) recipients in Arizona and Florida.

The resumes of these three stand in sharp contrast to President Obama’s nominees for this same court. For the seat Holte hopes to get, Obama chose Judge Nancy Firestone, who already had 15 years of experience on the Court of Federal Claims and was being renominated. Firestone’s sterling credentials included a 12-year stint as an attorney with the Justice Department, and three years as a judge on the EPA’s Environmental Appeals Board. For the seat Schiff wants, Obama nominated Jeri Kaylene Somers, a retired Air Force lieutenant colonel who served as a judge advocate general and then as a military judge in the Air Force. Firestone and Somers were blocked by Senate Republicans.

Meanwhile Schiff, Holte and Schwartz bring to mind Trump judicial nominees like Brett Talley and Matthew Petersen, both of whom were forced out of the running when their lack of credentials became painfully obvious: Petersen’s failure was played out in public, as he was unable to answer basic legal questions at his confirmation hearing. Despite these failures, as of this writing the never-tried-a-case Holte is still on the White House’s “live” list of judicial nominees, and while Schwartz and Schiff were not on the first list of renominated candidates for 2018, they haven’t been pulled and may well be on the next one.Fat Tuesday is Mardi Gras, a day of revelry, gluttony, intoxication and showers of shiny plastic beads. It is the party to end all parties because it’s followed by Ash Wednesday, when Lenten sacrifices commence.

Fat Cat Tuesday is the day – Jan. 2, 2018 – on which the boards of directors of America’s biggest corporations handed their CEOs more money than those same CEOs would deign to pay their workers for an entire year of labor, 260 days.

It was a day of revelry, gluttony and private jets for CEOs and worthless shiny plastic beads for workers.

The occasion is commemorated in Britain as well. There, though, it took CEOs three days to accrue more compensation than the total annual wages of the typical worker.

That’s because American CEO pay takes the cake – and we’re not talking Mardi Gras King Cake containing a tiny plastic baby Jesus figure because no Son of God would be associated with U.S. CEOs’ sinfully gluttonous pay packages.

The average pay of Fortune 500 CEOs – a gobsmacking $14.3 million – is four times that of top executives at comparable sized corporations worldwide, according to a study by Bloomberg analysts.

And it’s 265 times what the median U.S. worker earns ­– enabling U.S. CEOs to rake in more cash for one day at the office than the median worker gets for laboring an entire year.

Here’s how it breaks down: The typical CEO at a Fortune 500 corporation got $53,846 for showing up at the office on Tuesday, Jan. 2, 2018. The median American received $44,668 for working the entire year of 2017.

For one day on the job, those fat cats were awarded $9,178 more than all the wages a typical American earned over an entire year. That $9,178 is one fifth of an average worker’s annual earnings.

Given that, it’s no surprise that America holds another dubious distinction: it’s the country with the most cavernous pay gorge between fat cats and typical workers.

It doesn’t have to be that way. In Norway, the top CEOs average $1.28 million in compensation, meaning they earn 20 times what that country’s typical worker does ­ – not 265 times. And yet, somehow, Norwegians attract talented executives to run their companies.

Germany, a country respected worldwide for its success in manufacturing and exporting, manages to find executives willing to work for only 174 times the pay of the country’s average worker.

In addition, in America, workers who mess up get fired, but not CEOs.

Disney CEO Bob Iger is one of those CEOs living in paycheck fantasyland, taking home $37.7 million. He’s trying to buy 21st Century Fox Inc.’s entertainment assets for Disney. Even if he fails, he’ll get a $27 million bonus. That’s $27 million for a fiasco. It’s a guaranteed bonus of wonderland proportions. Golly gee willikers, Mickey!

Disney has $37.7 million sitting around to give Iger, but charged its theme park workers for costumes. That meant 16,339 Disney Park Donald Ducks and Buzz Lightyears earned less than the federal minimum wage of $7.25 an hour, a violation of federal law. The U.S. Labor Department ordered Disney to repay them $3.8 million.

Looks like Disney tried to get solid gold Mouseketeer ears for Iger out of the hides of its lowest-paid workers. Now that’s goofy.

Non-CEO American workers have been stuck with nothing but shiny plastic beads for decades as their wages stagnated. But the fat cats at the top got more no matter how badly they performed.

Take Goodyear’s CEO Richard J. Kramer. The company hasn’t lost money over the past several years, but its performance has been less than notable. Despite that, the board of directors, for which Kramer is chair, keeps bumping up his compensation. It rose from $17 million in 2012 to nearly $20 million in 2016.

Three extra million over four years. It would take the median worker 67 years to earn the $3 million that the board of directors handed Kramer for mediocre accomplishments.

U.S. Steel Corp. has struggled in recent years, cancelling a planned new headquarters building in Pittsburgh after suffering losses of $1.5 billion in 2015. That year, former CEO Mario Longhi’s compensation dropped 35 percent. Still, the board of directors paid the now-retired CEO $8.6 million for losing $1.5 billion. That takes some steel cojones.

As part of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010, the Securities and Exchange Commission issued rules requiring public corporations to begin reporting this year the ratio between the CEO's compensation and the pay of its median worker.

That’s nice. Really. The more depressing information workers can get about pay grabs by their bosses the better.

More effective in actually dealing with the problem, however, is what the Labour Party in Britain is proposing. If elected to power there, Labour says it would tax excessive CEO pay and disqualify from bidding on government contracts all corporations with CEO-to-worker pay ratios of more than 20 to 1, which is the current pay ratio in Norway.The life of a non-profit (like Interfaith Alliance) can be like a Venn diagram. We work in coalition with all sorts of groups to protect faith and freedom as understood by the First Amendment to the Constitution. And we work on behalf of all sorts of groups whose faith and freedom come under attack by those whose understanding of those constitutional guarantees are different (and, we would contend, wrong).

Much of the work we do at Interfaith Alliance can be put into two categories, the protection of religious communities, and the protection from religious communities. It is irrelevant to us if the belief system of any particular faith community is compatible with mine or with our staff or with our board. We are committed to protesting the denial of the full rights and privileges of citizenship to any American of faith or no faith, Evangelical Christians and Buddhists, Orthodox Jews and Unitarian Universalists, Roman Catholics and atheists, and Muslims. At the same time that we are protecting the rights of these and other faith communities to practice their religion without undue burden from the government, we are also protecting the rights of all Americans as some of these same faith communities seek to impose their beliefs on the rest of us.

This struggle can best be seen in the work we do day in and day out on behalf of Muslim Americans and LGBT Americans. Two groups that on the surface would seem to have diverging agendas in fact share a common threat in the misuse of religious freedom that attempts to marginalize both communities. Certainly, there are many in the Muslim community who stand with the LGBT community, and the same is true in the other direction. However, like most old faith traditions – my own Jewish faith included – Islam teaches tenets about human identity that do not reflect the contemporary beliefs that pervade civic society. And, like many American communities, the LGBT community is not without the tinges of anti-Islam sentiment.

Take first our Muslim friends. I think it is safe to say that no matter what the statistics might say about the prevalence of acts of discrimination against members of any other faith community, American Muslims live in as much or more fear of bigotry and physical violence than any other people of faith.

Much of Islam remains a mystery to many Americans of other convictions. Even the vocabulary of faith provokes suspicion and mistrust, not because of what the words mean to Muslims, but because of the meanings English-speakers bring to them. First among them is Islam, which means “submission.” It is a sacred posture of faith to a Muslim, but antithetical in its political meaning to proponents of American exceptionalism.

This brings us to the other part of the equation. The prevention of discrimination in the name of religion – most especially with the acquiescence and enforcement of government – is another of our primary commitments. And one of the communities that has had to work hard to access those rights in modern times has been lesbians, gays, bisexuals, transgender and queer people. Aside from the fact that many straight Americans do not know the accurate meanings of those terms and some similar number consider the variance from their own definition of “normal” to be morally wrong, the purposeful misunderstanding of what freedom of conscience means has proved an organizing point for the Religious Right. Claiming their “religious right” to live in, effectively, a gay-free zone, they have used traditional teachings about sexuality in attempts to deny the civil rights of Americans. Those rights include marriage, commerce and association, among others. The Religious Right incorrectly claims that the extension of civil rights to LGBTQ individuals forces evangelicals to forfeit their right to free exercise of religion. No policy more violates the constitutional prohibition of government action to establish religion than declaring that the private beliefs of any citizen hold sway over the civil rights of another.

The struggles each community faces stem from religious freedom, but they are manifest in different ways. Muslims are most often questioned about their loyalty to the United States if they freely exercise their religious beliefs. Gays, lesbians and transgender persons are most often accused of violating well-established religious norms. Standing with Interfaith Alliance and other allies in protecting both faith and freedom is an indication of the very best of what the American experience is all about: the unalienable rights endowed to us all.

Because the challenges faced by each community share a common core, we are able to stand with our allies, each and both – even when there might be conflict. It is not incumbent on us to insert ourselves into the internal conversations of any faith community, though we stand at the ready to share our perspective if invited to do so. It is not our place to suggest a compromise of principle for the sake of rhetorical peace if the rights and privileges of citizenship are not under attack.Member of Civil Society light candles and earthen lamps to condemn the rape and murder of 7-year-old girl Zainab Ansari in Kasur, during a candlelight vigil in Islamabad, Pakistan on January 11, 2018. Faisal Mahmood / Reuters

LAHORE, Pakistan (Reuters) - Protests broke out across Pakistan on Thursday after the rape and murder of a 7-year-old girl in a district south of Lahore, due to public anger at what is seen as the authorities’ failure to investigate such cases.

It is the 12th such murder in the town of Kasur in a year, and has raised concern that a serial killer may be on the loose.

Two people were killed on Wednesday when police fired at angry protesters in Kasur, and a local resident said schools, offices, and markets remained shut in the town on Thursday.

Demonstrations were held in all cities between Faisalabad in the northeast down to Pakistan’s southern metropolis of Karachi.

In Lahore, the provincial capital of the state where Kasur is located, protesters blocked a major road connecting the two, causing traffic between them to be suspended.

Police recovered the body of Zainab Ansari from a garbage dumpster in Kasur on Tuesday, four days after she was reported missing.

The chief minister of Punjab province, Shahbaz Sharif visited Ansari’s parents to assure them that the perpetrators would be apprehended soon, a provincial government spokesman said.

“(Sharif) has announced Rs 10 million ($90,000) for anyone giving information about the kidnapper,” Punjab government spokesman Malik Muhammad Ahmad Khan told Reuters. He said it could not be ruled out that the murders involved a serial killer.

Demonstratos chant slogans to condemn the rape and murder of 7-year-old girl Zainab Ansari in Kasur, during protest in Islamabad, Pakistan on January 11, 2018. Faisal Mahmood / Reuters

A police official speaking on condition on anonymity said two of Ansari’s relatives had been interrogated and 26 locals are currently in custody and being questioned. He added that police are waiting for forensic evidence to be collected and analyzed.

Ansari’s family doubts justice will be done.

“We don’t have any expectations from police, as we gave proof to police including the CCTV footage, but they could do nothing,” her uncle Hafiz Muhammad Adnan told Reuters.Candidate Donald Trump promised Americans a war on the pharmaceutical industry. President Donald Trump isn’t going to give them one.

On Friday afternoon, the Department of Health and Human Services released a policy blueprint for helping Americans pay for prescription drugs that, with every passing year, get harder and harder to afford.

“Today, my administration is launching the most sweeping action in history to lower the price of prescription drugs for the American people,” Trump said of the plan during a speech in the White House Rose Garden.

Whether and how much the approach will ultimately reduce drug prices is unclear, and will probably remain so for some time. But while some of the ideas Trump endorsed have bipartisan support and the potential to help people, few experts expect the administration’s plan to have the kind of dramatic impact Trump once promised.

The health care industry certainly doesn’t seem scared. Stocks climbed following the speech, while analysts dismissed it loudly, using phrases like “non-event” and “waste of time.”

A missive from the health care trading desk at Jeffries said simply, “Jay-Z’s Blueprint far more impactful than HHS version.”

For those who think President Trump is taking on the drug companies, the industry and investors think otherwise --- shares are up. By a lot. pic.twitter.com/BXbssQm9JN — Jared S. Hopkins (@JaredSHopkins) May 11, 2018

Trump’s speech and a 39-page blueprint have been weeks in the making, although their roots lie in the 2016 presidential campaign, when Trump promoted himself as a different kind of Republican ― one who would stand up for average Americans and protect them from powerful corporate interests.

The drug industry was high on the list of predators. He railed against them regularly, even after taking office, famously saying drugmakers were “getting away with murder” by charging such high prices for life-saving medications.

More controversially, Trump also endorsed an idea Democrats had long championed and Republicans had long opposed: having the federal government negotiate prices directly with drugmakers, just like the governments of other developed countries do. Name-brand drugs in those countries are far less expensive than they are in the U.S.

A year and a half into his presidency, and following some well-publicized meetings with precisely the sort of pharmaceutical industry leaders he once denounced, Trump has backed away from that rhetoric. He’s no longer calling to have the federal government negotiate with drugmakers over prices and, more generally, he no longer identifies the drug industry as the primary culprit behind high prices.

Blaming Big Government More Than Big Pharma

Instead, Trump has adopted a more nuanced and in many ways more traditionally Republican argument for why prescriptions are so expensive. This view, which the White House Council of Economic Advisers laid out in a February report, blames high prices more on the excesses of big government than on the excesses of Big Pharma.

According to this argument, government insurance programs make drugs unnecessarily expensive. An example is the requirement that Medicare Part D plans ― the private insurance policies that provide seniors with prescription coverage ― include at least two drugs from each class. If the insurers who provide those plans could have just one drug from each class, administration officials say, insurers would have more negotiating leverage and could cover drugs more cheaply.

Another issue is the way Medicare pays for drugs that specialty physicians, such as oncologists, deliver on an outpatient basis. Trump administration officials say this payment scheme gives the doctors incentive to provide the most highly priced therapies when cheaper drugs might be just as good, if not better, on a clinical basis. Trump is expected to call for restructuring those payments, in order to reduce that incentive.

The administration has some other changes in mind, too. It wants to straighten out a complicated scheme of rebates and payments among insurance companies, drugmakers and a group of middlemen known as pharmacy benefit managers. PBMs have received a great deal of scrutiny in recent years, because their payment arrangements are secret.

In theory, they are supposed to help insurers bargain for lower prices, which can then benefit consumers. In practice, critics say, PBMs strike deals that drive up their own profits without providing much relief for the people who get drugs.

The precise details of how the administration plans to address these and other issues remain unclear, even in the blueprint. Absent more information, it’s impossible to know how aggressive the administration intends to be ― or what could be done through regulatory action, which the administration can handle on its own, versus legislation, which would require Congress to act.

But the break with campaign rhetoric is clear and, in this respect, Trump’s approach to prescription drugs has a lot in common with the approach he has taken toward the insurance reforms of the Affordable Care Act.

President Donald Trump spoke Friday about lowering the cost of drugs. But the health care industry doesn't seem to be concerned, at least according to stock prices. Leah Millis / Reuters

Outsourcing Policy To The GOP Establishment Again

As a candidate, Trump promised to replace “Obamacare” with a more generous, more comprehensive universal coverage scheme. At several points, he suggested he might just push for a European-style, single-payer system in which the government would simply insure everybody. “Everybody’s going to be taken care of much better than they’re taken care of now,” he said shortly after taking office.

Once in office, Trump abandoned such promises. The repeal bills he tried to pass would have downsized existing government programs and stripped away regulations designed to make sure everybody can get decent coverage, regardless of pre-existing condition. Had one of those bills become law, millions of people would have lost coverage.

A common theme in the Obamacare repeal episode and, now, the effort on drug prices is Trump’s willingness to outsource policymaking to the GOP establishment, which remains loyal and sympathetic to the big corporations Trump attacked as a candidate.

Still, there are some critical differences as well.

With the repeal fight, Trump was largely outsourcing to congressional leaders like House Speaker Paul Ryan (R-Wis.). They promoted extremely conservative ideas, including structural changes to Medicaid that would have dramatically reduced its funding. At times, they seemed more focused on getting a bill ― any bill ― through Congress than attempting to construct a workable alternative for helping people to get insurance.

“But in an administration full of ideological zeal and sometimes questionable competence, Gottlieb and now Azar have reputations for smarts, savvy and a serious commitment to governing.”

On prescription drugs, it appears Trump has largely turned policymaking over to a few key figures in his administration, chiefly Alex Azar, the secretary of Health and Human Services, and Scott Gottlieb, the commissioner of the Food and Drug Administration. Both are bona fide conservatives and have ties to the drug industry. Azar is a former Eli Lilly executive.

But in an administration full of ideological zeal and sometimes questionable competence, Gottlieb and now Azar have reputations for smarts, savvy and a serious commitment to governing. Gottlieb in particular has earned praise, even from Democrats, for the way he has managed the agency.

And so perhaps it is not surprising that at least some of the ideas they have put on the president’s agenda enjoy a great deal of support from across the political spectrum. These days, it’s difficult to find anybody who understands health policy who’s willing to defend current PBM practices. And those changes to reimbursement for cancer and other specialty drugs? The Obama administration tried to do something similar.

The administration also says it will seek to change the design of the Part D benefits, in ways that could make specialty drugs more affordable for the people who desperately need them but struggle to pay for them.

Each of these ideas comes with its own costs and potential dangers. Take the idea of changing the requirements on which drugs Part D plans cover, reducing the number from two to one in each class of treatment. The theory is that with two drugs, many people will take the more expensive one when they don’t need it. But if there’s just one, it could be harder for people who need a different drug to get one. (Think of somebody who needs a particular psychiatric drug in order to avoid certain side effects.)

The Trumpiest Part Of The Plan

There is one element of the administration’s drug strategy that has a distinctly Trumpian tinge to it: criticism of other countries.

The administration argues that drug companies charge Americans more because, in other countries with price controls, they have to charge less. In this view, those other countries are basically getting a free ride, because American consumers are subsidizing the research and development that leads to breakthroughs. Trump says he will address that problem by somehow getting other countries to pay more of their fair share.

Presumably, this would entail making drug prices, already a subject of trade negotiations, an even bigger priority, though it’s not clear how much leverage the U.S. has. Also, most economists doubt the prices that drug companies can get abroad have much, if anything, to do with the prices they charge here.

“What’s not on the table are any of the big, potentially game-changing ideas like having the government negotiate directly with drugmakers.”

What’s not on the table are any of the big, potentially game-changing ideas like having the government negotiate directly with drugmakers, or allowing imports of cheap drugs from other countries, or radically redesigning the patent system (which some economists believe is both the source of high prices in this country and the easiest way to bring them down).

There are reasons for this. Conservatives like Azar and Gottlieb say such measures would cause more harm than good ― stifling innovation, limiting choices and ultimately depriving people of medicine they need.

Lots of reasonable people agree with that view, or at least worry about the possible effects of the government meddling with prices. The economics of pharmaceuticals, like health care policy generally, is complicated and full of trade-offs.