Former Rep. Blake Farenthold still hasn't paid back $84,000 in taxpayer money he used to settle a sexual harassment lawsuit. Joshua Roberts / Reuters

WASHINGTON ― There’s a John Cusack movie from the mid-1980s, “Better Off Dead,” that features a crazed paperboy who will not leave Cusack’s character alone until he pays the $2 his family owes for newspaper deliveries.

The kid rolls up on his bike everywhere Cusack’s character goes. At his front door. On a ski slope. On the roof of his piece-of-crap station wagon. “Two dollars!” the kid always shouts as Cusack flees. “I want my two dollars!”

This is now the tale of former Rep. Blake Farenthold.

The disgraced Texas Republican cannot escape people demanding he pay back the $84,000 in taxpayer money that he used to settle a sexual harassment lawsuit against him. The multimillionaire promised to repay it immediately in December, when news broke about the settlement. But he never did, and he spent the next four months ignoring pressure from the media and colleagues in both parties to do so. Three weeks ago, he abruptly resigned his House seat and went back to Texas, presumably hoping to put this chapter of his life behind him.

But on Wednesday, Texas Gov. Greg Abbott (R) showed up and demanded that Farenthold repay the $84,000 ― but not to the U.S. Treasury. The governor wants Farenthold to fork over the $84,000 as part of a larger payment to cover the entire cost of the June 30 special election being held to fill his congressional seat.

“I am writing to demand that you cover all costs for the called special election to fill the seat now vacated following your resignation,” Abbott said in a sternly worded letter to Farenthold. “While you have publicly offered to reimburse the $84,000 in taxpayer funds you wrongly used to settle a sexual harassment claim, there is no legal recourse requiring you to give that money back to Congress.”

Abbott also asked people on Twitter to join him in urging Farenthold to pay for the special election “because of his disgraceful conduct.”

RT to tell Blake Farenthold to pay for the special election that had to be called to fill the seat he resigned from because of his disgraceful conduct. Taxpayers shouldn’t have to pay for his misdeeds. #txlege @Elect_Blake https://t.co/TATimZEkaz — Greg Abbott (@GregAbbott_TX) April 25, 2018

It’s not clear how much the special election will cost, but the Victoria County elections administrator estimated it could be as much as $200,000.

Abbott wrote Farenthold that he wants a response by May 2. “This seat must be filled, and the counties and taxpayers in the 27th Congressional District should not again pay the price for your actions,” he said.

One of the candidates running for Farenthold’s seat has already endorsed Abbott’s call.

I wholeheartedly agree with Governor Abbott that this district needs leadership and #TX27 should not have to pay the price for his actions. I have felt this way since Day 1 and have been the only one in my race on record to ask him to repay the 84,000 back to the taxpayers. https://t.co/67Ic8VrAXG — Bech Bruun (@bechforcongress) April 25, 2018

Farenthold is under no legal obligation to repay the $84,000, which he spent on a 2014 lawsuit involving allegations that he’d told a female aide he had “wet dreams” and “sexual fantasies” about her. It’s now a matter of people, including the Texas governor, shaming him into paying it back.Some may think the musical collaboration between Sting and Shaggy is a bit random, but the way the musicians came to work with one another is straight-up bonkers.

On Tuesday, the two men were on the “The Tonight Show” to promote their new album “44/876,” a title that combines the country code for both England and Jamaica, where Sting and Shaggy hail from, respectively.

Host Jimmy Fallon asked the artists how they met in the first freakin’ place.

Shaggy began to tell Fallon that, a few years ago, they performed live onstage together, but Sting cut him off to relay the real truth — Shaggy apparently crashed one of his performances.

“He just walked onstage,” Sting told Fallon. “During ‘Roxanne.’”

“What?!” Fallon screamed.

“I thought it was Sean Paul,” Sting joked.

Shaggy went on to explain that despite the abrupt way the two met, they ended up having a good rapport with one another. Shaggy eventually asked Sting to offer his vocals to a track he was working on. In the studio, the duo realized that their voices blended really well together and the rest was history.

Although the two seem like a strange pairing, they actually share a lot in common musically. Sting has stated in the past that the Police were inspired by reggae music, which derives from Jamaica, where the “It Wasn’t Me” and “Boombastic” musician is from.

Sting told the Sun that thanks to their similar tastes in music, he and Shaggy had great artistic chemistry.

“People are surprised but when they hear the record, they’ll be even more surprised because it actually works,” he said.Did Kanye West just confirm his presidential run on Twitter?

The self-styled “greatest living rock star on the planet” set the social media platform abuzz Tuesday with the following message:

2024 — KANYE WEST (@kanyewest) April 25, 2018

On Monday, he also tweeted but then deleted a photo featuring this “Keep America Great” poster, with the hashtag #Kanye2024, according to NME, a British music journalism outlet.

Kanye West tweeted an image containing these posters on Monday -- then quickly deleted it, according to a British music magazine. Amanda Edwards via Getty Images

Of course, West announcing a presidential run is nothing new. In 2015, he used his MTV Video Music Awards speech to tout a 2020 shot at the White House.

He later revised that time frame following Donald Trump’s 2016 election victory and the pair’s subsequent meeting in Trump Tower during which West talked with the president-elect about schools and violence in Chicago.

“I feel it is important to have a direct line of communication with our future president if we truly want change,” West tweeted at the time.

It’s unclear with which political party, if any, West would seek candidacy. But in 2016, he said he’d have voted for Trump had he cast a ballot. And over the weekend, West expressed his admiration for conservative commentator Candace Owens.

Unsurprisingly, West’s latest tweet has prompted plenty of responses online:

Is this the official announcement for running? https://t.co/6vRlkMrRmP — DALt (@DaltFlowers) April 25, 2018

this better be the last 4 digits of Kanye’s SSN https://t.co/nzDbMrFhe4 — LB (@beyondreasdoubt) April 25, 2018

let’s be practical here https://t.co/7cksH3Vevj — crowned and renowned (@saucsiee) April 25, 2018Army Lieutenant General Paul Nakasone, who was confirmed on Tuesday to lead the U.S. Cyber Command and National Security Agency, has an extensive background in cyber issues. Aaron Bernstein / Reuters

WASHINGTON (Reuters) - The U.S. Senate confirmed on Tuesday President Donald Trump’s choice to lead the U.S. Cyber Command and National Security Agency, Army Lieutenant General Paul Nakasone.

Nakasone has an extensive background in cyber issues, having held positions including serving as chief of the U.S. Army’s cyber command since late 2016.

Nakasone, 54, replaces Admiral Mike Rogers, who is retiring after nearly four years in the “dual-hat” position leading the NSA, the country’s largest spy agency, and the military’s cyber warfare division.

During his confirmation hearing, Nakasone said he did not think Russia, China and other countries had seen enough of a U.S. response to cyber attacks to change their behavior.

He also said he had not come to a decision on whether the NSA and Cyber Command should be separated. They have been combined since the cyber operation was created in 2009, but there has been debate recently over whether they would be more effective as separate entities.

Opponents of the idea say it is essential that they work closely together against a growing threat.Netflix shows different photos to different subscribers. Netflix

No matter how much time you spend watching Netflix every week, the streaming service wants you to watch more.

One way the company is doing this is by spending billions on acquiring and creating the best shows and movies out there. That’s great and offers real cultural value.

Another way Netflix does this is by using extremely complex algorithms and subtle marketing features to trick you into watching more... and more... and more. That’s not so great if you value your free time and don’t want to waste your precious hours on this planet watching subpar shows and movies.

You’re almost definitely well aware that Netflix programs episodes to autostart when the previous episode finishes, thus increasing the chance you get locked into an unintentional binge. That’s the kind of obvious product choice that you can spot and avoid if you want to.

Yet there are a few other tricks the company employs that you might not have noticed yet.

Netflix is also very open about these “tricks.” The company documents product rollouts extensively on various company blogs you can read for yourself.

The Streamline mission is to help you make better and more intentional choices of what to stream, rather than waste your time with mediocre content. Hopefully, becoming aware of these subtle tricks will help you.

In any case, read about the tricks below. And if you want to stay informed about the best things that are joining Netflix on a weekly basis (because Streamline does, in fact, love Netflix), make sure to subscribe to the Streamline newsletter.

Ji Sub Jeong/HP

This is part of Streamline, HuffPost’s weekly recommendation service for streaming shows and movies. Every Saturday, Streamline ranks the best shows to watch online, including a focus on Netflix.

1. The customized images

In this example, Netflix gives you a different image depending on whether you're a bigger fan of romantic comedies or comedy in general. Netflix

Back in the early days of the Netflix streaming platform, the service would show you the actual promotional posters for the various shows and movies it offered. Later, Netflix decided those recommendations would be better with custom pictures.

This initial customization decision fixed a couple of problems: Netflix could start using horizontal photos that allow for bigger typeface and design variance. The images could also show character faces more clearly than just hoping the movie posters were good.

There are a lot of bad movie posters out there or at least plenty that don’t look great as small images on a television, laptop or smartphone screen. So this move by Netflix made sense.

In December 2017, Netflix announced that the customization would get fancier, by offering different promotional images to users based on that specific user’s tastes.

As seen in the example photo above provided in Netflix’s announcement, the service will try to make you think a show or movie is just like the other shows and movies you like.

The photo example focuses on variants of comedy fandom. If you’re a fan of classic comedies and there’s a famous comedian in a particular project, Netflix will show you a picture of that person. If you’re more a fan of romantic comedies, then Netflix will show you two characters from the project that might be in love.

For an important Netflix Original rollout like the latest season of “Stranger Things,” Netflix made many different custom images to appeal to different users. You can see a few of them in the image at the very top of this article.

On Feb. 7, Netflix announced that the company now uses an algorithm to comb through shows and movies to find the perfect promotional stills given different marketing requirements.

Basically, this Netflix algorithm will find stills of character close-ups in some sort of emotional moment. And then eventually another Netflix algorithm decides which characters to market to you (such as the famous comedian or the couple from the example before).

Presumably the algorithms will just get more and more powerful until every show and movie on your homepage looks like something you’d want to check out.

2. The special attention to fonts

A particularly unique font for the Netflix show, "Glow." Netflix

This is far from a Netflix specific trick. Marketing designers have long used font choices to distinguish products from each other.

But given Netflix’s extremely large catalogue of original shows and movies, it’s worth noting how the company uses font to make everything seem unique.

Back in March, the data visualization website Venngage explored the connection between Netflix’s font choices and user psychology.

The Venngage team essentially pulled a ton of data on Netflix font selections and then showed that Netflix is putting nuanced care into this design element.

Pretty much every Netflix show has its own original font. Even a blockbuster like “Avatar” famously just used the maligned font “Papyrus.”

Although the use of customized fonts might seem like a small thing, Netflix’s special attention here exemplifies that the company is trying to use every advantage it can to get you to click on more content.

The decorative “Glow” font or the handwritten “Love” font or the mystical “Ozark” font might have been the final push you needed to click on those shows.

3. The algorithms used to customize your rows

The rows you see on your Netflix homepage are incredibly customized Netflix

Those rows of recommendations on your Netflix homepage are way, way, way more customized than you probably thought.

And the company is constantly experimenting with what to recommend to you.

Netflix explained the case for the “rows” concept in 2015. Understanding this technique is a good starting point for comprehending the homepage customization in general.

The Netflix announcement from 2015 described it well, so here’s the relevant paragraph:

By presenting coherent groups of videos in a row, providing a meaningful name for each row, and presenting rows in a useful order, members can quickly decide whether a whole set of videos in a row is likely to contain something that they are interested in watching. This allows members to either dive deeper and look for more videos in the theme or to skip them and look at another row. This would not be the case if, for example, the page contained a large, unorganized collection of relevant videos.

So “rows” are Netflix’s organizing principal. And as you can guess, customization can easily be achieved by showing an “action” fan a row of action movies.

As you’ve probably noticed, Netflix tends to offer genre rows that are far more specific than “action” though. So a user could get a “Cerebral TV Shows” row or “Irreverent Rant Stand-Up Comedy.”

(There’s even secret codes you can use to find these lists, as pointed out by The Daily Dot.)

But the Netflix customization gets far more nuanced than even that.

One such way is a process Netflix explained in 2017 as “interleaving.”

Basically this process allows for a more scalpel-esque approach to gathering data on what you want to watch. Instead of just gathering the data that you’re watching a “Cerebral TV Show,” Netflix is running multiple tests within that given row.

This is definitely confusing, so here’s an attempt at a simplified example:

While you see one row of content on the homepage with one label (such as “Top Picks” for you) the Netflix algorithm has actually hidden various, even more nuanced rows of options in the same row.

Therefore, it seems that multiple subsets of, say, the “Cerebral TV Show” concept are actually in that row you perceive to be just one thing. And then if you consistently choose one particular secret subset, the whole row will shift to giving you more from that particular algorithmic recommendation.

Long story short: The algorithm is very far past a simple “user likes action movies / show more action movies” setup.

4. The “Trending Now” row is personalized too

Netflix's "Trending Now" section also includes personalization and I'm not sure what it says about me that I got "The Kissing Booth" Netflix

If you thought you could use this row to choose something that would be a part of the zeitgeist, you’ll likely be disappointed.

Netflix rolled out a “Trending Now” row in 2015. At the time, the company explained that the name isn’t exactly true.

Instead of just presenting the shows and movies that are actually trending the most at any given moment, Netflix is still customizing for you personally.

This is just one more way to get you to keep watching things in your own rabbit hole of personal taste. And the “Trending Now” row only makes you think that you’re connecting to a larger community.

Of course, there still is some truth to the “Trending” moniker.

For example, as holiday-themed shows and movies gain steam around the respective holidays, these titles tend to appear in this row.

The row is basically a snapshot of what you’re most likely to want to watch right now. The answer to that will be different from user to user. But occasionally when megahits like “Stranger Things” debut a new season, the tastes of many users will align.

5. The autoplaying trailers

This is perhaps the most hated feature about Netflix’s homepage.

“Current favorite console game: navigating Netflix without triggering autoplay promos,” director Rian Johnson (“Star Wars: The Last Jedi”) tweeted back in March. That tweet got over 31,000 likes.

But Netflix clearly has some data that autoplaying trailers are causing you to watch more shows and movies, and so this terrible feature persists.

The autoplaying trailers on the homepage debuted back in 2016. These don’t tend to happen on a desktop and were originally designed for Netflix homepages on Roku, video game consoles and smart TVs.

This distinction is important because, on these platforms, the cursor is always selected on some show or movie by default. And then after about a second, the trailer begins on the selected item. On a desktop with a mouse cursor, nothing in particular is ever selected and therefore the autoplaying would be all over the place.

The rollout announcement explained that these videos were just one more way that Netflix could try and convince you to watch something new. (A video in the announcement (embedded above) had the promotional tagline, “So you can browse less... and watch more.”)

The goal is to explicitly trick you to “watch more.” Don’t weigh your options. Don’t get off the couch and do something else. Keep watching Netflix.

Bonus: Obvious, but the incredible marketing for bad movies

Netflix hires extremely talented designers Netflix

I’m including this one as a bonus as it’s more just something I’ve noticed than a “trick” with hard evidence. But the marketing department at Netflix is phenomenal.

And marketing that makes bad things seem like good things is arguably the most impressive trick of all.

Netflix clearly spends considerable resources in the promotional phase to make sure the Netflix Originals all look like they could be amazing.

It’s usually fairly easy to discern from a trailer or poster if a movie or show is going to be trash, but Netflix has a knack for making just about every single trailer and poster compelling.

There have been countless posters for Netflix Originals that have been beautiful works of art and then the actual content has been bad. (See the “Mute” example above as that movie earned a 15% on Rotten Tomatoes.)

You really can’t tell whether something is actually going to be worth your time from any Netflix promotional material. I, for one, keep getting excited about Netflix projects I shouldn’t be caring about at all.The historic Oregon State Hospital in Salem. Oregon’s model of intense care and supervision for the criminally insane is not cheap: Caring for a person judged to be guilty except for insanity costs between $383,000 and $437,000 annually, according to the Oregon Health Authority. Paul Carter/The Register-Guard via AP

By Michael Ollove

PORTLAND, Ore. — In the midst of a harrowing psychotic episode in summer 2009, Annie broke into her ex-husband’s house and used a hammer and scissors to lay waste to plates, knickknacks, clothing, “and honestly, I don’t know what else.”

Had the mother of four, a retired captain in the National Guard, chosen to plead guilty, as a first offender she might have gotten off with the six months she’d already spent in jail.

Instead, she chose to accept the verdict of “guilty except for insanity” — Oregon’s version of the insanity defense. For Annie, who asked that her real name not be used because she fears being stigmatized, that meant accepting state supervision until 2029, when she will be 68.

She has no doubt she made the right choice.

“If I had been released with the hallucinations I had then … I wouldn’t be alive today,” said Annie, an outgoing redhead who during a recent interview wore a black blouse festooned with ladybugs.

About 14 percent of state and federal prisoners (about 200,000) and 26 percent of jailed inmates (about 190,000) have serious mental illnesses, according to a report last year by the U.S. Department of Justice. Prison and jail officials don’t have the resources to treat them, and many deteriorate behind bars.

By contrast, in some states those judged to be criminally insane receive better mental health treatment than practically anybody else — including people who have never committed a crime.

This is especially true in Oregon, according to the Treatment Advocacy Center, an Arlington, Virginia, nonprofit that advocates for those with severe mental illness.

Oregon’s Psychiatric Security Review Board oversees the care of the criminally insane from the time they receive the verdict until they are discharged from state care. During that period, which can go on indefinitely for someone serving a life sentence, the board supervises the treatment plan and determines when a person is ready for a less secure facility and, eventually, conditional release.

In Oregon, that final stage includes not just clinical treatment but supportive housing and help with job hunting, transportation, budgeting and grocery shopping.

“The amount of contact they have with clinicians and support staff is much, much higher than anyone in community mental health would get,” said Katrina Bennett, clinical director of criminally insane patients at Cascadia Behavioral Healthcare.

Cascadia provides outpatient mental health care to about 18,000 people a year in the Portland area. Among them are about 70 people found guilty except for insanity, mostly from the Oregon State Hospital in Salem.

Not many states match Oregon in caring for the criminally insane, according to the Treatment Advocacy Center. Only three states — Arizona, Connecticut and Washington — have a centralized authority comparable to Oregon’s Psychiatric Security Review Board.

Four states — Idaho, Kansas, Montana and Utah — don’t allow an insanity defense, so defendants with extreme mental illness usually are sent to prison instead of being hospitalized and treated. Others, including Idaho, Indiana, Massachusetts, New Mexico, North Carolina, Pennsylvania and Texas, do not have conditional release laws.

Oregon’s model of intense care and supervision is not cheap: Caring for a patient at the Oregon State Hospital costs between $383,000 and $437,000 annually, according to the Oregon Health Authority. Conditional release supervision costs between $30,000 and $157,000 a year.

It has, however, yielded impressive results. Over the past five years, the rate of recidivism for those on conditional release in Oregon after a verdict of criminal insanity is 0.47 percent. By comparison, one report put the recidivism rate among all Oregon ex-inmates, whether mentally ill or not, at about 18 percent.

The irony of intensive care for the criminally insane is not lost on those who study the subject. “You shouldn’t have to be found guilty except for insanity to get high quality care,” said Lisa Dailey, the legislative and policy counsel at the Treatment Advocacy Center.

‘Keep the Public Safe’

Across the United States each year, about 1,500 patients who committed felony crimes and were judged to be criminally insane are released from state psychiatric hospitals.

The criminally insane force states to perform a delicate balancing act. They have committed felonies, sometimes violent ones, so states are wary of returning them to communities where they might endanger others. At the same time, states recognize the responsibility to treat, rather than punish, those patients.

There is little data on recidivism among the criminally insane after they leave state supervision. But a 2016 study of Connecticut’s conditional release program, which is similar to Oregon’s, found that it lowered recidivism rates.

“Our mandate is to keep the public safe,” said Sid Moore, acting director of Oregon’s Psychiatric Security Review Board. “Comprehensive treatment that acknowledges their offense but also their humanity is how we maintain public safety.”

The stakes in getting it right are enormously high. In the past 18 months in Oregon, two men who were found guilty except for insanity and were eventually released were subsequently charged with murder in separate incidents. In both cases, the psychiatric board faced withering criticism for endangering the community. In response, the board added another layer of psychiatric review for those under consideration for conditional release.

The success stories, which are far more numerous, don’t make headlines.

Bobby, who was charged with a sex offense involving children he was babysitting, pleaded guilty except for insanity in 2008, when he was 18. Bobby, who asked that his last name not be used, said he’s been diagnosed with post-traumatic stress disorder as a result of being abused as a child.

After three and a half years in the state psychiatric hospital, which he described as torture, he was conditionally released and ultimately came to Cascadia, which provided him with clinical treatment, housing and other services.

On this day, wearing a hat from the Home Depot, where he works as a parking lot attendant, Bobby described himself as something he never expected he’d be: happy. He said he’s learned to control his behavior, particularly his angry outbursts. “I have a 40-hour-a-week job, a great relationship going on two years, I’m driving.

“I’m doing great.”

Request Denied

On a crisp morning last month, Oregon’s Psychiatric Security Review Board met on the grounds of the Oregon State Hospital, where “One Flew Over the Cuckoo’s Nest” was filmed. The board has 10 members, who sit in groups of three for hearings. On the panel were a psychiatrist, a psychologist and an attorney.

On the agenda were several cases of people requesting to move from the hospital to conditional release, or even complete discharge. The patients all had a state-appointed attorney, and the state was represented by an assistant attorney general.

Three members of the Oregon Psychiatric Security Review Board (back) take testimony about releasing patients hospitalized as criminally insane. The Pew Charitable Trusts

Hospitalized patients and those on conditional release can ask for a change in their status once every six months. If the patient makes no such requests, the board reviews the status of each hospitalized patient every two years and every five years for those on conditional release. The board considers the mental status of the patient, the seriousness of the crime committed, and the risk that the patient might harm others if released.

One case this morning involved a young man with shoulder-length dark hair and glasses who had landed in the hospital after robbing cigarettes from a convenience store claiming — falsely — that he had a gun. A hospital psychiatrist testified to the board that the young man, diagnosed as bipolar, had cooperated and was engaged in his treatment.

In requesting a conditional release, the 22-year-old told the board, “I’ve really worked on my impulsivity, and my substance abuse issues I’ve gotten a handle on.” He said he had improved insight into his mental illness.

But the prosecutor, in questioning the witnesses, brought up two incidents. The young man had broken his glasses and smashed his hand into a suggestion box when nurses wouldn’t permit him to smoke. He’d also hatched a scheme to assault another patient in the hopes that patient would kill him.

After a brief consultation, the board returned and the chairwoman told the young man his request was rejected. They wanted to give his new medications more time to work and to see how he did when given privileges, such as trips away from the hospital. “This is what we think is in your best interests,” she said. “Keep up the good work.”

On this day, the board rejected all requests for a change in status. And it revoked the conditional release of a patient who appeared to have stopped taking his medications.

Patients from the Portland area who are on conditional release most likely have received services from Cascadia. Unless approved to live on their own or with family, they are assigned housing, which entails various levels of security and staffing. Many live in group homes in neighborhoods around the city, some with staff on duty 24 hours a day.

Each patient has a program of clinical treatment, most of it at a Cascadia facility in southeast Portland, the Hope Center. Patients are required to participate in at least 20 hours a week of structured activity. For some, this can be work, school or volunteering.

For others, it’s group sessions, which might be devoted to life skills such as good hygiene, how to ride a bus, how to open a bank account, and how to shop for groceries. There are addiction and anger management groups. There are also painting, writing and recreation classes.

A treatment team monitors each patient’s progress. Case managers carry about a dozen cases at a time, lower than an average mental health case load.

Annie has progressed to what is called semi-independent living. She lives in a group home where staff is on duty eight hours a day. She is driving again and owns a car. She sits on the board of a community organization that provides peer support for those in recovery. She plans to pursue a master’s degree in counseling.

But she has no plans to request a discharge from state jurisdiction.

“I am not ready yet,” she said.Republicans held on to a contested Arizona House seat in Tuesday’s special election, sparing the party yet another humiliating defeat in once-safe GOP territory.

Republican Debbie Lesko, 59, a conservative former state senator, bested Democrat Hiral Tipirneni, 50, a health care advocate and physician, in a surprisingly competitive race to represent Arizona’s 8th Congressional District.

Lesko received 52.6 percent of the vote, compared with 47.4 percent for Tipirneni.

Although Donald Trump won the suburban Phoenix district by 21 percentage points in 2016, the party had to fight to hold on to it this time. Three national Republican organs ― the National Republican Congressional Committee, the Republican National Committee and the Congressional Leadership Fund, a super PAC aligned with House Speaker Paul Ryan (R-Wis.) ― together spent more than $1.2 million on Lesko’s behalf.

The outcome likely provides limited comfort to Republican strategists confronted with still more evidence that the party is due for a reckoning in November.

“This district is no longer an extremely safe Republican district,” said Gina Woodall, a politics expert at Arizona State University. “You can’t beat the proportion of Republican voters or senior citizens who vote regularly in this district. The fact that the GOP still had to work for it is ominous for November.”

Republican Debbie Lesko prevailed in Tuesday's special election with help from national GOP groups. Wikimedia Commons

The demographics of Arizona’s 8th District, which encompasses a part of Maricopa County known as the West Valley, fundamentally favor Republicans. Over 84 percent of residents are white, and nearly 22 percent are aged 65 or older ― both groups that generally lean Republican.

Prior to his resignation in December, Rep. Trent Franks (R) routinely won re-election by more than 30 percentage points. (Franks left Congress in December after allegedly offering a female aide $5 million to serve as a surrogate for him and his wife.)

Still, Tipirneni, who ran as a defender of Social Security and Medicare, public education and universal health care, proved a prodigious fundraiser, outpacing Lesko by about $180,000 as of the beginning of April. She also limited how much she spoke about Trump on the campaign trail, opting instead to decry overall Republican policies like the tax legislation, which she called “atrocious.”

Despite describing herself as a “moderate Democrat” who would use a “data-driven” approach to governing, Tipirneni proposed allowing people of all ages to buy into the Medicare system. (She also sought to grant Medicaid beneficiaries the opportunity to purchase private coverage.)

The stance won Tipirneni accolades on the left, but prompted Republicans to inaccurately label her an advocate for single-payer health care, in which the federal government covers all Americans as part of one insurance plan.

“Hiral Tipirneni will be the first of many single-payer supporters to suffer defeat this year,” National Republican Congressional Committee spokesman Jesse Hunt predicted on Monday.

Some public polls suggested that Tipirneni might overcome the district’s strong conservative bent.

Ultimately though, the national Republican infrastructure helped Lesko close the gap with Tipirneni. Trump recorded a robocall for Lesko, and several congressional leaders traveled to the district to rally voters and raise money.

The GOP proved especially adept at taking advantage of Arizona’s capacious voting rules, which allowed early voting in person or by mail beginning on March 28.

“By targeting early and banking votes for Debbie Lesko, we were able to make sure there wasn’t an enthusiasm gap.” - Mike Duncan, GOP strategist

The Ryan-aligned super PAC, the Congressional Leadership Fund, contracted with local GOP consulting firm Calvary LLC, which bombarded a group of 70,000 to 100,000 voters on Arizona’s permanent absentee voter list with digital advertisements encouraging them to vote for Lesko. The ads also reminded voters to submit their mail-in ballots.

“By targeting early and banking votes for Debbie Lesko, we were able to make sure there wasn’t an enthusiasm gap,” said Mike Duncan, a partner at Calvary LLC.

Calvary’s handiwork appeared to show in the makeup of early voters. Of more than 154,000 ballots already cast by the end of the day on Monday, 49 percent of voters were registered Republicans, compared with 28 percent who were Democrats and 23 percent who were independents. The median age of the people who have already voted is 67.

National Democrats never matched the GOP’s commitment to the district, apparently viewing it as too much of a reach. The Democratic National Committee contributed indirectly through a $75,000 innovation grant to the state party, as well as by raising $85,000 for Tipirneni and providing her campaign $17,000 in in-kind services.

The Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee, which helps elect Democrats to the House, did not contribute any cash to Tipirneni’s campaign.

The biggest national player to step in on Tipirneni’s behalf was the Working Families Party, a national progressive group active in state and local races. The Working Families Party invested $100,000 in two ads featuring Ady Barkan, an ALS-stricken activist, who has launched a campaign to hold Republicans accountable for the GOP tax cuts. Barkan and the Working Families Party maintain that the cuts, which added $1.5 trillion to the national debt, have created the political impetus for Republicans to cut Social Security, Medicare and Medicaid.

“There is no such a thing as a safe Republican seat this year,” Barkan said in a statement late Tuesday night. “Dr. Hiral Tipirneni overcame the odds to come within striking distance of victory in a deep red district, because the Republicans put their donors’ greed ahead of the health of families like mine.”

Democrat Hiral Tipirneni mounted an unexpectedly competitive bid for the suburban Phoenix seat. Wikimedia Commons

For Arizona Democrats, Tipirneni’s bid was a useful vehicle to lay the groundwork for long-term gains in the state. The state party erected a field office and dedicated staffers to assisting Tipirneni, enabling it to identify and engage voters as it looks to races where Democrats enjoy more favorable odds.

Democrats have a serious shot in November of flipping the Arizona state Senate, where the GOP has a four-seat edge. The party plans to target at least six GOP-held state Senate seats, and has fielded promising candidates for an open U.S. Senate seat as well, including Rep. Kyrsten Sinema and Deedra Abboud, an attorney and Muslim civil rights advocate.

The same factors that propelled Tipirneni’s bid are likely to remain in play in November. Tipirneni benefited from a highly energized Democratic electorate, led by suburban women, many of whom are active in the countless “Resistance” groups that have popped up in the wake of Trump’s election.

Many of the Democratic activists had already mobilized against a private school voucher bill that Lesko helped shepherd into law. Grassroots resistance to the measure has won voters the opportunity to decide its fate on the November ballot, suggesting it could help Democrats running then as well.

A closely related fight over teacher pay and public school funding has also generated activism that redounded to Tipirneni’s benefit and could well continue through the fall. Arizona teachers are due to hold a statewide walkout on Thursday as part of an ongoing movement to protest what they contend is low pay and inadequate school funding.

Ann Teeters Johnson, a retiree from Sun City West and member of the grassroots group Rogue Democratic Women, described an excitement among the region’s Democrats that she had never seen before.

The race has “already done some magic” for local Democrats, she said. “Because there is a primary and an election again so soon, I think it would carry over.”

Kevin Robillard contributed reporting.A measure being reviewed in the Missouri Senate's rules and ethics committee would declare porn a public health threat. Bill Hinton via Getty Images

A Missouri Senate committee is considering a resolution that would deem pornography a public health threat.

A group of state senators reviewed the resolution during a Tuesday hearing of the rules and ethics committee, according to The St. Louis Post-Dispatch. Republican state Sen. Ed Emery proposed the resolution in March.

The bill, Senate Concurrent Resolution No. 52, says it aims to recognize the “societal harms brought by pornography and the need for education, prevention, research and policy change.” Among its reasons to declare porn a public health threat are porn addiction, the “hypersexualization of teenagers,” pornography’s equation of “violence with sex and pain with pleasure,” “increased likelihood that individuals will engage in group intercourse” and porn’s possible contribution to “emotional and medical illnesses.”

Missouri state Sen. Ed Emery is very concerned about the public health threat of porn. Ed Emery for State Senate/Facebook

“What is unveiled by a personal moral failure may be a reflection of a disturbing and invasive social evil ― that of the proliferation of pornography and modern culture’s ambivalence toward it,” Emery said of the scandal. “Far too often, such behavior grows out of an exposure to pornography.”

Greitens admitted to the affair, but in a separate statement through his lawyer denied the blackmail claim.

Porn can be problematic because it often depicts violence against women and is a main source of sex education for teenagers. But viewing pornography is a form of safe sex and can be a low-risk way for someone to explore new things. Research has shown that using porn increases sexual satisfaction and helps people find out what turns them on.Circuit Court Judge Rosemarie Aquilina addresses Larry Nassar on Jan. 18, 2018, during his sentencing hearing in Lansing, Michigan. Brendan McDermid/Reuters

Rosemarie Aquilina, the judge who presided over the now-imprisoned former USA Gymnastics and Michigan State University team doctor Larry Nassar’s sentencing hearing, has finally broken her silence.

“I support the girls,” Aquilina told The Detroit News on Tuesday. “I said that at the sentencing. Nothing has changed there.”

Aquilina made headlines during Nassar’s second sentencing hearing in January, when she allowed 169 victims and their family members to read impact statements in her Lansing, Michigan, courtroom. She allowed every person to read a statement who wished to do so, stretching the hearing to seven whole days.

“I don’t like girls being shut down. Everyone has the right to be heard,” Aquilina said.

“I’m not fair and impartial. The case is over,” she added, referencing that she couldn’t speak about the case until Nassar’s appeal to her sentencing was over. “No judge is fair and impartial (after the verdict). That’s for before the sentencing.”

After each survivor spoke, Aquilina reiterated that the abuse was not their fault and instructed the survivors, many of whom were young women, to leave their trauma and pain in court with her.

“You are worthy,” she told a survivor named Danielle Moore on the first day of the hearing. “This was done to you. It was not done by you.”

To another survivor, she said: “Leave your pain here and go out and do your magnificent things.”

At the conclusion of the hearing, Aquilina said it was her “honor and privilege” to sentence Nassar to 40 to 175 years in prison for crimes involving the sexual abuse of young girls. After Nassar’s third sentencing hearing on additional child pornography and child sexual abuse charges, over 265 people had accused him of sexually abusing them under the guise of medical treatment.

When asked if Michigan State University’s interim president John Engler and other trustees should step down in light of the way the university had mishandled the Nassar scandal, Aquilina reiterated her support for the survivors.

“I won’t get into a political mess. I’m supporting the girls,” she said.

Some criticized Aquilina for being so outspoken during the hearing, citing a moment at the beginning of the trial where she suggested Nassar deserved sexual abuse himself for his crimes. She also said the now-infamous words, “I’ve just signed your death warrant,” after sentencing Nassar.

Others, including many of Nassar’s survivors, thanked Aquilina for being a source of strength and support throughout such a difficult time.Kanye West and Kris Jenner attend the Givenchy show at Paris Fashion Week in 2016. Pascal Le Segretain via Getty Images

The Kardashian karousel of kontroversies has spun back around to Kanye West, who’s spent the last few days on Twitter applauding various Trump supporters and generally confusing everybody who has a Wi-Fi connection.

Of course, this is the last thing Kris Jenner needs, given that she likely has her hands full with three new grandchildren, a cheating scandal that just won’t end, and a son named Rob Kardashian.

Following reports that the momager was having “huge blow-ups” with West over the rapper’s “erratic” behavior, Jenner set the record straight about what’s actually going down with her son-in-law.

“Lies, Lies Lies,” she said Tuesday after a People article about her fractured relationship with West and the family’s failed attempts to “control” him.

Jenner went on to slam another story that characterized the Yeezy designer as being “on the edge” after cutting ties with members of his team.

“Everyone is super, super worried,” an unnamed source told People of West. “He just looks at you with a void. It’s like he’s mute and can’t talk and he just stares at you. The way he says things with such affirmation, he genuinely believes he’s God and a genius and that he can do everything on his own.”

Meanwhile, West has apparently split with manager to the stars Scooter Braun, who also represents Ariana Grande and Justin Bieber, according to TMZ.

He reportedly wanted Braun to devote his full attention to upcoming projects ― the rapper is set to release and produce a handful of albums in the coming months ― but things broke down.

Braun seemingly responded to reports about the end of his working relationship with West, framing their differences as an issue of respect.

“A man’s loyalty is truly tested when he is willing to stand by someone who will never show that same respect,” Braun wrote on Monday. “Don’t show love and loyalty waiting for reciprocation... do it because your integrity demands it.”

A man’s loyalty is truly tested when he is willing to stand by someone who will never show that same respect. Don’t show love and loyalty waiting for reciprocation... do it because your integrity demands it. — Scooter Braun (@scooterbraun) April 24, 2018

West addressed his rift with Braun Wednesday morning.

“I no longer have a manager. I can’t be managed,” he wrote. “I’m nobody’s ‘client.’”

“I also asked my last manager to come work full time for Yeezy of course the last lawyer and manager said no,” he continued in another tweet. “So now I hired a CEO and a CFO and i have two full time lawyers as of now.

I no longer have a manager. I can't be managed — KANYE WEST (@kanyewest) April 25, 2018

I'm nobody's "client" — KANYE WEST (@kanyewest) April 25, 2018

yes I got rid of my last lawyer why? Because he wouldn't come to work full time. I also asked my last manager to come work full time for Yeezy of course the last lawyer and manager said no. So now I hired a CEO and a CFO and i have two full time lawyers as of now. — KANYE WEST (@kanyewest) April 25, 2018

West also issued a warning to People, should the magazine ever “speak my name” again.

“You would love a pair of Yeezys,” he wrote. “Don’t play yourself.”Mick Mulvaney, President Donald Trump’s budget director, raised eyebrows on Tuesday with an anecdote about his time in the House of Representatives.

“We had a hierarchy in my office in Congress,” he said at the American Bankers Association conference in Washington, according to The New York Times. “If you’re a lobbyist who never gave us money, I didn’t talk to you. If you’re a lobbyist who gave us money, I might talk to you.”

Mulvaney, a Republican who represented a South Carolina district from 2011 through early 2017, said he also spoke with constituents even if they hadn’t paid him.

The newspaper reported that he was encouraging the industry to lobby lawmakers:

“Mr. Mulvaney said that trying to sway legislators was one of the ‘fundamental underpinnings of our representative democracy. And you have to continue to do it.’”

He has come under fire for his cozy ties to the financial industry, especially payday lenders. As the Times noted, he collected $63,000 from such lenders.

Since being named acting head of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau last year (in addition to running the Office of Management and Budget), he had not taken any enforcement actions against payday lenders, banks or other financial firms until last week’s $1 billion fine against Wells Fargo.

He has also specifically moved to ease regulations on payday lenders.A newly released photo of U.S. Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin enjoying last August’s eclipse proves sunlight is the best disinfectant.

The photo, just unearthed by ThinkProgress.org through a Freedom of Information Act request, shows Mnuchin and his wife, Louise Linton, viewing the eclipse with appropriate glasses and smiles on their faces.

On Aug. 21, the day of the eclipse, the couple flew to Fort Knox in Kentucky on a government plane. Since the gold fortress just happened to be near the path of totality, an ethics watchdog group asked whether the couple planned a personal trip funded by taxpayers to see the eclipse.

Mnuchin, a multimillionaire and former Goldman Sachs executive, insisted that his trip to Fort Knox was not connected with the total eclipse, though the U.S. Treasury did admit he watched it briefly.

“People in Kentucky took this stuff very seriously,” Mnuchin told The Washington Post at the time. “Being a New Yorker, I don’t have any interest in watching the eclipse.”

The photo unearthed by ThinkProgress from the U.S. Treasury suggests otherwise.

Steve Mnuchin said he wasn’t interested in the solar eclipse, but photos say otherwise https://t.co/OFp6Elox0U pic.twitter.com/025XTYuz8e — ThinkProgress (@thinkprogress) April 25, 2018

The Fort Knox trip gained notoriety after Linton posted a picture on Instagram of her exiting the Air Force plane the couple used for the trip while she touted the brand names of her designer clothing in the caption.

In October, an official government inquiry found that Mnuchin cost American taxpayers more than $800,000 for travel aboard military aircraft, though he broke no laws.

The U.S. Treasury replied to HuffPost’s request for comment about the photo with an email that said the documents released via the FOIA request confirm Mnuchin was on official government travel during his trip and that “the eclipse did not factor into the date of the trip.”

It continued:

This is consistent with the October 4, 2017 report by the Treasury’s Office of Inspector General, which identified no violation of law, regulation, or ethics requirements in connection with this trip or any other travel requests on behalf of the Secretary. Secretary Mnuchin was honored to visit the United States Bullion Depository at Ft. Knox and meet with the hardworking personnel at the Mint. He looks forward to continuing to visit additional Treasury facilities.White House physician Dr. Ronny Jackson had his confirmation hearing delayed because of questions about his record. Jabin Botsford/The Washington Post via Getty Images

Dr. Ronny Jackson, the White House physician nominated to be the next head of the Veterans Affairs Department, is facing new allegations about his professional behavior that put his confirmation into jeopardy.

Jackson reportedly became so intoxicated at a Secret Service party that he “wrecked a government vehicle.” On another occasion, he could not be reached when needed because he was passed out drunk in his hotel room.

Jackson also allegedly gave a White House Military Office staffer a “large supply” of Percocet without going through the proper procedures, sending the White House Medical Unit staff into a “panic” because they didn’t know what happened to the prescription opioid pills. Jackson’s nickname was “Candyman” among White House staff, because he would give them prescription medications whenever they wanted without paperwork.

The summary of the serious allegations against Jackson are laid out in a new document released on Wednesday by the office of Sen. Jon Tester (D-Mont.), the ranking member on the Senate Veterans Affairs Committee.

Democratic staffers conducted interviews with 23 of Jackson’s colleagues and former colleagues. They “have raised serious concerns about Jackson’s temperament and ethics” and “cast doubt” on his ability to lead the VA, the second-largest government agency.

Jackson has been the White House physician under Presidents George W. Bush, Barack Obama and now Trump, and has garnered praise from both Democratic and Republican staffers.

But as soon as Trump announced that he was nominating Jackson, senators and veterans groups immediately questioned whether the doctor ― who has little management experience ― was qualified to run the massive, notoriously difficult bureaucracy.

Other questions then began popping up about Jackson’s fitness for the job. On Wednesday, CNN reported that Jackson drunkenly banged on the hotel room door of a female employee during a 2015 overseas trip in the middle of the night.

Other findings from the Democratic document released Wednesday:

Jackson wrote himself prescriptions. When caught, he would have his assistant do it instead.

The White House Medical Unit, under Jackson, did not properly document pharmaceuticals, making it difficult to track them. Jackson would account for the pills after the fact in paperwork to account for shortages.

Jackson was described as “the most unethical person I have ever worked with,” “toxic,” “abusive” and “incapable of not losing his temper.”

Jackson was known to have a “kiss up, kick down” approach where he was “a suck up to those above him and abusive to those below him.”

In March, Trump fired the previous VA secretary, David Shulkin, who was a holdover from Obama’s administration. Major veterans groups and some senators, including Republicans, opposed ousting Shulkin. But he found himself facing conservative enemies who were upset that he wouldn’t work on privatizing the VA’s medical services.

Trump liked Jackson personally and chose him with little vetting, much to the surprise and displeasure of many of his aides.

White House spokeswoman Sarah Huckabee Sanders defended Jackson on Wednesday to The New York Times, which first obtained the summary of the allegations. She said none of the new charges came up in “the four separate background investigations that have taken place.”

“These are new,” she added. “I can only speak to some of the personal accounts that those of us have, as well as the records that we have that are substantiated through a very detailed and thorough background investigation process.”

Jackson also denied that he wrecked a vehicle in passing remarks to reporters Wednesday afternoon.

Dr. Ronny Jackson just walked past a number of reporters in the White House. Regarding the new NYT piece a few minutes ago, he said “Did not wreck a car.” On his nomination, he said: “Still moving ahead as planned.” He said it would be easy to prove he did not wreck a car. — Eamon Javers (@EamonJavers) April 25, 2018

Marc Short, the White House director of legislative affairs, defended Jackson against the “Candyman” moniker Wednesday as well.

“Every year they come in and do a review of the White House physician’s office on things like prescriptions, and every year they said that he’s totally in compliance with what he’s prescribing. So, no, it’s totally unfair,” he told reporters.

A spokeswoman for Sen. Johnny Isakson (R-Ga.), the chairman of the committee, said they had no new comment on the Democratic document.

Jackson was supposed to have his confirmation hearing before the committee on Thursday, but it was postponed over the concerns senators have had.

Trump called Jackson “one of the finest people that I have met” on Wednesday but also hinted that he may drop out.

“I don’t want to put a man through a process like this,” Trump said. “The fact is, I wouldn’t do it. What does he need it for?”WASHINGTON — A number of Environmental Protection Agency employees spent their lunch hour Wednesday outside agency headquarters calling for the immediate ouster of their boss, agency chief Scott Pruitt.

One longtime staffer who requested anonymity to comment candidly told HuffPost they find Pruitt to be perfectly personable, but fear what will come of his efforts to discard decades of hard work aimed at keeping the American public healthy and safe.

“How much damage are we going to do in four years?” he asked. “And how many years is it going to take to get back [to where things were]?”

The “Boot Pruitt Rally” was hosted by a union that represents thousands of EPA workers and part of a nationwide campaign launched by progressive environmental groups who say Pruitt is unfit to lead the scientific agency and is “working for industry at the expense of our health and the environment.”

The embattled EPA chief is facing mounting pressure, both from Democrats and Republicans, to step aside and is currently the target of 10 federal investigations.

“We know he’s little better than a polluter’s puppet, with a total disregard for ethics or the law,” Rep. Don Beyer (D-Va.) told the crowd.

Pruitt is scheduled to appear before a pair of House committees on Thursday, where he is expected to face tough questions about his numerous ethical scandals and seemingly lavish use of taxpayer money. Among other things, federal watchdogs are probing Pruitt’s travel aboard private planes, the purchase of a $43,000 soundproof phone booth for his office, his 24-hour security detail and a sweetheart deal in which he rented a room in a luxury Capitol Hill condo for just $50 per night.

Initially, President Donald Trump defended Pruitt, tweeting that he was “doing a great job.” But the administration’s support appears to be withering. Bloomberg reported Tuesday that White House officials were warning Republicans against defending the EPA chief. And on Wednesday an official told E&E News that “staff believe pretty uniformly that this guy is going to be fired soon.”

Sharon Boyde, a longtime employee of the Environmental Protection Agency and vice president for civil rights at AFGE Local 3331, a union representing workers at EPA's headquarters in Washington, speaks at Wednesday's rally against agency administrator Scott Pruitt. Chris DAngelo/HuffPost

For many gathered at the Federal Triangle on Wednesday, Pruitt’s dogged efforts to roll back environmental protections are more problematic than any ethical lapse.

Nate James, an 18-year staffer at the EPA and president of AFGE Local 3331, a bargaining unit representing some 3,000 employees at EPA headquarters, told HuffPost that employees are dedicated to the agency’s mission regardless of who’s in charge. But under Pruitt’s wing, he said, staffers are increasingly afraid to speak the truth.

“We’ve done everything we can to remain focused, to continue to accomplish the mission,” he said. “But it’s difficult with the budget cuts. It’s difficult with the reduction to the workforce. It’s difficult when you tell what science really says, then see people who bring those truths forward eliminated from service. That’s a very frightening environment to work in.”

Pruitt’s deregulatory blitz has repeatedly hit legal snares, and at least 10 of his rollbacks were blocked by courts. But scientists say his efforts to reshape the EPA’s science advisory boards and alter the way the agency uses research to write regulations could have lasting effects. In October, he barred scientists who receive EPA grants from serving on the agency’s advisory boards, effectively clearing the way for industry-friendly researchers to dominate the oversight panels. On Tuesday, Pruitt proposed a new rule that would limit the use of public health studies in writing regulations, a strategy to cripple fossil fuel industry rules on air pollution cribbed from the tobacco industry’s playbook. Tom Burke, a Johns Hopkins University professor and former EPA adviser, told HuffPost the regulation threatened to send the country back to “the Dark Ages.”

Another employee who attended Wednesday’s rally said they’ve watched many administrators come and go, and all of them were changed by the job, usually after coming face-to-face with a serious environmental disaster. So far, the staffer hasn’t seen that from Pruitt, but remains hopeful he will come to recognize the untapped potential of the agency and the opportunity he has to be a leader.

“Right now he’s trying to change us,” the staffer said. “We’re too busy to be changed.”

A representative of the American Federation of Government Employees, a labor union representing 700,000 federal and D.C. government employees, estimated at least 30 EPA employees joined the rally. The event featured speeches from representatives of environmental groups and several members of Congress.

Rep. Ruben Gallego (D-Ariz.) said that instead of focusing on Pruitt and his scandals, he wanted to speak directly to EPA workers, whom he called the “last line of defense for clean air, clean water, a breathable, livable society.”

“We are with you in the fight … We are 100 percent behind you,” he said.TONIGHT: Stephen can hardly contain his excitement as the Trump family hosts French President Macron and his wife for this administration's first White House state dinner. #LSSC pic.twitter.com/M1ysoJDNanWarning: “Deadpool 2” spoilers below

It wasn’t a prank, per se. That’s Pitt-Clooney ground.

“He said ‘I want a hand-delivered Starbucks coffee from Ryan Reynolds himself,’” Rhett Reese told Yahoo Entertainment last week when he stopped by our Los Angeles studios with his co-writer, Paul Wernick (watch above).

Director David Leitch got even more specific: “I think it was a double-wet cappuccino,” he recalled.

It sounds as if Reynolds could’ve gotten away without the coffee errand, though. “On the day, Ryan delivered it, and Brad had kind of forgotten about it,” Reese said. “He gets this coffee and goes, ‘Oh my God. I forgot I asked for that.’”

Pitt didn’t ask for much money, either. The A-lister “worked for scale” on the film, meaning the minimum he could accept as a member of the Screen Actors Guild, which IndieWire notes would have been less than $1,000.

Pitt, it turns out, isn’t the only George Clooney pal and “Ocean’s 11” alum to cameo in “Deadpool 2.” While Pitt’s quick appearance is very much identifiable, Reese and Wernick revealed with pride that none of the “thousands” of people who’d screened the movie prior to its release had spotted a heavily made-up Matt Damon, who appears alongside Alan Tudyk as a redneck whose toilet paper manifesto is interrupted by a time-traveling Cable (Josh Brolin).

“Deadpool 2” is now in theaters. Watch the filmmakers talk about Damon’s top secret cameo:

Read more on Yahoo Entertainment: