Robert De Niro is adding some wasabi to his feud with President Donald Trump.

The screen legend, who is a co-owner of the Nobu restaurant empire, told the Daily Mail that he’s banned Trump. De Niro also said he wouldn’t remain in any other eatery with the president, either.

It’s not clear if the restaurant’s famed chef and co-owner, Nobu Matsuhisa, shares that sentiment.

“It’s my dream for Trump to sit next to Bob,” he told the Daily Mail. “To make them sushi!”

At the time, the restaurant shared an image of Trump standing outside:

De Niro vowed to continue slamming the president.Reason No. 3489543 to stan Ariana Grande:

The pop star typically isn’t one to clap back or respond to rumors on social media, but a tweet from a fan must’ve seriously rubbed her the wrong way.

On Wednesday, Grande, who recently split with rapper Mac Miller, issued a lengthy response to a follower who called the celebrity breakup “heartbreaking,” given Miller’s legal troubles of late.

Days after their split, Miller was charged with DUI and hit and run after police said he struck a power pole and fled the scene in California’s San Fernando Valley. According to TMZ, the rapper blew twice the legal limit when authorities arrested him later at this home.

“Mac Miller totalling his G wagon and getting a DUI after Ariana Grande dumped him for another dude after he poured his heart out on a ten song album to her called the divine feminine is just the most heartbreaking thing happening in Hollywood,” the fan wrote on Twitter.

Cue Grande with the classiest comeback we’ve seen in a while.

“How absurd that you minimize female self-respect and self-worth by saying someone should stay in a toxic relationship because he wrote an album about them, which btw isn’t the case,” she wrote. “I am not a babysitter or a mother and no woman should feel that they need to be.”

The “No Tears Left To Cry” singer went onto note that she’s been taking care of Miller for years, but never revealed “how hard or scary” things became.

“Shaming/blaming women for a man’s inability to keep his shit together is a very major problem. let’s please stop doing that,” she added. “I will continue to pray from the bottom of my heart that he figures it all out and that any other women in this position does as well.”

Mac Miller and singer Ariana Grande are seen attending an Oscar party. GC Images via Getty Images

The fan later issued a lengthy apology to Grande, explaining that he never intended to blame her for Miller’s “shortcomings.”

Grande responded in kind, thanking him for “hearing” her.

thank you for hearing me, i appreciate your response v much. ☁️ sending u love. — Ariana Grande (@ArianaGrande) May 23, 2018

Grande this month addressed reports that she and Miller had split, calling “The Way” collaborator “one of my best friends in the whole world.”

“I respect and adore him endlessly and am grateful to have him in my life in any form, at all times regardless of how our relationship changes or what the universe holds for each of us,” she wrote on social media alongside a picture of the couple in happier times.Movies about talking animals are typically innocuous, if not entirely forgettable (except, of course, if your name is Paddington), but “Show Dogs,” which hit theaters on Friday, has sparked criticism from parents and advocacy groups.

The film follows Max, a police dog (voiced by Ludacris) that infiltrates the world of elite dog shows alongside a human FBI agent (Will Arnett) to recover a kidnapped panda.

Some viewers have taken issue with multiple moments in the film when the canine’s genitals are touched in preparation for the final show ― first by Arnett’s character and later by judges, even though he’s clearly uncomfortable.

In these scenes, Max is told to go to a “zen place” while the inspection occurs, which, according to the National Center on Sexual Exploitation, sends “a troubling message that grooms children for sexual abuse.”

The nonprofit group released a statement condemning the messaging of the film, which is rated PG, given the age group of its intended viewers.

“Disturbingly, these are similar tactics child abusers use when grooming children — telling them to pretend they are somewhere else, and that they will get a reward for withstanding their discomfort,” Dawn Hawkins, the group’s executive director, said in a statement. “Children’s movies must be held to a higher standard, and must teach children bodily autonomy, the ability to say ‘no’ and safety, not confusing messages endorsing unwanted genital touching.”

The NCOSE has called on the filmmakers and studio to halt the distribution of the film until it’s recut without the objectionable scenes.

Will Arnett attends the premiere of Global Road Entertainment's 'Show Dogs'. Alberto E. Rodriguez via Getty Images

Concerned parents have also taken to social media to share their reactions to the film and warn others about the scenes in question. Some have called on the actors to speak up about the issue.

I'm sure many people will feel that #parents are being too over-the-top about skipping #ShowDogs, but kids soak in what they see. When I preach that their body is theirs alone, why would I sit & laugh at a movie implying it's OK/funny to "grin and bare" inappropriate touching? — Emily Stopher Joyner (@ItsMEEJYo) May 22, 2018

Please do not take your children to see #showdogs movie. It teaches children that touching of privates is okay and to go to a "zen place" when it happens. Child sex abuse is real. This is not okay. #showdogsmovie @arnettwill — Megan Nau (@NauMegan) May 22, 2018

Is the #Metoo movement going to have rallies and call for a boycott of @ShowDogsMov? Do they not care about children who are victims of pedophilia, or children who could be because #ShowDogs tells kids to accept being inappropriately touched? — Michelle Sabrosky (@3xthreatmomma) May 21, 2018

In response, Global Road Entertainment, the studio behind the film, has defended the scenes as a commonplace practice in these kinds of competitions.

“The dog show judging in this film is depicted completely accurately as done at shows around the world, and was performed by professional and highly respected dog show judges,” it said in a statement to CNN.

“Global Roads Entertainment and the filmmakers are saddened and apologize to any parent who feels the scene sends a message other than a comedic moment in the film, with no hidden or ulterior meaning, but respect their right to react to any piece of content.”

A writer for the film, Max Botkin, however, has since spoken out about the backlash, seemingly siding with concerned parties over the material.

“I absolutely condemn any suggestion or act of non-consensual touching in any form, as well as disassociation as a coping mechanism for abuse of any kind,” he said in a statement. “I understand and empathize with the parents’ and groups’ concerns regarding the message the movie may impart.”

UPDATE: In response to the backlash, Global Roads Entertainment has decided to recut the film without the controversial scenes for a nationwide release this weekend.Dave Grohl of the Foo Fighters said he's ashamed of President Trump. Sebastian Reuter via Getty Images

Foo Fighters frontman Dave Grohl didn’t hold back when asked about President Donald Trump in a recent interview.

“I am ashamed of our president,” he told British GQ. “I feel apologetic for it when I travel.”

“Listen, who cares what I think about guns or religion, but the thing about Trump that stings the most is this: he just seems like a massive jerk. Right?” Grohl added.

However, he also said there’s something he can provide that unites people ― and it’s not politics.

“I know a lot of wonderful people who don’t share my politics and you can bet tomorrow night in the stadium not everyone will share the same opinion or hold the same views,” he said. “But when I sing ‘My Hero’ they will all sing it with me. In the three hours that I am on stage, none of that matters.”

Grohl, who is in the Rock & Roll Hall of Fame as the drummer for iconic 1990s grunge band Nirvana, is on the cover of the magazine’s June issue.Meeting real-life royalty is daunting even for the “Mother of Dragons” herself, Daenerys Targaryen.

“Game of Thrones” star Emilia Clarke has revealed how she came face to face with Prince William at a Kensington Palace shindig, and completely fluffed her lines.

On Tuesday’s broadcast of “Late Night with Seth Meyers,” the actress said officials briefed her on how to act around the royal.

But “for whatever reason, probably because I was so scared, I couldn’t manage to get out ‘Your Royal Highness.’”

She ended up doing something like this:

Clarke appears in the upcoming movie “Solo: A Star Wars Story,” alongside Thandie Newton, Alden Ehrenreich, Donald Glover and Woody Harrelson. “Solo” hits screens May 25.

Check out the full interview above.Sarah Paulson really should take her act on the road. The “Ocean’s 8” actress killed once again with her impressions on “The Tonight Show.”

On Tuesday, she showed off her range ― from Holly Hunter to a dolphin ― and let host Jimmy Fallon know that Drew Barrymore herself had approved of her Drew Barrymore impersonation on a previous show.

Despite the Barrymore thumbs-up, Paulson said she is expanding her repertoire to animals because “you don’t have to worry about running into them at a party.”Pieter M Van Hattem

When The B-52s go on tour, they don’t go their separate ways after each night’s gig. Members of the group actually hang out together after the show, even after all these years.

“We still raise a glass to each other,” singer/keyboardist Kate Pierson told HuffPost.

The longtime act, often considered one of the best “party bands,” will get a chance for plenty more post-show toasts while on the road this summer. The current touring lineup features three of the band’s five founding members: Pierson, Fred Schneider and Cindy Wilson. Fellow founding member Keith Strickland, though still in the group, retired from touring in 2012, and Wilson’s brother, guitarist Ricky Wilson, died from complications related to AIDS in 1985.

Despite those challenges and changes, Pierson is impressed that The B-52s have managed to stay together without ever officially breaking up. Next year will mark 40 years since the release of the band’s debut album, and 43 years since forming in Athens, Georgia.

“Chrissie Hynde [from The Pretenders] once said to us that her band and our band never quit. We never quit and reformed. And she said we ought to get a medal for that,” Pierson said. ’It’s pretty great that we stayed together and we still love each other and we still have fun.”

We caught up with Pierson about life on the road, what made “Love Shack” a hit nearly 30 years ago, and how it feels to turn 70.

What has been the biggest change, touring today versus 30-some-odd years ago?

Before, we’d tour behind whatever record. We’d just go out and do most of that record. ... Now we add a few songs, and our set list has certain songs we have to do. If we didn’t do “Rock Lobster,” there’d be a mini-revolution.

There’s some sort of expectation, I’m sure, from the audience to play certain songs at this point of your career.

Yes, we love doing those songs. Many people say, “I can’t bear to sing that again,” but there’s something about the beat and the fun in the music and the guitar part and the rhythm that propels us. And seeing the audience reaction gives us energy because we could see that they are dancing, and when we play “Rock Lobster” they just go a little bit nuts. No matter where we play it. And if we play in Europe people form a mosh pit on that song. It propels people to let their inner-freak fly. Something about that song gives people a license to let loose and do the craziest dances, and it’s very entertaining to us.

From left: Keith Strickland, Ricky Wilson, Kate Pierson, Fred Schneider and Cindy Wilson. Lynn Goldsmith via Getty Images

Many groups break up. Was there ever a time when you guys were like, “It’s time, we’re going to throw in the towel”?

Well, definitely after [guitarist] Ricky [Wilson] died in 1985. There was a big question mark. None of us said, “This is it,” but we certainly all thought that this might be it. We could not even dream of starting up and also we were expected, the record company thought we would tour and get another new guitar player and we were like no, that’s not going to happen. We are all in really deep grief. And Ricky is Cindy’s brother. Anyway it couldn’t happen ... We just didn’t have the energy, we were grieving. But then after a few years we realized like wow, we have something great here. ... Being together conjured up, “Ricky’s here,” really in a lot of ways, and a lot of [the 1989 album] “Cosmic Thing” was a tribute to him because there’s a lot of, I don’t want to say nostalgia, but there was a lot of looking back, that kind of thing. “Deadbeat Club” really just came out of a jam. That’s usually how we write ― by jamming, and then it just popped out ― “Deadbeat Club.” That’s something we used to call ourselves when we used to hang out. Didn’t have any money and we would just drink iced tea and get free refills and hang out at some place for three hours. We’d make plans, make big plans.

“Cosmic Thing,” of course, featured the hit song “Love Shack.” What did it take to pull that song together?

I remember when we were writing there was a point where Keith Strickland said, “This can’t go on the album, it’s not ready and it’s not going to make it.” He was right, it wasn’t ready. The chorus part, “The Love Shack is a little old place,” that was only happening once. I was lobbying to have it happen more. [Producer] Don Was said, “Well that’s the chorus. We have to have that.” He really made it come together and then once we put the chorus in, we had it. A lot of our old songs don’t have a typical song structure. They don’t have a verse-chorus, verse-chorus-bridge. With “Love Shack,” once we put that chorus in, it did have more of a song structure. Even though the verses are all kind of different, the chorus was there along with “The Love Shack” ― I think that really made it a hit. Once we heard it in the studio, we played it for R.E.M. and they were like, “Yes this is a hit.” We had something there. That kind of went through an evolution. It wasn’t immediate, like some songs we just pretty much wrote it and that was it. “Love Shack” went through several [iterations] and I’m curious to hear the first evolution of it, which I don’t really know where that is. Probably Keith Strickland has a version of it.

The 1989 album "Cosmic Thing" featured the hits "Roam" and "Love Shack." Lynn Goldsmith via Getty Images

I’m sure you’re really glad that one made it on the album because it still gets played today on radio, which I think that says a lot about the longevity of that song.

Yes, it’s great for a band. We have longevity here. It’s great to have a song that’s a classic, really. It’s lasted and taken its place in front of the iconography of whatever you want to call it, it’s on the list.

It is and the video, I feel like is on the list in pop culture too. With a pre-fame RuPaul in it as well.

We won an MTV Video Award for that.

What do you remember most about that video shoot in upstate New York?

Our friends Phil Mayberry and Scott Walker had this house [in Highland, New York]. We didn’t know them yet, but our other friend Tom Rubin said, “You have to film this video there, it is the Love Shack.” I went to look at it, I was like, “This is a Love Shack.” It has a checkerboard roof and it had goats named Kate and Cindy, and they had a garden, and it just had everything. Inside it was just a riot of color ... We convinced the director, he didn’t want to leave, he wanted to film it in New York City in a soundstage, but once he saw this he was convinced. We dragged everybody up on a bus to the country and I remember really distinctly RuPaul getting this dance line going and just sort of directing in his most wonderful commanding way. He’s RuPaul. He was a total beauty drag and just had everybody do a line dance It really became a party. You could almost forget that it was a video shoot because it really was a party. We were dancing. We were outside, the goats were jumping around.

Kate Pierson performs in 2017 in San Pedro, California. Matt Cowan via Getty Images

Personally, for you, you just turned 70. How does it feel?

It’s kind of weird. Before, any number below that ― even 69, it seemed like you’re climbing the top of the mountain. You’re looking down now. I don’t like that feeling [laughs]. ... I certainly don’t feel it. I just had a birthday party. We had a dance party. I found myself just dancing. I wanted a dance party. I was just jumping up and down. I have a lot of energy. I hope to maintain that. It’s definitely a different feeling. Even I have friends that are in their 20s. I keep thinking, “Oh, yeah. They’re my age.” I’ll make some reference, and they’re like, “What?” Age is just a number. Until you hit 70. Then it’s more than a number [laughs].

You released a solo album a couple years ago. Do you think you will do another solo album? Are you working on any music?

Yes, absolutely. I have the second one almost done. ... I’ve continued to write some songs with Chris Braide. I have three or four new songs. I just wrote a song with Aleks Syntek. He’s a really famous Mexican artist since. It’s about the wall. It’s the metaphor about [Donald Trump’s proposed] wall, and it’s political. He sang a part of it in Spanish. I want to release that as a benefit ― going toward the benefit of immigrants. I haven’t chosen what organization yet. ... I want to release the single in October, and get the solo album going as soon as we finish this tour. I have most of it written.

I know with your last solo album, there was a lot of confusion over the song “Mister Sister,” and a lot of the transgender community was upset about it. Is that something that you regret?

Well, it was, actually interestingly enough ― The Huffington Post. I had said that I hoped it would be a trans anthem. At the time, trans was used ― I even had looked it up, trans was used as a general term for anyone who was LGBTQ. Huffington Post, when they quoted me, it said, trans and they put in parentheses “gender,” and I never said that. That’s what really sparked this huge controversy because I never said that I hope it will become a transgender anthem. The song is about ― it was inspired by a friend of mine who was gay. When he was growing up, he used to wear his sister’s clothes and it’s just about that or anyone who feels betrayed by the mirror kind of thing. It’s meant to be empowering. I learned a lot though. I really got schooled. It’s also the height right then of transgender people fighting for recognition. … Anyway, there was a lot of misunderstanding. I think that through it, my wife Monica [Coleman] and I, we had some dialogues with different transgender people. I feel like we became more enlightened. I hope we came to some understanding, but I certainly meant no harm. It was really a misunderstanding. In the end of it, I felt good. It came out to be something that I grew ― in my understanding. …Things get really ugly on the internet. That’s the first time that ever happened to me.

Kate Pierson and Monica Coleman wed in August 2015. Shahar Azran via Getty Images

You’ve been married a couple of years now, congratulations. How’s married life treating you?

Fantastic. Actually, our anniversary is Aug. 3. We were together since 2004. We were together a long time before we got married. It was really beautiful, we were married in Hawaii. We keep wanting to go back there. ... Actually, the first time The B-52s played in Hawaii on our very first tour, we played in this little club in Honolulu. We got there. The promoter met us, and put leis around us, and when we left, they had pulled guns on us. We played some little tiny club, and the microphones weren’t grounded. We got, as Cindy would say, the “electric kiss.” I was playing guitar and all of a sudden I was like, “Aaahhhh!” People thought it was part of the song but I was getting a shock. We all got shocked. We had to cut the set short but they continued to sell tickets through the night. So, people were really angry. Cindy and I literally took our wigs off, and we ran. They pulled a gun on the crew and said they were going to keep our equipment. Anyway, we had interesting experiences. … But Hawaii’s always been a place to me that’s magical. So, the wedding was beautiful. I think it really changes things when you’re able to get married. I mean the Marriage Equality Act was super important. I think you cannot believe it happened as fast as it did. For a lot of gay people ― it’s very surprising. You thought that this is going to be a struggle forever. I think that people really accept this. I think younger people accept it. Even when Ricky had AIDS, it was so much negativity, so much ignorance surrounding LGBT, the whole thing. There was a lot of negativity and laws still in place. Just fear. Things have come a long way ― that’s one positive thing in this crazy political world. Hopefully it won’t be rolled back.

“I hope our legacy will be of enduring, and that people think of us as an important band.” - Kate Pierson

The B-52s’ legacy ― what do you want it to be?

I feel like we want to be taken seriously. I know being a band that’s mostly gay and has women in it, I just think that there are the male icon bands, they are always, and they deserve it, but they are always touted as: “These guys are heavy-duty.” I think bands, because we have a sense of humor, we are not always taken as seriously. Not that I want people to be serious, but to be serious about us as a legitimate band. We were one of a kind. I think for that reason also, it’s kind of hard to understand us. We can’t really be put in a category. I hope our legacy will be enduring and that people think of us as an important band. But I think Ricky’s guitar playing, our style of writing, the fact that we had men and women in the band and gay and straight. I think it’s an important band and the way we wrote by jamming, we really had a different approach. And I think we really made a difference in the way, certainly Athens music, went and we were the first kind of band to come out of Athens, of that kind of era.

The B-52s kick off a tour on June 1 in Philadelphia.

This interview has been edited and condensed for clarity.Gina Ortiz Jones won the Democratic nomination for a Texas U.S. House seat on Tuesday, advancing in her bid to make history on several fronts.

The former Air Force intelligence officer defeated fellow Democrat Rick Trevino in a runoff after the two were the top finishers in a five-candidate March primary.

If she wins in November, Ortiz Jones will be the first lesbian, first Iraq War veteran and first Filipina-American to represent Texas in Congress.

The 37-year-old is up against Republican Rep. Will Hurd, 40, in November, and she faces a tough task. The two-term incumbent has a lot more money, and Texas’ 23rd Congressional District leans Republican.

But the district has flip-flopped between Democratic and GOP representation in recent years, with nobody holding it for more than two terms since 2007. Hurd won his first term in 2014 by about 2,400 votes against Democratic Rep. Pete Gallego. In a rematch in 2016, Hurd won by about 3,000 votes.

Ortiz Jones also benefits from Democrats generally being energized and flooding to the polls in response to Donald Trump’s presidency. In the March primary, more than 44,000 voters cast ballots in Ortiz Jones’ race, compared to about 31,000 voters in Hurd’s race.

She told HuffPost in January that she decided to run for office out of frustration with Trump. A career civil servant after her military stint, Ortiz Jones worked under presidents in both parties and said she thought she could continue her service under the Trump administration. She ended up being horrified by his policies and the people he hired for top jobs.Retired Marine fighter pilot Amy McGrath launched her campaign with a viral video that earned national attention, then pulled off a come-from-behind win. Bloomberg via Getty Images

Lt. Col. Amy McGrath, a retired Marine fighter pilot who launched a long-shot bid for Congress with a viral campaign video, won Tuesday’s Democratic primary in Kentucky’s 6th Congressional District.

McGrath’s primary opponent, Lexington Mayor Jim Gray, called McGrath to concede the race just two hours after polls closed, McGrath campaign manager Mark Nickolas told HuffPost. Gray’s campaign manager confirmed the concession call to the Lexington Herald-Leader.

McGrath, who will face incumbent Republican Rep. Andy Barr in November, trailed Gray by as much as 40 points when he entered the race in December, according to her internal polling, but steadily gained ground in the ensuing months with a campaign that sought to paint her as an outsider running against Gray and the national Democratic establishment.

McGrath and Gray hardly differed on the issues. They opposed Barr’s votes to repeal the Affordable Care Act, which provides health insurance to tens of thousands of the district’s residents, and both supported expanding the law instead. They were largely aligned on other issues, including support for minimum wage increases and opposition to the sweeping Republican tax cut package that Barr supported in 2017.

But McGrath seems to have tapped into the same thirst for new political faces that has pushed newcomers ― especially women ― to victories in Democratic primaries across the country this year.

Though she targeted rural voters outside Lexington, she also campaigned broadly as a progressive. She favors adding a public option to Obamacare, lowering the age of eligibility for Medicare and increasing federal funding for infrastructure and job programs in central Kentucky. She is in favor of abortion rights, is pro–LGBTQ equality and is vocally opposed to President Donald Trump’s efforts to ban transgender troops from the military and bar refugees from majority-Muslim nations from entering the country.

Now she’ll face Barr, who first won the seat in 2012 and has cruised to re-election twice. Trump won the district by 15 points in 2016, but there have been positive signs for Democrats locally: Gray won a majority of the district’s votes in his unsuccessful 2016 bid to unseat Sen. Rand Paul (R), and this year Democrats flipped one state legislative seat in a special election in a Trump-supporting district. The DCCC added the 6th Congressional District to its list of targets in 2018 as it tries to flip at least 24 seats for Democrats to regain the House majority.

McGrath plans to continue her against-the-grain pitch to voters in the general election, Nickolas told HuffPost before the primary vote.President Donald Trump urged attendees at a Tuesday night gala for a top anti-abortion organization to vote in November, issuing a stern warning about what might happen if they don’t.

“If Democrats gained power, they will try to reverse these incredible gains, these are historic gains,” Trump told the audience at Susan B. Anthony List’s annual Campaign for Life event, referring to the strides made by his administration to defund abortion providers like Planned Parenthood and generally limit abortion services in the U.S.

“Every day between now and November we must work together to elect more lawmakers who share our values, cherish our heritage, and proudly stand for life,” Trump said.

Standing ovation as @POTUS Donald Trump announces the new #ProtectLife rule to prohibit Title X funding going to any org that performs or promotes abortion at #SBAgala pic.twitter.com/KpJk4NsxLm — Susan B Anthony List (@SBAList) May 23, 2018

Earlier on Tuesday, the Trump administration formally unveiled a proposal to restrict federal funding to family planning programs that provide or refer patients for abortions.

The president extolled the new rule.

“For decades, American taxpayers have been wrongfully forced to subsidize the abortion industry through Title X federal funding, so today we have kept another promise,” Trump said to a cheering crowd. “My administration has proposed a new rule to prohibit Title X funding from going to any clinic that performs abortions.”

Under the new policy, there must be a “physical and financial separation” between groups that receive funds disbursed under Title X ― the only federal program dedicated solely to funding family planning and reproductive health services ― and “programs in which abortion is presented or provided as a method of family planning.”

The rule would prevent organizations like Planned Parenthood from getting Title X funding to cover non-abortion services like birth control or cancer screenings. As The New York Times notes, it would also prevent doctors from advising women about where they could go to receive an abortion.

Planned Parenthood lambasted the new policy as a “nationwide gag rule.”

“This is one of the largest-scale and most dangerous attacks we’ve seen on women’s rights and reproductive health care in this country. This policy is straight out of the Handmaid’s Tale — yet, it’s taking effect in America in 2018,” Dawn Leguens, the group’s executive vice president, said in a statement referencing the dystopian Margaret Atwood novel and Hulu series in which women are forced into reproductive servitude.

JUST IN: @realDonaldTrump just imposed a gag rule to cut funds to any health care provider that refers their patients for abortions.



The effect:

1) violates medical ethics

2) prevents women from getting full, accurate health care

2) takes care away from millions#NoGagRule pic.twitter.com/Zr2vdJT1oR — Planned Parenthood Action (@PPact) May 22, 2018

Since taking office, Trump ― together with Vice President Mike Pence ― has stridently pushed an anti-abortion agenda.

On his first full day as president, Trump reinstated the Mexico City policy, often referred to as the “global gag rule,” which blocks foreign non-governmental organizations that perform or promote abortion from accessing U.S. federal funds. In April 2017, his administration repealed an Obama-era law that barred states from defunding organizations that provide abortions.

Trump has not always opposed abortion rights. In 1999, he told NBC News that he was “very pro-choice.” On the campaign trail, however, Trump said his stance on the issue had “evolved.”

As NPR noted, his flip-flop initially was a red flag for anti-abortion groups like Susan B. Anthony List.

Marjorie Dannenfelser, the group’s president, was among several conservative women who urged voters in Iowa in 2016 to support “anyone but Trump,” warning that he could not be trusted on abortion.

But at the gala on Tuesday, Dannenfelser had nothing but praise for Trump, calling him the “most pro-life president in history.”

She also urged attendees to vote for anti-abortion Republicans in November, saying a “pro-life Senate” would “have a fighting chance to … overturn that great stain on our national conscience, Roe v. Wade.”

Trump ― who, according to CNN, is the first sitting president to address the Campaign for Life gala ― echoed this sentiment in his speech, telling attendees to “vote for life.”

“Your vote in 2018 is every bit as important as your vote in 2016,” he said, reading from prepared remarks before veering off-script.

“I’m not sure I really believe that ... I don’t know who the hell wrote that line,” he joked. “But it’s still important, remember.”

Trump just stepped all over GOP midterm messaging.



“Your vote in 2018 is every bit as important as your vote in 2016 — although I’m not sure I really believe that,” Trump ad libs. “I don’t know who the hell wrote that line.” pic.twitter.com/tk6G7CfD4H — Dan Diamond (@ddiamond) May 23, 2018Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke looks to make a "grand pivot" to conservation. George Frey via Getty Images

In January, Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke traveled to Las Vegas to mingle at the SHOT Show, an annual gathering of the shooting, hunting and outdoor trade industries. The people there were “all great conservationists, really good people, dedicated to the outdoors,” he said in an interview with NRA-TV.

An avid hunter and angler himself, Zinke has often said that the best stewards of wildlife are America’s sportsmen and -women. But after taking over the Department of the Interior in March 2017, he made quick work of angering some of those would-be supporters.

Zinke and his team focused on boosting fossil fuel production and rolling back national monument protections. And he repeatedly voiced support for budget requests that would gut federal funding for land acquisition and conservation programs.

Several hunting and fishing groups that initially found a lot to like about the self-proclaimed “Teddy Roosevelt conservationist” have become outspoken critics.

Now, after a tumultuous first year at the Interior helm, Zinke appears to be signaling a new direction.

Earlier this month, he hosted a roundtable of more than two dozen outdoor sporting and conservation organizations to get their input on his planned reorganization of the department. He promised them a “grand pivot” away from energy development and toward species and habitat conservation, according to E&E News.

Today I hosted a dozen+ #conservation organizations ranging from @audubonsociety and @DefendersNews to @BC_Club1887, @TheTRCP, and Simon Roosevelt. I'm looking for their input on how to reorganize @Interior for the benefit of people, wildlife & habitat pic.twitter.com/NPcQ0Y3Jji — Secretary Ryan Zinke (@SecretaryZinke) May 16, 2018

At the end of December, Zinke vowed to “create a conservation stewardship legacy second only to Teddy Roosevelt.” As the chief steward of America’s natural resources, he is responsible for managing some 500 million acres of land, or one-fifth of the United States, as well as protecting endangered species and managing migratory birds.

Many conservation organizations and leaders, including the late president’s great-grandson Theodore Roosevelt IV, complained that he was falling far short of the lofty mark.

Besides the conservation roundtable, Zinke has taken a number of steps in recent months that might reel back those groups.

The Interior Department made several pro-hunting announcements in the week after the conservation roundtable. It moved to scrap a 2015 rule that bans aggressive hunting tactics in national preserves in Alaska, including shooting bear cubs and wolf pups in their dens and swimming caribou from motorboats. It proposed expanding hunting and fishing opportunities on numerous wildlife refuges. And it named 17 members to a new panel, the Hunting and Shooting Sports Conservation Council, which will advise Zinke on wildlife and habitat conservation.

“We’re going to take him at his word. He seemed sincere about it.” - Whit Fosburgh, president of the Theodore Roosevelt Conservation Partnership

Some of those who attended this month’s roundtable are now sounding a more optimistic note about Zinke.

Whit Fosburgh, president of the Theodore Roosevelt Conservation Partnership, told HuffPost last July that it was “troubling” to watch Zinke work solely on the development of natural resources “without even lip service to conservation.” Fosburgh’s nonprofit advocates for access to public lands for hunting and fishing.

At the roundtable, he said, the secretary acknowledged that energy was the major push in 2017 and declared that the next few years would be about conservation, departmental reorganization and tackling the maintenance backlog at national parks.

“We’re going to take him at his word,” Fosburgh told HuffPost this week. “He seemed sincere about it.”

Fosburgh noted he is particularly pleased with a February order from Zinke that aims to improve habitat and migration corridors for big game species, including elk, antelope and mule deer.

Collin O’Mara, president and CEO of the National Wildlife Federation, also voiced newfound optimism after the meeting, telling E&E that his group is “committed to working with Secretary Zinke more closely on priorities like increasing America’s wildlife populations, conserving wildlife corridors and expanding outdoor recreation opportunity.” And Steve Moyer, vice president for government affairs at Trout Unlimited, told the publication he was “glad to hear of a change of direction from Mr. Zinke.”

Other conservation-focused organizations sound more skeptical about the secretary’s proclaimed shift.

Jamie Rappaport Clark, president and CEO of the nonprofit Defenders of Wildlife, told HuffPost that non-game and endangered species are still missing from the conservation conversation. Zinke’s pivot, she added, seems largely geared toward rebuilding crumbling park infrastructure and reorganizing the agency.

“I didn’t come out of [the meeting] believing that our nation’s natural resources chief steward was either enlightened or energized to conserve biodiversity,” Clark said. “Not at all.”

Zinke is mistaken, she said, if he thinks shuffling employees around will lead to more sustainable fish, wildlife and plant habitat and resources.

In a statement after the roundtable, David O’Neill, chief conservation officer of the National Audubon Society, said that while he appreciated the opportunity to join the discussion, the group continues to “fundamentally disagree with the Department of the Interior’s interpretation of the Migratory Bird Treaty Act.”

A little more than a week later, the National Audubon Society joined Defenders of Wildlife and other conservation groups in suing the Interior Department over its recent decision to slash protections for migratory bird species.The American Civil Liberties Union is suing Ohio to strike down the state’s congressional map, saying it was intentionally drawn to so egregiously benefit Republicans that it violates the Constitution.

Since 2012, Republicans have consistently won the same 12 of Ohio’s 16 congressional seats, while winning between 51 and 59 percent of the state’s popular vote. The suit alleges that Republicans maintain this remarkable advantage because they controlled the redistricting process in 2011 and worked in secret to draw a map to guarantee just that outcome each year.

The suit was filed Wednesday in federal court on behalf of 16 voters in each of the state’s congressional districts, the Ohio chapter of the League of Women Voters and the A. Philip Randolph Institute, a labor and civil rights group.

The lawsuit underscores a growing confidence among voting rights groups over the last few years in bringing challenges to congressional plans that Republicans have benefited from since 2012. The Supreme Court has never said whether an electoral map can be so partisan that it violates the Constitution, but it is expected to rule in two cases that make that argument in June. A ruling setting constitutional limits on partisan gerrymandering could profoundly affect American politics by requiring lawmakers to draw districts that are more competitive.

The ACLU says Ohio's congressional map violates the Constitution because it deprives Democrats of the ability to elect a candidate of their choice and treats them differently from Republicans. Ohio secretary of state

Two more congressional elections are due to take place under Ohio’s current map before the next round of redistricting in 2021. Even though litigation can move very slowly, the ACLU hopes to have a new map in place for the 2020 congressional elections.

Alora Thomas, an attorney with the ACLU, said her organization felt encouraged to bring the suit after multiple rulings in lower courts blocking electoral maps in Wisconsin and North Carolina on partisan grounds. (Those rulings are currently paused while the Supreme Court considers appeals.) In January, the Pennsylvania Supreme Court struck down the state’s congressional maps as too partisan for the state Constitution. A challenge to Michigan’s congressional map on partisan grounds is also before a federal court.

“Because courts are really now open to taking a look at this issue, and it looks like they’re going the right way and finding partisan gerrymandering unconstitutional, the question becomes, ‘Well, where else is there a problem and is it something that needs to be addressed now?’” Thomas told HuffPost. “Ohio is one of the most gerrymandered states in the country.”

An analysis by the Brennan Center for Justice found that Ohio’s congressional map has some of the most severe partisan bias in the country and accounts for between two and three additional GOP seats in the current Congress.

Thomas said the ACLU didn’t want to wait until Ohio got a new congressional map in 2022, because Ohio residents have already spent nearly a decade voting under a map the group believes is unconstitutional. A fairer map in place before the next round of redistricting, Thomas said, could ensure that the map for the subsequent decade is also fairer. Ohio voters also recently approved a ballot initiative to change the way redistricting is done in the state, a move that advocates hope will rein in excessive partisan gerrymandering.

The suit argues that the Ohio map violates the First and 14th Amendments, as well as Article I of the Constitution. The map violates the First Amendment, the suit says, because it amounts to an effort to “skew electoral outcomes to freeze their advantage and insulate their majority from changes in voter preferences.” It violates the 14th Amendment, the ACLU says, because lawmakers drew the map intentionally to disfavor Democratic voters in the state without a legitimate reason to do so. The ACLU also argues that in drawing such a severely gerrymandered map, Ohio lawmakers exceeded the power the Constitution gives them to regulate elections.

The case will hinge significantly on what the Supreme Court decides by the end of June. During oral argument in two partisan gerrymandering cases this year, the court seemed willing to allow some amount of politics in redistricting, but appeared closely divided on whether it was possible to determine if partisan gerrymandering could go so far that it violates the Constitution. Justice Anthony Kennedy, who wrote in a 2004 case that such a standard might exist, is seen as the critical swing vote in the case, and advocates have offered a number of standards with the hope that he might find one he likes.

Ohio Gov. John Kasich (R), who signed the state’s congressional map into law in 2011, is named as a defendant in the suit. But Kasich has recently been an outspoken opponent of partisan gerrymandering, and was one of a number of Republican elected officials who urged the Supreme Court in October to step in and do something about gerrymandering.

In a brief filed with the Supreme Court, Kasich and other Republican officials took a position similar to what the ACLU is arguing in the Ohio case, saying that partisan gerrymanders are “repugnant to the Constitution” and violate the First and 14th Amendments.

UPDATE: 2:50 p.m. ― Ohio Secretary of State Jon Husted (R), one of the state officials named as a defendant in the suit, criticized the challenge.Jonathan Bachman / Reuters

Last week’s school shooting in Santa Fe, Texas, that killed 10 students and teachers isn’t significantly reviving the momentum for gun control that followed the February massacre in Parkland, Florida, new HuffPost/YouGov polling suggests.

Slightly more than half of the public now calls gun violence a very serious problem, down from 60 percent in February. A 56-percent majority say it’s possible to pass new gun laws without violating the Second Amendment, down from a high of 65 percent. And, regardless of how they personally feel about the subject, just 40 percent now think passing new gun laws is politically possible, down from 50 percent.

HuffPost

Concern about gun violence and a desire for Congress to take action are now several percentage points higher than they were in April, when most of the post-Parkland wave had already abated, but it’s difficult to say how much of that represents a genuine uptick, rather than the variability inherent in tracking polls. Either way, it’s clear that the energy around crafting new gun policies isn’t near the heights reached earlier this year.

HuffPost

Similarly, tracking data from the progressive pollster Civiqs showed voters’ support for gun control spiking after Parkland, but then slowly declining. Santa Fe, it found, at most seemed to modestly stanch that decline.

Google Trends, which tracks how often people query the search engine on varying topics, shows that comparatively little attention has been paid to gun issues following the lastest school shooting.

The difference in public opinion following the two school shootings isn’t entirely surprising: It mirrors the difference in how each community responded. Although Americans were shocked by the Parkland massacre, the shift in public opinion it produced didn’t gain steam until the weeks that followed, when the surviving students spearheaded a gun control push. Their advocacy kept the debate over gun laws in the news, even after the immediate details of the shooting had faded.

Although student activists nationwide led walkouts earlier this year in protest of gun violence, polling of teens finds that such attitudes aren’t universal among their generation. In largely rural Santa Fe, last week’s shooting didn’t spark the same kind of push for gun control. There were no local protests, and little talk of guns,the Los Angeles Times reported.

“I don’t think guns are the problem — I think people are the problem,” a 16-year-old Santa Fe high school student told NBC. “Even if we did more gun laws, people who are sick enough to do something like this are still going to figure out a way to do it. So it doesn’t matter.”

Gun restrictions proposed in the wake of the Parkland shooting, meanwhile, remain broadly popular, according to the HuffPost/YouGov poll. Americans, 78 percent to 11 percent, say that they favor strengthening background checks for buying and selling guns. They also say, 64 percent to 22 percent, that they favor raising the age for gun purchases to 21.

A plurality, 43 percent, say President Donald Trump is not doing enough to pass gun laws, while just 6 percent believe he’s done too much.

Use the widget below to further explore the results of the HuffPost/YouGov survey, using the menu at the top to select survey questions and the buttons at the bottom to filter the data by subgroups:

The HuffPost/YouGov poll consisted of 1,000 completed interviews conducted May 18 to May 21 among U.S. adults using a sample selected from YouGov’s opt-in online panel to match the demographics and other characteristics of the adult U.S. population.

HuffPost has teamed up with YouGov to conduct daily opinion polls. You can learn more about this project and take part in YouGov’s nationally representative opinion polling. More details on the polls’ methodology are available here.A tweet from President Donald Trump saved a struggling family on Tuesday ― in the sit-com “Roseanne.”

The show’s season finale featured a fictional state-of-emergency declaration from the president that bailed out the financially strapped Conners after a storm hit.

“The president spelled ‘Illinois’ wrong in his tweet, but it still counts, right?” Darlene (Sara Gilbert) cracked.

The Conners’ money woes hit a crescendo in the finale because Dan’s (John Goodman) business was faltering (as a debate about him perhaps using undocumented workers flourished) and Roseanne (real-life Trump supporter Roseanne Barr) needed knee surgery, according to several outlets. A previous episode revealed that Roseanne had become hooked on opioids to deal with the pain.

But just when it seemed their money woes would put them underwater, a storm hit to literally do the same.

But then came Trump’s order. A Federal Emergency Management Agency payment, Dan figures, will fund the basement repairs because he can do them cheaper himself and pay the deductible for Roseanne’s knee surgery.

Trump ― the Conners’ hero.

There were a few surprises as well:Mark Wahlberg dropped by “The Ellen Degeneres Show” Wednesday, chatting about ― among other things ― how he keeps his preternaturally buff bod in shape.

Wahlberg recently upped his workout regimen in preparation for his upcoming role in “The Six Billion Dollar Man,” and hasn’t been shy about showing off the results on Instagram. Still, he admitted there are two people who are consistently unimpressed.

“My daughters [Ella Rae, 14, and Grace, 8] get very annoyed by the pictures,” he told the host. “I get ‘Dad, put a shirt on,’ all the time.”

A post shared by Mark Wahlberg (@markwahlberg) on Mar 31, 2018 at 9:01pm PDT

He continued, “At first, they don’t like it when I scare the boyfriend. And then, all of a sudden, they’re like, ‘Oh Dad, can you come see me at school?’ Because they want me to scare the boyfriend.”

Also in the interview, Wahlberg explained how fatherhood inspired his plans to reboot the classic children’s program, “Captain Kangaroo.”

“I’ve been trying to figure out cool ways to get my kids to be interested in science, technology, engineering ― things like that,” he said, before presenting Ellen with a red blazer in the style of original “Captain Kangaroo” star Bob Keeshan. “We are bringing back a cool STEM scientist as Captain Kangaroo.”One of the 700 movies and TV shows that Netflix still has in its pipeline includes a modern retelling of The Hunchback of Notre Dame from Idris Elba.

The “Avengers: Infinity War” actor will star, direct and produce the movie for the streaming service, according to The Hollywood Reporter. Based on a script by Michael Mitnick, the film is being described as “sonic and musical experience” and will feature an original score.

Victor Hugo’s classic French novel has seen many screen adaptations, but none more popular than Disney’s 1996 animated film. A darker entry in the Disney canon, the film introduced the story of Quasimodo, a hunchbacked bell-ringer, who falls in love with the gypsy Esmeralda to a whole new generation.

Elba has struck gold with Netflix before, earning critical acclaim and a Golden Globe nomination for his role in “Beasts of No Nation.” He’s also set to star and executive produce the upcoming comedy “Turn Up Charlie” about a struggling DJ.

The “Luther” actor has stepped behind the camera before, making his feature directorial debut earlier this year with “Yardie,” which premiered at the Sundance Film Festival.

And while he has received more attention for his filmmaking, Elba is also a rapper and DJ, most recently making an appearance on Macklemore & Ryan Lewis’ album “This Unruly Mess I’ve Made.”Church leaders Joshua Wright, Donald Jackson and William Wright have been charged with child abuse and other sex offenses. Prince Georges County Police

Police in Maryland have charged three church leaders with sexually abusing four teenage girls over a decade ago who were enrolled in a faith-based program meant to help at-risk youth.

Prince George’s County detectives have identified the suspects on Wednesday as Oxon Hill Assembly of Jesus Christ head pastor Joshua Wright, his son and church minister William Wright, and the elder Wright’s son-in-law and church member Donald Jackson. All three men have been charged with child abuse and various other sex offenses.

The men allegedly abused the teens between 2001 and 2008, when the victims were between 15 and 18 years old. The women took their stories of abuse to police as adults.

The victims were placed under the suspects’ care as part of a church-run program called Children Having Overcoming Power (CHOP) that dissolved in 2011. It was designed to provide troubled teens with safe living accommodations in church members’ houses.

The police report alleges that the suspects abused the victims in different locations, including the suspects’ homes, various parks and the church itself.

Oxon Hill Assembly of Jesus Christ and Joshua Wright’s lawyer did not respond to HuffPost’s requests for comment. William Wright’s lawyer, Tom Mooney, declined to comment. The District Court of Maryland’s website has not yet listed a lawyer for Jackson.

Jackson is a United States Capitol Police officer. The USCP told HuffPost that the department has placed him on “non-duty status.”The NFL on Wednesday approved a new policy to intercept national anthem protests before they happen, according to the league.

The measure mandates that players who are on the field must stand for the national anthem but can remain in the locker room if they choose.

Teams could be fined by the league if their players sit or kneel, as many have done in protest of racial injustice and police brutality in recent seasons after NFL quarterback Colin Kaepernick’s initial kneeling protest in 2016 earned nationwide attention.

The fining or punishment of players and other personnel would be dictated by the individual teams.

NFL commissioner Roger Goodell noted in a statement Wednesday that “on-field protests created a false perception among many that thousands of NFL players were unpatriotic.”

“This season, all league and team personnel shall stand and show respect for the flag and the Anthem,” he said. “Personnel who choose not to stand for the Anthem may stay in the locker room until after the Anthem has been performed.”

The NFL Players Association criticized the league for failing to consult with the union on the matter.

“Our union will review the new ‘policy’ and challenge any aspect of it that is inconsistent with the collective bargaining agreement,” the union said.

On Tuesday, Sports Illustrated reported on a different, apparently scrapped, proposal in which teams could be penalized on the field for players kneeling. In that scenario, the home team would decide whether both teams would come out of the locker room for “The Star-Spangled Banner.” And if the teams do emerge and players kneel, officials could assess a 15-yard penalty, the outlet wrote, citing unnamed sources.

“As always, conversations at league meetings are candid, thoughtful and thorough,” NFL spokesman Brian McCarthy told HuffPost in an email early Wednesday. “The clubs explore every option and idea on any policy, and discuss the merits and drawbacks of each approach. We will continue the conversation this morning.”

Colin Kaepernick, center, protesting with fellow players Eli Harold (left) and Eric Reid (right) in December 2016. Michael Zagaris via Getty Images

The league also debated the issue in previous meetings since former 49ers quarterback Kaepernick sparked national controversy in the 2016 season by taking a knee during the anthem to protest racial injustice and police brutality. The movement, which grew to include other players and teams, continued in 2017, prompting repeated outrage from President Donald Trump.

Kaepernick, who was not signed by an NFL team in 2017 after he became a free agent, and former teammate Eric Reid, who also protested, have filed grievances against the league for allegedly conspiring to keep them off NFL rosters because of the demonstrations.Conan O’Brien paid tribute to astute advertisers who tied their products to the royal wedding with his own set of spoof ads.

In a clip shared online Tuesday, the late-night TV host used imagery from Saturday’s ceremony to hawk energy drinks for kids, a divorce attorney and cold sore treatment.

O’Brien also poked fun at himself with a promo for his own show.

Check out the clip above.Rep. Jeff Denham said he was hopeful that Republicans could come up with the outlines of an immigration deal as soon as Thursday. Tom Williams via Getty Images

WASHINGTON ― House Republicans say they’re making progress on a plan to do the long-impossible: unite a fractured GOP conference on the issue of immigration.

With GOP moderates still pushing for a slate of votes on immigration, House Republicans generally are feeling the pressure to come up with a plan to finally address the precarious state of the Deferred Action on Childhood Arrivals program.

A small group of GOP moderates, conservatives and leaders emerged from a meeting Wednesday afternoon saying they were getting closer to an immigration bill that might be able to pass the House with almost exclusively Republican support.

Rep. Jeff Denham (R-Calif.), one of those leading the effort to force a series of immigration votes through a discharge petition, told reporters he was hopeful that Republicans could come up with the outlines of an immigration deal to address DACA as soon as Thursday.

“We’re getting pretty close,” he said.

Other Republicans also sounded optimistic about the prospects of a deal. House Majority Whip Steve Scalise (R-La.) said members have been having some “really good talks.” Rep. Mark Meadows (R-N.C.), the chairman of the conservative House Freedom Caucus, said there was “more than a reasonable chance” that Republicans would strike a deal by Thursday. And Rep. Carlos Curbelo (R-Fla.), another moderate immigration advocate, said the roughly hour-and-a-half meeting in the Capitol was “not a waste of time.”

But as bullish as Republicans were on Wednesday, there were still some key sticking points that could ultimately prevent an immigration agreement.

For one, moderates and conservatives don’t have a shared concept of a “permanent solution” for undocumented immigrants who came to the United States as children. Denham noted Wednesday that his preferred idea is to allow them to file for legal status for five-year periods, with the ultimate goal being legal permanent residence in 10 years, and Curbelo said a permanent solution for these types of childhood arrivals was “essential” to any deal.

Meadows, however, said it was important that any deal has “no special pathway to citizenship,” although he did say he was open to allowing undocumented immigrants to “work toward citizenship.”

These differences over the endpoint, which may seem like minor distinctions, are actually major policy disagreements that lawmakers have yet to sort out. And there are some Republicans who just don’t see a way to split the difference.

Immigration hardliner Rep. Andy Biggs (R-Ariz.) told HuffPost on Wednesday that he saw himself as “diametrically opposed” to Denham on immigration and that he felt there were many members who would vote the interests of their individual districts rather than just accepting a deal.

Moderates believe that one solution could be to offer multiple votes on multiple bills during an immigration vote-a-rama. But conservatives see that proposal as hardly any different from what moderates want anyway, and Meadows was emphatic Wednesday that, if there were a deal, it had to consist of one bill.

Another problem standing in the way of GOP consensus is that moderates and conservatives both believe they have the upper hand. Moderates note that they are getting dangerously close to having enough Republicans and Democrats signed on to a discharge petition to force a vote on a slate of different immigration proposals. That means they could pass a bill through the House with the help of roughly a few dozen Republicans and every Democrat.

Meanwhile, conservatives believe any immigration deal that Republicans strike among themselves would skew more toward the conservatives’ ideology, considering the small number of moderates in the 235-person Republican House majority. They also note that any immigration deal would have to win Senate approval and secure President Donald Trump’s signature to become law.

On that point, lawmakers are left to mostly guess where Trump would do.

The Senate tried and failed to pass immigration legislation of its own earlier this year, sunk in part by hardline demands from the White House. Trump rejected bipartisan proposals to increase border security measures and grant legal status to Dreamers, and his administration lobbied senators to oppose those proposals in favor of a bill that included measures to restrict legal immigration and end protections for immigrants at the border.

The Trump-backed bill ultimately received only 39 votes ― less than the bipartisan alternatives that received a vote. But the president has shown no indication that he’s willing to budge from his demands for a sweeping immigration bill. In the months since, he has only doubled down on calls to toughen policy against asylum-seekers and children at the border ― two items Democrats adamantly oppose.

Still, Trump’s past vow to support any immigration bill that Congress sends him rings in the ears of moderates, and many of them believe the president is personally more open than his staff to a solution with a pathway to citizenship, particularly if it also includes money for a border wall.

Lawmakers have been grasping for an immigration bill since last year, when Trump rescinded the DACA policy that allowed nearly 700,000 young undocumented immigrants who came to the U.S. as children, often called Dreamers, to stay and work. DACA recipients are currently able to renew their protections because of court injunctions, which helped quiet some of the calls for action from Congress. But GOP moderates from districts with large immigrant populations see a pressing need to resolve the issue.

While those moderates believe they have the votes (with Democrats) to get a bill through the House utilizing a discharge petition, they are also open to a negotiation with their fellow conservative Republicans and GOP leaders in the hopes that it could result in a bill becoming a law.

“We want an opportunity to pass a bill that can be signed by the president,” Curbelo said Wednesday.

And even though it seems like moderates and conservatives are on mainly opposite sides of the issue, both factions at least want to exhaust all options within the Republican conference before they truly square off ― either to strengthen their case that there is no solution or to actually, somewhat miraculously, come to an agreement.

As Meadows tried to explain the reasons for his optimism that an immigration deal could come together shortly, he said that even though Republicans have been arguing over this issue for decades, he thought that now they could finally write something that would win over almost everyone in the conference.