The American health care system is an expensive, sprawling mess. The Republican Party’s brightest idea for how to fix it? Make health insurance worse.

Here’s what the GOP has in mind: Weakened protections for people with pre-existing conditions. Skimpier benefits that leave out coverage for important medical needs. Less protection from financial harm due to illness. And a number of actions designed to make the Affordable Care Act’s exchanges less stable for the millions of Americans who use them.

GOP officials at the federal and state levels have proposed and undertaken a variety of new policies they say will make health insurance more affordable. During the seven-plus years between President Barack Obama’s signing of the health care reform law in 2010 and the collapse of the repeal attempt last year, President Donald Trump and congressional Republicans also promised over and over that they would repeal and replace the federal law with something better.

They didn’t. It turns out that’s not because they didn’t have any ideas. It’s because their best idea is … crappier health insurance.

If the only goal is to reduce monthly premiums, the GOP measures might sort of work for some people. Selling insurance products that are cheaper because they exclude the sick and leave policyholders with huge coverage gaps isn’t a very impressive trick. It’s kind of like promising to make cars cheaper by selling them without transmissions and then declaring you’ve solved the problem of auto affordability.

It’s true that some people could potentially access less-expensive insurance under the Trump administration’s deregulatory agenda. But those gains come with risks for the consumers. If you qualify for a health plan that screens based on pre-existing conditions or buy a policy with huge gaps in coverage, you might be left in the lurch when you really need care.

The risks are even greater for those who won’t have access to less-regulated insurance policies. People with illnesses or pre-existing conditions will face higher costs because they’ll be shut out of the cheaper options.

Moreover, segmenting the health insurance market between the healthy and the sick undermines the entire notion of insurance. Changing the rules to let insurers sell one set of policies to healthy people and another to those with pre-existing conditions and ongoing health care needs inevitably leads to the latter policies becoming costlier. And that’s not just a problem for those who are currently sick because everyone gets sick eventually, be it today or decades from now.

Here are nine ways Republicans in Washington and across the country are working together to make health insurance even worse.

1. Inaugural Executive Order

On his first day in office, Trump issued an executive order instructing the federal agencies responsible for the Affordable Care Act to find ways around it. This didn’t have much impact in and of itself, but it set the stage for much of what’s come after.

2. Inessential Health Benefits

The Affordable Care Act requires health insurance plans to include 10 categories of benefits, including hospitalization, prescription drugs, maternity care and emergency-room services. Each state chooses an existing policy in its market as a “benchmark” for these benefits.

This month, the Trump administration proposed a regulation that would let states select plans from other states as benchmarks or pick and choose elements of plans in another state ― say, prescription coverage ― and make those part of their own benchmark.

This is wonky stuff, but the notion behind it is to let states with a deregulatory bent allow the sale of plans with skimpier benefits and less financial protection than what’s on their local market now.

3. Not-So-Short Short-Term Plans

Health insurance plans intended to cover gaps in coverage ― for example, when you start a new job but your health benefits don’t kick in right away ― have been around for a long time. Most of the Affordable Care Act’s rules about benefits don’t apply to them, and they don’t have to cover pre-existing conditions. Typically, these policies had to be short-term, lasting only a few months. So the Trump administration came up with an idea: Let the bare-bones plans cover 364 days, essentially making them an alternative to yearlong policies.

The result will be a parallel insurance market for healthy people to buy bad coverage. And, again, the more healthy people not using the insurance exchanges, the worse it will be for everyone who still must, for they will see their premiums rise.

4. Associate Decree

Association health plans allow employers in the same field to band together to get a better deal on benefits for their workers. Think small companies that belong to the same trade group. That’s all pretty reasonable, and this type of plan has existed for a while.

After the Affordable Care Act became law, the Obama administration determined that association health plans had to follow the same rules on benefits and pre-existing conditions as other types of insurance. Trump proposed a regulation this year to reverse that and let these plans ignore some of the law’s consumer protection standards.

Under Trump’s proposal, these plans could leave out a lot of key benefits, making their premiums lower. That’s appealing to those who need coverage the least and unappealing to people who have to have medical care.

Still, cheaper insurance gets a lot more expensive if you try to use it and find out it doesn’t cover what you need. Oh, and there’s a long track record of association health plans not paying claims and even defrauding their customers.

5. Idah-Oh-No

In January, Idaho Gov. C.L. “Butch” Otter (R) devised an interesting approach to the Affordable Care Act: Pretend it doesn’t exist.

Otter issued an executive order inviting insurance companies to design health plans that, among other things, could charge people different rates based on their medical histories. This was so obviously a violation of the Affordable Care Act that even the Trump administration had to tell Idaho they couldn’t do it. But in its rejection, the administration reminded state officials that its own efforts to undermine Obamacare made the Idaho plan redundant.

6. Iowanna Follow The Affordable Care Act

Iowa Gov. Kim Reynolds (R) signed a law this month allowing insurance companies to sell policies through the Iowa Farm Bureau that also totally disregard the Affordable Care Act. How is Iowa ignoring the federal statute? It simply declared that this insurance is not insurance. No, really.

These farm bureau policies will be permitted to reject people with pre-existing conditions or at least charge them higher premiums. They won’t have to follow federal law governing what benefits must be covered. And insurers will once again be allowed to set hard-dollar limits on how much they’ll cover in a year or over a patient’s lifetime. All of that is illegal under the Affordable Care Act.

7. Extra #Liberty

Congress passed a huge tax bill last year that, among other things, repealed the individual mandate, a central component of the Affordable Care Act that required most U.S. residents to obtain health coverage or face tax penalties. Starting in 2019, those penalties won’t exist anymore.

The mandate has always been unpopular ― even 2008 presidential candidate Obama opposed it before taking office and changing his position ― and it won’t be mourned by anyone but health insurance companies and some health care policy nerds.

But even though the mandate didn’t work as well as the law’s authors expected, it served a purpose by nudging healthier people into buying insurance. That meant more money coming into the system to cover the costs of the less healthy. There’s now one less reason for people to get covered. Combine that with the availability of those other types of plans that cater to the healthy, and it spells a sicker, more expensive mix of people on the exchanges. That will lead to higher costs for them.

8. The Check Isn’t In The Mail

Trump threatened for months last year to cut off payments that the federal government owed insurance companies serving low-income Obamacare customers and, in October, he finally did it.

The Affordable Care Act requires insurers to provide discounts on out-of-pocket costs, like deductibles and copayments, to exchange customers with incomes below 250 percent of the federal poverty level, which amounts to about $30,000 for a single person. The government is supposed to pay the insurers back. Trump won’t.

This looked like it would throw the exchange markets into turmoil as insurers worried about financial losses would look to recoup them through enormous premium increases or even stop selling this kind of insurance at all.

Fortunately, that didn’t happen because insurance companies and state regulators figured out a clever way to increase premiums only on subsidized products in most states. Because the value of the government subsidies rises with the price of the insurance, those consumers were mostly shielded from the higher premiums. But people who didn’t qualify for financial assistance had to bear the full brunt. Plus, those higher subsidies cost the federal government a lot of money.

Still, it worked out better than many expected. So naturally, the administration is considering a ban on the solution that insurers and states came up with to protect subsidized consumers.

9. Listen All Y’all, It’s A Sabotage

The open enrollment period for exchange customers last November and December was the first over which the Trump team had total control. They took advantage.

They cut the sign-up period in half. They cut the budget for enrollment assistance by 40 percent. They cut the advertising and outreach budget by 90 percent. They forbade federal employees from participating in local enrollment efforts. The Department of Health and Human Services even used money intended to promote enrollment on a public relations campaign advocating Affordable Care Act repeal.

It’s remarkable that this mix of less effort and higher costs didn’t cause enrollment to plummet. Sign-ups did fall this year to 11.8 million, about 400,000 less than for 2017. But it’s telling that the decline occurred almost entirely in the 39 states where the federal government runs the exchanges. Enrollment was flat in state-run exchanges in 11 states and the District of Columbia because they weren’t affected by Trump’s budget cuts and because most held longer enrollment periods.New York Times reporter Maggie Haberman tweeted on Saturday that a source quoted in her story derided by Donald Trump as a “drunk/drugged up loser” is likely former Trump campaign aide Sam Nunberg.

A story by Haberman and two other Times reporters on Friday examined the likelihood that the president’s attorney Michael Cohen will turn on his boss now that he is being investigated. It quoted two biographers, Nunberg and Trump’s long-time controversial informal adviser Roger Stone. (Stone was quoted as saying that Trump “goes out of his way” to treat Cohen “like garbage.” Nunberg said Cohen has “leverage” on Trump and should “maximize” it now.)

Trump, infuriated by the story, slammed “third-rate- flunkie” Haberman in vicious tweets Saturday morning, and added the scathing “drugged up” insult about one of the sources, whom he didn’t name.

It had to be Nunberg, Haberman tweeted, because the president is too afraid of bombastic, rule-breaking Stone to “be that direct.”

Both men have denied that Trump was referring to them. “Not a reference to me,” Stone told The Palm Beach Post. Nunberg told CNN: “I have no idea who POTUS is talking about, so I have no response.”

....non-existent “sources” and a drunk/drugged up loser who hates Michael, a fine person with a wonderful family. Michael is a businessman for his own account/lawyer who I have always liked & respected. Most people will flip if the Government lets them out of trouble, even if.... — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) April 21, 2018

Haberman slammed Trump’s use of “drugged up” as showing little compassion for those struggling with drug problems, such as victims of the opioid crisis. She then named Nunberg as the target of Trump’s vicious dig.

A few things - Trump is referring to @NunbergSam in his tweet. He’s too aware of what Stone could do to him to be that direct. Also, Trump has been abusive to all his staffers at various points, but continues to greet @CLewandowski_ better than most https://t.co/coxNMRVCUl — Maggie Haberman (@maggieNYT) April 21, 2018

Preet Bharara, the former U.S. attorney for the southern district of New York who was fired by Trump, responded to Haberman’s tweet, asking: “Donald Trump is afraid of Roger Stone?”

Haberman answered: “For years.”

Donald Trump is afraid of Roger Stone? https://t.co/0pqSQu1LRK — Preet Bharara (@PreetBharara) April 21, 2018

Haberman also added a bit of new information from her reporting, revealing that one source told her that Trump is “abusive to everyone.”

When I was reporting this story, I said to one person who’s observed the Cohen-Trump relationship that Trump has been abusive to him. The person replied, “He’s abusive to everybody.” https://t.co/coxNMRVCUl — Maggie Haberman (@maggieNYT) April 21, 2018

The Times followed up with a story Saturday acknowledging Trump’s criticism of the article, including his tweet that the newspaper was “going out of their way to destroy Michael Cohen and his relationship with me in the hope that he will ‘flip.’” The president also accused the Times of using “nonexistent sources.”

Times executive editor Dean Baquet said in a statement that “the story is filled with named quotes on the record, and everything Maggie has reported from inside the White House has proven true.”

Nunberg was subpoenaed last month to appear before a federal grand jury investigating Russian interference in the U.S. presidential election. He initially vowed to defy the subpoena and appeared on a series of news shows sounding dangerously defiant. At one point, CNN’s Erin Burnett told him she smelled alcohol on his breath. Nunberg denied that he had been drinking, but added that he had taken anti-depressants that day.

Nunberg said the following day that he planned to comply with the order and would appear before the grand jury by the end of the week.

Here's CNN's Erin Burnett telling former Trump aide Sam Nunberg that she can smell alcohol on his breath. He says he hasn't been drinking. pic.twitter.com/tryye9AiqA — Jim Dalrymple II (@Dalrymple) March 6, 2018President Donald Trump commemorated Earth Day on Sunday by applauding his administration’s efforts to roll back key environmental protections.

Trump stressed the importance of preserving the “life-sustaining gifts” of “our magnificent land and waterways, abundant natural resources, and unique wildlife” in a White House statement released Sunday.

“It is our responsibility to protect them for our own benefit and that of generations to come,” Trump said in the statement, before praising his administration for repealing regulations meant to do just that.

“We know that it is impossible for humans to flourish without clean air, land, and water,” according to the statement. “We also know that a strong, market-driven economy is essential to protecting these resources. For this reason, my Administration is dedicated to removing unnecessary and harmful regulations that restrain economic growth and make it more difficult for local communities to prosper and to choose the best solutions for their environment.”

With climate change skeptic Scott Pruitt as the president’s appointed leader of the Environmental Protection Agency, the Trump administration has taken a hatchet to progressive, Obama-era environmental regulations.

Pruitt outlined plans earlier this month to gut landmark fuel standards for vehicles that were designed to reduce carbon emissions, the nation’s top source of greenhouse gas pollution. The Trump administration in January proposed a plan to massively expand offshore drilling and opened up millions of acres of previously protected public land to fossil fuel developers.

In June 2017, Trump delivered a major blow to the fight against global warming by announcing the United States will pull out of the Paris climate accord.

Despite what many activists consider to be the administration’s unprecedented assault on environmental protections, Trump called on Americans to “give thanks for the environment we share, protect, and call home.”

“Americans embrace the idea of enjoying nature in a responsible fashion, while preserving the blessings of the land for future generations,” he said in the statement. “My Administration is committed to furthering this rich legacy of conservation.”

Some Twitter users took note of the apparent hypocrisy:

Am I following correctly —eliminating regulations that prevent water contamination will create jobs that contaminate the water and those jobs will protect the water from contamination? — Nick Arthur (@NarthurD) April 22, 2018

So, Trump’s Earth Day message is, essentially, “damn the Earth; full speed ahead!” — Joel Klebanoff (@JoelKlebanoff) April 22, 2018

I’m still wondering how removing regulations designed to protect the environment is good for the waterways, natural resources and wildlife. The removal of these regulations is merely a licence for big business to profit from invading and despoiling all of the above. — Werner Ott (@kapboy59) April 22, 2018The NFL on Wednesday approved a new policy to intercept national anthem protests before they happen, according to the league.

The measure mandates that players who are on the field must stand for the national anthem but can remain in the locker room if they choose.

Teams could be fined by the league if their players sit or kneel, as many have done in protest of racial injustice and police brutality in recent seasons after NFL quarterback Colin Kaepernick’s initial kneeling protest in 2016 earned nationwide attention.

The fining or punishment of players and other personnel would be dictated by the individual teams.

NFL commissioner Roger Goodell noted in a statement Wednesday that “on-field protests created a false perception among many that thousands of NFL players were unpatriotic.”

“This season, all league and team personnel shall stand and show respect for the flag and the Anthem,” he said. “Personnel who choose not to stand for the Anthem may stay in the locker room until after the Anthem has been performed.”

The NFL Players Association criticized the league for failing to consult with the union on the matter.

“Our union will review the new ‘policy’ and challenge any aspect of it that is inconsistent with the collective bargaining agreement,” the union said.

On Tuesday, Sports Illustrated reported on a different, apparently scrapped, proposal in which teams could be penalized on the field for players kneeling. In that scenario, the home team would decide whether both teams would come out of the locker room for “The Star-Spangled Banner.” And if the teams do emerge and players kneel, officials could assess a 15-yard penalty, the outlet wrote, citing unnamed sources.

“As always, conversations at league meetings are candid, thoughtful and thorough,” NFL spokesman Brian McCarthy told HuffPost in an email early Wednesday. “The clubs explore every option and idea on any policy, and discuss the merits and drawbacks of each approach. We will continue the conversation this morning.”

Colin Kaepernick, center, protesting with fellow players Eli Harold (left) and Eric Reid (right) in December 2016. Michael Zagaris via Getty Images

The league also debated the issue in previous meetings since former 49ers quarterback Kaepernick sparked national controversy in the 2016 season by taking a knee during the anthem to protest racial injustice and police brutality. The movement, which grew to include other players and teams, continued in 2017, prompting repeated outrage from President Donald Trump.

Kaepernick, who was not signed by an NFL team in 2017 after he became a free agent, and former teammate Eric Reid, who also protested, have filed grievances against the league for allegedly conspiring to keep them off NFL rosters because of the demonstrations.Sen. Joe Manchin (D-W.Va.) is one of nine congressional Democrats backing legislation that would undermine the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau. Bill Clark via Getty Images

If an ordinary person committed any of the abuses listed in the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau’s latest complaint against Wells Fargo, other ordinary people might call it “theft,” or “car theft.”

Alas, Wells Fargo is only considered an ordinary person when it spends money on elections. The rest of the time, it is a too-big-to-fail bank, and improperly relieving its customers of their automobiles is just one of a few “unfair acts and practices” to which it neither admitted nor denied when it agreed to settle a federal investigation on Friday.

But the bank will pay a very high price for these alleged misdeeds ― $1 billion, the highest the CFPB has ever imposed against a financial institution.

The CFPB’s description of Wells Fargo’s behavior is breathtaking. The company “forcibly placed duplicative or unnecessary insurance on hundreds of thousands” of vehicles owned by customers who had taken out a car loan with the bank. This not only resulted in a typical charge of “over $1,000” to which these customers had never agreed, but “for at least 27,000 customers,” the bureau wrote, “the additional costs of the Force-Placed Insurance could have contributed to a default that resulted in the repossession of their vehicle.”

In a better world, the Federal Reserve would prevent serial offender banks like Wells Fargo from existing, and the Department of Justice would prosecute mass car theft as a crime. But it is at least good that a federal regulator exists to levy fines against these outrages and give restitution to wronged families. The CFPB has only been around a few years, but prior to the Wells Fargo settlement, it had returned about $12 billion in ill-gotten gains to American consumers ― a figure that is considerably higher after its biggest-ever settlement.

The bureau is a creation of the Democratic Party, signed into law by President Barack Obama and designed by Sen. Elizabeth Warren (D-Mass.). Yet some congressional Democrats are joining Republicans supporting legislation that consumer advocates say would strip the CFPB of the power to bring cases like the one it just settled with Wells Fargo.

The bill, authored by one of the bureau’s most ferocious critics, Rep. Sean Duffy (R-Wis.), has the backing of self-styled progressives, such as Rep. Gwen Moore (D-Wis.) and Sen. Tammy Baldwin (D-Wis.), along with six more conservative House Democrats and Sen. Joe Manchin (D-W.Va.).

The legislation would deny the CFPB jurisdiction over companies that are subject to state insurance regulation that also engage in “offering or providing a consumer financial product or service.” For such firms, which include essentially every major bank, the bureau would lose its authority “to the extent such [company] is engaged in the business of insurance.” State insurance regulators, which have a much weaker record of consumer protection enforcement, would replace the CFPB.

In January, the progressive advocacy group Americans for Financial Reform sent a sharply worded letter to members of Congress warning that the bill ”strikes a major blow against CFPB regulatory authority over large financial services firms” that “would have called into question the CFPB’s ability to investigate and punish the Wells Fargo scheme to sell unnecessary insurance to its auto credit customers.”

A month earlier, 20 organizations, including the National Fair Housing Alliance, the National Consumer Law Center and the Consumer Federation of America, cited the Wells Fargo case as they brought their concerns to Duffy. Not only do state regulators have a weak record of enforcement, many states simply do not have effective consumer protection laws on the books.

“In the weeks before the disclosure that Wells Fargo had falsely placed 800,000 lender-placed auto policies, state insurance regulators ... [claimed] there were purportedly no problems in that market,” the groups wrote.

Manchin and Moore have a long history of supporting bank-friendly legislation at the expense of American families, and both declined to comment for this article. A Baldwin spokesperson insisted that the bill doesn’t actually do anything.

“This legislation does not strip or change the agency’s authority to enforce compliance when an insurer offers CFPB-covered products,” Baldwin’s staffer said. “The bill simply clarifies that the CFPB’s role is to enforce consumer protection laws and also reaffirms existing law on state-based regulation of insurance by State Insurance Offices and Commissioners. CFPB retains the oversight authority being used in its enforcement action against Wells Fargo, which Senator Baldwin has strongly supported.”

Robert Hunter, director of insurance at the Consumer Federation of America, doesn’t agree. He describes the language as “very expansive,” with the potential to undermine enforcement against a vast array of abuses perpetrated by financial conglomerates. Birnie Birnbaum, executive director of the Center for Economic Justice, called the bill “outrageous.”

”With the exception of a few states, the record of state regulators on this is terrible,” Birnbaum told HuffPost. “Wells Fargo force-placed some 800,000 policies erroneously. No insurance regulator caught that.”

The language of the bill is broad and vague, leaving a tremendous amount of activity susceptible to court challenge if the CFPB were to act against insurance providers. And it includes a provision stating that, when in doubt, “the enforcement of this title shall be broadly construed in favor of the authority of a state insurance regulator” over the CFPB.

The bill passed the House Financial Services Committee in January by a vote of 37 to 18, with seven Democrats voting in favor: David Scott (Ga.); Emanuel Cleaver (Mo.); Gwen Moore (Wis.); Ed Perlmutter (Colo.); Kyrsten Sinema (Ariz.); Joyce Beatty (Ohio); and Josh Gottheimer (N.J.). It has yet to receive a floor vote in either chamber.Johnson was the first black man to become a heavyweight boxing world champion during a time when hate crimes against African Americans were the norm. Getty

President Donald Trump is considering pardoning the late heavyweight champion boxer Jack Johnson thanks to actor Sylvester Stallone.

The president tweeted about the potential posthumous pardon on Saturday, saying Stallone called him to tell him the story of the legendary boxer.

Johnson’s “trials and tribulations were great, his life complex and controversial,” Trump said, adding, “Yes, I am considering a Full Pardon!”

The White House did not immediately return HuffPost’s request for comment and representatives for Stallone declined to comment on Trump’s tweet.

Johnson, whose parents were former slaves, made history in the early 20th century as the first black man to earn the title of heavyweight boxing champion of the world. A powerhouse in the ring, Johnson rose in fame and wealth throughout his career ― even at a time when vicious violence against African Americans was the norm.

The boxer’s image was controversially smeared when he was convicted of violating the Mann Act, which banned traveling with a woman across state lines for an “immoral purpose.” Johnson fled the country, continuing his boxing career overseas for years before he eventually surrendered to federal authorities and served time in prison.

In 1946, he died in a car crash.

Jack Johnson, before his successful title defense against ''The Great White Hope'' James J. Jeffries in Reno, Nevada on July 4, 1910. Sporting News Archive via Getty Images

Officials had initially refused to give Johnson a chance at the heavyweight title (African Americans were not allowed to participate at the time) until 1908, when Johnson faced off with champion Canadian Tommy Burns, according to “The Boxing Register: International Boxing Hall of Fame Official Record Book.”

Johnson won against Burns with a technical knockout in the 14th round, becoming the first black heavyweight champion. His fame, however, still didn’t earn him respect from his white peers.

Lawmakers, including Sen. John McCain (R-Ariz.), have asked past presidents to posthumously pardon Johnson for years. McCain has supported a pardon for Johnson since 2004.

In a 2016 letter to President Barack Obama, McCain, the now-retired Sen. Harry Reid (D-Nev.), Rep. Pete King (R-N.Y.) and Rep. Gregory Meeks (D-N.Y.) called Johnson’s conviction “improper and unfair,” claiming that Johnson was “transporting his white girlfriend across state lines.”

“While it is unfortunate that this unjust conviction was not corrected during the boxer’s lifetime, a posthumous pardon today represents the opportunity to reaffirm Jack Johnson’s substantial contributions to our society and right this historical wrong,” the lawmakers wrote.

The U.S. Commission on Civil Rights also urged Obama to pardon champion boxer that same year.

Johnson “was a fierce critic of Jim Crow laws and the prevailing enforced customs of racial segregation,” the commission wrote in a June 2016 letter.

Rep. King urged Trump to absolve Johnson on Saturday, tweeting, “Obama wouldn’t do it. Trump ... now considering it. Would correct a terrible injustice.”

For years @SenJohnMcCain and I have urged a Pardon for Jack Johnson. Pres. Obama wouldn't do it. @POTUS Trump after talking with Sly Stallone now considering it. Would correct a terrible injustice. https://t.co/G5Q9yVwDVF https://t.co/Bd2Krl7akj — Rep. Pete King (@RepPeteKing) April 21, 2018

In an interview with the Los Angeles Times earlier this year, Johnson’s great-great niece Linda E. Haywood suggested that a posthumous pardon would allow Johnson’s past to be corrected.

“Knowing that he was treated unfairly, and unfairly convicted and targeted because of his choice of companions, who happened to be Caucasian, that’s wrong,” Haywood told the Times.

“The last thing you want to do is die and have your name tarnished. That’s wrong. You don’t want it to be tarnished if you’re living.”Police officers corner a group of counterprotesters at a neo-Nazi rally in Georgia on Saturday. Christopher Mathias HuffPost

NEWNAN, Ga. — A heavily militarized police force of some 400 officers aggressively patrolled a small neo-Nazi rally in this city 40 miles southwest of Atlanta on Saturday and arrested about 10 counterprotesters, many for the crime of wearing a mask.

Police officers arrived before the rally began and approached a group of about 50 anti-fascist protesters. They demanded the protesters remove their masks or face arrest. The officers — who wore bulletproof vests and helmets, and carried semi-automatic rifles — cornered the anti-fascist protesters, then grabbed those who were still masked, tossing them to the ground and handcuffing them.

At one point, an officer pointed what seemed to be a modified AR-15 at the faces of counterprotesters, none of whom appeared to be armed.

The lead officer in the arrests said the counterprotesters were breaking a state law regarding masks, likely referring to a seldom-enforced 1951 law originally aimed at combating hooded Ku Klux Klan members. Anti-fascist protesters ― many belonging to chapters of antifa groups, known for sometimes violently confronting white supremacists ― often wear masks to avoid being identified by both law enforcement and neo-Nazis.

Tense situation in #Newnan. Cops telling anti-fascists to remove masks or be arrested pic.twitter.com/dj7F9UW8EY — Christopher Mathias (@letsgomathias) April 21, 2018

“The irony of enforcing masking laws to prosecute leftists is just incredible,” said Molly, a counterprotester from Charlottesville, Virginia, who traveled to Georgia to protest neo-Nazis. She asked that her last name not be published for fear of retribution. “Those are anti-Klan statutes.”

“And to be roughing up anti-Nazi protesters while handling literal Nazis with kid gloves... it’s absurd,” added Molly, who said she saw one of her friends get arrested Saturday.

The rally in Newnan was the latest, and one of the most pitifully attended, neo-Nazi events to be held in the South since the deadly “Unite The Right” rally in Charlottesville last August, when a neo-Nazi drove his car into a crowd of anti-fascist protesters, killing one person and injuring 19 others.

Certain seemingly innocuous items, including balloons, were not allowed at the rally. But Georgia has an open carry gun law, so people could bring their weapons; HuffPost saw one neo-Nazi and one anti-fascist protester carrying semi-automatic rifles.

The Newnan rally was organized by the National Socialist Movement, an older neo-Nazi group that favors explicit Third Reich iconography over the more coded racist memes of the so-called alt-right. Fewer than 30 NSM members, along with a small contingent of the white supremacist group League of the South, showed up for the event.

The city granted NSM a permit to hold the rally at Greenville Street Park, and security and police presence for the event is expected to cost taxpayers thousands of dollars.

NSM members arrived about an hour late for their rally. Then they stood on a stage in the park, looking out over hundreds of counterprotesters yelling from behind a fence some 100 yards away as police helicopters and drones circled overhead.

Jeff Schoep, the so-called commander of the NSM, rambled about the need to keep Confederate statues. He referred to himself and his companions as “Alpha males” and complained about men who look like “homosexuals” by wearing skinny jeans. He also lashed out against the “Zionist media” for portraying NSM as a hate group.

NSM members flanking him threw up Nazi salutes.

Schoep then left the stage to address a gaggle of reporters. When asked by HuffPost about NSM members throwing up Nazi salutes, Schoep claimed they were actually “Roman salutes.” He then threatened to have HuffPost removed from the park for being “disrespectful.”

At 5 p.m. local time, less than an hour after the rally had started, police appeared to pull the plug on the sound system. An officer speaking into a megaphone issued a dispersal order, warning the neo-Nazis that they would be arrested if they didn’t leave the park. They left without incident.

Asked Nazi leader Jeff Schoep something he didn't like, he threatened to kick me out for being "disrespectful." Hasn't kicked me out yet. #Newnan pic.twitter.com/lE8kj26BwQ — Christopher Mathias (@letsgomathias) April 21, 2018

The paltry NSM showing was indicative of the gradually diminishing strength of the so-called alt-right since the Charlottesville rally last year. That rally, the largest of its kind of over a decade, was attended by upwards of 1,000 white supremacists.

Since then, alt-right figurehead Richard Spencer canceled a planned campus speaking tour after being humiliated by anti-fascist protesters at the University of Florida and Michigan State University. Last month, a domestic dispute precipitated the collapse of neo-Nazi group the Traditionalist Workers Party. Infighting has also severely fractured the rest of the alt-right.

NSM and League of the South now appear to be the white supremacist groups most willing to hold rallies. On Friday night, they held a meeting at a bar in Bremen, Georgia. The annual gathering is typically held on or near April 20, the birthday of Adolf Hitler.

So #Newnan is a town of 38,000 and their police look like this today pic.twitter.com/zX54ATnCgH — Christopher Mathias (@letsgomathias) April 21, 2018

There were times on Saturday when Newnan looked as if it was under military occupation. Armored vehicles and heavily armed officers, some in military fatigues, patrolled the streets.

Ahead of the event, Newnan Police Chief D.L. “Buster” Meadows appeared to draw an equivalency between the racist and anti-Semitic neo-Nazis — who argue for creating a white ethnostate in America — and the anti-fascists showing up to protest them.

“Neither one of these groups represent who we are and what we stand for,” he told local news outlet The Newnan Times-Herald.

It was a sentiment shared by some of the other 39,000 residents of Newnan, a town whose city square is home to two monuments exalting the Confederate Army.

Jeff Nelms, a Newnan resident who works as a millwright, went to a friend’s gun shop Saturday to make sure no one vandalized the store during the day’s chaos. He called both the neo-Nazis and the anti-fascists “scum.”

Newnan resident Jeff Nelms went to his friend's gun store during the rally on Saturday to make sure no one vandalized it. Christopher Mathias HuffPost

Julio Gilgorri, 26, who has lived in Newnan for five years, had a different take on the anti-fascists arriving to drown out the neo-Nazis. Gilgorri was among hundreds of residents who attended a festival in the city square on Friday night, at which local businesses, churches and charities handed out #NewnanStrong T-shirts. Children drew chalk hearts and rainbows on the sidewalks, while adults wrote messages like “Nazis suck.”

“Newnan has taken me in as a Hispanic American and someone who’s looking for a new home. I felt accepted since the moment I stepped foot here,” Gilgorri said. “If we shut up and stay quiet and allow these guys to rally without any opposition, my opportunity might not happen for other people down the line.”

“I’m absolutely glad that people are coming to be heard because, at the end of the day, there truly are more voices on our side than theirs,” he added. “History has already shown who’s right here.”

America does not do a good job of tracking incidents of hate and bias. We need your help to create a database of such incidents across the country, so we all know what’s going on. Tell us your story.Kellyanne Conway unloaded on CNN’s Dana Bash on Sunday after the White House counselor was asked about her husband’s recent tweets appearing to chide President Donald Trump.

Conway tore into Bash for inquiring why her spouse, high-profile attorney George Conway, had recently tweeted “critical” comments about Trump, including challenging the president’s recent claim that attorney-client privilege was “dead.”

Appearing on the cable network’s “State of the Union” program, Conway first responded by calmly noting that her husband also tweets “a lot of things about Corgis and Philadelphia Eagles and sports, too,” But things quickly took a turn.

“It’s fascinating to me that CNN would go there,” Conway said. “But it’s very good for the whole world to just witness that it’s now fair game how people’s spouses and significant others may differ with them. I’m really surprised, but very, in some ways, relieved and gratified to see that. That should really be fun.”

“You just brought him into this,” she scolded Bash. “This ought to be fun moving forward, Dana. We’re now going to talk about other people’s spouses and significant others just because they either work at the White House or CNN? ... CNN just went there.”

Conway accused Bash of trying to “harass and embarrass” her before cryptically commenting on what constitutes a “difference of opinion” between spouses.

“By definition, spouses have a difference of opinion when adultery is happening,” Conway said. “By definition, spouses have a difference of opinion when one is, I don’t know, draining the joint bank account to support things that maybe the other disagrees with. So this is a fascinating ‘cross the Rubicon’ moment.”

The tense exchange went on for nearly five minutes, with Bash noting that Trump attacked former FBI Deputy Director Andrew McCabe, who was fired last month, because his wife received campaign contributions from groups tied to an ally of Hillary Clinton.

Still, Conway suggested she faces a “different standard” than have past presidential aides and slammed Bash for bringing up her marriage.

“Kellyanne, here was my whole point of this, is that you are a professional working for the president of the United States and your husband is a very well-respected lawyer,” Bash said, “and my point is that we don’t often see ― in fact, I don’t remember the last time we saw ― somebody working for the president in a high-profile position when their spouse is saying critical things about them. That is all.”

Conway dismissed Bash’s statement, claiming other family members of Trump administration officials “certainly don’t support the president privately and publicly.”

She continued to rail against Bash hours later, tweeting that the question regarding her husband was “cheap & irrelevant.”

I’ve long admired fellow Jersey Girl & working mom @DanaBashCNN.



Makes this harder to comprehend.



Amidst convo about North Korean nukes & Comey leaks/ McCabe lies, the “final q” is this?



Under strain, pretends it was meant 2 be “lighthearted” https://t.co/ooaSef1iVW — Kellyanne Conway (@KellyannePolls) April 22, 2018

George Conway’s tweets last month chiding his wife’s boss caught the eye of many political and media pundits. On March 23, he retweeted CNN reporter Kaitlan Collins’ tweet accusing Trump of repeatedly undermining his aides.

CNN/Twitter

George Conway, who Trump once considered nominating as solicitor general, has since deleted the tweet, as well as several others that were critical of Trump’s legal issues.

A representative for the White House did not immediately return HuffPost’s request for clarification regarding Conway’s “adultery” and “joint bank account” comments. Nor did George Conway respond immediately to a request for comment.Four young protesters and a police officer were killed in increasingly violent clashes over social security cuts in Nicaragua, Associated Press reported Friday.

Protests began Wednesday after a new law was signed increasing tax contributions and cutting pension income in the social security system. Some demonstrations began peacefully, with protesters waving placards and chanting, “Viva Nicaragua libre!” (“Long live a free Nicaragua!”)

But in some areas, pro-government forces clashed with protesters, police lobbed tear gas and fired rubber bullets from behind shields, and buildings were set afire. A police officer and protester were fatally shot on Thursday in Nicaragua’s capital, Managua, where thousands took to the streets, and another protester was shot dead in Tipitapa, northeast of the capital, the Red Cross told Reuters.

AP reported that two protesting university students were killed on Friday.

One eyewitness reported on Twitter that five buildings, among them the National Lottery in León and the student center at the National Autonomous University of Nicaragua, were burning Friday afternoon. Protests had reportedly spread to at least 10 cities.

Cinco casas, entre ellas una donde está la Lotería Nacional, en León, y el Centro Universitario de la Unan (CUUN) en ese departamento, se queman en estos momentos. Sucede entre las protestas universitarias contra las refoemas en el INSS. @laprensa pic.twitter.com/yAITVPCkDy — Josué Garay (@_JosueGaray) April 21, 2018

Lisseth Guido, a spokeswoman for the Red Cross of Nicaragua, told Reuters on Friday that 48 people were treated for various injuries.

The government shut down most main news sources other than La Prensa, a protester who asked her name to be withheld told HuffPost. La Prensa was reporting that police were switching from rubber bullets to live ammunition.

The United Nations’ human rights office urged the government in a statement to “fulfill its international obligations to ensure people can freely exercise their rights to freedom of expression and freedom of peaceful gathering and association.”

The protester, who works for a local nongovernmental organization, said that demonstrations began peacefully but violence erupted in clashes with pro-government protesters and security forces. She said the protests have been “flashing” across the country and are largely organized on social media.

Demonstrators chant against social security cuts in Masaya, in western Nicaragua.

“This is spread nationwide ... it’s young people going out to the street protesting, especially students, protesting against these reforms. And each time it’s been a peaceful protest. [But when] they’ve been met with the pro-government movement, they have been violent,” she said.

The protester told HuffPost she was protesting with a group Friday in Nindiri, outside of Masaya in western Nicaragua, when a group of pro-government protesters appeared armed with flash or stun grenades and confronted them. When a leader of the protest against the social security changes declared “It’s our right to protest peacefully,” someone “came up and pushed this guy on the ground, and he hit his head and started to bleed,” she recounted.

Security forces have seized vehicles carrying provisions for protesters, and invaded an area near Managua’s Metropolitan Cathedral where the church had been collecting donations.

The protests are the largest to hit Nicaragua in the 11-year presidency of onetime Sandinista guerrilla Daniel Ortega, who was also president in the 1980s. The country erupted in the wake of the new law, which the government insists is necessary to protect the survival of the social security system. Ortega has yet to comment on the protests, La Prensa reported.

Protesters outside a cathedral in Managua.

Though the change in the social security law was the trigger for the protests, discontent has been growing over a variety of issues. Critics complain that Ortega has betrayed the Sandinista principles with a power grab and crackdown on dissidents, and blamed government ineptness and even alleged corruption for the failure to effectively fight a massive fire in a protected tropical forest earlier this month.

“The protests are a consequence of years of unsatisfied demands and growing repression and censorship to dissident groups,” Manuel Orozco, senior fellow at the Inter-American Dialogue think tank in Washington, D.C., told The New York Times.

The protester said that “people are just wanting to be heard” and they want social program changes to “be repealed and evaluated to be more equitable.”North Korea assured CIA Director Mike Pompeo that the American detainees would be a part of President Donald Trump's talks with Kim Jong Un. Xinhua News Agency via Getty Images

President Donald Trump’s upcoming meeting with North Korean leader Kim Jong Un will likely involve the release of three American citizens currently detained in the hermit country, The Wall Street Journal reported Friday.

North Korean officials gave CIA Director Mike Pompeo assurances that the summit between Trump and Kim could be linked to the release of the U.S. citizens, the Journal reported, citing “people briefed on the meeting.”

Pompeo, the U.S. secretary of state nominee, secretly met with Kim over Easter weekend in preparation for Trump and Kim’s talks, which are expected to take place in May or early June.

Trump on Wednesday confirmed Pompeo’s secret meeting in a tweet, saying it “went very smoothly and a good relationship was formed.” He also said that details of his North Korea meeting were “being worked out now.”

Pompeo mentioned the release of the three Americans in his Pyongyang meeting, according to Reuters. At a joint news conference with Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe on Wednesday, Trump spoke positively about the release.

“We are likewise fighting very diligently to get the three American citizens back. I think there’s a good chance of doing it,” Trump said. “We’re having very good dialogue.”

The three Americans are believed to be U.S. businessman Kim Dong-chul, 62, of Virginia, who was charged with spying and stealing state secrets in 2016; Kim Sang-duk, who had been teaching at Pyongyang University of Science and Technology and was arrested in April 2017; and Kim Hak-song, who also worked at the Pyongyang university and was detained in May 2017, according to the Journal.

During Pompeo’s confirmation hearing last week, Pompeo told the Senate Foreign Relations Committee that he was confident the U.S. could work on an agreement with North Korea for denuclearization.MUMBAI (Reuters) - India’s cabinet on Saturday approved the death penalty for those convicted of raping girls below the age of 12 years amid outrage in the country after a string of horrific cases of sexual violence.

In the emergency meeting called by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the cabinet passed an executive order, or ordinance, to amend the criminal law to also include more drastic punishment for convicted rapists of girls below the age of 16 years.

Sexual violence against women is a highly charged political issue in India, where protests regularly erupt about entrenched violence against women and the failure to protect them.

Many people have criticized Modi’s government for not doing enough to protect the country’s women, piling pressure on his Hindu nationalist Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) as India heads towards a general election due next year.On Friday’s broadcast of “The Late Show,” the comedian asked, “How do you spend that much money on not giving away condoms?”

Colbert then imagined how one of the education sessions might go. Hint: a bit weirdly.

For equal time, the late-night host also revealed some (alleged) benefits Trump may gain from avoiding sex …SOUTH LONDON, U.K. ― Cut grass prickles under the rising heat as the first waves of coaches and players mill around the dugout. It’s the latest home game that tiny South London soccer team Dulwich Hamlet has been forced to play away from Champion Hill, the ground it’s called home since 1912.

The mid-April match, against Thurrock F.C., takes place at the home field of local rivals Tooting and Mitcham and is some nine miles from Dulwich.

The club’s displacement is due to a rift between Southwark, the local council, and a multinational property development firm Meadow Residential, an affiliate of New York City-based property fund Meadow Partners, which owns Champion Hill and wishes to knock down the current stadium to build apartments.

At the start of March, when Southwark Council rejected Meadow Residential’s proposal for a $112 million-plus apartment development on the site ― partly for its failure to meet rules on providing a set percentage of affordable housing ― the company evicted the 125-year-old club. One of Meadow Residential’s subsidiaries even went as far as to trademark “Dulwich Hamlet” and send a letter to the club demanding it cease to use its own name (the company has since withdrawn the demand).

Meadow has filed new proposals that include building a new stadium for the club on public land next to the development, but the club says it would be much smaller and not fit for a soccer team that regularly draws crowds of 1,500.

Nyren Clunis, Dulwich Hamlet's top scorer Orlando Gili

Yet Dulwich Hamlet, despite its size, has refused to capitulate, mounting an unprecedented fight back that’s won mainstream media support, the backing of leading British politicians and even garnered interest from ex-England international star Rio Ferdinand. Strong community ties and the unique network of personalities that make up its team and supporters are keeping Dulwich Hamlet alive.

The club’s manager, Gavin Rose, played for Dulwich Hamlet 16 years ago and returned as a manager nine seasons ago after working at a handful of other clubs. He has tried to protect his players from the club’s difficulties, but media attention and moving grounds have made that difficult. “There are a lot of boys who have come through the academy at various times, so they’ve got a lot of trust in us,” he explained.

Thurrock F.C., Dulwich Hamlet’s opponents, will cease to exist at the end of the season due to its chairman’s ill health, and Dulwich Hamlet has offered the visiting fans free entry to the game. Club closures are not unusual in the world of non-league soccer – which floats below the big money top leagues in the U.K. and is a mixture of amateur and semi-professional soccer – a sad fact that makes Dulwich Hamlet’s resolve all the more impressive.

Gavin Rose, manager of Dulwich Hamlet. Orlando Gili

Rose attributed the club’s resilience to its place within the community, specifically its initiatives to reach the “forgotten parts of society,” as he put it. “That sort of spirit is probably what has stood us in good stead when we’ve had our own battles to face.”

Mishi Morath, who has supported Dulwich Hamlet since 1974, is the club’s community officer, and responsible for many of these initiatives. Growing up in a public housing block behind the ground, he was 7 years old when he watched his first game. “Once you pick your local team, you’re stuck with them,” he shrugged, masking his affection.

Under his watch, the club has worked with local schools and youth groups, run trade union days, raised funds towards the Syrian refugee crisis, organized collections for local food banks, supported local living wage campaigns and played a landmark friendly against Stonewall FC, Britain’s premier gay football team, with all money from ticket sales going to the Elton John Aids Foundation. However, these efforts have come to a halt due to the team’s current challenges.

Mishi Morath, the club's community officer. Orlando Gili

“Not being at [our ground] means we haven’t got a community, our community has got to travel to us,” Morath stewed, one eye on the game. “Not just that, but East Dulwich [the local neighborhood] is feeling it as well. Without the crowds we’ve built up over recent years, the local pubs have had to lay off staff on Saturdays.” He attributed Meadow Residential’s conduct to pure pettiness ― “the kid in the playground taking the football away so nobody else can play.”

Meadow Residential did not respond to HuffPost’s emails or calls asking for comment. The company’s website says it has supported Dulwich Hamlet to the tune of just over $1 million, but has been “unable to financially support the Club” while the dispute with Southwark Council over the development continues.

Tom Cullen ― a content producer and social media strategist ― came to the club in 2013. After taking over Dulwich Hamlet’s online presence in 2016, he was soon invited to become a committee member, going on to become the director the following year. It was during his tenure that relations with Meadow Residential broke down. He’s spent the past six months working pro bono, alongside Rose and fellow board member Liam Hickey, to keep Dulwich Hamlet afloat.

Tom Cullen, a Dulwich Hamlet director. Orlando Gili

Cullen sees the fight as an opportunity for Dulwich Hamlet to set a political precedent. “This isn’t just about us,” he insisted. “We want to spearhead change to legislation so that other clubs know what to do.”

The Save Dulwich Hamlet campaign has attracted the attention of London Mayor Sadiq Khan, along with Labour Party leader Jeremy Corbyn. Cullen credits the club’s unique following for its continued survival.

“[Meadow] could have picked any other club in the country at our level or below and gotten away with it, frankly,” Cullen said. He is optimistic that a corner has been turned in the battle to save Champion Hill ― with heavyweight political backing, he believes Dulwich Hamlet will be back home within two years.

It’s a sentiment shared by Hugo Greenhalgh and Ben Sibley ― the faces behind “Forward the Hamlet,” an irreverent podcast and Twitter account.

Hugo Greenhalgh, left, and Ben Sibley, right, who are behind the podcast and Twitter account “Forward the Hamlet." Orlando Gili

Greenhalgh and Sibley also sense a sea-change in the club’s fortunes, pinpointing a recent Friday when Helen Hayes, member of Parliament for Dulwich and West Norwood, raised the club’s plight in the House of Commons ― a motion that resulted in Tracey Crouch, the minister for sport, promising the involvement of an independent mediator should negotiations with Meadow Residential fail. “[Hayes] finished this powerful speech by saying ’Forward the Hamlet,’” Greenhalgh explained, beaming.

“I lost my shit,” Sibley added.

Greenhalgh and Sibley represent the new wave of fans contributing to the club’s boom in popularity in recent years ― young creatives drawn to a different sort of football in the capital. This has led some to write off Dulwich Hamlet as a “hipster club,” but it’s a caricature that fails to recognize its rich heritage.

Dulwich Hamlet supporters. Orlando Gili

During the match, we’re introduced to people who have been with the club for decades, like volunteer turnstile operator Paul Griffin and Jack McInroy, unofficial club historian, who leans on the far corner pitch barrier to share his personal collection of old shirts and newspaper clippings. Dulwich Hamlet’s roots are deep and speak to the vacuum that would be left in its absence.

Bill Kirby, 98, has been supporting Dulwich Hamlet since 1932. Orlando Gili

In the seats of the main terrace sits 98-year-old Bill Kirby. He’s supported the Hamlet since 1932, and has always lived within a mile of Champion Hill. His memories of the team’s interwar heyday are vivid. He recalls average crowds of 10,000, special trains to ferry supporters to local derbies in Wimbledon or Kingston, and drinking shandy from the amateur cup in 1937. “To be honest, I wasn’t 18,” he whispers, confessing he hadn’t reached the legal drinking age, “but I went home pissed that night.”

In its match against a dogged Thurrock F.C. on April 14, Dulwich Hamlet scraped its way to a 2-1 victory, keeping the team in the mix for promotion at the end of the season. The fight is far from over, but hope is in the air.

Dulwich Hamlet players celebrate a goal. Orlando GiliConan O’Brien paid tribute to astute advertisers who tied their products to the royal wedding with his own set of spoof ads.

In a clip shared online Tuesday, the late-night TV host used imagery from Saturday’s ceremony to hawk energy drinks for kids, a divorce attorney and cold sore treatment.

O’Brien also poked fun at himself with a promo for his own show.

Check out the clip above.President Donald Trump launched a Twitter attack on The New York Times and one of its highest-profile journalists on Saturday morning, as he predicted that his personal attorney Michael Cohen would remain loyal in the face of an FBI investigation.

In three tweets, Trump claimed that the Times and its “third rate reporter” and “crooked H flunkie” Maggie Haberman were “going out of their way to destroy Michael Cohen and his relationship with me in the hope that he will ‘flip.’”

“Sorry, I don’t see Michael doing that despite the horrible Witch Hunt and the dishonest media!” Trump added.

The New York Times and a third rate reporter named Maggie Haberman, known as a Crooked H flunkie who I don’t speak to and have nothing to do with, are going out of their way to destroy Michael Cohen and his relationship with me in the hope that he will “flip.” They use.... — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) April 21, 2018

....non-existent “sources” and a drunk/drugged up loser who hates Michael, a fine person with a wonderful family. Michael is a businessman for his own account/lawyer who I have always liked & respected. Most people will flip if the Government lets them out of trouble, even if.... — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) April 21, 2018

....it means lying or making up stories. Sorry, I don’t see Michael doing that despite the horrible Witch Hunt and the dishonest media! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) April 21, 2018

Trump described Cohen, who is at the center of a federal investigation into reports he paid off two women who claimed to have had affairs with Trump, as “a fine person with a wonderful family.”

Haberman responded with this tweet, in which she mocked Trump for initially misspelling her name in a now-deleted tweet and suggested that her article reporting that Cohen would no longer “take a bullet” for Trump could have sparked the president’s anger:A biographer of Donald Trump says the president’s habit of lying can be traced back to his school days.

Pulitzer Prize-winning author Michael D’Antonio, who wrote the 2016 book The Truth About Trump, on Friday told CNN’s Anderson Cooper that the president has been fabricating stories since childhood.

“This is Donald, really going back to his school days when he was a boy, he insisted to others that he had hit home runs he had never hit in ball games,” D’Antonio said.

The author made the comments while discussing reports that Trump previously tried to deceive journalists by using false names in phone interviews.

Trump “left the New York Military Academy declaring himself the greatest baseball player in New York state and it just went on and on and on,” D’Antonio said. “He was named the ladies man at a school that had no young women at it, so you tell me, he has been doing this forever.”The Twitterverse was transfixed Friday night by the sound of millions of Americans scratching their heads over President Donald Trump’s tweet from Mar-a-Lago, accusing his former FBI director in a convoluted conspiracy theory.

“Really, does everybody know what that means?” the president asked. Based on an avalanche of responses on Twitter, it appeared many people didn’t.

The president claimed former FBI boss James Comey leaked “classified documents” to the press in order to “generate” a “special council,” so the probe was illegal to begin with.

James Comey illegally leaked classified documents to the press in order to generate a Special Council? Therefore, the Special Council was established based on an illegal act? Really, does everybody know what that means? — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) April 21, 2018

Tweets pointed out — repeatedly — that it’s special “counsel” — not “council.” And that special counsel Robert Mueller was named by the Department of Justice, not Comey, after the president said on national TV that he fired his FBI director because of “this Russian thing.”

But several on Twitter had a pretty good idea about what it all means:

It might mean you are the only guy over 70 up after 11pm... — Dennis McDaniels (@mcd3putt) April 21, 2018

You know your lawyer sucks, because the first thing any lawyer tells you is to shut the hell up. — Mike Wert (@MikeDWert) April 21, 2018

Go to sleep, would you! Your mind is trying to think too hard. — coffee first (@austinman4) April 21, 2018

John Barron!!!! You’re still up?!?! — Pandora (@CheetoTweet) April 21, 2018

I don’t think you know what anything means, really — Christie (@Christie_D22) April 21, 2018

You just can't seem to spell counsel correctly. Is that a Wharton thing? — MJdowntheshore (@MJdowntheshore) April 21, 2018

Actually it's a Trump U thing. — Expose Fox News As State Run Media (@leftcoastlefty5) April 21, 2018

Earlier in the day, Trump blasted “Wendy Wasserman Schultz” in a slam tweet about the Democratic National Committee’s new lawsuit against the Trump campaign. He later changed it to Rep. “Debbie” Wasserman Schultz (D-Fla.), the former chair of the party. People on Twitter guessed he might have confused her with the late New York playwright Wendy Wasserstein — or with Wendy from Peter Pan because he’s a lost boy.

Donald Trump/Twitter

Trump is on a tirade about someone named “Wendy Wasserman Schultz.” He’s just making up people now. — Palmer Report (@PalmerReport) April 20, 2018

It's fitting Trump just called Debbie "Wendy Wasserman Schultz" since he's the real life version of a boy who refused to grow up. — Nick Jack Pappas (@Pappiness) April 20, 2018

Shit, where's Captain Hook when you need him? — Trine Daely (@TrineDaely) April 21, 2018