Singer R. Kelly’s scandals may be too much for the people he employs. Since February, the singer’s lawyer, long-time assistant and publicist have all jumped ship, according to the BBC and The Rolling Stone.

Kelly’s attorney Linda Mensch quit back in February but told BBC in a Friday report the move was “unrelated to Mr Kelly’s social life.”

The singer’s executive assistant Diana Copeland told the BBC that she resigned from her position April 1. Copeland had worked with the R&B artist for ten years, but wouldn’t comment on her reasons for quitting.

The Rolling Stone also reported on Friday that Kelly’s publicist Trevian Kutti confirmed that she resigned from her position April 16.

On April 9, a 19-year-old woman filed a criminal complaint against singer R. Kelly, claiming that he “knowingly and intentionally” gave her a sexually transmitted disease. “These offenses occurred while our client was being groomed to join Kelly’s sex cult,” the woman’s lawyer said.A Florida man broke into Taylor Swift’s Manhattan home on Friday, according to police.

Investigating the report of a break-in, police found 22-year-old Roger Alvarado sleeping in the singer’s Tribeca residence. Swift was not home at the time.

Police arrested Alvarado, a resident of Homestead, Florida, for stalking, burglary, criminal mischief and trespassing. Back in February, Alvarado was arrested at that same New York address for using a shovel to break open the front door.

Stalkers have become a far too regular occurrence for the Grammy winner. Just this past week, a man wearing gloves and a mask was arrested outside of Swift’s Beverly Hills home on suspicion of stalking. A search of the man’s car revealed a knife, rope and ammunition.The one where Matt LeBlanc almost made us barf.

“Friends” fans will be familiar with the Season 6 scene in which Joey devours Rachel’s bizarre Thanksgiving meat trifle:

But on Friday’s broadcast of “The Graham Norton Show,” LeBlanc revealed a hitherto unknown (and potentially heave-inducing) detail about the filming of the episode.

Namely, when it came to chowing down on the meaty treat, he inadvertently ended up eating costar David Schwimmer’s spittle as well.In dissecting the courtroom revelation that Hannity was the “mystery” client of Trump’s personal attorney Michael Cohen, Maher acknowledged that he “got” that Hannity “obviously carries Trump’s water every day on the air.”

But the comedian was slightly more stunned at the revelation that Hannity reportedly talks with the president every day.

“I mean, this is such a violation of what the Fourth Estate is supposed to be. It’s not supposed to be a branch of the First Estate,” said Maher. “Can you imagine if they found out that (former President Barack) Obama was talking to Rachel Maddow every day?”Former New York City mayor and billionaire Michael Bloomberg lashed Scott Pruitt for failing to protect the environment in a “Face the Nation” interview set to air Sunday.

After Bloomberg unleashed a litany of criticism about the head of the Environmental Protection Agency, program host Margaret Brennan told him: “It sounds like you’re saying he’s not doing the job that he should be doing.”

Bloomberg responded: “I don’t think there’s any question about that. His job is to protect the environment and he has walked away 100 percent from that, saying the ‘environment doesn’t need protection, I’m going to protect jobs.’ That’s not his job.”

He added that Pruitt’s “policies are not good for the world. To debunk science and walk away from it is just ridiculous. Even if you don’t believe it, if there’s a possibility that it’s right, you have to take prophylactic actions to prevent a disaster.”

Things “are changing,” said Bloomberg. “You can’t deny that. You have a right to your own opinions; you don’t have a right to your own facts ... something is going on and we have to prepare for the worst.”

Bloomberg was part of a delegation of mayors, governors, business leaders and environmental advocates who attended a United Nations summit on climate change in Bonn, Germany, last November. The delegation blasted U.S. President Donald Trump’s decision last year to withdraw from the Paris climate agreement capping nations’ carbon emissions to battle global warming. Trump has characterized climate change as a hoax invented by the Chinese.

Pruitt is facing a growing avalanche of criticism for excessive spending and alleged conflicts of interest, among several issues. The Government Accountability Office determined early this week that Pruitt’s unauthorized expenditure of $43,000 on a soundproof phone booth in his office broke federal law. Reuters reported Thursday that Pruitt spent $45,000 in EPA funds to send a five-person advance team to Australia to prepare for an upcoming trip there that was later canceled.

Pruitt and the EPA have justified his pricey 20-man security detail and first-class travel as protection from “death threats.” The EPA yet to detail the threats and has instead pointed to criticism of Pruitt on social media.Verne Troyer's representatives confirmed the actor's death to HuffPost. Gabriel Olsen via Getty Images

Verne Troyer, who rose to fame after playing Mini-Me in the blockbuster “Austin Powers” films, died on Saturday, the actor’s representatives confirmed to HuffPost.

Troyer was 49 years old.

“Verne was an extremely caring individual,” an official statement shared with HuffPost read. “He wanted to make everyone smile, be happy, and laugh. Anybody in need, he would help to any extent possible.”

Troyer’s representatives did not disclose a cause of death but said that the actor “was a fighter when it came to his own battles.”

“Over the years he’s struggled and won, struggled and won, struggled and fought some more, but unfortunately this time was too much,” the statement read.

“Depression and Suicide are very serious issues. You never know what

kind of battle someone is going through inside. Be kind to one another. And always know, it’s never too late to reach out to someone for help.”

Troyer was born with a form of dwarfism in Centreville, Michigan. He, his older brother and younger sister grew up in an Amish community, although his parents had left the religion when he was young.

“My parents taught me to be optimistic and independent,” Verne said in a 2015 interview with the Guardian.

“They made me feel that I could do anything I set my mind to, which has really helped me,” he added. “They didn’t make allowances for me because of my height.”

In a 2013 Ask Me Anything reddit forum, Troyer said his parents were his role models.

“They never treated me any different than my other average sized siblings,” he wrote. “I used to have to carry wood, feed the cows and pigs and farm animals.”

A post shared by Verne Troyer (@vernetroyer) on Apr 21, 2018 at 12:58pm PDT

While Troyer became a pop culture icon for playing one of the most memorable villains of the late 1990s ― Mini-Me ― he has had roles in many other films, including, Percy in “Imaginarium of Doctor Parnassus,” Coach Punch Cherkov in “The Love Guru” with Michael Myers, and Griphook in “Harry Potter and the Sorcerer’s Stone.”

Troyer got his first gig in the entertainment industry in 1993 as a baby’s stunt double for a film titled “Baby’s Day Out.” After that, he found success as a stuntman for several films, including the 1996 comedy “Jingle All The Way” with Arnold Schwarzenegger.

In his reddit AMA, Troyer suggested that he did all of his own stunts in the “Austin Powers” series.

“Nobody else can do my stunts except for a doll,” Troyer wrote. “I’m only 2 foot 8 dude!”

“Verne was the consummate professional and a beacon of positivity for those of us who had the honor of working with him,” his “Austin Powers” co-star Mike Myers said in a statement obtained by The Hollywood Reporter. “It is a sad day, but I hope he is in a better place. He will be greatly missed.”

In recent years, the actor had launched his own YouTube series where he shared his recipes, interviewed people, reviewed products and answered questions from fans.

Troyer was hospitalized in Los Angeles for an alleged poisoning two weeks before his death. At the time, celebrity news site The Blast confirmed with the Los Angeles Police Department that Troyer was placed on an involuntary psychiatric hold.

After the hospitalization, Troyer’s representatives said he was “getting the best care possible and is resting comfortably.”

The actor has been frank with his fans about his struggle with alcohol addiction. After being hospitalized in April 2017, Troyer told his fans on Instagram that the addiction isn’t an “easy fight,” but added, “I’m willing to continue my fight day by day.”

In the same post, Troyer said he was checking into a treatment center.

A post shared by Verne Troyer (@vernetroyer) on May 30, 2017 at 10:38pm PDTA billboard in Cedar Rapids, Iowa, calls out Rep. Rod Blum (R-Iowa). Survivors Empowered

On the 19th anniversary of the Columbine High School mass shooting in Littleton, Colorado, billboards posted on roadsides across the country let local residents know how much money their lawmakers have accepted from the National Rifle Association.

On Friday, grassroots gun reform group Survivors Empowered launched a campaign called “30 Billboards Outside Cowardly Incumbents,” inspired by the movie “Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri.” The group bought ad space on 13 billboards in nine states, from California to Iowa to Alabama, and are fundraising for 17 more. Each sign lists the name of a local member of Congress and how much money they’ve received from the gun lobby group.

The campaign is meant to highlight the influence of the gun lobby on lawmakers and put pressure on members of Congress to cut ties with the NRA and pass gun control legislation.

The NRA spends millions each year on lobbying and campaigns in an effort to get pro-gun lawmakers elected and gun control legislation blocked. In 2016, the NRA invested $30 million in Trump’s presidential campaign and at least $20 million in GOP Senate campaigns, according to an audit obtained by the Center for Responsive Politics.

“Many Americans really don’t understand how the NRA works and controls politicians. People ask how come they won’t stand up and do something. Well, because the NRA is in their pockets,” said Survivors Empowered founder Sandy Phillips, whose 24-year-old daughter was killed in the 2012 mass shooting in a movie theater in Aurora, Colorado.

“We’re not afraid of the NRA,” she added. “What can they take from us? They’ve already taken our daughter.”

Gun violence survivors are ready to change the world. They are putting up billboards across the US calling out members of Congress who take blood money from the NRA. https://t.co/jFOcAQ00Ry pic.twitter.com/35cJjNyiQq — Hollye Dexter (@hollyedexter) April 20, 2018

The billboard campaign launched the same day hundreds of students walked out of schools across the country to mark the anniversary of Columbine and call for legislative action on guns.

In the wake of the Parkland, Florida, school massacre and the subsequent wave of student activism, young protesters have repeatedly called out lawmakers for their ties to the NRA. Last month, the NRA lobbied against gun regulations proposed in Florida, which included raising the minimum age for firearms purchases to 21 and banning the sale of bump stocks. The legislation passed.

“There are a lot of Americans out there saying, ‘We’ve had enough and want these politicians called out,’” Phillips told HuffPost on Friday. “What’s great is these students aren’t afraid ― they’re showing better leadership than many politicians.”

The billboards were placed in congressional districts of politicians who had received what the group deemed “substantial” financial support from the NRA. The contribution figures listed on the billboards were from gun reform group Everytown for Gun Safety and represented the total donations the NRA had made to the politicians over their careers.

While the billboards had been slowly going up over the past week, the campaign officially launched Friday with candlelight vigils planned at most locations. So far the billboards have been funded to stay up for about six weeks, Phillips said, but the group hopes to raise enough to purchase more billboards and keep them up through the November midterm elections.

Billboard in Coeur d’Alene, Idaho, targeting Rep. Raúl Labrador (R-Idaho). Survivors Empowered

Billboard in Omaha on NRA contributions to Rep. Don Bacon (R-Neb.). Survivors EmpoweredRep. Jeff Denham said he was hopeful that Republicans could come up with the outlines of an immigration deal as soon as Thursday. Tom Williams via Getty Images

WASHINGTON ― House Republicans say they’re making progress on a plan to do the long-impossible: unite a fractured GOP conference on the issue of immigration.

With GOP moderates still pushing for a slate of votes on immigration, House Republicans generally are feeling the pressure to come up with a plan to finally address the precarious state of the Deferred Action on Childhood Arrivals program.

A small group of GOP moderates, conservatives and leaders emerged from a meeting Wednesday afternoon saying they were getting closer to an immigration bill that might be able to pass the House with almost exclusively Republican support.

Rep. Jeff Denham (R-Calif.), one of those leading the effort to force a series of immigration votes through a discharge petition, told reporters he was hopeful that Republicans could come up with the outlines of an immigration deal to address DACA as soon as Thursday.

“We’re getting pretty close,” he said.

Other Republicans also sounded optimistic about the prospects of a deal. House Majority Whip Steve Scalise (R-La.) said members have been having some “really good talks.” Rep. Mark Meadows (R-N.C.), the chairman of the conservative House Freedom Caucus, said there was “more than a reasonable chance” that Republicans would strike a deal by Thursday. And Rep. Carlos Curbelo (R-Fla.), another moderate immigration advocate, said the roughly hour-and-a-half meeting in the Capitol was “not a waste of time.”

But as bullish as Republicans were on Wednesday, there were still some key sticking points that could ultimately prevent an immigration agreement.

For one, moderates and conservatives don’t have a shared concept of a “permanent solution” for undocumented immigrants who came to the United States as children. Denham noted Wednesday that his preferred idea is to allow them to file for legal status for five-year periods, with the ultimate goal being legal permanent residence in 10 years, and Curbelo said a permanent solution for these types of childhood arrivals was “essential” to any deal.

Meadows, however, said it was important that any deal has “no special pathway to citizenship,” although he did say he was open to allowing undocumented immigrants to “work toward citizenship.”

These differences over the endpoint, which may seem like minor distinctions, are actually major policy disagreements that lawmakers have yet to sort out. And there are some Republicans who just don’t see a way to split the difference.

Immigration hardliner Rep. Andy Biggs (R-Ariz.) told HuffPost on Wednesday that he saw himself as “diametrically opposed” to Denham on immigration and that he felt there were many members who would vote the interests of their individual districts rather than just accepting a deal.

Moderates believe that one solution could be to offer multiple votes on multiple bills during an immigration vote-a-rama. But conservatives see that proposal as hardly any different from what moderates want anyway, and Meadows was emphatic Wednesday that, if there were a deal, it had to consist of one bill.

Another problem standing in the way of GOP consensus is that moderates and conservatives both believe they have the upper hand. Moderates note that they are getting dangerously close to having enough Republicans and Democrats signed on to a discharge petition to force a vote on a slate of different immigration proposals. That means they could pass a bill through the House with the help of roughly a few dozen Republicans and every Democrat.

Meanwhile, conservatives believe any immigration deal that Republicans strike among themselves would skew more toward the conservatives’ ideology, considering the small number of moderates in the 235-person Republican House majority. They also note that any immigration deal would have to win Senate approval and secure President Donald Trump’s signature to become law.

On that point, lawmakers are left to mostly guess where Trump would do.

The Senate tried and failed to pass immigration legislation of its own earlier this year, sunk in part by hardline demands from the White House. Trump rejected bipartisan proposals to increase border security measures and grant legal status to Dreamers, and his administration lobbied senators to oppose those proposals in favor of a bill that included measures to restrict legal immigration and end protections for immigrants at the border.

The Trump-backed bill ultimately received only 39 votes ― less than the bipartisan alternatives that received a vote. But the president has shown no indication that he’s willing to budge from his demands for a sweeping immigration bill. In the months since, he has only doubled down on calls to toughen policy against asylum-seekers and children at the border ― two items Democrats adamantly oppose.

Still, Trump’s past vow to support any immigration bill that Congress sends him rings in the ears of moderates, and many of them believe the president is personally more open than his staff to a solution with a pathway to citizenship, particularly if it also includes money for a border wall.

Lawmakers have been grasping for an immigration bill since last year, when Trump rescinded the DACA policy that allowed nearly 700,000 young undocumented immigrants who came to the U.S. as children, often called Dreamers, to stay and work. DACA recipients are currently able to renew their protections because of court injunctions, which helped quiet some of the calls for action from Congress. But GOP moderates from districts with large immigrant populations see a pressing need to resolve the issue.

While those moderates believe they have the votes (with Democrats) to get a bill through the House utilizing a discharge petition, they are also open to a negotiation with their fellow conservative Republicans and GOP leaders in the hopes that it could result in a bill becoming a law.

“We want an opportunity to pass a bill that can be signed by the president,” Curbelo said Wednesday.

And even though it seems like moderates and conservatives are on mainly opposite sides of the issue, both factions at least want to exhaust all options within the Republican conference before they truly square off ― either to strengthen their case that there is no solution or to actually, somewhat miraculously, come to an agreement.

As Meadows tried to explain the reasons for his optimism that an immigration deal could come together shortly, he said that even though Republicans have been arguing over this issue for decades, he thought that now they could finally write something that would win over almost everyone in the conference.WASHINGTON ― Ahead of a tight primary on May 8, Dennis Kucinich’s bid to win the Democratic nomination for the critical gubernatorial race in Ohio landed in trouble this week because of the revelation that he was paid $20,000 last year by a group sympathetic to Syrian dictator Bashar Assad. Now, largely overlooked election filings show that the former congressman’s political apparatus received thousands of more dollars from two brothers involved in multiple efforts to bring Kucinich and Assad together since 2007.

Kucinich has depicted his visits with Assad ― all but one of which took place after the Syrian ruler began turning his guns on his own people in 2011― as important diplomatic outreach to avoid American foreign policy mistakes and militarism. But he has also repeatedly downplayed credible reports of war crimes by the Assad regime, including at an April 2017 British conference the pro-Assad group paid for him to attend, three months after his trip to Damascus. Kucinich opponents are now making the issue central to the question of whether he’s fit to be governor.

“Kucinich has been an outspoken defender of the Assad regime in Syria even as it killed countless people and has repeatedly used chemical weapons against defenseless civilians,” former Ohio Gov. Ted Strickland (D), a supporter of Democratic front-runner Richard Cordray, said Wednesday.

Cordray’s campaign is already demanding that Kucinich reveal any other income since he left Congress in 2013, including potential payments for multiple appearances on RT, a media outlet owned by the pro-Assad government of Russia.

The former congressman’s financial ties to the Khawam brothers could add fuel to the fire.

Asked about the donations, Kucinich spokesman Andy Juniewicz noted that the men had been friends for over 30 years. The Kucinich campaign says Cordray’s team is misrepresenting his views.

HuffPost’s attempts to contact the two brothers were unsuccessful.

While Bassam Khawam had helped bring Kucinich to Syria before, the trip in January 2017 drew particular attention because it included Rep. Tulsi Gabbard (D-Hawaii), a favorite among some grassroots Democrats, and came just as President Donald Trump was entering office after suggesting he would soften U.S. opposition to Assad. Khawam told The Atlantic that his role does not mean he supports the Syrian regime. But in the days after the trip became public knowledge, sources told The Washington Post that Bassam had frequently visited Assad’s former ambassador to the U.S., and Bassam’s brother Elie told the Daily Beast that he is a member of the Syrian Social Nationalist Party, a group fighting alongside Assad’s forces in Syria.

Gabbard last year said she repaid the costs of the trip after an uproar in Congress. Kucinich has rebuffed commentators’ calls to refund the Khawams. His lawyer told international relations analyst Idrees Ahmad that the visit was paid for by the Arab American Community Center for Economic and Social Services (AACCESS-Ohio), a group Bassam Khawam once headed, and with Kucinich’s private funds.

After returning, the former congressman said he saw it as a fact-finding mission and also met with members of the opposition to Assad, and Khawam said his goal was “to stop the carnage.”

″He’s always been on the side of peace, and when he’s gone to Syria, when he’s gone to Lebanon, when he’s gone to Israel, it’s been in the interest of peace,” Juniewicz said on Friday. “His view is that there are many interests, many forces involved in all of the conflicts in the Middle East. It’s impossible to point the finger at one thing, one person, one factor as being the underlying cause.”

Yet antiwar figures on the left, such as Kucinich, have faced years of criticism that, in their haste to discourage American intervention and bash Western foreign policy, they have been too soft on Assad.

Kucinich’s campaign responded to the furor over the $20,000 from the pro-Assad group by releasing the transcript of the speech he was paid to give at the April 2017 conference in the U.K., which touted speakers such as two Assad ministers and a British baroness who has adopted talking points friendly to the Syrian regime.

While Kucinich did call Assad’s government an “authoritarian regime,” he echoed its depiction of the conflict as a result of meddling by the U.S. and partner nations including Turkey, Saudi Arabia and Qatar ― deflecting responsibility from the Assad family’s decades-long repression. “The war in Syria is not a civil war and never was,” he said.

He also repeated the claim that Assad provided free education and health care to his population ― an exaggeration especially bizarre in the context of the regime now systematically bombing hospitals ― and gave “protection” to citizens of various faiths, neglecting to note suppressive measures pre-dating the conflict or Assad’s incitement of religious divisions to rally supporters.

“The West cannot impose its will on Syria, no matter how many bombs it drops,” Kucinich said.

On the hotly debated issue of chemical weapon use, the former congressman did press Assad on claims he deployed internationally banned weapons against civilians during an interview with him in 2013 as part of Kucinich’s years of work for Fox News. But he has also cast doubt on the idea that Assad was to blame for gas attacks in 2017, criticizing the U.S. for strikes intended to punish the regime’s move.

The Joint Investigative Mechanism of the United Nations has since blamed Assad for the 2017 incident. Kucinich’s spokesman did not respond to a question about whether he believes that assessment but said the candidate is clear that something must be done about reports of deadly chemical weapon use weeks ago that prompted a joint U.S.-British-French attack last weekend on sites in Syria.

“Certainly, the culprits responsible for the gas attack on Douma need to be identified and brought to justice. But last night’s missile strike occurs as a violation of international law at precisely the time when international law must be enforced on behalf of the victims of Douma,” Kucinich said on April 14. “It is noteworthy that those responsible for the gas attack have yet to be identified.”

Financial disclosures for Kucinich’s latest campaign are due on April 26.

UPDATE ― April 25: Hours after a critical editorial was posted in the Cleveland Plain Dealer, Kucinich’s campaign issued a press release on Wednesday, April 25, saying the Khawam brothers had supported other Democratic and Republican politicians in the past and describing the men as pro-peace.

The statement quoted both brothers. “Dennis believes in peace, as we do, and that’s why we support him,” Bassam Khawam said. “The safety of our family members here in the United States and in Lebanon are being placed in serious jeopardy by untruthful accusations,” Elie Khawam said.

The statement also doubled down on Kucinich’s past portrayal of the war in Syria as the product of U.S. interventionism rather than Assad’s brutality, saying that on the candidate’s last visit to Syria he met with religious leaders urging “an end to foreign support of terrorists who are trying to destroy Syria’s secular, pluralistic society.”

Kucinich is set to appear at a campaign event on Thursday with environmental lawyer and activist Robert F. Kennedy Jr., who has argued that the Syrian conflict was caused not by popular unhappiness with Assad but by a plot devised by the U.S. and its partners in the Arab world to control Mideast oil and gas flows.Four former U.S. presidents were among some 1,500 mourners who gathered at a Houston church for her funeral, after the matriarch of one of the country’s most prominent political dynasties died on Tuesday at age 92.

Bush, the wife of the 41st president of the United States, George H.W. Bush, and the mother of the 43rd, George W. Bush, was lauded at a televised but invitation-only service at St. Martin’s Episcopal Church, where she and her family have been members since the 1950s.

“She was candid and comforting, steadfast and straightforward, honest and loving,” said the historian and author Jon Meacham, who wrote a biography of George H.W. Bush and was one of three eulogists whom Barbara Bush herself selected before her death.Democrat John Heenan is running an ad against Sinclair Broadcast Group as part of his populist campaign against Rep. Greg Gianforte (R). John Heenan for Congress

Montana Democrat John Heenan is blasting Sinclair Broadcast Group for “using its power to take advantage of journalists” in paid advertisements on local TV stations owned by Sinclair.

Heenan, a consumer rights attorney and restaurant owner from Billings, is one of four Democrats challenging incumbent Rep. Greg Gianforte (R).

The 30-second spot highlights Heenan’s populist bona fides, potentially providing a model for other Democrats trying to exploit grassroots’ anger over Sinclair’s support for President Donald Trump’s agenda. Sinclair, which owns or operates more TV stations than any other company, drew fire earlier this month when it emerged that it had forced news anchors at all of its stations to read an identical message denouncing “fake news,” which Trump has used to characterize coverage he dislikes.

“This station is owned by Sinclair Broadcasting, a powerful corporation that forces its journalists to read corporate talking points on the air,” Heenan says in the advertisement. “A corporation using its power to take advantage of journalists, our democracy and the people of Montana? Not on my watch.”

The ad is due to air on the three Sinclair-owned NBC affiliates in western and south central Montana, reaching viewers in the cities of Missoula, Butte and Kalispell. Heenan’s campaign has made a four-figure buy that will run the spot during the “Today” show on Monday and Tuesday mornings, as well as during the evening and late-night news blocs on those days.

Tammy Wegman, general manager of KECI, one of three Sinclair-owned NBC affiliates, told The Associated Press that the station would air the ad, because its executives “don’t turn away candidate ads.”

Earlier this month, the liberal group Allied Progress succeeded in buying airtime for an ad on at least one Sinclair station, attacking the company’s coordinated “fake news” scripts and encouraging the Federal Communications Commission to deny Sinclair’s proposed acquisition of 40 additional TV stations. Sinclair, which says it now operates 193 TV stations in 89 markets, would control stations that reach more than 70 percent of the country’s homes if the acquisition wins approval.

But Sinclair bookended the 30-second Allied Progress spot with 15-second disclaimers noting that the “ad was purchased by a group known for its liberal bias and we hope you won’t buy into the hysteria and hype.”

Wegman did not immediately respond to a question on whether Sinclair stations would show Heenan’s ad with similar disclaimers.

Since the 2016 election, Sinclair has joined Fox News and conservative talk radio as a media bogeyman for Democrats and liberals. Trump’s son-in-law and senior adviser Jared Kushner revealed in December that the Trump campaign had brokered an agreement with Sinclair to provide greater access to Trump and the campaign if the company’s channels aired uninterrupted interviews with Trump.

After Trump’s election, Sinclair hired former Trump adviser Boris Epshteyn as a political commentator. The company requires its local TV stations to air Epshteyn’s pro-Trump analysis nine times a week.

What distinguishes Sinclair from the overtly conservative Fox News, however, is that it claims to be an objective local news provider.

“All of us thought that local media was off limits,” Heenan told HuffPost in an interview.

Heenan said the goal of his ad is to educate voters about the issue of corporate interference in media and give voice to concerns that some Sinclair employees have expressed. He decided not to mention Trump in the ad, because he believes that the issue would be the same if it were top-down corporate pressure on behalf of a Democrat. (Omitting Trump offers potential political benefits too: Trump won Montana by 20 percentage points in 2016.)

“The thing that bothers me is corporate media forcing reporters to say political talking points instead of honest straightforward news.” - John Heenan

“Does it bother me that local newscasters here were forced to read these talking points? Yeah,” Heenan said. “But whether it was Donald Trump talking points or frankly, Barack Obama points, the thing that bothers me is corporate media forcing reporters to say political talking points instead of honest, straightforward news.”

For Heenan, who successfully sued the country’s five largest banks for fraudulently foreclosing on Montana homeowners, the issue of corporate power in media fits nicely into his campaign themes.

Heenan has made the corrupting influence of corporate money in politics a key plank of his campaign, claiming that the “system is rigged” against ordinary people.

And in Gianforte, Heenan has the perfect foil for a debate over journalism and corporate influence. Gianforte won the Montana seat despite body-slamming a reporter the day before the special election. Frederick Smith, vice president and director of Sinclair, donated $1,000 to Gianforte’s campaign the day after the attack. Smith’s brother and fellow Sinclair owner, Robert, has donated over $10,000 to Gianforte in the past two years.

Heenan is running on a platform of fighting for ordinary people against big corporations, including by championing a Medicare-for-all system in which the federal government would provide health insurance to all Americans. It’s one of several stances that won Heenan the endorsement of Justice Democrats, a group that backs left-wing candidates in congressional Democratic primaries.

Heenan dismissed the idea that his support for Medicare-for-all could prove a political liability in a general election fight with Gianforte.

He noted that Gianforte had lost his gubernatorial bid to Democrat Steve Bullock in the same election as Trump’s landslide, a fact that complicates the notion that Montana is a uniformly red state.

And Heenan, who has sued health insurers on behalf of clients and managed health care-related personal bankruptcies, maintains that Medicare-for-all is an idea that has the capacity to appeal to Republican and independent voters as well.

“What I see is a health care system set up to protect insurance company and pharmaceutical company profit margins instead of serving the people,” Heenan said. “Protecting those profits is not a conservative value.”

“Everyone’s frustrated with the Affordable Care Act. The worst platform to run on in is, ‘Vote for me and I’ll tweak the ACA,’” he added.

Asked whether he plans to vote for House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi (D-Calif.) to become House speaker, in the event that he is elected, Heenan said that it was unlikely.

“I want to know what my choices are. I would say at this point no,” Heenan said. “I would hope to have someone who’s better reflective of what the folks in Montana want.”

Heenan has a large fundraising lead over his three Democratic rivals: oil industry geologist-turned-land conservationist Grant Kier; former state Rep. Kathleen Williams; and former Department of Justice attorney Jared Pettinato.House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi (D-Calif.) has been going after Republicans for a “culture of corruption, cronyism and incompetence.” Bill Clark/Getty Images

WASHINGTON ― Democrats are looking back to the last time they took control of the House for lessons on what may work this year, and they’re starting to narrow in on a major theme: the Republican “culture of corruption, cronyism and incompetence.”

In 2006, Democrats won majorities in both the House and Senate, breaking the hold Republicans had on Congress for more than a decade.

“In Iraq and here at home, Americans have made clear they are tired of the failures of the last six years,” Sen. Harry Reid of Nevada (D-Nev.), who became the majority leader in the new Congress, said at the time.

There’s no doubt that deep dissatisfaction with then-President George W. Bush ― from his handling of Hurricane Katrina to the Iraq War ― created a tough atmosphere for Republicans. Getting out of Iraq, in particular, was a rallying cry for a growing progressive base that mobilized and organized in a way that’s similar to what has happened with the resistance movement on the left in the wake of President Donald Trump’s win.

But in the House, a number of scandals besieged Republicans.

“Choking your mistress. Touching little boys. Taking money from the Russians. Questionable business dealings. You name it, we had it. On and on, never ended,” said a GOP strategist who worked at the National Republican Congressional Committee in 2006 and requested anonymity to speak openly.

Democrats seized on these issues and created a “culture of corruption” refrain that another former NRCC operative said was extremely effective. In many ways, it pulled from what former Georgia Rep. Newt Gingrich (R) did in the 1980s, when he portrayed Congress as a corrupt institution and hammered various internal scandals. It led to the downfall of the Democratic speaker, Jim Wright, and eventually installed a Republican majority in the House with Gingrich as the new guy in charge.

In 2006, the scandals dripped out bit by bit. Republicans watched them pile up, but still thought they might be able to keep the House ― until September when the Mark Foley scandal broke. The news that the GOP congressman from Florida had been sending sexually explicit text messages to teenage boys was the final nail in the coffin.

“Literally overnight, everybody’s polling data went down 20 points. I’ve never seen anything like it since,” said one of the former NRCC aides.

House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi (D-Calif.) is bringing back her 2006 refrain for this cycle. It first appeared in an April 6 statement calling for the resignation of Environmental Protection Agency head Scott Pruitt, saying he was “a part of the Trump Administration’s culture of corruption, cronyism and incompetence.”

It then popped up later that day in one of her press releases, and then three days later in a letter to her colleagues about their priorities in the coming months.

In her weekly press conference the following day, she used the phrase twice, reminding reporters of that earlier election: “Some may recall that in 2005, 2006, one of our mantras during the campaign was to drain the swamp, to end the Republican culture of cronyism, corruption and incompetence, and that is exactly what we did. The president has misappropriated that term of art, ‘drain the swamp,’ and what does he do but have an administration that is wallowing in it.”

Other Democrats say that the message has been talked about in strategy meetings as something they want to do more of.

The targets in Congress aren’t as obvious as they were last time, with many of the men who were caught up in recent sexual harassment scandals quickly resigning on their own. But there’s plenty of material for them to work with in the Trump administration, including abuses that the Republican leadership in Congress has been unwilling to speak up against. Also expect Democrats to go after Republicans for how they, or their corporate donors, benefitted from the tax cut law.

In the 2006 elections, Democrats won back control of both the House and the Senate. Nicholas Kamm/Getty Images

Of course, many of the Democrats’ gains were short-lived. In 2010, the next midterm cycle, Republicans swept back into office in dramatic fashion, buoyed by the momentum of the tea party. They retook the House and picked up seats in the Senate.

In particular, the 2010 elections all but wiped out many of the more conservative Democrats who won in redder districts.

“It was a great short-term strategy,” one of the former NRCC aides said. “It allowed them to pass Obamacare. But the joke was up four years later.”

With Democrats competitive in more seats than usual this year, there’s concern that they could see their gains wiped out in cycles where the progressive base is less energized.

But Anna Greenberg, a Democratic pollster at Greenberg Quinlan Rosner Research, notes that the expanded map this year is different than it was in 2006. Democrats then won a bunch of seats “that they had no business winning” because they were such long shots ― Republican districts that Sen. John McCain (R-Ariz.) had won in the presidential race in 2008.

This year, however, Democrats are trying to pick up seats in districts that Hillary Clinton won in 2016. Take Texas’ 7th Congressional District, for example. Republican Mitt Romney won it by 21 points in 2012, but Clinton then won it by two points last year.

“Massive shifts in these districts,” Greenberg said. “I think those changes are enduring because this is built on an actual trend that is happening around college-educated voters becoming more Democratic, and they’re much more likely to live in these suburban areas. I don’t necessarily see a radical swing back to the norm like we did in 2010.”

Karin Johanson, the executive director of the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee in the 2006 cycle, and she said she had no idea this far out that they had a chance to retake the House.

“The most anybody saw was that we were going to pick up some seats,” she said. “By March, we still didn’t know we could take the House back. It always seemed really really hard, the number of seats we’d need.”

In April 2006, then-House Majority Leader Tom DeLay (R-Texas) announced he would be resigning from Congress. DeLay was ensnared in a corruption scandal and faced a competitive Democratic challenger. Chip Somodevilla via Getty Images

There also wasn’t the same grassroots energy that is present this time, Johanson said. Groups like MoveOn, Americans Against Escalation In Iraq and VoteVets mobilized people around the war and helped turn the tide of public opinion toward withdrawal. That movement sparked a generation of activists who are still in politics today. But online organizing was still relatively new and while effective, didn’t happen on the scale of 2018. Democratic candidates have said they’ve never seen anything like what’s happening in the resistance now.

“There is no one single figurehead to take on the president, and that gives us an opportunity for new leadership to arise naturally from the grassroots standpoint,” said Jon Soltz, the co-founder of VoteVets. “That’s the sort of momentum you’re seeing.”Amnesty International on Saturday named former San Francisco 49ers quarterback Colin Kaepernick its 2018 Ambassador of Conscience for his kneeling protests against racial injustice.

The award, given to Kaepernick in an Amsterdam ceremony, is handed out each year to “individuals and groups who speak out for justice,” Amnesty says on its website, with an aim to “create debate, encourage public action and raise awareness of human rights issues.” Past recipients include Nelson Mandela, Malala Yousafzai and U2.

Kaepernick famously caused a stir by taking a knee during the national anthem at NFL games to protest racial inequality, and by refusing to stop. Other players later joined his protests.

No team has picked him up after he became a free agent after the 2016 season ― although an Adidas executive recently said the company is interested in sponsoring Kaepernick if he is signed. A large number of NFL managers reportedly “generally hate” Kaepernick for his activism, and he publicly earned the scorn of President Donald Trump.

Sometimes, to stand up for justice, you have to kneel.



Colin Kaepernick received the @Amnesty Ambassador of Conscience award 2018. #AmbassadorOfConscience #Amnesty50 pic.twitter.com/uxqaboOYwg — Gauri van Gulik (@GaurivanGulik) April 21, 2018

Kaepernick operates a charity, the Colin Kaepernick Foundation, which marked a milestone in January when it finished donating $1 million to organizations that help underprivileged communities ― a pledge he made in 2016.

“The Ambassador of Conscience award celebrates the spirit of activism and exceptional courage, as embodied by Colin Kaepernick. He is an athlete who is now widely recognized for his activism because of his refusal to ignore or accept racial discrimination,” Salil Shetty, secretary general of Amnesty International, said in a statement.

In a speech at the award ceremony, Kaepernick touched on the death of Tamir Rice, the 12-year-old shot by police in Ohio, along with what motivates him and other social activists.

“We protest because we love ourselves and our people,” he said.

He echoed the sentiments in a statement issued by Amnesty: “While taking a knee is a physical display that challenges the merits of who is excluded from the notion of freedom, liberty, and justice for all, the protest is also rooted in a convergence of my moralistic beliefs, and my love for the people.”The father of a 3-year-old girl who accidentally shot and injured her pregnant mother will be facing felony charges in connection with the incident.

Menzo Brazier of Michigan City, Indiana, was charged on Thursday with two felony counts of criminal recklessness and another felony count of neglect of a dependent.

The 21-year-old father allegedly left a loaded gun in the car with his girlfriend and two young children when he went inside a clothing store in Merrillville, Indiana, on Tuesday, according to ABC News.

Brazier placed the legal 9-millimeter handgun between the console and the front passenger seat, according to Chicago station WFLD. At some point, his three-year-old daughter grabbed the gun and pulled the trigger ― shooting her mother, Shanique Thomas, who was seven weeks pregnant with her third child.

Thomas underwent surgery at a hospital and suffered nerve damage, according to the New York Post, but survived the shooting.

Thomas told police she was unaware that Brazier had brought a gun into the car, according to the Chicago Tribune. She was sitting in the driver’s seat when she “suddenly heard a loud pop like a balloon,” according to a police statement. The 21-year-old told police she then “realized [a] large amount of blood was coming out of her.”

Investigators told ABC News the little girl fired the shot through the back of the driver seat. The bullet reportedly hit Thomas and exited the car through the front windshield.

A store employee told police that Brazier came out of the store and asked, “What’s going on?” and then grabbed his girlfriend and asked her, “Did you shoot yourself?”

He then became “very upset and very flustered,” according to witnesses.

Brazier allegedly told police the gun was loaded but that no bullets were chambered.

He also insisted he told his daughter not to touch his guns or knives, according to the Times of Northwest Indiana.

A police officer said in a court document that he observed Brazier asking his 3-year-old daughter after the incident, “What did you do? Were you playing with daddy’s gun? ... You aren’t supposed to play with daddy’s gun,” according to the court document.

“I know,” the girl said.Ellen DeGeneres said on “The Ellen Show” Friday that the staggering number of shootings of unarmed black men and boys made her “ashamed” to be a white person.

“I’m furious,” she told her guest, news commentator Van Jones. “As a white person, I’m ashamed.”

DeGeneres brought up two stories that made national news just this month — the police killing of Diante Yarber in a Walmart parking lot in California, and an incident in Michigan involving 14-year-old Brennan Walker, who knocked on a door to ask for directions only to be shot at by the white homeowner. (Though DeGeneres and Jones’ conversation was mostly focused on police shootings, the homeowner who shot at Walker was not a member of law enforcement.)

“I think, how is this possible that this keeps happening and nothing — there’s just blatant racism,” DeGeneres said.

Jones offered some thoughts about how there’s a “glitch” in the minds of many people, who perceive the same actions by white people and black people in entirely different ways. He pointed to his own years at Yale University, where many white students used drugs regularly with little or no repercussions.

“Four blocks away, in the housing projects, kids were doing drugs and they all went to prison,” he said.

He added: “Because we have this brain glitch that says, if a white kid does it, eh, maybe they need a little bit of help. If a black kid does it, we’ve gotta punish them.”

Jones said a major problem with law enforcement is that our culture has a “default unwritten rule” that police are always right.

“Any human system that doesn’t have adequate checks and balances is going to tend toward abuse and corruption,” he said.NEW YORK ― It’s been almost two decades, but Jerome Rose still remembers his one and only brush with Donald Trump like it was yesterday.

A fire in Rose’s South Park Tower apartment building had just killed four of his neighbors. He was visiting the owners of the Upper West Side high-rise to invite them to a memorial service for the victims when the phone rang.

“I overheard that Trump was on the line,” Rose said recently.

Trump then was one of the most influential voices in the New York City real estate community. The law at the time did not require sprinklers in residential high-rises, and Trump wanted to keep it that way.

“Twenty years later, I’m still angry,” said Rose, who at age 79 continues his work as a concert pianist. “He was calling the owners to get them to join with him…. He was lobbying that the law shouldn’t be changed. He could not afford to put sprinklers in his Trump Tower.”

Trump scored only a partial victory that year. New residential high-rises in New York had to include sprinklers, but older structures ― such as Trump’s eponymous Midtown tower ― were not required to go back and install them.

Smoke rises from the 50th floor of Trump Tower in Manhattan on April 7. Muhammed Said Tani/Anadolu Agency via Getty Images

That partial victory in 1999, though, likely sealed the fate of a Trump Tower apartment owner earlier this month. What officials have since determined was an electrical fire caused by overloaded power strips quickly spread throughout Todd Brassner’s unit. The 67-year-old was taken to a hospital but died later that night.

Had the unit contained sprinklers, they might well have saved him.

“It’s so sad,” said his longtime friend Rachael Caine. “Todd could have lived. I don’t think he had to die.”

Trump, now the nation’s president, has had little to say about any of it. He sent out a tweet thanking the firefighters and boasting of his building’s design before the fire was even extinguished. He has not commented publicly on it since then.

According to Caine, Brassner never liked Trump and was appalled when he won first the Republican nomination and then the presidency. He had come to hate living in a building with Trump’s name on it and the hassle of the protests, the roadblocks, the constant Secret Service presence. He had considered selling and leaving, she said, but couldn’t afford to because too many of his neighbors also wanted to dump their units and too few buyers were interested. The result has been a soft market and falling values.

An armed police officer stands guard at the entrance of Trump Tower on April 13. Extra security measures at the building have been a hassle for residents. Damon Dahlen/HuffPost

“The number of properties on the market at Trump Tower has doubled in the past year,” said Wendy Maitland, a broker of high-end real estate with the firm Brown Harris Stevens.

There are currently 22 on the market, eight with recently reduced prices.

“There are many buyers who just won’t go anywhere near it,” Maitland said. “I guess they may not want to be associated with the Trump brand.”

Meaning that Trump’s iconic skyscraper, which served as backdrop and set for the “Apprentice” reality show that made him a household name, has now come to mirror his presidency: its falling real estate values reflecting his falling popularity in Manhattan and beyond.

Trump himself has escaped all of this for the White House. When he does visit his hometown ― as he did last summer for several days ― the roads are closed off for the passage of his motorcade, and he is whisked in and out without delay.

For Brassner, an art dealer and vintage guitar collector who had fallen upon financial and health woes, escape was impossible. His money trap eventually also proved a fire trap.

“It’s almost like Todd versus Trump Tower, and being trapped in this horrible life,” Caine said. “I can’t believe this has happened to him.”

The main lobby of Trump Tower. Residents use a different entrance. Damon Dahlen/HuffPost

Towering Risks

The public entrance to Trump Tower is right on Fifth Avenue, sandwiched between Tiffany’s and Gucci, and it opens onto a five-story atrium. Toward the rear are escalators ― made famous by Trump’s presidential candidacy announcement ― that lead up to a Starbucks on the mezzanine level. Tourists from all over the world stream in and out all day, despite the Secret Service screening in the lobby.

Above the public space are 13 floors of offices, including the Trump Organization, the Trump campaign headquarters, a venture capital firm and, taking up the entire ninth floor, the Chinese government through its Industrial and Commercial Bank of China.

The private entrance around the corner on 56 Street, the one used by residents of the apartments that take up floors 19 through 57, exudes a different feel ― more of an old-fashioned hotel. The foyer is dark and leads past a concierge to a bank of high-speed elevators, operated by men in the Trump Tower livery of tailcoats and small white “Trump” buttons on their lapels.

Over the years, the residents have included Johnny Carson, Andrew Lloyd Webber, Michael Jackson and Bruce Willis ― along with an assortment of felons convicted of crimes ranging from bank fraud to illegal gambling.

Of course, like so much else about Trump, his signature building in Manhattan embodies an exaggeration.

While the elevator buttons say his penthouse apartment occupies floors 66, 67 and 68, that is not actually correct. Floors 6 through 13 do not exist in the building. Nor do floors 27, 28 or 29. The unusual numbering was done so Trump could boast that his building is taller than it is. Trump’s penthouse triplex, in reality, is on floors 55 through 57.

But whether a building has 68 floors or only 57 makes little difference when a fire is involved. Ladders on firetrucks can reach only the seventh or eighth floor, at most. Beyond that, water to extinguish a blaze needs to come from the building itself, through standpipes that carry hydrant-pressure water to the top floors.

To make use of that water, though, firefighters must climb up stairwells to reach the affected floor and run hoses from there ― all of which can take time when they are laden with air tanks and protective gear.

To keep fires from spreading until firefighters can arrive, and to tamp down toxic smoke and fumes, many cities have long required that residential high-rises have sprinkler systems in the hallways or even the units. New York was not among those cities in December 1998, at the time of the South Park Tower fire. And thanks to the efforts by Trump and his fellow building owners then, residential structures already built or approved by 1999 were not required to be retrofitted with sprinkler systems.

At the time, Trump argued that sprinklers were unattractive and that residents did not like them. Besides, he said, installing them in his building would cost $4 per square foot ― or $6,000 for a 1,500-square-foot apartment.

Jerome Rose walks along Fifth Avenue in Manhattan. He has moved to a ground-floor apartment after a fire in his previous building killed four people in 1998. Damon Dahlen/HuffPost

Concert pianist Rose, who moved out of South Park Tower shortly after the fire, became something of a fire sprinkler activist as the city government debated what to do.

“Why is New York the only major city that does not have sprinklers in high-rise apartment buildings?” he asked in testimony to the New York City Housing and Buildings Committee in January 1999. “Why does it take a tragedy to bring this to the public’s attention?”

Rose and his allies were not successful. In the end, the new ordinance required sprinklers in all residential high-rise projects going forward but did not require owners of existing structures to go back and install them.

Builders successfully argued that construction standards already made apartments “fireproof” and that fires therefore could not spread into neighboring units or hallways. The city fire department’s guidelines continued to advise high-rise residents to “shelter in place” within their units with the doors closed until told to do otherwise by fire personnel.

Effects Of The Fire

That plan was put to the test most recently in the Trump Tower fire, with mixed results.

By the time firefighters got to Brassner’s unit, it was engulfed in flames. Six firefighters were treated for injuries they suffered that afternoon.

A resident in an apartment directly below Brassner’s reported smoke coming in through his vents and decided to climb down 37 flights of stairs to escape. Another did not realize there was a fire until he received a text from Trump’s personal lawyer Michael Cohen, who happened to be a childhood friend.

Joan Sbarro heard sirens blaring for several minutes before deciding to take her dog and head down the stairwell from her apartment seven stories above the fire. She made it down four flights when a Trump Tower maintenance worker helped her down the remaining 41.

“I think it was handled very professionally,” said Sbarro, who is 74 and a daughter-in-law of the founders of the Italian food chain. “They saved everybody’s life.”

Firefighters at Trump Tower on April 7 in Manhattan. Six firefighters were injured battling the blaze that broke out on the 50th floor. Eduardo Munoz Alvarez via Getty Images

Everybody, that is, except for Brassner.

It was on the “50th floor” (38 stories above street level) that Todd Brassner had lived since 1996. He had been a friend of Andy Warhol and an aficionado of electric guitars. He had bought the 1,100-square-foot apartment in Trump Tower because it was a Manhattan thing to do, said Caine, who met him 15 years ago at a Jimi Hendrix tribute concert where she had been performing.

Brassner had had run-ins with Trump over the years and had never liked him, Caine said, but he became truly unhappy after the election when living there meant navigating a heavily guarded fortress.

Even residents must be swept by Secret Service before entering. If they want to arrive or leave by car, it has to be searched before being permitted to pass a security checkpoint. When Trump is actually staying at his New York City home, security measures become all the more stringent.

“He was so frustrated with the conditions of living there,” Caine said.

Many of the building’s wealthiest residents have simply taken to spending more of their time in their other homes. “Of course, if you live here, it’s a disaster,” said Dutch software tycoon Jan Mol, who said he spends most of his time in Amsterdam and London.

For Brassner, who was cashed-strapped and in declining health, there was no second or third home to live in instead, Caine said.

“He was quite depressed about it. And I can understand why,” she said.

Not everyone, of course, is unhappy with life at Trump Tower. While some two dozen units are on the market, more than 200 are not.

Sbarro, who has lived in hers since 1990, sees all the extra security measures that have come with the Trump presidency as an added feature for an already wonderful place to live.

“They have taken care of me like at a five-star hotel. A six-star hotel, actually,” she said, calling the Secret Service checkpoints and the closed-off roads “a small inconvenience for the amount of security we have. I think it’s worth it.”

And for those who disagree?

“They don’t like it, they can move,” she said.

Moving To Safety

Jerome Rose refuses to live in an upper floor again. Today he has a ground-floor unit, right beside the fire exit. He had just finished up an event with several other pianists two Saturdays ago when he turned on the evening news to see images of smoke pouring out Trump Tower windows.

“My wife and I said to each other that night: ‘I bet they did not have sprinklers in the Trump Tower,’” Rose said.

He is no longer the sprinkler activist that he was but is still upset that the city has refused to do anything in the intervening years to safeguard residents of older high-rises. “The people who live in these high-rises, like Trump Tower, are not protected at all. Residents should remain in their quote fireproof apartments. And what happens when the smoke is pouring through your vents, under your door? What are you supposed to do? Stay in your apartment? After 9/11, no one will be staying in a high-rise burning building.”

Shane Ray, a former firefighter and now the president of the National Fire Sprinkler Association trade group, said sprinklers in Brassner’s unit would “absolutely” have saved him. What’s more, Trump’s complaint two decades ago that sprinklers were ugly is not true today, Ray said. “Our industry has invested a vast amount of resources to make our products aesthetically pleasing while remaining effective. It’s all made for the survivability of the occupant.”

Sprinklers installed in the commercial floors of Trump Tower, which under New York City code have required them from the time it was built in 1983, reflect this. Rather than the old-fashioned nozzles sticking out of the ceiling, they are metallic disks, flush with the ceiling and barely noticeable.

Brassner’s friend Caine said she wonders if Trump appreciates the peril he has left for the residents of his building. “Did he even realize what a truly dangerous place it is?” she said, adding that it bothers her that Trump has not acknowledged Brassner’s death.

“He’s tweeting all these tweets and not one mention of Todd. Certainly he could make a tweet about Todd, to his friends and family. But of course he didn’t. Because he doesn’t care about anybody,” she said. “I’m just hoping that Todd doesn’t just go down as this nameless person who died in the Trump Tower fire.”

Rose, who did not know Brassner, said Trump’s seeming lack of empathy no longer surprises him. “The psychologists and the psychiatrists will be writing about this man for years. In the end, his character will destroy him.”

He said he remembers the day 19 years ago when the police tape came off the burned-out apartment at South Park Tower: “I knocked on the door. The father opened the door ― I’m still tearing up over it ― and he said, “Did you know my daughter?’ and he fell in my arms.”

Rose said his thoughts immediately turned to Trump and that phone conversation he overheard.