When Jeffrey Wright arrived back on set six months after shooting the pilot for HBO’s sci-fi series “Westworld,” he came armed with a heavy secret.

He’d recently learned that his character Bernard Lowe, the reserved head of Westworld’s programming division and guardian of all robots contained within the futuristic Wild-West amusement park, was an android. Like the subjects he’d be monitoring throughout the series’ first season, Bernard was not, in fact, as human as fans had been led to believe. Rather, he’d been designed by Westworld mastermind Dr. Robert Ford (Anthony Hopkins) and modeled to appear like his late business partner, Arnold Weber.

This colorful secret informed every morsel of Wright’s performance in Season 1, unbeknownst to his colleagues. In an early scene with Evan Rachel Wood, who plays Westworld’s oldest robotic host, Dolores Abernathy, for example, a suited-up Wright calmly asks her, “Do you remember our last conversation, Dolores?” She looks at him sweetly, responding, “Yes, of course.” At the time, Wood assumed this was a typical programming exchange between her character and Bernard. By the end of the season, however, the actress realized she’d been acting across multiple timelines ― that Wright had at times been playing Bernard and at other times Arnold. Slight shifts in Wright’s personality and wardrobe, and each scene’s setting, artfully camouflaged the reveal.

“No one knew until they got the script of the seventh episode, and then texts were flying my way,” a bearded Wright told me during the Sundance Film Festival in Park City, Utah, earlier this year. “People had their wigs blown off that I held this from them for the many months that we were working on it.”

“I texted him, ’You! You! How did you do that? How did you keep that from everyone?’” co-star Luke Hemsworth, who plays security officer Ashley Stubbs, expressively told me. “There are all these little cookies and Easter eggs where you go, ‘Oh, that’s what that is’ or ‘That’s why Jeffrey’s doing that!’ ... There’s not a gesture or an eye movement that doesn’t make sense when you go back and watch it again.”

“I’d been working with Jeffrey for half a season and I find this out, and I’m like, ‘Did you know?!’” Wood reiterated. “You find out these people who you love, who you work with every day, are holding these secrets from you!”

“Jeffrey has this real intensity… And he’s not putting it on. He doesn’t come in with a whole lot of need, which is really, I don’t know, it’s kind of hot.” - Mary-Louise Parker

Wright is good at stoking mystery. Before I met him, I associated the actor with the broody, bookish characters he’s played on TV and film ― like Bernard, who lives in suit vests and laboratories. On the day of our interview, Wright was nothing like Bernard. He was dressed casually in a baseball cap and unzipped jacket, puffing from a vape pen in between laughs. We’d just escaped the snow-covered sidewalks of Park City and landed comfortably inside a pop-up vodka lounge, where he was smirking at the thought of his colleagues’ “Bernarnold” ignorance. As we sat across from each other, he took his time crafting answers to my questions, hitting each beat with a sort of temperate ease.

Off-screen, it was easy to see why he’s HBO’s go-to guy, the kind of player who can pop in and out of any thematic narrative, molding himself into an array of dense supporting characters.

“Westworld” is Wright’s sixth project with the premium cable juggernaut, which has become the artist’s de facto television home. He first appeared on the network as Martin Luther King Jr. in 2002’s “Boycott,” which won a Peabody Award “for refusing to allow history to slip into the past.” Since then, HBO has refused to let Wright out of its clutches. Over the past 16 years, he’s starred in the “Angels in America” adaptation (2003), the R&B-fueled “Lackawanna Blues” (2005), the Prohibition-era drama series “Boardwalk Empire” (2013) and the Anita Hill biopic “Confirmation” (2016).

“He’s a world-class actor,” HBO Programming Chief Casey Bloys said. “Just on our network alone he’s played MLK, he’s played a gangster and he’s played an empathetic robot. I don’t know many actors who would be able to pull that range, not only of characters but also of tones of shows and movies. He brings this depth and humanity to his characters, and I think that’s why we continue to go back to him and why he’s so in demand.”

Now he’s the glue holding “Westworld” together. And maybe, after all this time, HBO, too. On screen, Wright is the kind of performer who captures your gaze the minute he enters a frame, his deep, gravelly voice entrancing viewers into a meditative-like state. His affectations are subtle yet deliberate, like the creaking of an old wooden floor in a suspenseful thriller. Wright is, as Bloys and others have said, a first-rate actor.

“Jeffrey has this real intensity,” his “Angels in America” co-star Mary-Louise Parker told me. “I have not talked to him about it, but I feel like it’s largely inspired by his intellect. And he’s not putting it on. He doesn’t come in with a whole lot of need, which is really,” Parker paused, gathering her words, “I don’t know, it’s kind of hot,” she giggled over the phone.

“He’s a super sexy guy, obviously, but you don’t feel like he needs a lot from you, and he doesn’t. He doesn’t. But he has a bucket-load to offer both from his life experience and from his ideas.”

That sex appeal might be hard to comprehend if you’re a fan of the Jeffrey Wright who’s played Bill Murray’s mystery-obsessed neighbor in “Broken Flowers,” electricity wiz Beetee in “The Hunger Games” franchise or Bond’s CIA operative pal Felix Leiter in “Casino Royale” and “Quantum of Solace.” The beauty of Wright, though, is his chameleon-like qualities, which allow him to be cast as a nerd in one project and a well-worn prison inmate in another. It’s why, according to him, Wright no longer auditions for parts.

“I look at it this way: I’ve been doing this for 30 years now. If a director can’t figure out what they might get from me or whether he or she wants to work with me based on what I’ve done, then I can’t tell them anything more than what they don’t know already.”

Jeffrey Wright at the 2018 Sundance Film Festival in Park City, Utah. Neilson Barnard via Getty Images

Another thing I learned about Wright during our Park City encounter: He’s a certified jock. He played lacrosse in college (there’s even a U.S. Lacrosse Magazine story to his name), surfs often (with a Hemsworth brother, no less) and does what most celebrities are too busy red-carpeting to do: skis when he’s in Utah.

“I skied yesterday,” he told me, “with a woman who lives out here who’s a stunt woman on ‘Westworld’ ... she dragged me across the mountain like a rag doll.” Wright went on to bemoan his 52-year-old knee and praise his ski partner’s ability to eviscerate the slopes, but a quick glance at Wright’s Instagram proves his deprecation is another element of illusion.

“It was a big surprise to me that he surfed,” Luke Hemsworth said, “but then I got to know him and learned he used to be a big skater. He’s like a 12-year-old grommet when he’s in the surf. He’s so amped and wants to go surfing every single day, whether it’s big, small, wind sideways ― it’s an infectious energy.”

Wright was at Sundance for the premiere of his film “Monster,” in which he plays the father of a teen named Steve Harmon (Kelvin Harrison Jr.), who’s wrongfully accused of a deadly crime in a Harlem bodega. The film immediately hit home for Wright, “as the father of a 16-year-old brown-skinned boy in New York City, in America.” The actor, whom Parker calls “a great father,” has two children with his ex-wife, British actress Carmen Ejogo ― son Elijah and daughter Juno. Their home base is Brooklyn, New York.

“When we shot the film, there was what seemed like a much more productive conversation around policing and police-community relationships or justice reform or bipartisan conversation, so it was timely. But I think it’s even more urgent now, because that conversation has been overshadowed by retrogressive political thinking and action, particularly through the [Department of Justice] and the attorney general,” he said.

Wright is comfortable speaking about the current administration. He grew up in Washington, D.C., in the 1960s and ’70s with a mother who served as a lawyer for U.S. customs for 30-plus years. (His father died when Wright was a young child.)

“Her responsibility at headquarters was processing and assigning penalties to certain cases. If I’m not mistaken, she actually was the first black woman and second or third overall woman working for the U.S. Customs Service,” Wright explained during a phone call earlier this month. He happened to be with his mother at the time of our follow-up chat.

He spent many hours in the hallways of her office, he recalled, doing homework and waiting for her shift to end. He became familiar with the inner workings of a government, one that he said functioned far differently than the oft-lambasted administration of today.

“The conversation around the nature of those who work in government has been so poisoned of late by bad-acting politicians who are actually the ones who are far more likely to be corrupt and corrupted than those who make it their life’s work to serve the government of the United States,” he explained. “I’m not saying that across the board, but it was my experience growing up.”

“I grew up in that world of professionals and politically oriented folk, and so when I started acting it was really kind of a departure from what I had vaguely perceived my future to be.” - Jeffrey Wright

Wright was a staunch supporter of Barack Obama, and he campaigned for Hillary Clinton in the lead-up to the 2016 presidential election. So one doesn’t have to assume what he and his mother think of the current president.

“I can tell you this, having been in law enforcement and within the federal government for all those years, [my mom’s] antennas have been up for many, many months,” he stated. “The more we learn, the more, in my case, it seems Mom is often right.”

For a long time, Wright assumed he’d venture into politics, too. Theater, however, became a childhood fixation more interesting than the outside of his mom’s office.

“My mom used to take me to the theater to see the tours that would come through D.C., and I loved it. I loved it,” Wright remembered. “I was absolutely enthralled by the theater and by that world.

“I think that informed me later, but I was afraid, in some ways, to act on it until it was too late and I couldn’t resist anymore.”

At Amherst College, Wright majored in political science and organized rallies against apartheid in South Africa. But by his third year, he’d joined a theater group. After graduating with his bachelor’s degree, Wright earned a scholarship to attend the Tisch School of the Arts at New York University. He dropped out after two months, but not for lack of interest. He simply realized he didn’t need a teacher to tell him what he already knew.

“I took a class in college... I think we were reading some short Chekhov plays, and I knew the first day of the class that I was going to be an actor. It was just the bizarrest thing, but it just felt like home.”

“I was honored to be working with [Wright],” "Angels in America" co-star Mary-Louise Parker said. “Everything about it was freakishly ideal and dreamy. His whole energy is really arresting … I feel like even if he saw 10 other people perform the role, he still would’ve found that fresh take.” Michael Caulfield Archive via Getty Images

The project that would become the spur of Wright’s career landed in his lap a few years later. After working in theater “to build an understanding of the craft,” he was cast in the 1993 stage production of Tony Kushner’s Pulitzer Prize-winning play “Angels in America” as charming nurse Norman “Belize” Arriaga and Mr. Lies. Wright seared onstage. Even then, he knew it was a role that would change the course of his life.

“It was the ideal work for me. It was the work that I think I aspire to do and that was work that was timely and smart, that was topical and fierce, and deeply, unabashedly political. So it was the merger of these two seemingly competing interests that I’d had growing up: theater and politics.

“It was also pretty damn good,” he added with a laugh.

The complex, allegorical show about AIDS and gay culture in America during the Reagan administration is back on Broadway today, with stars Andrew Garfield, Nathan Lane, Denise Gough and Nathan Stewart-Jarrett, among others. Wright has yet to see it, but he’s looking forward to catching the two-part production in a different light.

“I perceived the play, up until very recently, as being almost archival,” he said. “But it has perhaps as great a resonance now as it did 25 years ago when we first performed it on Broadway, and that speaks to two things: It speaks to the power of Tony’s writing and his mind, but it also speaks to the unfortunate nature of the political climate that we currently find ourselves in.”

Although Wright remains unaware of any criticism lobbed at the play back in ’93, he understood even then that the subject matter could incite opposition.

“As far as the politics [of the play] go, yeah, I’m sure there were some conservatives on the right who took issue with it. I hope they did, because it was definitely right to the jaw of the complacency and absence of empathy that the Reagan administration and conservatives applied to his response to Americans who were dying at an alarming rate from this horrible disease,” he said.

“What I remember is being onstage at the curtain call, taking a bow with my fellow cast mates and feeling this response from people in the audience. I remember clearly on many nights standing there and thinking to myself that I was exactly where I was supposed to be in my life … and it was perfection. So, any criticism, any resistance meant nothing to me because we were doing what we were to be doing, and I didn’t give a shit what anybody had to say about it. “

“As an adult, and certainly as an artist, the cornerstone for me is ‘Angels in America.’ It shaped and reshaped me to my core. Everything that I do as an actor, I do relative to that piece and to that experience.” - Jeffrey Wright

Wright went on to win the Tony Award for Best Supporting Actor in a Play and in 2003 reprised the role of Belize in Mike Nichols’ HBO adaptation. The HBO show, co-starring Parker, Meryl Streep, Al Pacino, Patrick Wilson and Emma Thompson, earned Wright an Emmy for Best Supporting Actor.

The miniseries aired a year before Bloys joined HBO, first as the director of development for independent productions. “It’s one of the reasons why I and a lot of people wanted to work here,” Bloys said of Wright’s performance in “Angels in America,” to be a part of “that sort of groundbreaking television.”

“When I think back on the work that I’ve been able to do and the work in my career of the highest quality, a huge portion of that has been on HBO,” Wright told me. “That didn’t happen by accident.”

No, it makes sense. The type of acting he sought to do ― “timely and smart … topical and fierce … deeply, unabashedly political” ― required the kind of high-altitude budget and cable chutzpah HBO was willing to throw behind projects. But HBO profited, too. When it came time to cast recent tentpole programming ― first the lavish period piece “Boardwalk Empire” and then the hopeful “Game of Thrones” replacement, “Westworld” ― the network turned to one of its most valuable players. If anyone was going to carry the wildly expensive, $100 million series to success, it’d be Wright.

And the actor was eager to do it. He’d keep the show’s secrets in exchange for the opportunity to work alongside Wood, Hopkins and Thandie Newton. “It’s,” he paused, inhaling his e-cigarette, “deeply gratifying stuff.... It’s grueling, brutal. It’s intensely challenging, complicated but alive and fresh, and exists on the horizon of things that I have done in the past. So it’s really where I want to be right now.”

The cast of "Angels in America" (from left, Mary Louise Parker, Al Pacino, Meryl Streep, Executive Producer Cary Brokaw and Jeffrey Wright) at the 61st Annual Golden Globe Awards in 2004. Lawrence K. Ho via Getty Images

Back in January, Wright had just wrapped the “seriously ambitious” six-month shoot for “Westworld” Season 2, which he said was equivalent to filming six feature-length films. The days were long, the content intricate and the schedule unrelenting. At times, he said, the production team had four units shooting at once (“on average we have two units shooting at once”), barrelling their way through 15- and 16-hour days (“sometimes 19- to 20-hour days”).

“We’re really trying to expand what’s possible in this type of storytelling, doing it on a scale that’s epic and all on film,” Wright said. “If anyone has the impression that it’s a luxurious, glamorous process that goes into putting these things together, they’re wildly mistaken.”

The show’s subject matter alone would scare some performers off. Here we have a futuristic theme park that functions as a source of expensive entertainment for guests who want to escape the real world and perhaps kill, befriend or romance a couple of robots ― robots who are reaching levels of self-realization. There are graphic shootouts, metaphorical mindfucks, and, of course, HBO’s typical quota of nudity. It’s thrilling yet complicated, confusing yet enlightening.

Wood describes “Westworld” as “intense and violent” but capable of displaying these “incredible moments of humanity.” It’s those moments of humanity ― the show’s ability to be a “meditation on many things” ― that keep Wright coming back. In fact, according to Wood, Wright describes their scenes as “dual meditation,” in which they embrace the rhythm and the tone of the content ― content that, if he had to distill it down to its essence, is about “personal self-examination. It’s about personal awareness. It’s about our relationship to freedom or to restriction.”

Season 2 will certainly tackle this idea of freedom and what it means to discover your personal potential. When we last left Westworld, the robots had revolted and were out for blood. In new episodes, Bernard continues to struggle with his dual identity while Dolores rallies her fellow androids for revolution. As Wood explained, “I had some [secrets] of my own this season, and the tables have turned for Jeffrey.”

“In some ways, the first season was really the table of contents — you understand who, what, where, when, when and when,” Wright said. “But the second season makes the first season look like a kitchen drama,” he added, letting out a hearty laugh.

“The best scenarios for me are those in which it’s solely about what’s on the page on the script and about the collaborators involved. It just so happens that HBO has provided a lot of those situations for me and for many actors.” - Jeffrey Wright

Don’t be fooled: There’s much more to Wright than prestige TV. This year, in possibly his first leading film role since playing American artist Jean-Michel Basquiat in 1996’s “Basquiat,” Wright stars in “O.G.” as maximum-security inmate Louis, who, 24 years after committing a violent crime as a young man, finds himself on the cusp of release. His involvement with a new prisoner weeks before his departure, however, stirs up some unneeded trouble for the remorseful offender.

The film, directed by Madeleine Sackler, will make its debut at this month’s Tribeca Film Festival. Wright is also set to appear in the highly anticipated film adaptation of Donna Tartt’s The Goldfinch as Hobie alongside the likes of Nicole Kidman, Ansel Elgort, Luke Wilson and Sarah Paulson. (The John Crowley movie is expected to be released in October 2019.) Although he’s extremely comfortable as an ensemble character at the top of HBO’s roster, his star-turning role on “Westworld” has certainly opened new doors for Wright, doors he can’t even believe ever opened.If u believe wrestling is real u may even believe Fox news, Info Wars and the robotic drones on Sinclair Broadcasting. But wrestling doesn’t harm viewers. Performers like Sean Hannity and Alex Jones should join the WWE where their hyperbole will do less damage to the culture. pic.twitter.com/HHsfvRaToJThe White House-brokered meeting during which senior lawmakers will for the first time get to review classified documents from Special Counsel Robert Mueller’s investigation into Russia’s involvement in the 2016 election won’t include Democrats.

“My understanding is they haven’t been the ones requesting this information,” White House Press Secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders said Tuesday. She didn’t understand why Democrats would “consider themselves randomly invited to see something they never asked to.”

Senior GOP lawmakers brokered a deal Monday with top intelligence officials, paving the way for a review of the classified materials, specifically those pertaining to whether President Barack Obama’s administration planted an FBI informant to spy on the Trump campaign.

The meeting will include House Intelligence Committee Chairman Rep. Devin Nunes (R-Calif.) and House Oversight Committee Chairman Rep. Trey Gowdy (R-S.C.), plus FBI Director Christopher Wray, Director of National Intelligence Dan Coats and Principal Associate Deputy Attorney General Ed O’Callaghan.

Top Democrats spoke out about not being included in the meeting.

“The only thing more outrageous than this meeting occurring at all is the fact that it’s now partisan,” Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer (D-N.Y.) said in a statement.

House Intelligence ranking member Adam Schiff (D-Calif.) made his hopes for a separate briefing for Democrats known on Tuesday, and condemned the meeting on Twitter.

The White House has directed the DOJ and FBI to hold a partisan briefing on infomation the President wants given to his allies in Congress. No Democrats allowed.



This is another serious abuse of power. There’s a bipartisan mechanism called the Gang of 8. They need to use it. — Adam Schiff (@RepAdamSchiff) May 22, 2018WASHINGTON (Reuters) - The Democratic Party sued the Russian government, U.S. President Donald Trump’s campaign and WikiLeaks on Friday, charging that they carried out a wide-ranging conspiracy to influence the 2016 U.S. presidential election.

In its federal lawsuit in Manhattan, the Democratic National Committee said that top officials in Trump’s campaign conspired with the Russian government and its military spy agency to hurt Democratic presidential nominee Hillary Clinton and tilt the election to Trump by hacking Democratic Party computers.

The lawsuit alleged that Trump’s campaign “gleefully welcomed Russia’s help” in the 2016 election and accuses it of being a “racketeering enterprise” that worked in tandem with Moscow.

“During the 2016 presidential campaign, Russia launched an all-out assault on our democracy and it found a willing and active partner in Donald Trump’s campaign,” said Tom Perez, chair of the DNC. “This constituted an act of unprecedented treachery.”

The suit prompted Trump to send a Friday evening tweet that called the Democrats “obstructionist” and promised a counterattack based on his longstanding assertion that Clinton committed a crime with her personal email server.

Just heard the Campaign was sued by the Obstructionist Democrats. This can be good news in that we will now counter for the DNC Server that they refused to give to the FBI, the Debbie Wasserman Schultz Servers and Documents held by the Pakistani mystery man and Clinton Emails. — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) April 20, 2018

“This can be good news in that we will now counter for the DNC Server that they refused to give to the FBI, the Wendy Wasserman Schultz Servers and Documents held by the Pakistani mystery man and Clinton Emails,” Trump, a Republican, wrote.

Trump appeared to refer to Representative Debbie Wasserman Schultz, who chaired the DNC during the election when its servers were hacked, and a Pakistan-born information technology worker found by the House of Representatives inspector general to have inappropriately accessed congressional data.

The campaign operation Trump has already set up ahead of the 2020 president election called the lawsuit frivolous and characterized it as a fundraising effort.

“This is a sham lawsuit about a bogus Russian collusion claim filed by a desperate, dysfunctional, and nearly insolvent Democratic Party,” the campaign’s manager, Brad Parscale, said in a statement.

Defendants in the lawsuit include three people who have been indicted as a result of Special Counsel Robert Mueller’s investigation of Russian meddling: former campaign chairman Paul Manafort, Manafort associate Rick Gates and former campaign aide George Papadopoulos.

Also named as defendants were Donald Trump Jr., Trump associate Roger Stone and Trump’s son-in-law, Jared Kushner.

Trump has repeatedly denied his campaign colluded with Russia and Moscow has denied meddling in the election.

Four U.S. intelligence agencies reported last year that Russia sponsored the hacking of Democratic Party groups and other actions during the 2016 campaign. Part of the effort was to benefit Trump over Clinton, the agencies said.

The DNC blames Russia for breaches of its computer systems in 2015 and the first half of 2016.

Hackers disseminated internal communications of party officials as the Democratic nominating convention began and WikiLeaks released thousands of emails, some of which were embarrassing for the Clinton campaign and were intended to stoke conflicts among the party’s supporters.

Most of the accusations appeared to be based on news reports and publicly available legal documents and offered little new information about alleged collusion with Moscow.

MIDTERM EFFECT

Democrats are keen to remind voters of the issue of Russia and the 2016 election ahead of November’s midterm congressional elections. Early polls show Republicans run some risk of losing control of Congress.

“The suit gives Democrats a useful and perhaps compelling narrative to counter the president’s and Republicans’ mantra of ‘no collusion,’” said Leonard Williams, a political science professor at Manchester University. “From that partisan standpoint, it is exactly what their candidates and spokespeople need.”

WikiLeaks, and attorneys for Trump Jr., Manafort, Gates and Papadopoulos also did not immediately respond to requests for comment.

Stone said the lawsuit was based on “a left-wing conspiracy theory.”

“NO proof or evidence,” he wrote in an email to Reuters.

The lawsuit, should it go forward, seems likely to help keep the spotlight on the issue of Russian election interference and possible collusion by the Trump campaign. Both are being investigated by Mueller, whose office declined to comment on the Democratic lawsuit.

Through the process of legal discovery, lawyers for the Democratic Party could force the defendants to produce documents they say relate to the collusion issue.

The lawsuit “might not have any journalistic, judicial, or political staying power,” Williams said.

“Whether it amounts to more than a story to tell remains to be seen,” he said. “It might lead to additional discovery of events and relationships that we don’t yet know about.”One kangaroo was killed and another injured at a zoo in southeast China after visitors to their enclosure pelted the animals with rocks and other objects in an apparent attempt to get the kangaroos to hop around. The abuse has sparked fury online and prompted renewed scrutiny into the mistreatment of animals at Chinese zoos, several of which have gained notoriety in recent years for cramped and cruel conditions.

Zookeepers at the Fuzhou Zoo in Fujian Province told the Haixia Metropolis News this week that at least one visitor threw “multiple” sharp-edged rocks at a 12-year-old female kangaroo in March to compel her to jump, leaving her badly injured and in “deep pain.” She died a few days later of profuse internal bleeding, her caretakers said.

A 5-year-old male kangaroo in the same enclosure was reportedly also injured last month after a visitor threw part of a brick at him. The younger kangaroo was not seriously hurt.

“Some adult [visitors] see the kangaroos sleeping and then pick up stones to throw at them,” a Fuzhou Zoo attendant told the Haixia Metropolis News. “Even after we cleared all the stones from the display area, they went elsewhere to find them. It’s abhorrent.”

Pics of the bricks that visitors hurled at kangaroos at the zoo in Fujian, killing one and injuring another. Zoo staff say visitors often throw objects at animals despite it being ‘prohibited’. pic.twitter.com/KwFCIcfRQ9 — Bill Birtles (@billbirtles) April 20, 2018

12-year-old kangaroo at zoo in eastern China died after being stoned by visitors hoping to make it hop https://t.co/HyrP46HQij pic.twitter.com/TSp8PSuuek — Sixth Tone (@SixthTone) April 20, 2018

Netizens in China and elsewhere have expressed their horror at the behavior of the stone-hurling visitors.

The Metropolis News said on Friday that their social media pages were flooded with readers’ angry comments, with many calling for visitors who mistreat animals to be “blacklisted” from zoos.

The Fuzhou Zoo said it had applied for funding to install high-definition surveillance cameras to better identify perpetrators. They added that now only three kangaroos would be on display to reduce the risks to the animals.

Several Chinese zoos have made headlines in recent years for mistreatment of animals. Last year, visitors were horrified when a live donkey was fed to tigers at a so-called safari park near Shanghai. In 2016, hundreds of thousands of people called for the closure of Guangzhou’s Grandview Aquarium, dubbed the “saddest zoo in the world,” after photos of the facility’s barren enclosures went viral.

Such incidents have increased concerns in China about the country’s lack of comprehensive animal welfare laws.

Without such legislation, “we can only try to persuade people using common sense and referring to animal welfare laws in Western countries,” Tong Yanfang, an animal welfare advocate, told the South China Morning Post last year.

AdvertisementNorth Korean dictator Kim Jong Un said the country "will join international efforts" to halt "the nuclear test altogether." KCNA KCNA / Reuters

North Korea will suspend its nuclear and missile tests, North Korean state media reported Saturday morning local time.

The Korean Central News Agency said that the country was halting nuclear tests and intercontinental ballistic missile launches as of that day, according to The Associated Press. It also plans to close down a nuclear test site in the country’s northern region.

In a statement published by the state-run Korean Central News Agency, North Korean dictator Kim Jong Un promised to “never use nuclear weapons” unless there is a nuclear “threat or provocation” to the country.

“North Korea’s nuclear test center will be discarded in order to ensure the transparency of the suspension of the nuclear test,” the statement said.

“The suspension of nuclear testing is an important process for global nuclear disarmament, and the DPRK will join international efforts and efforts to halt the nuclear test altogether.”

President Donald Trump commended North Korea’s suspension of the tests in a tweet about 7 p.m. Friday EDT, calling it “very good news.”

“North Korea has agreed to suspend all Nuclear Tests and close up a major test site,” Trump wrote.

North Korea has agreed to suspend all Nuclear Tests and close up a major test site. This is very good news for North Korea and the World - big progress! Look forward to our Summit. — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) April 20, 2018

The decision comes months after tensions between the Trump administration and North Korea reached historic heights. Trump and Kim taunted each other in an exchange of tweets and official statements as North Korea test-launched several intercontinental ballistic missiles (ICBM). Last year, Trump continually referred to Kim as “Rocket Man,” while the dictator described Trump as a “mentally deranged U.S. dotard.”

In August, North Korea vowed to retaliate against the U.S. “thousands of times over” after the United Nations Security Council imposed new sanctions against the country. Shortly after, Trump promised North Korea “fire and fury like the world has never seen,” pushing North Korea to threaten Guam, where the U.S. has a major military presence, as a potential target.

The threats continued into this year as Trump and Kim argued over which country’s nuclear weapons were more powerful.

Tensions between North Korea and the U.S. have eased in recent months, beginning with the Winter Olympics hosted by South Korea in Pyeongchang. North Korean and South Korean athletes marched together holding a unified flag during the Opening Ceremony at the Games. Both countries, engaged in a war for over 60 years, used the event as an opportunity to re-establish dialogue.

Now Kim is scheduled to meet with South Korean President Moon Jae-in at a summit in the Demilitarized Zone next Friday. This summit would be only the third meeting of its kind between leaders of the two Koreas, according to The Guardian.

Trump is also expected to meet with Kim in May or early June. He has said that he hoped to discuss denuclearizing North Korea with Kim but warned he would “respectfully” walk out of the meeting if they did not.

“There’s a bright path available to North Korea when it achieves denuclearization in a complete and verifiable and irreversible way,” Trump said Wednesday. “It will be a great day for them. It will be a great day for the world.”

For years and through many administrations, everyone said that peace and the denuclearization of the Korean Peninsula was not even a small possibility. Now there is a good chance that Kim Jong Un will do what is right for his people and for humanity. Look forward to our meeting! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) March 28, 2018

Pyongyang has made significant advancements in its nuclear and missile development programs since Trump took office last year. In July, North Korea test-launched its first ICBM, then tested a second one more than three weeks later. In total, the country fired 23 missiles during 16 tests between February and December 2017, according to a CNN count.

Some experts believe that the entire continental U.S. is now within those ICBM’s striking range.

After meeting with North Korea in March, South Korean officials said that Kim was willing to hold talks with the U.S. about denuclearization and would suspend testing throughout negotiations.

On Thursday, President Moon said North Korea has agreed to drop its long-held demand that the U.S. withdraw 28,500 U.S. troops stationed in South Korea as a condition for denuclearization.Busy Philipps said she’s “lucky that TMZ and the internet did not exist” when she and “Dawson’s Creek” co-star Michelle Williams hit the bar scene in Wilmington, North Carolina, in the early 2000s.

“I feel very lucky that TMZ and the internet did not exist,” the actress said on Thursday’s “The Late Late Show With James Corden.”

“I would probably not be sitting here today. I would have been TMZ’d out of Hollywood,” she added.

Philipps played Audrey starting in 2001 on the much-loved TV series and cultivated a lifelong friendship with Williams, who played Jen. The two frequently are seen out and about together and have been each other’s dates to award shows.

A post shared by Busy Philipps (@busyphilipps) on Apr 18, 2018 at 12:37am PDT

Philipps told Corden about her and Williams’ “wild” nights in North Carolina while filming “Dawson’s Creek.” Philipps revealed that she would even have gotten into a bar fight for Williams, if necessary.

“Michelle and I were at a bar one night, and this girl kinda was a little drunk and accused Michelle of being really rude to her on a flight,” Philipps said.

“Michelle Williams is my best friend for many, many years,” the actress said. “She has never been rude to anyone ever. She is the sweetest, kindest, most loving human. If it had been me she’d accused, I would have been like, ‘That kinda tracks,’ but she accused Michelle of being rude, and I was just like, ‘I will not stand for this.’”

To show she meant business, Philipps chose that time to reveal her hidden nose ring.

“I had my nose pierced, you know in the middle, like a bull, at the time, in my early 20s, which people didn’t know,” Philipps said. “And I would hide it when I was doing my acting jobs. And so I flipped my nose ring down and was like … ‘Should we take this outside?’”

Philipps has long been perceived as the ultimate best friend ― consider the “Busy Philipps Is Your Best Friend” meme. A story published this month by The Cut described her like this:

“You probably know Busy Philipps as somebody’s friend. ... With the easy laugh of your favorite sister and a poreless face made for ultra-high-definition 4K TV, she has played ‘best friend’ as dependably as anyone in Hollywood for the last 20 years.”

To that, Philipps told The Daily Beast, “Everybody says that…” But clearly for good reason.Colleagues,

In the wake of our pay equity study, many of you have expressed concerns that you are a victim of pay discrimination under the California Fair Pay Act. Many of you have asked for both individual guidance on how to proceed as well as a plan of action from the Los Angeles Times Guild to rapidly address these illegal pay disparities.

We held an open meeting with our attorney and our Guild representative on Wednesday, and settled on the following plan of action:

1. Bargaining

The L.A. Times Guild has asked the company to bargain over the issue. Our goal is to quickly achieve raises and seek back pay for affected employees. We sent that request to bargain earlier today, which you can find attached to this email.

To be clear: this will be a separate track from our negotiations over our main collective bargaining agreement, which we have not yet begun because of the pending sale of the paper.

Our immediate concern is fully addressing illegal pay disparities on an individual basis. Contract proposals to help prevent this problem from recurring (such as pay minimums or step increases) will come later. The Diversity & Equity committee ... will be in touch about those proposals.

2. Legal action

We are preparing a class action lawsuit, as a second option, with assistance from the law firm that also represents the Guild. The potential class action would be filed by a named plaintiff or plaintiffs in coordination with the Guild’s efforts to get the company to negotiate a timely and satisfactory agreement to address pay disparities. We will provide more information as this process develops.

If you would like to determine whether you would be covered by a class action under the California Fair Pay Act (should it be filed), or have other questions about the potential lawsuit, reach out to [union officers]. ...

Please be aware that this is an intensive process and that we are juggling dozens of requests, so we will do our best to get back to you in a timely manner.

Questions & Answers

Q: Should I retain my own attorney or file an individual lawsuit or wage claim?

A: That is your right. However, we feel strongly the best way to address this issue is for the affected employees to stick together and pursue our plan as a unified group. The only way to ensure we fully correct the problem is to work as a group, not reach a series of individual agreements.

Q: My manager has asked me to write a memo describing my accomplishments and asking for a raise. How should I proceed?

A: We strongly advise you to avoid writing a memo or asking for a raise individually if you are a victim of pay discrimination. The best way to address this issue is as a group. But beyond that, we think it’s highly problematic for managers to frame illegal pay discrimination — a systemic problem in our newsroom and in society — in terms of merit. You should never have to describe your achievements and qualifications in order to make the same as men or white people who do similar work as you. The exercise is offensive on its face and we should not participate.

Q: What if I already submitted a memo?

A: Here’s some language we recommend sending to your manager: “The wage inequities identified by the Guild pay study show issues based on a systemic problem, not due to merit. Any merit increase would be on top of addressing such inequity. We ask that the Employer respond to the union’s request to negotiate so these issues can be addressed for everyone.”

Q: Does the union think we should wipe out merit-based pay?

A: Not at all. Pay equity and merit-based compensation are two separate issues. To be clear, the union is never opposed to management giving employees better compensation on the basis of merit.

Q: Are there any records I should retain?

A: Yes, if you have time you should download all of your information from Workday before the sale of the paper closes. Critical records include past performance reviews and salary history. You should also save copies of any communication with management or human resources about your salary or performance.

Q: What if I am a victim of another form of pay discrimination, such as age?

A: We’re not leaving you behind, and we intend to investigate and address any claims of discrimination. Age discrimination is covered by a different law with a different standard of proof, so this will have to be considered separately. If you have concerns, please get in touch with us. ...

Thank you all for your strength and your resilience. Together, we will work to resolve this issue as quickly as possible.

— The Los Angeles Times Guild Officers & Bargaining CommitteeMichelle Pfeiffer, with Steven Bauer, director Brian De Palma and Al Pacino, received an uncomfortable question at a 35th anniversary screening of "Scarface." Theo Wargo via Getty Images

Some members of the audience at a “Scarface” reunion in New York Thursday were angered by a question about Michelle Pfeiffer’s weight.

Saying he was a parent concerned about body image, Tribeca Film Festival moderator Jesse Kornbluth asked Pfeiffer how much she weighed in the violent cult classic, according to multiple outlets.

One audience member shouted, “Why do you want to know?!” Another yelled, “Seriously?” and audible boos followed.

Kornbluth tried to regain his footing by saying, “This is not the question you think it is.”

Pfeiffer, who portrayed the wife of trigger-happy drug lord Tony Montana (Al Pacino), explained that she was playing a cocaine addict, so she was accelerating her weight loss to fit the story. “Of course, I tried to time it so that as the movie went on I became thinner and thinner and more emaciated,” she said. At the end of the shoot, she added, ” I think I was living on tomato soup and Marlboros.”

Pound for pound, this had to be the most awkward moment of the night.Rachel Weisz and Daniel Craig attend pictured together in April 2018. Gonzalo Marroquin via Getty Images

James Bond star Daniel Craig and wife actress Rachel Weisz are expecting a “little human.”

The two are preparing to welcome their first child together, Weisz revealed in a New York Times interview about her upcoming film “Disobedience” with Rachel McAdams, who reportedly gave birth to a baby of her own recently.

“I’ll be showing soon,” she said “Daniel and I are so happy. We’re going to have a little human. We can’t wait to meet him or her. It’s all such a mystery.”

The famously private couple, who’ve been married for seven years, already co-parent two children from previous relationships. Weisz shares an 11-year-old son Henry with “Mother!” director Darren Aronofsky, while Craig has a 25-year-old daughter, Ella, with the actress Fiona Loudon.

Daniel Craig and actress Rachel Weisz attend the 7th annual Governors Awards. Jason LaVeris via Getty Images

Despite being a bonafide movie star, Weisz says she’s not totally at ease talking about her marriage, unlike other celebrities who open their relationship up to the public.

“I really take my hat off to them,” Weisz said of other famous couples “But Daniel and I are really similar. We just literally don’t know how to do that. We’re just really crap at talking about our private lives.”

“I’m very happy being married, very, very happy,” she added.

While Weisz has many new films on the horizon, Craig is also gearing up to return for his fifth film in the 007 franchise after previously joking he’d rather “slash my wrist” than play the character again.

“He just meant ‘I can’t think about this today,’ having just done one,” she said. “He was just tired. He needed a really long nap and a glass of wine. It would be like if you asked someone who just had a baby, ‘Do you want another one that day?’ They’d just go, ‘NO!’”

“Slumdog Millionaire” director Danny Boyle will helm the latest Bond adventure, which begins production at the end of the year.

AdvertisementI met you when I was 23, I believe you were 45. And I was lucky enough to work with you and grow with you and learn from you. A lot of people in this world have dreams or goals or ideas, but not everybody goes out and fights to make them happen but you’re someone who did. You didn’t get served this, you didn’t get given this as a gift. I know firsthand, you worked so hard and found a voice and found your way, and you made your own dreams come true, and most importantly even now you’re making other people feel like they can do the same thing and change the world.

Today, I’m 27 years old and I have two daughters, and my hope for them is that they grow up to be leaders like you and that they’ll be as fearless and confident in their strengths as you are.Students across the country walked out of their classrooms Friday to protest gun violence, coinciding with the 19th anniversary of the gun massacre at Columbine High School in Littleton, Colorado.

According to organizers, students at about 2,500 schools had planned to hold walkouts at 10 a.m. in their respective time zones, a somewhat smaller number than participated in a similar walkout on March 14.

Friday’s events were the third major student-led action since the Feb. 14 school shooting at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Florida, which catalyzed a nationwide movement of students demanding legislative action to prevent gun violence.

I’m at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School talking to teachers who are protesting before school because they won’t be able to walk out with the kids at 10am. As the students walk by, it strikes me how strange it is that I recognize so many of them and know them by name. pic.twitter.com/N2wKHJ0Ozk — Jessica Bakeman (@jessicabakeman) April 20, 2018

Last month, hundreds of thousands of people attended the March For Our Lives in Washington and companion marches in cities and towns around the country, as well as in several international cities.

The series of major protests are meant to continue the momentum started by the Parkland students and keep the issue of gun violence in the headlines. So far, a handful of states have taken some legislative action in response, but there has been little movement on the national level.

However, the student activism has also turned its attention toward this year’s midterm elections and longer-term political action, such as registering young voters, supporting candidates for elected office, and creating a new generation of activists and leaders.

NOW: Students at Hamilton High School making "SOS" on the field as part of #MarchForOurLives. Watch live: https://t.co/20x2tsEsCa #abc15 pic.twitter.com/PrPbqpTo0s — ABC15 Arizona (@abc15) April 20, 2018

For the students of Columbine High School, the anniversary of the 1999 massacre has traditionally been a day of service with the high school closed for the day, so they did not plan a walkout, according to local news reports.

Columbine and Stoneman Douglas students led a rally to promote voter registration Thursday night in Colorado.

On Friday morning, students in some schools held walkouts before the school day began.

HAPPENING NOW: "walkout" underway @ Haverford HS BEFORE school starts to rally their classmates to take action & fight for stricter gun laws @FOX29philly pic.twitter.com/MSNTnCyAvl — jennifer joyce (@JenniJoyceTV) April 20, 2018

Just as they did on March 14, students in the Washington area gathered in front of the White House for a walkout, before marching toward the U.S. Capitol.

The March to the Capitol has begun. #NationalSchoolWalkout pic.twitter.com/u7t0ISAZnS — Esther Ciammachilli (@EstherCinDC) April 20, 2018

At Butler High School in Matthews, North Carolina, outside of Charlotte, a student read an account of the Columbine shooting. “The students received their weapons through unlicensed dealers at a gun show. Enough is enough,” the student said.

Other students held walkouts and rallies at major landmarks, such as these students at the New York Capitol in Albany, Oregon Capitol in Salem and San Francisco’s City Hall:

Students are now participating in a thirteen minute lie down. One minute for each person that died 19 years ago in the Columbine school shooting. pic.twitter.com/n5FJDGWPhG — Jaclyn Cangro (@JaclynCangro) April 20, 2018

#SalemOR students beginning to gather at the Capitol following the nationwide walk-out this morning. We’ll be streaming live at 11 a.m.#Marchforourlives #NationalSchoolWalkout pic.twitter.com/ITJTUUnDbg — 🌧David Davis🌧 (@DavidDavisSJ) April 20, 2018

Dozens of teens chant in front of SF City Hall: “Hey hey hey, NRA, how many kids have you killed today?” #NationalSchoolWalkout pic.twitter.com/1CQgiyyUni — Sarah Ruiz-Grossman (@sarah_grossman) April 20, 2018

Some students in Chicago headed toward Grant Park during their walkout:

Hundreds of students walking out of Walter Payton CP, headed toward Grant Park to meet with other schools for #chistudwalkout #NationalSchoolWalkout #Chicago pic.twitter.com/kg0xXXO5lu — WBEZeducation (@WBEZeducation) April 20, 2018

At a rally in Atlanta, Clare Schexnyder, who started the Facebook group Stop School Shootings, told the crowd: “Maybe some of you can’t [vote] yet, but you need to get the adults in your life to vote the right way.”

Georgia state Sen. Elena Parent (D) told students: “If you look at the U.S. Senate, they’re all super old. … None of these people in the United States Senate ever worried about school shootings and guns. That impacts your learning experience.”

About 130 celebrities and activists announced Friday the formation of a new group, the No Rifle Association initiative, or NoRA, that will work to combat the National Rifle Association’s political influence with help from policy experts and other anti-gun groups.

Celebrities including Patton Oswalt, Julianne Moore, Jimmy Kimmel, Amy Schumer and Michael Moore signed a letter addressed to NRA Executive Vice President Wayne LaPierre on Friday that read, in part: “You lied, and you purchased politicians, and you fought every single basic gun reform measure that might have saved lives.”

“Your time signing checks in our blood is up,” the NoRA letter continued.

In concert with the walkouts, some students also held events to educate each other on gun legislation and advocacy, such as these students in Pittsburgh and in Urbana, Illinois.

Pittsburgh CAPA students are participating in a teach-in about advocacy and gun law reform on the anniversary of the Columbine shooting #NationalSchoolWalkout @PittsburghPG pic.twitter.com/trj7bharL3 — Elizabeth Behrman (@Ebehrman) April 20, 2018

CU high school students are walking to a day-long teach-in. At 3 pm, they’ll walk back to Uni High in Urbana #NationalSchoolWalkout pic.twitter.com/cMYg9Gaggj — Niala (@NialaBoodhoo) April 20, 2018

Ten-year-old Delilah Rose Matrese begged her parents to let her participate because she’d missed last month’s protest, her mom, Melissa, told HuffPost. But she was the only one to do so Friday at Hamilton Elementary School in Carlisle, Pennsylvania.

Today my husband stood by my 10 y/o daughter because no one else in her school would. #NationalSchoolWalkout pic.twitter.com/Ptbg6nBdRT — Melissa Matrese (@MelliBitch) April 20, 2018

“No faculty or other students joined her, but she said she didn’t care because ‘Mommy, this is too important to be embarrassed!!’” her mom wrote to HuffPost. She noted that the fourth-grader hears about many topics in the news through John Oliver’s HBO show “Last Week Tonight” ― she “LOVES it,” her mom wrote ― and Samantha Bee’s TBS series “Full Frontal.”

Delilah’s dad, Steve, checked her out of school and stood nearby while she held her handmade sign, not budging as passersby on their way to a car show adjacent to the school grounds gave her dirty looks.

In Portland, Oregon, a 16-year-old student told local news outlet KATU that she was motivated to participate in part because her younger cousin once threatened to commit a mass shooting at his school.

“Automatic weapons should really be banned,” she said. “It pains me to see he could have gotten his hands on a weapon like that.”

A school shooting on Friday morning led one Florida school district to cancel students’ plans for a walkout. One student was injured at Forest High School in Ocala, Florida, and the suspect was quickly taken into custody, the Marion County Sheriff’s Office told HuffPost. The victim’s injuries are not life-threatening.A North Carolina student who protested alone during last month’s national walkout for gun control wasn’t alone Friday when he walked out again on the 19th anniversary of the Columbine High School massacre.

Blackman took video, which he later uploaded to Twitter, showing that he was the sole person at his school to take part in last month’s 17-minute protest.

“Hello, Twitter, there’s going to be like six people watching this hopefully,” he said in the video. “I’m the only one from my school out here.”

On Friday, Blackman walked out again as part of a nationwide event to remember the Columbine shooting in Colorado and protest gun violence. This time, he wasn’t alone.President Donald Trump’s flagship Scottish golf resort in Turnberry pays its female employees less than men and has four times as many men as women in executive spots, according to an official filing with local authorities, The Scotsman reported.

The mean rate for female pay at Trump Turnberry is 13.7 percent less than the pay for men, according to gender pay equality documents required by Scotland. So for every $1 men were paid, women got 86 cents.

The average mean bonus paid to men was $4,414, which was nearly twice as much as the average bonus paid to women — $2,256 — in the 12 months to April 2017, the newspaper reported, citing the filings. Only seven women and 11 men were given bonuses.

Turnberry management flatly attributed the pay gap to “male-dominated functions” at golf resorts, as well as the ”number of senior leadership roles undertaken by males” at Turnberry.

The widest gender gap was to be found in the bonus culture at the 800 acre resort. The average median bonus paid to men is £2,506, but the sum drops to just £1,116 among women, a shortfall of 53.5 per cent. The average mean bonus paid to men is £3,317, which drops 48.9 per cent for female employees, who receive £1,695. While seven women received bonus in the 12 months to April 2017, the number jumped to 11 for men.



Read more at: https://www.scotsman.com/news/politics/trump-turnberry-paying-women-employees-less-than-men-1-4741767

Women fill 46.8 percent of the lowest paid jobs at the 800-acre resort, and just 31.2 percent of the highest paid positions, report added.

The discrepancy emerged in what’s believed to be the first time pay rates and executive numbers have been revealed by any Trump business. Trump has owned the resort since 2014, and it’s run by his sons Eric and Donald Jr.

Patrick Harvie, a member of the Scottish Parliament from the Green Party, told The Scotsman: “Trump is a sexist bully, so the fact that equal pay doesn’t seem to matter at his golf course should surprise no one.”

The U.K. Equality Pay Act requires any company with more than 250 employees (Turnberry has 313) to file annual reports detailing gender pay rates.

When Trump was running for president he insisted he had been “very, very good for women” and “way ahead of the curve” as an employer. His attorney Michael Cohen boasted that there were more female executives at the Trump Organization than men, but did not provide any evidence to substantiate that claim.

Helping working women has been a major talking point for Trump’s daughter, Ivanka, but she supported her dad’s move last year to dismantle the Obama-era initiative bolstering equal pay. Similar to the requirement in the U.K., the initiative would have required private employers with 100 or more workers to submit pay data.

Earlier this month, The Scotsman reported that the U.S. government paid $7,800 to the golf resort to cover expenses and security for unnamed VIP guests earlier this year.

The resort last year got a $147,000 tax break from Scottish taxpayers. But the government has since jettisoned the property from the program that was intended to give struggling companies a break, the Sunday Herald reported.

“It’s bad enough that he has a business presence in Scotland,” Harvie told the newspaper after the decision was made. “It’s galling to learn that the public purse is giving him a helping hand.”

“This feeds the misconception that having men in high-paid jobs and women in low-paid jobs is an inevitable outcome.”



Read more at: https://www.scotsman.com/news/politics/trump-turnberry-paying-women-employees-less-than-men-1-4741767

March, shows that the mean gender pay gap for female employees is 13.69 per cent lower than the male equivalent, meaning they earn 86 pence for every £1 that their male colleagues earn.



Read more at: https://www.scotsman.com/news/politics/trump-turnberry-paying-women-employees-less-than-men-1-4741767

Turnberry, one of Mr Trump’s most prestigious overseas properties, blamed the “male dominated functions” associated with golf clubs for the shortfall in female leaders and the wide bonus gap, which means women receive nearly £1,400 less than their male counterparts.



Read more at: https://www.scotsman.com/news/politics/trump-turnberry-paying-women-employees-less-than-men-1-4741767

There are four times as many men as women occupying executive positions at the US president’s Trump Turnberry company.



Read more at: https://www.scotsman.com/news/politics/trump-turnberry-paying-women-employees-less-than-men-1-474176A Republican candidate who pointed a gun at a teenager in a campaign ad has advanced to a runoff in Georgia’s GOP gubernatorial primary.

Secretary of State Brian Kemp will face Lt. Gov. Casey Cagle in a July runoff after the two men were the leading vote-getters on Tuesday night. Under Georgia law, primaries head to a runoff if no candidate manages to break 50 percent.

Kemp drew attention for airing an ad where he declared he owned a “big truck” just in case he needed to round up undocumented immigrants and “take them home myself.” In another spot, he held a shotgun while he questioned a young man interested in dating one of his daughters. The requirements for wooing that daughter?

“Respect and a healthy appreciation for the 2nd Amendment,” the suitor replies.

While Cagle is the establishment favorite in the race, he’s expected to face a stiff challenge from Kemp. Cagle aired ads touting his economic record and his push to bar sanctuary cities in the state.

The two defeated three other major candidates: former state Sen. Hunter Hill, state Sen. Michael Williams and former Navy SEAL and businessman Clay Tippins.

AdvertisementLITTLETON, Colo. (Reuters) - Colorado gun control activists rallied on Thursday near Columbine High School, calling for an end to gun violence one day before the 19th anniversary of the massacre there and a planned nationwide student walkout.

The roughly 200 demonstrators who gathered in the Denver suburb of Littleton on a windy afternoon included a survivor of the Feb. 14 school shooting in Parkland, Florida that left 17 dead.

The walkouts and drive to sign up voters are aimed at pressuring U.S. politicians to enact tighter restrictions on gun sales in the run-up to November’s mid-term congressional elections.

“The idea is to unite and empower survivors, to stand together,” said Emmy Adams, an 18-year-old senior at nearby Golden High School.

On April 20, 1999 two Columbine seniors killed 12 of their classmates and a teacher before committing suicide. Since then mass shootings have occurred with shocking frequency across the United States.

Among the speakers at the “Vote for Our Lives” event were Parkland High School student Carlitos Rodriguez, who told the crowd that politicians would listen if their seats were at stake.

The latest national rally comes more than a month after tens of thousands of students from some 3,000 schools participated in the #ENOUGH National School Walkout to demand that lawmakers seek tighter gun control regulations. Leah Millis / Reuters

Students from more than 2,600 schools and institutions are expected to walk out of class at 10 a.m. local time on Friday, organizers say.

Activists asked students to wear orange, the official color of the campaign against gun violence, and observe a 13-second silence to honor the victims killed at Columbine.

Columbine has not held classes on April 20 since the massacre, a district spokeswoman said, so there would be no walkout at the school. Students were encouraged to take part in community service.

The latest national rally comes more than a month after tens of thousands of students from some 3,000 schools participated in the #ENOUGH National School Walkout to demand that lawmakers seek tighter gun control regulations.

It also follows “March For Our Lives” rallies in cities across the United States on March 24 that were some of the biggest U.S. youth demonstrations for decades, with hundreds of thousands of young Americans and their supporters taking to the streets to demand tighter gun laws.

Dudley Brown, president of the Colorado-based National Association for Gun Rights, said the gun-control movement seeks to have the government take away rights, “precisely opposite of what the civil rights activists did in the 1960s.”