(Reuters) - Former cycling champion Lance Armstrong on Thursday agreed to pay $5 million to settle a federal suit claiming he defrauded his sponsor, the U.S. Postal Service, by using performance-enhancing drugs, his attorney and federal officials said.

The settlement ends the long-running false claims suit brought by fellow cyclist Floyd Landis and joined by the U.S. government, which had sought $100 million in damages on behalf of the Post Office, according to statements from Armstrong’s attorney, Elliot Peters, and the U.S. Department of Justice.

“No one is above the law,” Acting Assistant Attorney General for the Justice Department’s Civil Division Chad Readler said in a statement. “This settlement demonstrates that those who cheat the government will be held accountable.”

In his statement, Lance Armstrong’s attorney Elliot Peters said, “Lance is delighted to put this behind him.” PA Archive/PA Images

By phone, Peters told Reuters that he thinks the Postal Service realized it could not prove damages to it caused by Armstrong’s behavior. He said the settlement was reached ahead of a scheduled May 7 trial date.

Armstrong, who is now 46 and lives in Austin, Texas, won the biggest race in professional cycling, the Tour de France, a record seven times, six of them while riding for the Postal Service team.

He was stripped of his titles and banned for life from the sport in 2012 by the U.S. Anti-Doping Agency after it accused him in a report of engineering one of the most sophisticated doping schemes in sports. Armstrong admitted to the cheating in a January 2013 televised interview with Oprah Winfrey.

This is the last legal matter related to Armstrong’s doping, Peters said.

“I’m looking forward to devoting myself to the many great things in my life ― my five kids, my wife, my podcast, several exciting writing and film projects, my work as a cancer survivor, and my passion for sports and competition,” Armstrong said in a statement provided by Peters.

The settlement also calls for Armstrong to pay $1.65 million for the court costs of his former teammate Landis, who also used performance-enhancing drugs and who was stripped of his 2006 Tour de France championship.

Landis originally brought the lawsuit in 2010 under a federal law, the False Claims Act, that lets whistle-blowers pursue fraud cases on behalf of the government, and obtain rewards if successful. Landis will receive $1.1 million as his share of the settlement.

AdvertisementTina Fey has something of an confession about how the recent batch of “30 Rock” reboot rumors may have started.

On Thursday’s broadcast of “The Tonight Show,” the actress acknowledged to host Jimmy Fallon that the latest round of speculation may have begun with a coy response she gave on the red carpet for her new “Mean Girls” musical.

“Well … OK. Here’s what I’ll say. So we were on the red carpet for the Broadway opening and someone was like, ‘Would you ever do a “30 Rock” reboot?’ And I was like ‘Maybe …,’” Fey said.

“A little bit of that is on me, like I must be so thirsty for internet attention,” Fey explained. “Maybe I’m Banksy,” she jokingly added, before revealing how she’d never do a straight reboot of the show that ended in 2013, “because that would be too easy.”

“If we get anything together, I promise you will be the first to know,” she added.

Later in the show, Fey spread the love by surprising unexpecting fans who lined up in front of a promo poster for her musical to explain how she’d inspired them:Kevin McHale pictured in April 2018. Vincent Sandoval via Getty Images

“Glee” star Kevin McHale declared that the newly released Ariana Grande song is “gayer” than he is.

The actor, who starred on the musical series as Artie Abrams for six seasons, publicly addressed his sexuality for the first time amid rumors that he’s dating actor Austin McKenzie.

″ # NoTearsLeftToCry is gayer than me and I ACCEPT. Ty @ ArianaGrande,” he wrote on Twitter Friday in one of several tweets praising the pop star.

#NoTearsLeftToCry is gayer than me and I ACCEPT. Ty @ArianaGrande. — Kevin McHale (@druidDUDE) April 20, 2018

He also requested that Grande drop a remix of the song featuring Janet Jackson, which, for the record, we are fully on board with.

McHale has stoked speculation for months with photos of himself and McKenzie on Instagram. Earlier in the week, he seemed to confirm their romance, and shared a photo of himself and McKenzie cuddling together with hashtag #mycoachella in the caption.

A post shared by Kevin McHale (@kevinmchale) on Apr 13, 2018 at 10:09pm PDT

The two starred co-starred together in ABC’s eight-part miniseries “When We Rise,” chronicling the gay rights movement over the past 45 years. McHale played AIDS activist Bobbi Campbell.Sen. Chuck Schumer and Rep. Nancy Pelosi said the Justice Department shouldn't be sharing sensitive documents only with Republicans. Tom Williams via Getty Images

UPDATE: 7:41 p.m. — The White House said later on Wednesday that while Thursday’s Justice Department briefing for Republican lawmakers only would go ahead as scheduled, “a separate meeting of the bipartisan Gang of 8 with DOJ, law enforcement and intelligence officials” would also take place before Memorial Day.

PREVIOUSLY:

WASHINGTON ― Top Democrats on Wednesday urged the Justice Department to scrap a classified briefing with top House Republicans regarding sensitive documents that the GOP lawmakers had requested about the Russia investigation, but said if the meeting was to go forward on Thursday, it ought to include lawmakers of both parties.

Justice Department officials invited Rep. Devin Nunes (R-Calif.), chairman of the House intelligence committee, and committee member Rep. Trey Gowdy (R-S.C.) to review information about an FBI informant who reportedly attempted to make contact with Donald Trump’s campaign advisers prior to the 2016 election. The FBI had received evidence that the advisers had suspicious contacts linked to Russia.

Last week President Trump accused the FBI of “spying” on his campaign for “political purposes” and demanded the Justice Department probe that investigation and alleged surveillance. On Wednesday, he dubbed the FBI probe “SPYGATE,” tweeting that it “could be one of the biggest political scandals in history!” These allegations are only the latest attempts from the president and his allies to discredit what is now special counsel Robert Mueller’s investigation into Russia’s meddling in the 2016 election.

In a Wednesday letter, Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer (D-N.Y.) and House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi (D-Calif.) blasted the planned meeting between Justice Department officials and GOP lawmakers as “completely improper” and warned that it “would set a damaging precedent for your institutions and the rule of law.”

In the letter addressed to Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein and FBI Director Christopher Wray, the Democratic leaders argued that the meeting could create an opportunity for Trump and his allies on Capitol Hill to “prematurely access investigatory information and selectively leak national security secrets” in order to distort the facts about the Russia investigation, which has already yielded nearly two dozen indictments.

“However,” they wrote, “if you have determined in your best judgment that Justice Department participation in the meeting is the only way to prevent this situation from devolving into an outright constitutional crisis, then we believe you must insist on the only appropriate mechanism for highly sensitive briefings that might implicate intelligence sources and methods ― a bipartisan Gang of Eight briefing that involves congressional leadership from both chambers.”

The “Gang of Eight” consists of Schumer; Pelosi; Nunes; Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.); House Speaker Paul Ryan (R-Wis.); Sen. Richard Burr (R-N.C.), chairman of the Senate intelligence committee; Sen. Mark Warner (D-Va.), ranking member of the Senate intelligence committee; and Rep. Adam Schiff (D-Calif.), ranking member of the House intelligence committee.

Schiff on Wednesday called the Democrats’ exclusion from the classified briefing “a serious abuse of power.” Warner told a CNN reporter that he hoped the Justice Department “would not in any way be forced to reveal confidential information that would go against 75 years of practice.”

Several Republicans are also requesting to be included in the Justice Department meeting, including Senate Majority Whip John Cornyn (R-Texas), Sen. Lindsey Graham (R-S.C.). and Sen. Chuck Grassley (R-Iowa), chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee.

Sen. Jeff Flake (R-Ariz.), a frequent Trump critic who is not seeking re-election this year, tweeted that excluding Democrats from the classified briefing “is not right.”Trevor Noah is determined to shine a light on all the dumb gun accidents that seem to take place on a regular basis in America.

The comedian launched a new segment on Thursday’s broadcast of “The Daily Show” titled “A Series Of Gunfortunate Events”

“Since the Parkland shooting, not a lot of progress has been made in terms of legislation,” said Noah. “So for now, we’ll have to rely on these good guys with guns.”

For the bit’s debut, Noah gave honorable mentions to a teacher who left his gun in a public restroom and the guy who shot himself while grocery shopping. But he concluded with a real doozy of a story, involving a cop, a third-grader and a loaded gun.Chris Christie is sparing no expense when it comes to his official portrait, which is being paid for with public funds.

The former New Jersey Republican governor is commemorating his eight years in office, which ended in January, with a painting of himself by Australian artist Paul Newton. He signed an $85,000 contract for the work the month before his term ended.

The price is more than the state’s three previous governors paid for their portraits combined, reports The Record, which revealed the extravagant expenditure on Thursday.

Newton has previously painted the portraits of Australian singer Kylie Minogue, Pope Benedict XVI and Prince Philip, the Duke of Edinburgh.

In 2017, Christie was infamously snapped vacationing with his family on an otherwise vacant state-owned beach that he’d earlier closed due to a budget impasse.

Some people on Twitter suggested that Christie, who also once spent more than $82,000 in public money on concessions at NFL games, should use photographs taken that beach day for his portrait instead:

Sorry Chris Christie, billing NJ $85k for your portrait is pointless.



We already have one. pic.twitter.com/KVo2fdj1ca — MommaT (@tweetmommybop) April 20, 2018

Chris Christie's official portrait will cost New Jersey taxpayers $85k pic.twitter.com/QIFGJGi5mJ — ElElegante101 (@skolanach) April 19, 2018

Chris Christie's official portrait has apparently been completed. I think it captures his real essence#ThursdayThought (h/t @MattsIdeaShop) pic.twitter.com/N77O8GWGOU — Seymour Sludgeworth (@SSludgeworth) April 19, 2018Michelle Williams, seen here wearing Gucci, is the MVP of "I Feel Pretty." STXfilms

At one point in “I Feel Pretty,” after the newly emboldened protagonist, Renee Bennett (Amy Schumer), has landed her dream job as a receptionist at a haughty cosmetics company, she is in the cafeteria when the couture-clad CEO, Avery LeClair (Michelle Williams), spots her. Bosses at bustling beauty enterprises are, the average story goes, bloodthirsty. Avery, on other hand, is thirsty for an understanding of how normal people ― ones whose grandmothers aren’t the namesake of an imperious brand ― live their lives.

Naturally, that’s something of a struggle for someone whose privilege butts up against her eccentricities. “I thought I smelled animal products,” she meows upon seeing Renee.

If an actor is fortunate, at some point she’ll give a performance so unlike anything we’ve ever seen her do that it’s downright startling. This week, Michelle Williams is that actor. Even though Williams’ first lead in a movie was playing an airheaded teenager who inadvertently exposes Richard Nixon’s Watergate break-in in the 1999 satire “Dick,” she’s since matured into a so-called serious actress with indie clout and four Oscar nominations to her name ― a fact that makes her bonkers work in “I Feel Pretty” all the more delicious. It’s the type of role that’s only memorable coming from an established performer, especially one known for dramatic heft like “Brokeback Mountain,” “Blue Valentine” and “Manchester by the Sea.”

Maybe your jaw will drop as low as mine did upon first hearing Williams speak in “I Feel Pretty,” which opens this weekend. Instead of the velvety innocence that usually accents her on-screen persona, Williams speaks with what co-directors Abby Kohn and Marc Silverstein call “high-pitched vocal fry.” It’s an odd confluence of Valley Girl lilt, enunciated baby-speak and spacey stonerisms, further underscored because the character actually fits none of those attributes. Avery, we learn, has an MBA from Wharton and clerked for a Supreme Court justice before taking a leadership post at Lily LeClair.

Michelle Williams in "I Feel Pretty." STXfilms

Coupled with the bamboozled but relentlessly relaxed aura Williams brings to the film, Avery’s flat cadence skirts the dragon-lady stereotype that defines the high-powered fashionistas portrayed by Meryl Streep in “The Devil Wears Prada” and Tilda Swinton in “Trainwreck.” She carries herself with the weight of a feather, gliding along as if oblivious to her surroundings at all times.

Kohn and SIlverstein, longtime creative partners who also penned “Never Been Kissed” and “He’s Just Not That Into You,” had written Avery’s intonation into their script, but they had no idea what Williams would do with it until a couple of weeks before she arrived on set. Williams sent Kohn and Silverstein an NPR story from 2015 about a woman incapable of feeling fear. The woman’s speech, which sounds almost identical to the voice Jenny Slate created for the adorable stop-motion creation Marcel the Shell, was Williams’ inspiration, though the results were still a work in progress when she tested it for Kohn and Silverstein over the phone. They didn’t hear the final version until they went to Williams’ trailer on her first day shooting the movie.

“Truthfully, the thing she did for us on the day in the trailer was not like anything we’d talked about before,” Silverstein said. “It was so much better.”

“We were like, ‘Can you sustain it? How is it to do a voice like that?’” Kohn recalled. “She was like, ’Yes, I got it. I can do it. It’s part of the whole thing.’”

Avery’s wardrobe completes the “whole thing.” Costume designer Debra McGuire, who was attracted to “I Feel Pretty” because its empowerment message works in opposition to the “tight, sexy” clothing she felt obligated to use while working on “Friends” in the ’90s, based Avery’s grandmother (Lauren Hutton) on a cosmetics guru she once knew who dressed head to toe in Chanel. With that in mind, McGuire wanted Avery to put a “fun” twist on high-end fashion, bringing a California ease to the office’s cutthroat New York setting.

Michelle Williams and Amy Schumer in "I Feel Pretty." STXfilms

Furthermore, Avery and the self-effacing Renee needed to work as complements, not foils à la Streep and Anne Hathaway in “The Devil Wears Prada.” When Renee falls off a SoulCycle bike and knocks her head, her feelings of unworthiness vanish. Convinced she is suddenly thinner and more conventionally beautiful ― “Modeling is an option for me,” she later tells Avery and her colleague (Naomi Campbell) ― Renee encounters a series of contrivances that ultimately lead her to realize she got the job (and a boyfriend) without actually shapeshifting or altering her appearance.

Normally, McGuire would have designed Avery’s attire from scratch. But she didn’t have access to Williams during pre-production, as the actress was filming another movie in Europe (presumably “All the Money in the World,” which Williams shot in Rome immediately before “Pretty”). Instead, McGuire scouted Tom Ford, Dolce & Gabbana and Gucci boutiques. Knowing that Kohn and Silverstein didn’t want Williams to wear the same sort of regalia she dons in real life, McGuire sought an “au current” metropolitan sensibility accentuated by straight, flowing blond locks. “There was an Ivanka Trump vibe going on there,” she said half-jokingly.

That dichotomy ― corporate gloss meets puerile squeal ― is best evidenced in a baby-blue dress Avery wears with pink flowers and golden retrievers all over. A Dolce & Gabanna original that McGuire said was inspired by the designers’ own dogs, the blithe garment reflects Avery’s lifelong struggle to cultivate a personality despite the fact that no one takes her seriously. The movie’s producers first balked at the canine frock, thinking it might be too distracting, but McGuire, who had the directors’ support, wasn’t budging. “That dress was going to be on camera even if I had to stomp over anybody who didn’t want it,” she said. “I felt this was just a perfect place to show part of who this character is because there’s a snobby vibe to the Lily LeClair aesthetic. To come to work in a puppy dress, you’ve gotta be some kind of woman to do that.”

Avery’s accouterments and wispiness mask a crippling insecurity. “I sound like a freaking moron,” she moans in an uncharacteristically candid moment, listing the line items on her astoundingly intellectual biography to prove how belittled she is because of her voice. In the same way that Schumer learns to value her body by the movie’s end, Avery is meant to better understand her place in the class-conscious, image-obsessed world. She is the face of Lily LeClair, but it’s her inability to muster the confidence needed to excel that encourages her to extend the brand to reach more than just snobby rich women. That arc is baked into Williams’ oddities.Someone should tell Rudy Giuliani that unless he looks forward to being hit with a Trump adjacent indictment, he might want to reconsider. Guess his parents never told him not to hang around with the wrong element.Two deputies were killed when a man shot at them through a window while they were eating at a Chinese restaurant in Trenton, Florida, on Thursday afternoon.

A gunman walked up to Ace China Restaurant and shot at Sgt. Noel Ramirez, 30, and Deputy Taylor Lindsay, 25, about 3 p.m., according to the Gilchrist County Sheriff’s Office, where the deputies worked.

The adult male gunman was found dead outside the restaurant, Sheriff Robert D. Schultz said during a news conference. Officials did not release the man’s identity or cause of death.

Investigators do not know what the shooter’s motive was, and Schultz said there are no “indications as to why this tragedy occurred.”

Schultz called the gunman a “coward” and told reporters, “I do not have answers as to why this happened.”

“The world is full of cowards and the world is full of heroes,” Schultz added. “We need to highlight those heroes and what they gave.”

Schultz also suggested that the shooting may have occurred because of an animosity for police officers.

“What do you expect to happen when you demonize law enforcement to the extent that it’s been demonized?” Schultz said during the news conference.

Ramirez, a seven-year veteran of the department, was married and had children, according to officials. Lindsey joined the department two years ago and had a girlfriend.

Ramirez and Lindsey were “the best of the best,” Schultz said. “They were men of integrity, men of loyalty. They’re God-fearing and they loved what they did. They gave their lives so that we can all be safe.”

Trenton is a small city 50 miles west of Gainesville, with a population of 2,315, according to the latest available census data.

Florida Gov. Rick Scott said in a statement that he and his wife “are heartbroken” over the deputies’ deaths.

“It is true evil for anyone to hurt a law enforcement officer, and in Florida, we have zero tolerance for violence, especially against the police.”

President Donald Trump offered his condolences in a tweet.

My thoughts, prayers and condolences are with the families, friends and colleagues of the two @GCSOFlorida deputies (HEROES) who lost their lives in the line of duty today. — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) April 19, 2018Without Dan Day, there would have been no case against the men who plotted to bomb Somali Muslim immigrants in Kansas. Courtesy

WICHITA, Kan. ― Three anti-Muslim domestic terrorists who plotted to blow up a Garden City apartment complex where many Somali Muslim immigrants lived were convicted on Wednesday on federal charges that could send them to prison for life. Five weeks into the trial, jurors deliberated for less than a full day before finding Kansas militiamen Patrick Stein, Curtis Allen and Gavin Wright guilty on all charges.

But it wasn’t just the trio on trial.

So too was Dan Day, the FBI informant whose hours of recordings ― which featured vile discussions of planned violence against Muslims, who the men called “cockroaches” ― were the centerpiece of the federal government’s case against a group that dubbed themselves “The Crusaders.”

Day’s testimony was at the center of the trial. Federal prosecutors would not have had a case without him. Defense attorneys said the plot would never have moved forward were it not for Day pushing the group to action.

The two sides offered up competing portraits of the 49-year-old Day in court. The government portrayed him as an “everyday guy,” a patriot and a hero who risked his life and stepped up to prevent a looming attack that would have killed countless men, women and children because of their faith, race and national origin. Defense attorneys said Day was an unemployed wannabe who jumped at the chance to become an undercover FBI informant and was willing to do whatever the federal government needed for a check.

In an exclusive interview with HuffPost, Day said it’s a relief to put this experience behind him. “It’s just so hard to believe this actually happened,” he said. He’s glad “justice was served” in the case, and thinks divine intervention led to his involvement, he added.

“I felt like it was a calling from God, honestly,” Day said of taking the risk of becoming an informant. “I’m not an over-religious person, but I believe in God and I believe he put me there at the right time, the right place, if that makes any sense.”

The father of two high school-age children and the youngest of 14 kids, Day grew up in Garden City, Kansas, home to the apartment complex the defendants ultimately targeted. Up until a few years ago, he worked as a probation officer and in juvenile detention before that.

His path to becoming an informant for the FBI is completely unique.

It began in July of 2015 with a trip to the local library with his son. He saw what he considered an anti-Israel poster, which featured a Palestinian flag and described the situation in Israel as apartheid. He tore it down.

“They have the right to put that up, and I have the right to take that down, in my opinion, so I did,” Day said of the incident.

Then he passed along a photo of the poster to a friend who eventually posted about it on Facebook. The post went viral.

“I’m no hero, man, believe me. I’m not a perfect person, but I’m truthful.” - FBI informant Dan Day

Day was soon invited to a cookout attended by a number of members of a militia group in Kansas. Somewhere along the line the story got mixed up, and people in the militia believed that Day had found an ISIS recruiting poster. That wasn’t the case at all.

But the FBI, which was looking into rumors of the ISIS poster, interviewed Day and ended up being interested in him because of his connection to the militia. It wasn’t long before Day was working on the bureau’s behalf, giving the federal government an inside look at the larger militia group.

Then Day met the defendants. The difference between them and the larger group, federal prosecutors said, was that the defendants weren’t just talking ― they were ready to take action.

Kansas-based Assistant U.S. Attorney Tony Mattivi, who prosecuted the case alongside two prosecutors from the Justice Department’s Civil Rights Division, told jurors that Day was an “average guy” who stepped up at the right moment to stop men who wanted to “blow up a bomb, flatten the building and murder every single man, woman and child inside.”

Day could have walked away, like the other members of the larger militia group who knew a plan was in motion but did nothing to stop it, Mattivi said. “That guy’s a patriot. He’s a hero,” he added.

Defense attorneys saw it differently. They accused the federal government of overreaching and said the case wouldn’t have gone anywhere if it hadn’t been for Day’s involvement. They frequently mentioned that Day was working for the FBI before he ever came into contact with the defendants.

“The FBI owns Dan Day and they own the words that he said,” argued Melody Brannon, the top federal public defender in Kansas who was representing Allen.

FBI Kansas City Division Acting Special Agent in Charge Shelly Doherty, U.S. Attorney Stephen McAllister and Assistant US Attorney Tony Mattivi at a press conference following the guilty verdict. Ryan J. Reilly/HuffPost

Day said the defense’s attacks on him were unfair and only happened because defense attorneys couldn’t dispute what the defendants said in the tapes he recorded. “They had to attack me, and they had to attack the FBI,” he said. “I put my whole life out there so they could knock me down.’”

But Day said he was also uncomfortable with the prosecution’s glowing depiction of his role. “I’m no hero, man, believe me,” he said. “I’m not a perfect person, but I’m truthful.”

Working in remote areas of Kansas, there was no backup team standing by when Day attended meetings with the militiamen. He had a phone that was constantly recording in the background that even he couldn’t turn off.

It was scary at times, Day said. He noted he was armed, and “would’ve did what [he] had to do” if he was discovered.

Being undercover, observing and participating as the men spewed Islamophobic rhetoric, Day said the defense attorneys and the media overplayed the influence that President Donald Trump’s anti-Muslim remarks had on the defendants. He called it a “Trump card” used as an excuse for the militia’s behavior.

“These guys had a hate in their heart towards all Muslims, long before Trump came along in the picture,” said Day, who described himself as “anti-Hillary” and said he would have voted for Trump had he not been preoccupied with the case right before the 2016 election.

Still, Day said he would have liked Trump to have toned down some of his more extreme rhetoric about Muslims.



“Trump should not have ever said those things. I don’t agree with him saying that, you know?” he said. “Regular Muslims, if they come over and they’re vetted, that’s our country, man. That’s a free country. That’s how my grandparents got here.”

REUTERS/Adam Shrimplin

Day, like a lot of Americans, said he personally hasn’t had much interaction with Muslims. He said he had concerns about radical Islam, but said he “never had a bad view” of Muslims as a whole.



It’s rare for the federal government to deploy informants and undercover officers in terrorism stings against non-Muslim defendants. The Intercept’s Trial and Terror project identified 310 terrorism sting operations that involved international terrorism, meaning groups like the self-described Islamic State.

Most of the high-profile cases typically involved young Muslim men who became the focus of FBI investigations because of what they’d written online. Those cases primarily resulted in material support charges unavailable in cases against domestic extremists.

Day said he doesn’t know what’s next for him. As defense attorneys noted, he’ll probably get a conviction bonus from the FBI for his work on the case, in addition to the more than $30,000 he has already received. He would’ve made more money working a regular job, he said, and he’ll start looking for one soon.



He said he found some of the defense’s comments in closing arguments to be laughable. Stein was compared to a “child playing at war” who had a “willingness to believe the fantastical” and an “inflated sense of self.” Wright was portrayed as someone who just wanted to fit in and thought Day was his friend.

Day said it was particularly ridiculous that Wright’s attorney brought up the defendant’s parents’ divorce more than 35 years ago, when Wright was 14.

“Come on, man,” Day said. “Give him a puppy, I don’t know.”

Day added that he doesn’t want to sound like he’s overly happy about what happened to the defendants and that he’s particularly conscious of the effect their convictions will have on their families. But he doesn’t have much sympathy for the defendants themselves, who he said had plenty of opportunities to back away from the plot.

“I’d tell them fuck off,” Day said. “They made their choices.”Marijuana films have come a long way, baby.

These days, filmmakers like Judd Apatow put lots of positive pot references in movies ― a big change from the early days of Hollywood.

Back then, Mary Jane was as much of a movie villain as Frankenstein, the Wolf Man or Dracula, thanks to films like “Reefer Madness.”

The classically awful 1936 “educational” film about marijuana addiction was just one of many flicks that suggested people who succumb to the dreaded wacky tobacky become criminally insane, promiscuous and prone to dancing the Charleston.

“Reefer Madness” isn’t the only film from that era that used blatant scare tactics to keep people off the grass. Take a look at these budding cannabis cult classics.For some people, 420 is a twice-a-day occurrence, while others celebrate April 20 as a pot-themed holiday.

But in stock photos, it’s always 420.

The staged images are meant to represent marijuana culture, but they often rely on old stereotypes of pot smokers. Many show the type of hippie typically only seen in 1960s sitcoms like “The Beverly Hillbillies.”

Other pot pics try to be ironic by showing older folks puffing away on joints (forgetting that many seniors tried weed back when sitcoms like “The Beverly Hillbillies” were popular).

Not able to celebrate 420? You can always partake in these:A memorial to Shawn Arthur, who died at age 40, sits in the Arthur family home. Joseph Rushmore FOR HuffPost

NEW ORLEANS ― The death certificate for Shawn Arthur, a man who died after meeting a woman through a dating app, has been changed from “accidental” to “undetermined.”

While the reclassification might eventually push the case into a courtroom, it’s not sitting well with Arthur’s father, who wanted it changed to “homicide.”

“I am truly disappointed, but not totally surprised,” Bob Arthur, 69, told HuffPost. “Obviously the investigative facts were ignored or twisted.”

The change in classification comes two weeks after HuffPost detailed what 27-year-old Dominique Berry said about what really happened to Shawn Arthur.

A Louisiana native with a lengthy criminal record, Berry claims that she and her partner, 36-year-old Randy Schenck, drugged Shawn Arthur so they could steal his belongings in late February 2017. When the 40-year-old was found dead in his apartment shortly afterward, his death was labeled “accidental,” despite compelling evidence suggesting foul play.

The issue with the revised death classification is that “undetermined” still encompasses accidental, natural or homicide. It basically means there is no one theory that outweighs the others regarding the cause and manner of a person’s death.

A homicide classification would have required only that the coroner’s office find that Arthur’s death resulted from a deliberate act by another person, not necessarily with an intent to kill.

Dominique Berry and Randy Schenck were photographed after their arrests in Fulton County, Georgia, on charges unrelated to the Arthur case. Fulton County Sheriff's Office

Berry’s account, along with other evidence uncovered by HuffPost and two private investigators working for the Arthur family – Michelle Gomez and Jane Holmes – was among the materials examined last week by the Jefferson Parish Coroner’s Office. The evidence, which prompted the involvement of federal authorities, shows how Berry and Schenck allegedly targeted men on dating apps in at least six states. Berry estimated that she and her partner, who are behind bars in Georgia in connection with another case, victimized up to 100 men.

Dr. Marianna Eserman, the forensic pathologist who performed the original autopsy, and other members of the coroner’s office were among those to sit down and review the Arthur case last week. The Arthur family’s attorney, Michael Kennedy, said he was not permitted to attend the meeting.

In a Tuesday statement to Kennedy, Eserman said the review of the case was complete and it was determined that Arthur’s death did not meet the criteria to be ruled a homicide. The pathologist said that while Berry had admitted to drugging men, she’d never said that “she remembers Shawn Arthur or his apartment.”

Yet prior to the meeting, Kennedy had provided Eserman with copies of three interviews in which Berry discussed the Arthur case. Among them was a Feb. 27 interview with HuffPost, in which Berry acknowledged going to Arthur’s apartment.

“I just called him and went to his house,” Berry said of her interactions with Arthur after they connected on a dating app.

Berry not only admitted drugging Arthur, but also claimed she was at his apartment when he passed out.

“He was snoring very loudly,” she recalled.

Kennedy said he is “outright angry” that the coroner’s office is claiming they cannot place Berry at the crime scene ― especially since police already have.

“Her fucking fingerprint was found there, so she was obviously there,” Kennedy told HuffPost.

Eserman gave HuffPost a different explanation as to why the case could not be reclassified a homicide. “We have no definitive proof under what circumstances Mr. Arthur ingested medications and alcohol,” she said in a Thursday email.

Eserman said Berry’s interviews were reviewed, but she did not respond to a follow-up email that pointed to specific statements Berry had made about drugging Arthur.

A shot glass found in Shawn Arthur's apartment contained the remains of a powdery substance, police said. Jefferson Parish Sheriff's Office

In her interview with HuffPost, Berry said she’d first attempted to drug Arthur by mixing a cocktail of prescription drugs with liquor. She said that attempt failed when the drugs did not completely dissolve and wound up stuck to the bottom of the glass.

“He didn’t drink it because there was like the ones that was still stuck in the cup,” Berry said.

The sheriff’s report indicates a shot glass with an unknown substance was found during a search of Arthur’s apartment.

In a Feb. 15 interview with Holmes, one of the private investigators, Berry said she found it was easier to mix the drugs with beer. Empty beer bottles were found in Arthur’s apartment, along with several pill capsules in which Berry had allegedly concealed the drugs.

“Of course, I drugged him,” Berry told Holmes. “I gave him two capsules of pills, then I took him to the bed, laid him down, massaged him and relaxed him, and he fell asleep.”

Berry told HuffPost that generally after drugging a victim, she’d encourage the individual to consume large quantities of alcohol.

“When they drink half a bottle of beer, that’s when you put the pill in because it won’t fizz over,” she said. “Then I’ll do like a chug game or something like that.”

Several alleged victims of Berry and Schenck told HuffPost that they have no memory of what happened from the time they consumed an allegedly spiked drink until they woke up hours later, with a bad hangover.

Dr. Gerry Cvitanovich, the Jefferson Parish coroner, did not respond to a request for comment Thursday as to whether Eserman, who is married to a detective who worked on the case, should have performed the autopsy and been involved in the case review.

The relationship between the pathologist and the detective should have been disclosed to his family, Bob Arthur contends. He said he was unaware of it until he reviewed the investigative documents.

“Mrs. Eserman should have never been the person leading on the response regarding the new information on the case,” Bob Arthur said. “There is clearly a conflict of interest on her part along with her husband, Sgt. Travis Eserman. There is always a possibility that Mrs. Eserman’s response was written to protect her husband and the other detectives for their shoddy investigation.”

The Jefferson Parish Sheriff’s Office, which reopened the investigation into Shawn Arthur’s death after HuffPost started raising questions, did not respond to a request for comment.

Shawn Arthur was found dead in his apartment in February 2017. Bob Arthur

Whether the reclassification of Arthur’s death will have any impact on the Jefferson Parish District Attorney’s Office is yet to be seen. A spokesman for the office declined to comment on the case.

Kennedy said he plans to reach out to each of the relevant agencies to raise questions about the reclassification of Arthur’s death.

“We feel strongly that this is a homicide and will be working to provide additional information to the coroner to have that change made,” Kennedy said. “In the meantime, it is our hope the Jefferson Parish Sheriff’s Office will take notice and look more closely at the case, so we can get justice for Shawn.”

More Information About The Shawn Arthur Case See GalleryThe Department of Justice released copies of the so-called Comey memos to congressional leaders on Thursday. In the documents, the former FBI director detailed his early encounters with newly-minted President Donald Trump, including Trump’s obsession with disproving allegations in the infamous Steele dossier and his demands for aides’ loyalty.

The memos, which contain no notable information that Comey hasn’t already discussed in congressional testimony or his new memoir, were leaked to a swath of news outlets late Thursday. Redacted copies of the seven documents can be seen below.

Throughout the memos, the former FBI chief details Trump’s lack of familiarity with established channels of communication between the White House and the Justice Department. In one instance, Comey describes Trump asking him to discuss then-national security adviser Michael Flynn in “private,” prompting Comey to reply that “it was important that communications about any particular case go through that channel to protect us and to protect the WH from any accusations of improper influence.”

A memo from late January of last year, shortly after Trump’s inauguration, also referenced the president’s widely-reported demand for loyalty.

“He then returned to loyalty, saying ‘I need loyalty.’ I replied that he would always get honesty from me. He paused and said that’s what he wants, ‘honest loyalty.’ I replied ‘you will get that from me.’ (It is possible we understood that phrase differently, but I chose to understand it as consistent with what I had said throughout the conversation: I will serve the president with loyalty to the office, the country, and the truth. I decided it would not be productive to push the subject further.)”

Comey also notes that Trump frequently complimented Comey on his work at the FBI in the early days of his administration, noting that the president at times said “he thought very highly of me” and had “heard I’m doing great.”

At one point, Comey wrote that Trump said he had “serious reservations” about Flynn. “In telling the story, the President pointed his [fingers] at his head and said ‘the guy has serious judgment issues,’” Comey wrote.

Many statements in Comey’s memo are similar to his remarks during the press tour for his recent book, A Higher Loyalty, including that Trump insisted Comey disprove allegations about Russian prostitutes in the Steele dossier.

“The President brought up the ‘Golden Showers thing’ and said it really bothered [him] if his wife had any doubt about it,” Comey recounts in one memo, dated Feb. 8, 2017. “The President said ‘the hookers thing’ is nonsense but that Putin had told him ‘we have some of the most beautiful hookers in the world.’”

Comey also recounted the moment Trump allegedly asked him to drop any investigation into Flynn.

Department of Justice

The memos were released just days after House Judiciary Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) threatened to subpoena the DOJ to obtain them. Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein had asked for more time to “evaluate the consequences” of their release on Monday.

On Thursday, Assistant Attorney General Stephen Boyd told lawmakers the DOJ had “consulted the relevant parties and concluded that the release of the memoranda to Congress at this time would not adversely impact any ongoing investigation.”

Read redacted copies of the documents below:Shari Forrest is working at the cutting edge of self-driving car technology, helping robotic vehicles understand the world around them. But Forrest is no artificial intelligence expert beavering away in Silicon Valley for a multimillion-dollar bonus. She’s a 55-year-old freelancer in a small Missouri town, writing word problems for kids by day and building our autonomous future in her spare time, for pennies.

Forrest works for Mighty AI, a crowd-working company that uses people to teach robotic systems how to drive. She is, effectively, the self in the self-driving car. She does this by interpreting pictures and videos, painstakingly outlining and labeling vehicles, people, cyclists, road signs and trees with her computer mouse, or on a smartphone with her finger.

“I started with some hesitation. Because, really, it’s like 1 cent for that?” she says. “But I thought, when I’m taking a break from work and want to let my mind relax for a bit, I can do that. We’ll just see where this goes.”

A year later, Forrest had earned a total of $307. “There are days when I’m like, hmm, I wonder how much money they’re making off of us,” she says. “And then there are days when I’m getting a little enjoyment out of it and some pocket money, no big deal.”

Forrest is part of a new digital workforce eking out a living, or making extra cash working with and for AI. There are millions of people already busy on crowd-working platforms like Mighty AI, Amazon Mechanical Turk or Figure Eight, and many millions more whose jobs are now shaped by automation and AI. While the threat of robots stealing our jobs looms large, a much more immediate concern is that automation and AI are already massively changing the way we work. And not always for the better.

A study commissioned by the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development group of developed countries found that about half of all jobs are likely to be significantly affected by automation in terms of the tasks involved. But for every worker who loses a job to automation, two face changes in the way they work, according to the research.

New technologies have always altered employment patterns, destroying some jobs and creating others. Think the Industrial Revolution decimating cottage industries but enabling factory work, or the internal combustion engine disrupting animal-based transportation, even as driving jobs emerged.

But the coming robotics revolution could slash employment with vastly increased efficiencies. Take self-driving cars. Industry leader Waymo, a subsidiary of Google’s Alphabet, has been valued at $40 billion to $140 billion – more than the Ford Motor Co. But Ford employs over 200,000 workers, many in decent-paying, unionized blue-collar roles. Waymo has fewer than 1,000 full-time staffers.

Self-driving car companies have plenty of highly paid AI and robotics experts, of course. But much of the data they rely on is coming from people around the world sitting at their computers, or from drivers in computerized cars criss-crossing cities, with little job security.

Similarly, content platforms like Facebook and Instagram have AI systems that automatically scour uploads for hate speech or sexual imagery, but someone has to train those systems and adjudicate edge cases. Some of these people are individual crowd-workers. Others work for moderation companies that outsource the work to people in India and elsewhere.

Because of the scale of the data that people are working with ― millions of roads and billions of social media posts ― many workers in the new digital economy have roles that put them at the mercy of an algorithmic regime, rather than a human boss, and they often have few rights of recourse should anything go wrong.

“The workforce on Mechanical Turk is always turning over,” explains Michael Bernstein, an assistant professor in the Human-Computer Interaction Group at Stanford University. “There are always new people. Even if one subset of workers says we don’t like this employer, we’re going to stop working for them, everyone else will still work for them. The American workers don’t think it’s good, but the workers in India, they don’t mind.”

Bernstein tried to set up a crowd-working guild called Dynamo in 2014 to enable collective action, but it was quashed by Amazon.

There are similar issues in another growing area of work where AIs manage and oversee complex distributed systems ― ride-hailing. Every Uber driver depends on the company’s algorithms to present them with trips they might want. Drivers who turn down or cancel too many rides can be locked out of the app or have their account deactivated. Efforts by Uber and Lyft drivers in Seattle to unionize are facing legal challenges from the U.S. Chamber of Commerce (which includes Uber and Lyft). The group says allowing drivers to bargain over pay would violate federal antitrust rules.

“Antitrust laws were put in place to protect the little guy from monopolistic practices from large corporations, not to shield a company like Uber – valued at over $70 billion – from negotiating with its workers over fair pay and working conditions,” says Don Creery, an Uber and Lyft driver.

An Uber driver checks the Uber app inside his car in Mexico City, Mexico. Carlos Jasso / Reuters

A common feature of gig work in the digital economy is that workers never have direct contact with human colleagues or managers. Instead, their priority is satisfying algorithms. “One frustrating piece is how the tasks get served up,” says Forrest, “It will show a task is available, you’ll click on it and it’ll say no more tasks available. There are just so many people on their site clicking at the same time.”

Forrest is valued for her perception and dexterity, but machines must be able to easily work with what she produces. The digital systems of crowd-working leave little room for human creativity or ambiguity. As robots increasingly embody those digital systems, that way of working extends into the physical world. In January, Amazon was granted patents for wristbands that can pinpoint the location of human employees within the company’s vast warehouses, and buzzes if a worker is about to select an incorrect item for packing.

But our automated future does not look like digital piecework for everyone. For some workers, having robots deal with mundane tasks could free them to focus on more challenging or enjoyable duties.

Leo Tsurankou also works with highly automated cars ― but at the other end of the algorithmic pipeline. His job is to step in and take over when the software trained by workers like Forrest fails.

However, Tsurankou is not sitting in the car itself, but in a comfy office chair in the offices of Phantom Auto, a Silicon Valley startup. Phantom has developed a remote control system that works over mobile networks, allowing drivers at its headquarters to operate a vehicle hundreds of miles away, using monitors, a simulated steering wheel, and a game controller.

Tsurankou, who used to be a test driver for Uber’s self-driving vehicles, enjoys his job. “I prefer the comfort of an office, where I get more social interaction and can ask someone to step in if I need a break.”

Although Tsurankou can only directly control one vehicle at a time, Phantom predicts a single human operator could one day oversee five or more automated vehicles, only taking over when they encounter tricky situations. Each remote operator like Tsurankou could mean four of today’s drivers losing their jobs.

In fact, the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development report predicts that robotics and artificial intelligence will put more low-skilled jobs at risk than previous waves of technological progress. With a few exceptions, such as care workers, the jobs most at risk from automation are those requiring the lowest levels of skill and education.

In the near future, it seems that the very people who are least equipped to work with and for algorithms and robots are those who will be expected to do so first. Uber’s biggest impact on society could turn out to be not its sharing or gig economy, but the normalization of bosses sitting in a server farm rather than a corner office, and the eradication of anything approaching a career path.

For more content and to be part of the “This New World” community, follow our Facebook page.If you think the country needs dramatic, even radical action to stop medical care from getting so expensive, pay close attention to what’s happening in California.

Next week, a committee in the state Assembly will vote on legislation to create a permanent, nine-member commission on health care costs, quality and access. But instead of simply proposing different ways of paying for medical care, like so many other commissions have over the years, this one would have real power ― the power to set legally binding limits on what hospitals, drugmakers and the rest of the health care industry can charge private insurers and individuals.

The bill could bring government control of health care spending to the biggest state in the country, and it might not stop there.

Government control of health care spending, in one form or another, is an essential ingredient of many national reform schemes, including the “Medicare for All” plan that Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.) has long championed. The idea of government-regulated prices, even as a stand-alone reform, has recently gotten favorable attention in the pages of The American Prospect and Washington Monthly, two publications that serve as policy incubators for liberals in Washington, D.C.

To be clear, the short-term political prospects for California’s bill are mixed at best. But a huge fight over it is already underway, with proponents saying that only government has the power to get health care spending under control and opponents warning about disruption, facility closures and long waits for treatment.

It’s a preview of a debate that could play out nationally very soon and is arguably long overdue.

The Same Old Problem, A New Political Environment

The idea of using the brute force of government to hold down health care spending is hardly new. The majority of states once had mechanisms for setting hospital fees, and the health care plan President Bill Clinton tried to pass in the 1990s even envisioned an overall cap on national health spending.

But the concept has largely fallen out of fashion in the last few decades. One reason was a genuine belief among a wide variety of experts, representing viewpoints from the political right to the center-left, that freer competition ― among both the providers and producers of care, as well as the insurers paying for it ― would ultimately restrain spending in ways that achieved the best combination of price and quality.

Shifts in raw political power reinforced that thinking. Starting in the 1970s, business groups started lobbying much more aggressively to roll back or eliminate rules on how they operate ― winning support from some Democrats and nearly all Republicans. Most states dropped their price-setting regimes during the 1980s, when the Reagan administration was in power and making deregulation of corporate America one of its top priorities.

But that consensus seems to be eroding now. Thanks in part to reporting by journalists like Steven Brill, Sarah Kliff, and Elizabeth Rosenthal, patience with the high and wildly inconsistent prices of medical care in the U.S. has worn thin, even among jaded experts. In California, hospitals charge anywhere from $1,529 to $182,955 for an appendectomy, according to one study that appeared in the Annals of Internal Medicine in 2012.

Disappointment and frustration with the Affordable Care Act is part of the story too. The law’s architects wanted to “bend the curve” on health care spending ― not through a government takeover, as critics charged, but with financial incentives designed to reward efficiency. An example was a penalty, within Medicare, for hospitals with high rates of costly and preventable readmissions.

Although some of these efforts appear to be working, some don’t. Even the most promising ones are going to make only a modest impact, as even the law’s supporters have long conceded.

Meanwhile, just as politics were shifting to the right toward the end of the 20th century, they may be shifting back left now, at least within the Democratic Party, where the appeal of Medicare for All was arguably a major reason Sanders came as close as he did to winning the 2016 nomination.

Back in September, nearly every Democratic senator thought to be contemplating a 2020 run for the presidency endorsed the most recent iteration of his proposal. Since then, the Center for American Progress, a think tank closely aligned with the Democratic Party’s establishment, has introduced its own plan to enroll large numbers of Americans in a version of Medicare. That plan also envisions using government pressure to bring down prices.

Learning From Europe, And Then From Maryland

The easiest defense of this approach comes from overseas. In nearly every other developed country, government holds down health care spending through some combination of setting overall budgets and then fixing individual fees.

Germany relies more heavily on negotiations between the government and industry groups; Japan relies more on data to establish fees. The end result is always the same: Much lower spending. And it’s not like those countries end up with terrible health care. On the contrary, many of them outperform the U.S. on access and quality, according to the best available data.

“They are very pleased with their systems and they have better access than we do,” Gerard Anderson, a health policy professor at Johns Hopkins University and a widely cited authority on health care systems abroad, told HuffPost.

The giant, essential caveat, as Anderson is quick to note, is that those countries have different medical and political cultures. The negotiations over health care prices in Germany, for example, look a lot like the cooperative, sectorwide negotiations between business and labor unions that also take place there. No such environment exists in the U.S., and it’s not clear how negotiations over health care prices here would proceed.

A more useful example may come from here in the U.S. ― specifically, Maryland, the one state that held on to its hospital pricing system even as the rest of the states dropped theirs. For a long time, hospitals made up for fixed fees by simply churning through more patients. In 2010, Maryland officials upgraded their system by giving each hospital or hospital system an overall budget.

A commission comes up with the budgets and updates them each year, using a formula that accounts for factors such as how much revenue the hospitals get already and whether their patient mix has changed for one reason or another. The commission also watches quality measures, to make sure hospitals haven’t been economizing in ways that would hurt patients.

It will take more time and more research to know for sure what effect the initiative is having, as Austin Frakt noted recently in The New York Times. One recently published recently published study did not find significant evidence of savings. But it focused on the program’s early years, when it applied only to a small group of rural counties. Another study that included more recent data, when the program had expanded to the rest of the state, determined the savings were real.

Hospitals, for their part, have complained about tighter budgets. But overall their finances haven’t deteriorated, according to that most recent study, and neither has quality. Some hospitals are actually trying to improve follow-up care in order to avoid costly readmissions, although it’s not clear how real or big a trend that is.

California’s Twist on the Idea

If California’s scheme were to become law, it would be both more and less ambitious than Maryland’s. It would affect doctors, drugmakers and hospitals, thereby getting its hands on every major producer and provider of care. Maryland’s does not, although officials there are already working to expand theirs as well.

But California’s proposal would only address what private insurers and individual consumers with private coverage pay for care. It would not alter what Medicare or the state’s Medicaid program pay for services ― and, critically, it would not set an overall budget. Instead, it would simply set the private payment rates at a percentage above what Medicare pays. That omission is a nod to political reality: Setting new rates for Medicare and Medicaid would require agreement from the Trump administration, which would likely be skeptical.

Uncertainty over exactly where the commission would land on rates is one reason the state’s providers are full freak-out mode. Because they rely on private insurance to make up for what they lose on Medicare and Medicaid patients, providers say, lower payments from private insurers would force them to make severe cutbacks ― the kinds that could mean hospital workers losing their jobs and patients waiting a lot longer to get care.

“It will unravel our health care system,” Jan Emerson-Shea, a spokeswoman for the California Hospital Association, told HuffPost. She cited as proof the organization’s in-house estimate that the bill would suck $18 billion out of the state’s health care system each year, although she declined to provide much detail on how it reached that conclusion.

The measure’s advocates, which include prominent labor unions and other progressive organizations, call such concerns baseless.

The governor and the Legislature would appoint seven of the nine members, with the secretary of health and the director of California’s public employee benefits program taking the other two spots. That introduces accountability, advocates say, because elected officials are not going to appoint members who would cut spending irresponsibly. Besides, advocates say, providers would have the right to appeal for higher rates if they don’t like the commission’s decisions.

Not that advocates are ready to concede much. They very much want to clamp down on what they see as profiteering, especially by hospital systems with local monopolies. Their favorite example is Sutter Health Care, the hospital network now facing a state lawsuit over allegedly anti-competitive practices that have driven up prices in Northern California. Sutter says it has engaged in no such behavior.

“We have a system where the price of health care is unrelated to the cost of providing it, or outcomes, but rather to the relative power of hospitals and medical groups in the region,” said Anthony Wright, executive director of Health Access, a consumer advocacy organization that is one of the bill’s major supporters.

The Debate to Come

A national debate over government regulation of health care spending, as part of a single-payer proposal or simply on its own, would likely spark similar arguments. It would also raise questions about money for research ― specifically, whether having government dictating so many fees could stunt innovation or at least steer it in the wrong direction.

The potential effects on innovation are particularly worrisome to some economists who fear that the impact might not be apparent for many years, if at all, making it impossible to undo before the damage sets in. “People don’t think enough about that long-term trade-off, because it’s not readily observable ― you don’t see the drug that’s not developed,” said Craig Garthwaite, an economist at Northwestern University’s Kellogg School of Management who specializes in the pharmaceutical industry.

Advocates respond that health care innovation in the U.S. really has more to do with government funding anyway, and that, to the extent competition drives innovation, it does so poorly. An example would be the pharmaceutical industry’s focus on new drugs that don’t really offer new clinical benefits, but that they can successfully promote with television advertising.

The key with any proposal, whether it’s for setting prices or global budgets or both, is the details. A lot depends on who is making the decisions, what criteria they use, how quickly spending levels change, and what else is happening in health policy at the same time.