Stephen Colbert issued a cautionary reminder for President Donald Trump on Wednesday.

“The Late Show” host dissected Trump’s reported furious reaction after Nikki Haley, the U.S. ambassador to the United Nations, announced sanctions against Russia on Sunday, only for the White House to scrap them the next day.

“Fun fact, Mr. President, not all women are under legally binding agreements about what they can say,” said Colbert, a dig at a nondisclosure agreement signed by former porn star Stormy Daniels to stop her from discussing an alleged 2006 affair with Trump.

“Some of them just get to talk,” Colbert added.A mysterious ethics complaint has been filed against Rep. Ron DeSantis (R-Fla.) as he runs for governor. Tom Williams via Getty Images

WASHINGTON ― A Florida attorney has filed a House ethics complaint against Rep. Ron DeSantis (R-Fla.) for previously renting a condo from campaign donors who are executives at a defense contractor that lobbies the federal government.

The complaint, a copy of which HuffPost obtained Wednesday, also alleges that DeSantis paid “well below” fair market value to stay at the condo, though that appears inaccurate.

Attorney Richard Ruben of Miami filed the complaint with the Office of Congressional Ethics on April 6. Here’s a copy:

The complaint comes after Kent Stermon and Matt Connell, both executives at defense contractor Total Military Management, rented out a condo to DeSantis for five months in 2016.

The two of them and a political action committee tied to their company have given more than $53,000 to DeSantis’ congressional campaigns, according to campaign finance records.

It certainly doesn’t seem appropriate for a member of Congress to rent a condo from top campaign donors who lobby the federal government. Total Military Management has spent between $50,000 and $190,000 per year lobbying Congress on defense-related issues over the past six years. DeSantis is the chairman of the House Oversight and Government Relations Committee’s subcommittee on national security, which oversees the Defense Department, among other things.

But it’s not clear to HuffPost that DeSantis violated any House rules.

Lawmakers are not allowed to accept “gifts,” and Ruben says DeSantis may have broken this rule by paying $2,000 a month to stay at the Florida condo. Ruben claims he talked to a realtor in the area who told him the cost to rent similar condos is $2,500 to $2,800.

“I am troubled that Rep. DeSantis was potentially gifted, by a close campaign contributor and lobbyist, a condominium to reside in, at well below fair market value,” reads the complaint. “I, as well as all of Rep. DeSantis’s past, current and future constituents, are led to question what exactly Rep. DeSantis promised these campaign contributors and lobbyists in exchange for receiving such a sweetheart deal.”

But it does not appear that DeSantis paid less than he should have. Zillow’s estimate for renting that condo is $2,000 a month. Another similar condo in the building is listed at $1,695 a month.

DeSantis is currently running for governor, and his spokesman says Ruben’s complaint is “a politically motivated smear tactic.”

“This should really be a story about how people use the ethics complaint system to unfairly attack office holders and then use bogus complaints that they know won’t go anywhere in campaign advertising,” said DeSantis campaign manager Brad Herold.

It’s not clear who Ruben filed the complaint on behalf of, or if he filed it on behalf of himself. Reached by HuffPost, he would not answer any questions.

“I can’t talk about it,” Ruben said before hanging up the phone. “I’m sorry.”

Here's Rep. Ron DeSantis chairing the House Oversight and Government Reform subcommittee on national security in November. The panel oversees defense-related issues, which happen to be the topic that Total Military Management lobbies on. Tasos Katopodis via Getty Images

Herold speculated that Ruben could be filing the complaint on behalf of a right-wing group called Uncle Sam’s Misguided Children, which describes itself as “community founded by United States Marine Veterans to bring awareness of the lame stream media.” The group has made absurd and false claims about DeSantis’ voting record on immigrants and food stamps.

Herold also said that DeSantis was friends with Connell before he entered politics and that Total Military Management “has never lobbied DeSantis or his office on any issue.”

Reached by HuffPost, Stermon, too, said he and Connell have been friends with DeSantis “for a long time” and that neither of them is a lobbyist.

“Ron DeSantis has never involved himself on a single issue impacting our business,” Stermon said in an email. “We have intentionally always just tried to be nothing but a friend to Ron in an atmosphere where it is hard to have true friends.”

That may be true. But executives at Total Military Management certainly have an agenda when they and their company’s political arm donate tens of thousands of dollars to DeSantis’ congressional campaigns.

The Office of Congressional Ethics declined to comment, citing its own ethics rules.

The office periodically gets requests from the public for ethics investigations, but requests do not trigger the start of an investigation. The offices’ independent board members decide whether to launch a formal review.Former President Barack Obama wrote a moving tribute to five outspoken survivors of the Parkland, Florida, high school massacre for TIME magazine’s annual list of 100 influential people, released on Thursday.

The 44th president praised students Cameron Kasky, Jaclyn Corin, David Hogg, Emma González and Alex Wind for demanding tougher gun control legislation following the Feb. 14 mass shooting at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School.

“Seared by memories of seeing their friends murdered at a place they believed to be safe, these young leaders don’t intimidate easily,” Obama wrote. “They see the [National Rifle Association] and its allies — whether mealymouthed politicians or mendacious commentators peddling conspiracy theories — as mere shills for those who make money selling weapons of war to whoever can pay.”

“They’re as comfortable speaking truth to power as they are dismissive of platitudes and punditry,” he continued. “And they live to mobilize their peers. ... The Parkland students are shaking us out of our complacency.”

The five students helped spawn the #NeverAgain movement to end gun violence and spearheaded the organization behind March For Our Lives, the massive nationwide protest calling for stricter firearm regulation held on March 24.

“Thank you @Time for this honor and an immense thank you to @BarackObama for the kind words,” Wind tweeted Thursday.

Thank you @TIME and @BarackObama for honoring all of the Parkland students through your kind words #Time100 https://t.co/BRbccRL4YC — Jaclyn Corin (@JaclynCorin) April 19, 2018

Obama, along with former first lady Michelle Obama, penned a letter to the survivors-turned-activists days before March For Our Lives, expressing support and applauding them for their “resilience, resolve and solidarity that you have all shown in the wake of unspeakable tragedy.”

“Our kids now show us what we’ve told them America is all about, even if we haven’t always believed it ourselves: that our future isn’t written for us, but by us,” Obama wrote in the TIME profile..@secupp just now on @HLNTV: "I for one hope Nikki Haley is looking to run for president in the near future. It would be nice to have someone with balls in the White House." https://t.co/JGddD8XMUD — SE Cupp Unfiltered (@UnfilteredSE) April 18, 2018

A conservative commentator is calling out the administration of President Donald Trump for the way it’s treated U.S. ambassador to the United Nations Nikki Haley.

HLN host S.E. Cupp said Haley ― whom she called arguably the “strongest, most competent and effective Cabinet official” ― was “thrown under the bus” by the White House when officials tried to walk back her announcement of new sanctions aimed at Russia.

In one instance, economic adviser Larry Kudlow suggested there was “confusion” on Haley’s part.

“It was the perfect rebuttal,” Cupp said on “S.E. Cupp Unfiltered” on Wednesday. “Only I’d have left out the respect bit. They don’t deserve hers, because she clearly doesn’t have theirs.”

Cupp suggested that Trump perceives Haley as a threat because she may one day want his job.

“I, for one, hope she is looking to run for president in the near future,” Cupp said. “It would be nice to have someone with balls in the White House.”

And she praised Haley for being unafraid of challenging Russian President Vladimir Putin and Syria’s Bashar Assad.

“She makes her male counterparts look like scared schoolboys merely playing at government,” Cupp said.

Of course, other commentators have pointed out that the Trump administration Haley serves in has undermined plenty of women besides her, targeting women’s rights at home and abroad:

Nikki Haley rocks. No male is going to condescend to her, or stop her from faithfully serving a fanatically misogynistic President. https://t.co/Uv6eknPKwl — Isaac Chotiner (@IChotiner) April 18, 2018Longtime educator Hymethia W. Thompson, 69, came out of retirement to teach English after learning that Jackson Public Schools were looking for help in local classrooms. Photo: Imani Khayyam for The Hechinger Report

By Avis Thomas-Lester, The Hechinger Report

Hymethia W. Thompson was happily retired after 46 years as an educator when she saw a television news conference last summer that changed her life.

The interim school superintendent of Jackson, Mississippi, where Thompson lives, issued a plea to retired teachers to come back. The Jackson Public School District was experiencing a shortage of certified teachers and there was a desperate need for qualified former instructors.

“I hadn’t thought about returning to the classroom, but when I heard they needed certified teachers that badly, I had to help,” said Thompson, who won numerous awards during her career as an English, speech and drama teacher in Mississippi and Wisconsin. “I called and got the information and a few weeks later I was back in the classroom.”

Thompson, 70, is among a small cadre of retired educators who returned to Jackson classrooms for the 2017-18 school year to teach science, math and English, the courses for which the school district has the direst need. She is currently teaching 11th grade English at Jackson’s historic Lanier High School, marking the first time the school has had a licensed 11th grade English teacher in four and a half years, she said. Thompson teaches three 90-minute periods per day — equal to six classes.

Freddrick Murray, who has been serving as Jackson Public Schools’ interim superintendent since November 2016, said he issued the call for retired teachers because the school district has had difficulty attracting adequate numbers of certified instructors. The problem is so significant, educators said, that many of Jackson’s schools depend on long-term uncertified substitutes to augment the teacher rolls. The school district has 58 schools, 1,800 teachers and about 26,000 students. There are 184 long-term subs working in Jackson schools this year, according to JPS spokesman Sherwin Johnson.

Principal Shimelle Mayers gave high marks to the two retired teachers who are among her staff this school year at Brinkley Middle School in Jackson. Photo: Imani Khayyam for The Hechinger Report

“Even with the retirees coming in, there is still a serious shortage,” said Bishop Ronnie Crudup, senior pastor of New Horizon Church International of Jackson and a member of the Better Together Commission, a group formed to spur school improvements in Jackson. “It’s a huge challenge and there doesn’t seem to be an end in sight.”

Forty-eight retired educators are working in the schools this school year, according to Johnson. The school district wants to hire dozens of teachers.

Rural school districts across Mississippi and around the country are facing similar staffing challenges, often made more difficult by their remoteness. Alvin Thornton, former chair of the Maryland Commission on Education Finance, Equity, and Excellence, said bringing back retired teachers may be a good temporary fix for urban and rural districts alike, but it should not be considered a solution. The Maryland group, known as the Thornton Commission, was created to equalize educational opportunities and funding for students in Maryland’s 25 public school districts.

“What states have to do is invest in more well-funded teacher colleges,” he said. “There need to be incentive programs that offer people who go teach in low-income or rural areas inducements starting with [free] tuition and subsidization of expenses such as housing, etc.”

He added public school districts also need to get back to the basics that will make them successful: well-paid teachers who live in the communities where they work, small classes and parents and community members who are involved in children’s education.

In Jackson, Geraldine Bender, president of the Mississippi chapter of the American Federation of Teachers (AFT), said the district loses teachers to better-paying neighboring school districts and nearby states such as Texas, Georgia and Tennessee.

Among the reasons why pay is not competitive, she said, is a state legislature that “does not care a whole lot about funding inner city schools.” Suburban school districts are growing as Jackson families leave the city, in part because of concern about the underfunded schools, she added.

Murray, the interim superintendent, said JPS has been underfunded for years. According to JPS spokesman Sherwin Johnson, “the current [Mississippi Adequate Education Program] formula uses a base student cost of $5,381.52; at the current funding level … our actual funding is at $4,882.77 base student cost” — a difference that puts the district $498.75 in the hole for every student enrolled, a deficit that runs into the millions.

The shortage negatively impacts students and teachers alike, said Bender, of the AFT.

Jackson Public School District administrators ran announcements on local media outlets to recruit retired educators in the wake of a shortage of certified teachers. Photo: Imani Khayyam for The Hechinger Report

“For the students, it’s a situation of ‘Am I getting the best education because I have a sub in the classroom instead of a certified teacher?’” Bender said. “For the teachers, it’s class overload. You are working without an assistant and you have 35 students in a classroom, for example a French class or a math class or a science class. You are expected to reach each of those 35 students every class period. That’s an awesome task.”

JPS has recruited retirees by increasing financial incentives. The district pays them $225 per day, up from $125 per day previously. But hiring retirees is an imperfect solution to the district’s staffing woes; some retired teachers can only work for half a year or they’ll lose their retirement benefits. Others, like Hymethia Thompson, came out of retirement to teach, trading their retirement pay for a regular salary based on their education level and years of experience.

That’s why Murray said Jackson is also stepping up efforts to hire new teachers by increasing starting pay and offering curriculum support and professional development opportunities. The school district offered a signing bonus of $2,500 for teachers who were hired this school year, he said. School district officials are also attending job fairs and aggressively pursuing students coming out of college education programs, he added.

The teacher shortage resulted, in part, from the retirement of a number of teachers in recent years, Murray said. At the same time, the number of new college grads with degrees in education has been declining, so many positions are left unstaffed when veteran teachers leave. About 1,000 of the district’s 1,800 teachers have worked in classrooms for three years or less, Murray said.

Crudup, of the Better Together Commission, said he is eager for the teacher shortage to be resolved. “I believe one of our tasks will be to create a better environment that will be more attractive for people to want to come to Jackson and be part of the public schools,” he said.

In the interim, the district has conducted a multi-media blitz to entice retired teachers back to the classroom. Officials took their campaign to the public, doing interviews with local print and broadcast news outlets, purchasing billboards, advertising and spreading the word any way they could.

Murray even made phone calls to retired teachers he knew, asking if they were interested in coming back and requesting names of other retirees who might want to work with students again.

“It was a major priority for us,” Murray said. “We found that the pool of retired teachers was extensive.”

Viola Owens is one of the retired teachers who came out of retirement to help. She taught English for 33 years — 14 of them in Jackson Public Schools — before retiring in 2014 to take care of her disabled son. She was widowed in 2013, and lost her son in 2015. At loose ends after this double loss, she looked for volunteer work, donating her time to local police and other groups.

So, when she heard veteran teachers were needed, going back to school seemed ideal. Like Thompson, she teaches full time on a salary. A former educator of the year in Canton, Mississippi, who retired from Jackson Public Schools, Owens now works at Provine High School teaching three classes of 10th grade English per day, with one planning period.

“I like helping the young people,” she said. “Some of them need so much help and guidance. Things have changed quite a bit since I started teaching. A lot of the kids are behind socially and educationally.”

Indeed, the Jackson Public Schools serve many students with great needs, and many are behind academically. Many of the students hail from economically disadvantaged households; 78 percent of the students in the school system qualify for free or reduced meals. Just over 20 percent of JPS students scored proficient in reading, and only 16.9 percent were proficient in math based on assessments for grades three through eight.

Even though it’s not easy, Owens said she has been “delighted” to see some of the students she taught at John Powell Middle School before she retired.

“They know that means they are going to have to work!” she said.

Eric Knapp, is one of those teachers deeply embedded in his community that Alvin Thornton, of the Maryland Commission on Education Finance, Equity, and Excellence, suggests districts should be trying to attract. He taught Language Arts in Jackson for 29 years before retiring in 2009. He returned to Jackson schools as a substitute three years ago. “I guess after working with children, walking away was kind of boring,” he said. “I made the decision to go back to help out.”

Knapp said he’s had a positive response from students and parents since he joined the faculty of Brinkley Middle School in northwest Jackson as a retire/rehire. The best part is “seeing the smiles on their faces” when students master a task.

“Teachers are generally concerned about kids and that calling never leaves you,” Knapp said. “So, you go when there is a need.”

Shimelle Mayers, principal at Brinkley Middle School said having retired teachers in the building has been a positive experience all around. She has two retired/rehired teachers among 38 staffers teaching the school’s 465 students.

“Good tactics stand the test of time,” she said. “They are good at looking at the diverse needs of the students, their strengths and weaknesses, and working with them to address those needs.”

She said the retired teachers also bring “structure, order and discipline” that beginning teachers may not have mastered.

Mayers said the veterans and beginners learn from each other. The retired teachers share their knowledge of classroom management while the younger teachers help them understand new technology.

Retired Jackson Public Schools teacher Anne Johnson, who now teaches students at her church and volunteers for the Jackson chapter of the NAACP, said the educators who have returned are committed to education in a school system in which good teachers have the potential to make a big difference in children’s lives.

“Teaching is a ministry,” said Johnson. “You teach because you are interested in helping children be the best they can be. Sometimes it’s not something that you can just put down, especially when you know there is a need. You have spent years helping children to learn and thrive. It’s difficult not to respond when you hear there is such a significant need.”

Also from The Hechinger Report:

AdvertisementSen. Marco Rubio can't keep his answers straight. Joshua Roberts / Reuters

WASHINGTON ― Sen. Marco Rubio (R-Fla.) offered a curious explanation for his vote to confirm Rep. Jim Bridenstine as the next NASA chief after initially opposing Bridenstine’s nomination.

The Oklahoma Republican narrowly won confirmation Thursday after having served on the House Science, Space and Technology subcommittee that oversees the agency. But Bridenstine’s nomination by President Donald Trump last year generated bipartisan opposition because of his partisan reputation and his lack of a scientific background.

Rubio at the time expressed concern that the congressman’s “political baggage” would weigh him down and tar an admired organization that has traditionally “been free of politics.”

But on Thursday the senator changed his tune. Addressing the flip, Rubio argued that NASA couldn’t afford a prolonged vacancy if the Senate was unable to act this week ― a fair enough concern.

But then the senator launched into another explanation. Opening with a spiel about the Senate’s constitutional power of advice and consent, Rubio then landed on this:

It is my view that the more important the job, the more discretion the president deserves. That’s why I decided to support [Rex] Tillerson. ... And it’s what led me to decide to support Congressman Bridenstine despite my reservations.

It’s an odd position for someone in a co-equal branch of government to take. Not only does the opposite seem true ― the more important a nomination, the more scrutiny it deserves from the Senate ― but Rubio himself took the contrary position on... Rex Tillerson.

“My view is that the president deserves wide latitude in our nominations. But the more important the position is, the less latitude they have,” Rubio told reporters last January, after grilling Tillerson during his confirmation hearing to be secretary of state.

“It’s like a cone,” Rubio added. “It’s really wide in some positions — as it gets higher and higher, the discretion becomes more limited and our scrutiny should become higher. And I consider [secretary of state] the highest of them all.”

By that standard, Rubio would have felt less compelled to confirm Tillerson, whose post ranked far higher than the one Bridenstine is assuming. But he ended up voting for both.

The topic of nominations has been politically divisive in recent years, with members of both parties taking advantage of the rights of the minority to stymie and block a president’s Cabinet and judicial picks. In 2013, then-Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid (D-Nev.) had to force a change in filibuster rules in order to approve President Barack Obama’s executive and judicial nominees after years of unified GOP obstruction ― including to the Environmental Protection Agency, the Department of Labor, the National Labor Relations Board and the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau.

Republicans, including Trump, are now accusing Democrats of similarly slow-walking executive and judicial nominations ― even though the threshold for those is now only 50 votes.

Sarah Binder, a professor of political science at George Washington University, said that while both parties have engaged in the politics of obstruction, one party deserved more blame than the other.She was one of just three representatives, and the only Democrat who refused to condemn Syrian dictator Bashar al-Assad’s genocidal chemical attack on his own people. After the attack, Gabbard traveled to Syria to meet with the genocidal dictator al-Assad without permission from the White House or Congress. Her trip was funded by a group with ties to al-Assad supporters and she only covered the expenses herself after the news media reported who paid for her trip.

Then, after al-Assad bombed his people again, Gabbard continued to refuse to admit the attack had occurred. At the same time, she voted to practically ban Syrian refugees from coming into the United States after the Paris terrorist attacks, even though Syrian refugees were not involved in the attacks.Small rural school districts have long sought to save money and attract teachers by dropping a school day. Now some urban districts are making the switch.

A seventh-grader in an English class in Newcastle, Oklahoma, where schools are open only four days a week. A four-day schedule — long popular in rural Western communities — is becoming more common elsewhere as school leaders search for ways to both attract teachers and save money. Sue Ogrocki/The Associated Press

By Sophie Quinton

The public school in Campo, Colorado, hasn’t required all its students to come to class on Fridays for nearly two decades. The 44-student district dropped a weekday to boost attendance and better attract teachers to a town so deep in farm country that the nearest grocery store is more than 20 miles away.

“I think the four-day week helped us, initially, in recruiting teachers,” the superintendent, Nikki Johnson, said. “Now that so many districts are on four-day, that’s not much of an incentive.”

No national database tracks the number of public schools that cram instructional hours into four days. But the schedule — long popular in rural Western communities — is becoming more common elsewhere as school leaders search for ways to both attract teachers and save money.

In Oklahoma, for instance, where teachers recently staged a walkout to demand more school funding, cash-strapped districts have been using four-day weeks to cope with a teacher shortage and state budget cuts. Last school year, 97 districts of 513 ran on the compressed schedule, nearly twice as many as the previous year.

Shorter school weeks are generally popular among families, students and teachers, and many school districts say the change saves money and makes it easier to recruit teachers. But the research is inconclusive: Shorter school weeks save only a little, according to education policy researchers. The impact on staffing hasn’t been well studied, and results are mixed on whether cramming a week’s worth of learning into four days helps or hurts students’ learning.

And the changes aren’t universally popular. Critics say four-day weeks hurt working families who have to scramble to find child care and could prevent children from accessing free or low-cost meals five days a week. A recent study found that juvenile crime rates were higher in parts of Colorado where schools didn’t meet on Fridays.

Still, over half of Colorado’s public school districts have permission from the state to compress their schedule. Most such districts are small and rural, but that’s changing. A suburban district near Denver and an urban district in Pueblo have recently grabbed headlines by announcing that they plan to switch to four-day weeks in the fall.

Little is known about how urban districts will adapt to the new schedule. But rural districts that make the switch rarely go back, said Georgia Heyward, a research analyst for the Center on Reinventing Public Education at the University of Washington Bothell who has studied four-day school weeks in rural areas.

Once parents, students and teachers adjust to the new schedule, they tend to like it — and the community adjusts around it. “Once a couple of the districts start to go to the four-day week, then there’s pressure, not only not to go back, but for neighboring districts to adopt the schedule as well,” Heyward said.

More Districts Drop a School Day

In some districts, schools have been meeting four days a week for decades. The schedule gained fresh popularity in the wake of the 2008 financial crisis, when districts responded to budget cuts by shedding a day.

Today school districts in parts of 22 states use a four-day week, according to the National Conference of State Legislatures. For districts to do so, states need to enact legislation that allows schools to count instructional time by the hour, rather than by the week. States west of the Mississippi are more likely to have schools on a four-day schedule.

The state legislatures group estimates that close to 300 school districts nationwide are using the shorter weeks, but Heyward puts the number higher, at 470 districts or more. There are more than 13,500 U.S. school districts.

In Colorado, more than twice as many districts have state approval to hold a four-day week, compared to two decades ago. The typical district with state permission to create an alternate schedule for all its schools has fewer than 250 students, according to a Stateline analysis of state data.

To deliver the required number of instructional hours in four days, schools in the state typically add an hour and a half to each remaining day, according to Colorado’s latest information manual on four-day school weeks. Some districts only use the compressed schedule in the winter.

Chris Fiedler, the superintendent of Denver-area School District 27J, has said that he first thought of dropping a school day while crunching budget numbers. The district recently announced that it will not hold classes on Mondays next year.

The average district can save up to 5 percent of its budget by dropping a school day, according to a 2011 report from the Education Commission of the States, a Denver-based policy research organization.

But the switch doesn’t put a dent in districts’ largest line item: teacher pay and benefits. And, the report found, while four-day weeks can save money on operational expenses, such as heating and cooling, in many cases districts don’t save as much as they could because they keep schools open on the fifth day to host sporting events, tutoring programs, and teacher professional development workshops.

District 27J could save up to $1 million a year with its new schedule, said the district’s public information officer, Tracy Rudnick, in an email — that’s less than 1 percent of its budget. But the district has other reasons for making the switch. “Cost savings were never our number one goal. It is about retaining high-quality teachers and creating a clean, clear and concise schedule.”

The district is among the lowest-funded in the Denver area, with the lowest teacher salaries, said Kathey Ruybal, president of the Brighton Education Association, the local teachers union. “We get a lot of new teachers here and there, but we tend to lose them to our neighbor districts.” School leaders hope three-day weekends could convince more teachers to stay.

The new schedule will make teachers’ lives easier in other ways, Ruybal said. They’ll have more time to plan lessons over the weekend and more time to collaborate during the school day. “We’re really hoping that it’s going to improve our teaching, improve our student achievement scores,” she said.

Surveys generally show support for four-day weeks among parents and teachers, according to districts, states and education researchers who have asked adults about the schedule. In rural communities, where students travel long distances for sports games, academic competitions and doctors appointments, it can be efficient to set aside a weekday for extracurricular and family activities, according to the Colorado four-day week information manual.

Some businesses love the schedule, too. In the 1980s, one Colorado resort pushed the local school district to drop a day so teenagers would be able to work on Fridays, said Antonio Parés, a partner at the Colorado-based Donnell-Kay Foundation, which focuses on improving public education in the state.

Learning Outcomes Aren’t Clear

Dropping a school day can create new challenges for communities, however, and it’s not clear whether students benefit. Since District 27J announced its plan to drop Monday classes, parents have crowded information sessions with questions and flooded social media with comments.

“Worst idea ever,” one mother commented on 27J’s Facebook post announcing the change. She said it would be hard to get her three young children — one of whom has autism — to school at the new, earlier start time, and she’s worried the longer days will leave them exhausted. Other parents praised the new schedule.

So many parents expressed concerns about finding child care on Mondays that 27J has announced a child care program that will cost $30 for the day. Seven hundred children have pre-registered, Ruybal said.

In most Colorado communities with four-day schools, however, “the issue of baby-sitting seems to be a wash,” the state information manual says. That’s because with the longer school day, children get home closer to when their parents do. Parents may find it no more difficult to find child care for a full day than for a few hours every afternoon, the manual says.

Some studies find that the compressed schedule has no effect on test scores. Others find a positive effect. “We don’t really know how much academic outcomes are impacted,” Heyward said.

She said districts may improve their outcomes after a schedule change because teachers have to rethink instruction. Teachers have more time to plan on the weekends and more time to lead students through hands-on activities during longer weekday class blocks.

In Oklahoma, the superintendent of public instruction, Joy Hofmeister, backed legislation that would have required districts to explain to the state why they need a four-day schedule before adopting one. With advance notice, the state could better help districts plan for the change, for instance by making sure they still complied with special education requirements, she told the Tulsa World at the time. The bill didn’t pass.

And in California, 2013 legislation revokes a school’s authority to operate on a four-day schedule if test scores fail to meet targets. Washington and Minnesota have similar laws on the books, Heyward said.

A shorter schedule might have a different effect in urban districts than in rural ones. While most Pueblo teachers support the district’s decision to drop Friday classes, according to the teachers union, the Pueblo Education Association, some worry the change might harm their students from mostly low-income, Hispanic families.

Will Robinson, a teacher at a middle school on the east side of the city, said his students live in neighborhoods plagued by gang violence. His school has state permission to meet for longer school days and a longer school year in a bid to improve test scores and keep students safe. “We can work around it,” he said of the district’s plan to switch to a four-day schedule. “We just worry about where our students are going on Fridays.”

Another concern is how to make sure students are fed on Fridays, said Suzanne Ethredge, the head of the Pueblo Education Association. Almost 4 out of 5 students in the district qualify for free or subsidized school meals. Schools might continue to offer lunch services on Fridays, or community groups — such as a library that offers lunch to children during the summer — might step in to make sure students are fed, she said. The district is still working out the details.

Some districts on a four-day schedule have found creative ways to occupy students on the fifth day. Heyward said that she’s come across districts that help high school students by setting up internships, providing extra tutoring, or encouraging enrollment in community college classes.

This year the Campo School District is using a Donnell-Kay Foundation grant to pilot “Fab Fridays,” a full day of optional art, music, dance, cooking and theater activities led by teachers and members of the community, such as the local Elvis impersonator and his wife, who taught students to line dance.

Teachers who work the extra day are getting stipends to compensate them for their time, though superintendent Johnson said many of them would be happy to help without the extra money.

AdvertisementThe latest episode of the educational YouTube series “Queer Kid Stuff” takes a look at a subject many parents have difficulty discussing with their children: the relationship between bodies and gender.

In the clip above, host Lindsay Amer uses toys ― in this case, superheroes and Barbie dolls ― to break down the concept of bodies and gender for her young viewers. While those toys are frequently associated with a specific gender, that doesn’t make each one a “girls’ toy” or a “boys’ toy,” she explains.

All of that goes to show, Amer says, that a person’s body doesn’t define their gender, and vice versa.

“A person’s body belongs to that person, and doesn’t have anything to do with what people think it should be,” she explains. “Our bodies are own private business, and there are so many different ways that bodies can look that don’t always match what people think about gender and bodies.”

“Queer Kid Stuff” breaks down LGBTQ themes, experiences and ideas in ways that are accessible and fun for children. Previous installments have explored coming out, gender expression and safety in schools.Adele and Rihanna attend the annual Grammy Awards in Los Angeles in 2013. Kevin Mazur via Getty Images

Adele is rolling in deep with Rihanna.

Time Magazine revealed its list of the 100 most influential people in the world on Thursday and this year, the “Anti” singer rightfully made the cut. (Sidenote: when has Rihanna not been one of the most influential people in the world?).

Of course, the outlet thought it best to emotionally destroy music fans everywhere by having Adele profile the Fenty Beauty queen, whom she describes as “the most gracious, loyal and funny goofball of an icon.”

“I actually can’t remember the first time I met Rihanna; I was probably numb from the shock of it,” the British songstress wrote. “She is one year older than me, but I feel like she’s been around forever. The progression of her superstardom feels steady, well deserved and extremely natural.”

Adele goes on to declare that ever since the hit song “Umbrella,” Rih Rih has forever changed the game and that no one will ever “get away with copying” her. For the record, she also has the very right opinion that Rihanna’s breakout single “Pon de Replay” is an “absolute banger.”

Rihanna “makes her own rules and bends ours,” she added.

While it’s unclear just how close the two are, we know they met and posed for photos together at the 2013 Grammy Awards in Los Angeles. And Adele’s adoration of her fellow singer was well documented before the Time article; in a 2015 Rolling Stone story, she called Rihanna “life itself.”

In her Time piece, Adele says Rihanna “glows like when someone’s taken a picture with a flash and you’re dazed for a few minutes after. But it’s also very clear in that glow that she genuinely doesn’t give a f-ck; she’s fearless and full of all the right kind of attitude to be everything that she is and will be forever.”

Sounds about right.Entertainment Claire Danes Is Done With 'Homeland'

The actress said Season 8 will be the last.Janelle Felix makes up before performing as drag king Tenderoni on March 24, 2018, at the Berlin Nightclub's "Drag Matinee" in Chicago. Nuccio DiNuzzo / Chicago Tribune via Getty Images

He glows in the spotlight, cameras flashing, millions of fans screaming and crying as he’s crowned “America’s Next Drag Superstar.” He’s not clad in a gown and pumps like all of the previous titleholders, though. Instead, he sports a brightly colored, perfectly tailored suit. Admirers of his chameleonic style span the entire gender spectrum. From his glimmering glitter beard to his smooth dance moves, he is magnetic and magnanimous, cool and congenial, the life of the party. He’s the first-ever drag king to win.

Is this a recap of last season’s “RuPaul’s Drag Race” finale? Of course not! In no uncertain terms, the show has specified that its competition is for queens and queens only, and a particular type at that: assigned male at birth (AMAB), pre-op if male-to-female trans, and willing to (mostly) present at a particular femme frequency.

Instead, the aforementioned scene imagines a future in which kings explode onto our own televised platform and, with a smile and a wink, flamboyantly challenge the toxic masculinity that pervades mainstream culture.

According to Dr. Ruth C. White, a mental health expert and activist, the term toxic masculinity “refers to the social expectations that men, and thus also boys, should be sexually aggressive, physically violent, unemotional, homophobic and should also devalue women… It is also the type of behavior that emphasizes competition based on physical power, risk-taking and sexual prowess and promiscuity.”

Many people who perform as drag kings have experienced the firsthand effects of toxic masculinity. While kings (myself included) do not always identify as women outside of drag and may find ourselves elsewhere on the gender spectrum, the majority of us are assigned female at birth (AFAB). As a result, we’re often particularly attuned to the far-reaching cultural consequences of strict definitions of masculinity.

“I’ve experienced a number of close encounters with men attempting to dominate my physical space, inappropriately touching me and asking personal or revolting questions,” said Adam All, a London-based king. All’s stories are too familiar, and if I were to quote them in their entirety plus list my own, I’d need to up this article’s word count by several thousand.

Brooklyn-based king K.James, who identifies as transmasculine, initially had a difficult time finding a community that wasn’t replicating toxic masculinity “by conforming to certain masculine ideals that are in conflict with feminism and respecting women and femmes.” For K.James, “becoming a drag king and part of the drag community opened up the definition of masculinity for me as I navigated my trans identity ― one that is queerer and less strictly defined.”

I’ve heard many of my fellow drag artists and industry peers characterize drag king performance as an embodiment or critique of masculinity. But by definition, what we always perform is maleness. We are called male impersonators, not masculinity impersonators, and we do not all parody or embody stereotypical alpha-male masculinity; we demonstrate variety in our portrayals.

“I try to bring three completely different characters and expressions to every show that I do,” said Damien D’Luxe, a Minneapolis-based king known for his elaborate makeup and costuming. All describes himself as “a man who embraces bright colours, emotions, vulnerability and positivity, offering a warm and gentle persona utterly void of toxicity or aggression, though still presenting maleness.” According to K.James, his “queer, campy drag style is influenced by iconic masculine images. … My goal isn’t impersonation ― it’s about taking these elements and remixing them and showing that these masculine ideals can belong to anybody and any body. It deconstructs the idea that masculinity only belongs to cis men.”

Drag king performer Benjamin Butch performs in a BOi BOX show at She Soho on Aug. 31, 2017, in London. Jack Taylor via Getty Images

This multiplicity is innately at odds with the toxic version of masculinity, which thrives on conformity. That drag kings can transmute the lived trauma of having experienced gender-based oppression and emerge onstage as the men of our dreams (or satirically presented nightmares) is a revolutionary act. A “Drag Race”-style show could showcase us, and our maleness, in all of our variety. It could pay homage to the attributes of various masculinities while lambasting their destructive sides.

K.James and Vigor Mortis, both members of the legendary Brooklyn drag collective Switch N’ Play, perform a brilliant fan-favorite piece that perfectly exemplifies the paradigm shift that we kings can facilitate with our art. The number is their take on a classic “Saturday Night Live” skit in which Adrian (Patrick Swayze) and Barney (Chris Farley) duked it out for a job stripping at Chippendales. With K.James as Adrian and Mortis as Barney, the kings replicate the start of the original skit with tear-away tuxes and plenty of sass, charmingly and cheesily shaking it to Loverboy’s “Working for the Weekend.” Eventually, the judges name the muscular Adrian as the one who gets the gig.

Whereas the old skit then descended into fat-phobic humor, the kings have a fresh spin. Robyn’s “Dancing on My Own” sashays gaily into the mix, spurring impassioned lip-synching, hand-clasping and collaboration between the two performers. When dialogue from Raven and Jujubee’s famous tie episode on Season 2 of “Drag Race” bursts forth, punctuated by “shantay, you BOTH stay,” the kings eschew competition for the throes of queer bromance, enveloped by the deafening cheers of the audience.

“My goal isn’t impersonation ― it’s about taking these elements and remixing them and showing that these masculine ideals can belong to anybody and any body. It deconstructs the idea that masculinity only belongs to cis men.” - K.James

Drag kings have been climbing toward a certain apex of recognition over the past few years. Media attention (including from the likes of Vogue, Elle and BuzzFeed) has been rolling in, we have performers in our ranks with tens of thousands of followers on social media, we tour internationally, a number of documentaries about us are currently in post-production, and we regularly share the stage with the world’s most famous queens. There’s no point in wondering why we aren’t “there” yet, if “there” is defined as being national-TV-level household names. We are doing the damn thing. “There” is nearer than ever before, and we’re ready for our close-up.

“I absolutely think there should be a “Drag Race”-style national TV show for kings,” D’Luxe said. “Drag kings deserve to have the same amount of exposure and visibility as drag queens in the industry.” All agrees that exposure is “essential to our growth as performers and as a community,” although he “would want a focus on collaboration and encouragement more than competition.” While we may not have a unifying vision of what our hit TV show should look like, I have yet to encounter another king who thinks that more visibility would be a bad thing.

But back to the parallel universe of our king-centric drag race: Here, we’re still cheering on our regal king, who’s basking in all of his newfound glory. And then, suddenly, another spotlight appears illuminating another king. And then another, and another, until the whole stage is awash with glittering kings. In a shocking plot twist, they are all winners! The show has not only cemented a new spot for kings in the annals of pop culture; it’s exploded the assumption that only one of us deserves to win.Can you keep up, baby boy? Apparently so. Days after the history-making Destiny’s Child reunion at Coachella, Michelle Williams announced she’s engaged to boyfriend Chad Johnson.

The singer revealed on Thursday that Johnson, a pastor and life coach, popped the question nearly a month before she took the stage with former bandmates Beyoncé and Kelly Rowland.

“We do wanna get married very, very soon,” she exclusively told People about her upcoming nuptials. “We’ve been moving very quickly and planning. Why wait? I want to get married now, but he wants a wedding!”

A post shared by Michelle Williams (@michellewilliams) on Apr 19, 2018 at 9:40am PDT

And because, of course, everyone is wondering about the guest list, Williams has every intention of including her fellow independent women.

“We’re wanting all of our friends and family to be there. So it’s looking good!” she told the outlet.

The couple first crossed paths in March 2017 at one of Johnson’s spiritual retreats when Williams was in a “horrible, dark place” following a bad breakup. As a guest host on the talk show “The Real,” she’d previously opened up about discovering her boyfriend was cheating via social media.

“When we met, both of us were in very similar places on a personal level,” Johnson explained. “Michelle was coming off the heels of a really bad relationship, and I was just in a place of despair as well.”

The two clicked from the beginning, but didn’t start a romantic relationship until after the retreat, texting, FaceTiming and talking on the phone for months before ever meeting again in person.

A post shared by Michelle Williams (@michellewilliams) on Apr 17, 2018 at 2:36pm PDT

“What kept drawing me and drawing me at first was I felt like I could be myself,” said Williams. “My first name is Tenitra; my middle name is Michelle. I felt like I could be Tenitra: just ratchet, I didn’t have to have on any makeup, if I had to have on my hair bonnet — he just made me feel very safe in being myself.”

So, when Johnson asked to marry her with a proposal video showing him asking for her family’s blessing, she said yes.

“I’ve waited yeeeeeeears for someone who could come in to my world and be CONFIDENT and NOT insecure, love who I love and genuinely be there for people,” she captioned a photo of her fiancé after the Coachella performance. “I LOVE YOU.”

Destiny fulfilled!Sen. Tim Kaine (D-Va.), right, and Rep. Adam Schiff (D-Calif.) have been banging the drum for years on the need for Congress to do its job and vote to authorize wars. Good luck, gentlemen! Bill Clark/CQ Roll Call via Getty Images

WASHINGTON ― Two Democratic lawmakers asked President Donald Trump on Thursday to explain how it was legal for him to bomb Syria last week without first getting congressional authorization.

“We share your outrage and disgust at the horrific use of chemical weapons by the Syrian regime,” reads a letter from Sen. Tim Kaine (Va.) and Rep. Adam Schiff (Calif.). “However, the legality of military action is not a secondary consideration ― it is a central question of vital importance under our Constitution and our system of checks and balances.”

Here’s a copy of their letter:

The two also pushed for Trump to release a memo that is apparently floating around within the administration that lays out a detailed legal justification for taking military action in Syria. The problem with not releasing that memo, they argued, is that it could be used as precedent for the Trump administration to take additional military action against other countries without Congress’ approval.

Kaine and Schiff wrote a similar letter to Trump a year ago, asking how it was legal for him to launch 59 Tomahawk missiles on a Syrian government airfield in April 2017 ― the first-ever direct military strike by the U.S. against President Bashar Assad’s regime. They never got a reply.

It’s not just Democrats insisting that the president has to come to Congress before taking military action against Assad’s regime. Hours before Trump bombed Syria on Friday, dozens of lawmakers in both parties said he needed to get signoff from them.

Congress is constitutionally required to authorize any sustained military action. A president can only use his or her authority as commander in chief to order U.S. forces into military action if the safety or strategic interests of the United States are threatened. Neither was the case last week, nor last year.

Republican Hill leaders, who really don’t want to deal with a war authorization debate, insist Trump is legally justified in taking military action against Assad. Yet they can’t explain why. House Speaker Paul Ryan (R-Wis.) said Trump can lean on a sweeping 2001 authorization for use of military force against al Qaeda, which has nothing to do with Assad’s regime. Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.) said the administration believes it is on “firm footing,” so it’s probably fine.

“We reiterate that your Administration must provide a legal basis for both the 2017 and 2018 strikes.” - From letter sent to President Donald Trump

The White House did provide Congress with a vague legal explanation for its actions in an April 15 letter. It says the president acted “in the vital national security and foreign policy interests of the United States” under his authority as commander in chief.

Kaine and Schiff say that explains nothing.

“This is not sufficient information for the American public to understand what limits, if any, you and your Administration believes constrains you as the President from taking military action anywhere in the world for any purpose ‘to defend important U.S. national interests,’” they said. “We reiterate that your Administration must provide a legal basis for both the 2017 and 2018 strikes.”

Asked for comment, White House press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders told HuffPost that Defense Secretary James Mattis “has addressed this.”

Sanders did not clarify when. Presumably she meant Mattis’ testimony to the House Armed Services Committee last week, before the strikes occurred, when he was asked directly by Rep. John Garamendi (D-Calif.) about the legal justification for Trump to attack Assad without Congress’ authorization.

Mattis said only that Trump has the right “under Article II,” which lays out the authority of the commander in chief. But he couldn’t say why.Carrie Underwood is finally giving us details about the November accident that left her with a broken wrist and 50 stitches on her face.

“I just fell down. I was just taking the dogs out to go do their thing before bed and I just got clumsy and I just tripped,” the “Cry Pretty” singer told SiriusXM host Storme Warren on his show Thursday.

“I held onto the dog leashes in my left hand and went to catch myself with my right and just missed a step. There was one lone step. I said if I had fallen anywhere else I would have been absolutely fine, but it was one step that messed everything up,” she said.

Underwood said that initially, she thought she’d just “busted” her lip (the singer told Bobby Bones on his radio show Thursday that she fell “around my mouth”).

“I went to go survey the damage and I was like ‘Oh nooo,’” she told Warren, adding that while she may seem calm now, she wasn’t then. “It wasn’t pretty. I had a little chipped tooth, but it was just my skin ― thank the good lord.”

Later on in the interview, the singer added that the hardest part about the aftermath of the fall was losing the use of her wrist.

“I can’t use my appendage, and I try to pick my kid up and make food and do mom stuff,” Underwood said. “I have a metal plate in my wrist, but it’s good now.”

Carrie Underwood and Storme Warren talk on Thursday at the SiriusXM studios in Nashville. Jason Kempin via Getty Images

While Underwood told fans about the accident ― minus the details ― in January, she warned her followers that she was “still healing and not quite looking the same.”

Though Underwood periodically gave her fans a few updates, she still kept her face fairly hidden until her comeback at the Academy of Country Music Awards last Sunday, where she said she was “still shaky.”

The singer said that she kept details vague about the accident because she wanted to focus on her new music, first and foremost.

“Back when I injured myself, you really don’t know how things are gonna turn out when you in it [with] stitches,” she said Thursday. “We put a memo out to the fan club just cause I was like, ’Somebody’s gonna catch me at the Kroger! I’m gonna be buying groceries and somebody’s gonna post something on Instagram and people are gonna be like ‘What’s going on?’”

But now that her single is out, the star said she knew she’d eventually have to talk about the accident.

In a note to her fan club last week, Underwood shared that was “healing pretty nicely” ahead of her performance at the ACM’s.For a woman who famously sang “Don’t Speak,” Gwen Stefani sure had loose lips on “Jimmy Kimmel Live” Wednesday night while promoting her upcoming Las Vegas residency.

During a conversation about whether the ska-influenced pop star and her country crooner boyfriend, Blake Shelton, had any overlap in their music taste, Stefani decided to steer the conversation in an awkward direction. Instead, she offered up a mortifying story about a woman Shelton used to be romantically involved with.

Kimmel had noted that ska music probably wasn’t super accessible in Oklahoma, where the now 41-year-old Shelton grew up. The former No Doubt singer responded by suggesting that there may have been some people in Shelton’s life who were at least familiar with her old band’s brand.

“He did tell me that he dated a girl for like, three months,” Stefani said. “That had my face all plastered over her whole bedroom. So that’s kind of weird, right?”

In response, Kimmel offered up a fun prank to pull on Shelton.

“Find out what she looks like and plaster her face all over your bedroom,” the host quipped.

And Stefani responded a little like this:

While the story is entertaining, Stefani sharing it might have been a bit odd, considering the 48-year-old singer has been famous since the 1990s and she has amassed tons of obsessed fans.

Especially since earlier in the segment, Stefani admitted to being a huge fan of the ska band Madness when she was younger. So much so, she actually cried when she found out that its lead singer, Graham “Suggs” McPherson, got married in 1981.U.S. Ambassador to the United Nations Nikki Haley speaks during the emergency U.N. Security Council session Saturday on Syria. Eduardo Munoz / Reuters

It was momentarily glorious to hear Nikki Haley, the U.S. ambassador to the United Nations, stand up for herself against her male colleague at the White House. But don’t let that moment blind you.

Responding to the suggestion, made by Trump’s newly appointed economic adviser Larry Kudlow, that there was “confusion” about the White House plan for Russian sanctions, Haley shot back.

“With all due respect, I don’t get confused,” she said in a statement to Fox News’ Dana Perino, who read the comment during her Tuesday show.

It was the rare power move made by the rarest of creatures ― an actual woman (of color!) in the Trump administration. Kudlow even apologized later that day, though that doesn’t mitigate the fact that Haley was left out of critical decision-making and made to look like a dupe.

Haley’s words were enough to charm CNN chief political correspondent Dana Bash, who tweeted that the line “should go down as one of the best by a female leader. Ever. Said so much, with so few words.”

Indeed, it was hard not to feel a little bit heartened by Haley in that moment. While a strong woman standing up for herself isn’t exactly novel in the Me Too era, spotting one in the male wilds of the White House is definitely a noteworthy occasion.

But a tossed-off strong comeback doesn’t let Haley off the hook. She still works for ― and consistently defends ― a notorious misogynist accused by more than a dozen women of sexual misconduct.

I know it was like 12 news cycles ago at this point, but @nikkihaley quote "With all due respect, I don't get confused" should go down as one of the best by a female leader. Ever. Said so much, with so few words. — Dana Bash (@DanaBashCNN) April 18, 2018

The Trump administration, Haley’s team, has worked relentlessly to curtail women’s rights, beginning in its earliest days when, surrounded by men, the president signed the so-called global gag rule that bars international health organizations from receiving funding if they mention abortion as a family planning option and may lead to a rise in maternal deaths around the world.

The administration is also working tirelessly to roll back reproductive rights in the U.S., has killed reforms that would have helped close the gender wage gap and has made it more difficult for women to report sexual discrimination.

Still, even if you vehemently object to those policies, Haley does hold an allure. Particularly compared to the handful of women in Trump’s Cabinet, the most male group of secretaries since the Reagan era. She is clearly an intelligent woman who knows what she’s talking about. It’s a low bar, but one Education Secretary Betsy DeVos has had trouble clearing. Haley also hasn’t vanished into obscurity like Transportation Secretary Elaine Chao or Small Business Administrator Linda McMahon. (The fifth woman in the Cabinet is Kirstjen Nielsen, who runs the Department of Homeland Security and recently said she wasn’t sure if Norway is predominantly white to deflect racist comments made by her boss.)

Nikki Haley rocks. No male is going to condescend to her, or stop her from faithfully serving a fanatically misogynistic President. https://t.co/Uv6eknPKwl — Isaac Chotiner (@IChotiner) April 18, 2018

Haley is also clearly better than White House senior adviser Ivanka Trump when it comes to playing the strong, confident female leader in the press ― even as she backs the administration in its role curbing women’s rights. Indeed she is strong-willed, competent and principled enough that she seems to now be in danger of losing her job. The New York Times reported on Wednesday that Trump is unhappy with Haley and she may be in line to take a Tillerson-like fall.

Still, Haley is out there defending the White House. She argued in favor of the global gag rule just this week in an interview with Marie Claire. Haley smoothly responded to a question about a possible rise in unsafe abortions, a likely result of the Trump policy, by talking about women’s rights.

“I think the only thing you’re seeing is, instead of us funding and supporting abortions, what we’ve tried to do is fund and support clean facilities where mothers give birth,” she said, adding that, though there may be disagreement on abortion, “we should never disagree on the fact that we want the strongest, healthiest, most educated women we can have out there.”

It was an artful dodge that obscures the harm being done to women by the rule, which human rights groups say is putting millions of women in peril by cutting off access to birth control and crucial health care.

Haley also deflected a question about what it’s like to be a woman in an administration with a “challenging record on women” by saying she always tells Trump the truth. “Whether it’s the #MeToo Movement, whether it’s the rumors, whether it’s facing any other challenges that come along the way, I just try to be as honest as I can,” she said.

Haley, who was the first woman ever elected governor in South Carolina, wasn’t always so clearly on team Trump. She first became known nationally when she pushed to remove the Confederate flag from the South Carolina statehouse ― not exactly a Trumpian move.

And it’s worth noting that back in 2016 Haley was a fairly vocal critic of Trump, specifically calling him out on his rhetoric around Muslims and once even saying Trump was everything a governor wouldn’t want in a president. They even had the requisite Twitter spat, with Trump calling her an embarrassment to the state and Haley hitting back with a classic Southern put-down:

But those days seem long ago.

To Marie Claire, Haley also spoke about often being the only woman in the room. Indeed, there is a definite dearth of women in politics, particularly in the Republican Party.

“I push just as hard whether it’s women or men in the room. I’m not intimidated by men at all,” she said. “Do I wish there were more women? Always. I would love to have more girlfriends all around me. But until that happens I’m going to keep trying to represent. What I try to do every day is show it’s doable.”

It’s inspiring until you think about the rooms she is operating in now, with a president who’s making a mockery of our democracy on the world stage and who has at every turn humiliated and undermined women (and men, too).