LGBTQ activists from Arabic-speaking countries in the Middle East and North Africa open up in a poignant video campaign about the challenges they experienced as they came to self-accept their sexualities and gender identities.

Produced by the international advocacy group Human Rights Watch, the “No Longer Alone” video includes some famous names, like actor Omar Sharif Jr. and singer-songwriter Hamed Sinno, who is the frontman in the Lebanese rock band Mashrou’ Leila. Some others appear on camera with their faces obscured.

The one trait all of the participants share, however, is the personal strength they feel in their decision to live authentically.

“I felt like a freak of nature ― that there was something completely wrong with my existence, even,” Sinno, who identifies as queer, explains in the clip, which can be viewed above. “People would make fun of me, hit me. I used to feel very alone.”

After Sinno came out, however, he came to understand “that there is nothing wrong with me. It’s the people around me who were wrong.”

Dalia, who hails from Egypt and identifies as gay, shares a similar anecdote. “My father was against me in every way,” she said. “But he transformed from hateful to accepting and tolerant. he accepted me and loved me unconditionally. This was, in itself, a miracle.”

The video, released on YouTube Monday, coincides with a new Human Rights Watch study. Titled “Audacity in Adversity: LGBT Activism in the Middle East and North Africa,” the report is based on interviews with 34 activists from 16 countries, conducted between July 2017 and March 2018. It outlines the obstacles facing LGBTQ rights advocates in the region, including criminalization of same-sex conduct and gender non-conformity to lack of recognition of transgender people. But it also aims to show how queer activism survives under political, social and religious constraints.

Both the video and the report aim to encourage young LGBTQ people to stand up for themselves despite the adversity they face.Hannibal Hanschke / Reuters

Some women find a sense of humor incredibly attractive, and the already smokin’ actor Idris Elba is about to dial up his sexy factor to 11 by starring in comedy.

Netflix announced Wednesday that the former “Luther” actor will star in and executive produce a new original comedy series, “Turn Up Charlie,” for the streaming service.

Elba will play a struggling DJ and “eternal bachelor” who takes a job as a “manny” for his famous best friend’s “problem-child daughter.” Netflix has given the show a straight-to-series eight-episode order.

“I’m funny,” Elba said. “Watch me work. Well done, Netflix, for recognizing a brother.”

Elba, 45, worked as a DJ when he was a teenager and did gigs with his uncle at African weddings.WASHINGTON ― President Donald Trump on Wednesday resumed his attacks on former FBI Director James Comey, and said he didn’t fire Comey because of the bureau’s investigation into the Trump campaign’s ties with Russia.

Slippery James Comey, the worst FBI Director in history, was not fired because of the phony Russia investigation where, by the way, there was NO COLLUSION (except by the Dems)! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) April 18, 2018

The claim appears to contradict Trump’s statement days after he fired Comey in May 2017. Trump at the time told NBC’s Lester Holt he had considered “this Russia thing” in his decision to boot the FBI head.

“In fact, when I decided to just do it, I said to myself, I said, ‘You know, this Russia thing with Trump and Russia is a made up story, it’s an excuse by the Democrats for having lost an election that they should have won,’” Trump told Holt.Kanye West is currently on something of a Twitter tear.

The self-proclaimed “greatest living rock star on the planet” returned to the social media platform this week and immediately began offering up a plethora of advice to fellow creatives.

But there was one post in particular that caused a buzz:

Sometimes you have to get rid of everything — KANYE WEST (@kanyewest) April 17, 2018

West’s tweet followed ones urging creatives to “protect your ability to create at all cost” and to “try to avoid any contractual situation where you are held back from your ideas.”

“Distraction is the enemy of vision,” he added in another.

But taken out of context, the “get rid of everything” message could have been interpreted as West announcing his plan to eschew the rest of the world — a point that his wife, Kim Kardashian, appeared to pick up on.

She issued this joking response:

It wasn’t long before Kardashian’s pal Chrissy Teigen became involved, with this lighthearted offer of help:

I have an air mattress here and I have been itching to bust it out if you need — christine teigen (@chrissyteigen) April 18, 2018

To which Kardashian dragged Teigen’s musician husband (and collaborator with West) John Legend into the mix:

Might need some more for the kids? Just not clear on what everything really means. I need clarity. Thanks for being such a good friend. Maybe John can call and inquire? But maybe he means friends too? This is confusing. https://t.co/HLUkMiZCLU — Kim Kardashian West (@KimKardashian) April 18, 2018

Teigen later expanded on her offer:

you’re right. we are all screwed. I still have the bouncy house from Saturday!! it’s a bed and a house in one — christine teigen (@chrissyteigen) April 18, 2018

West has not commented on his wife’s posts, but Kardashian later appeared keen to explain that she was only joking:

For anyone who has absolutely no humor in their soul please know my tweets are a joke and I will die laughing if I see blogs and media really think I am being serious. So don’t even try it. — Kim Kardashian West (@KimKardashian) April 18, 2018President Donald Trump and Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe speak to media during a bilateral meeting at Trump's Mar-a-Lago resort in Palm Beach, Florida, on April 17, 2018. MANDEL NGAN via Getty Images

WASHINGTON ― As Donald Trump has flipped and flopped on major foreign policy issues in recent days, America’s allies and enemies have likely been reminded yet again of a simple rule of his presidency: Pay little attention to the orange-hued man in the big white house.

The president’s unscripted statements, particularly his tweets, probably do not reflect reality, have not necessarily been thought through, and are subject to change almost immediately, say Trump critics as well as those close to the White House.

“The most important instrument the president of the United States has is his credibility. In the grand scheme of things, it’s more important than the awesome power of our military, intelligence community, and diplomatic corps,” said Ned Price, a former CIA analyst and a National Security Council spokesman under President Barack Obama. “And President Trump has squandered any credibility he once had, both at home and abroad.”

Nicholas Burns, a top State Department official under President George W. Bush, said Trump’s careless talk is actively damaging the nation. “We’re living through a chaos presidency,” he said. “It’s destabilizing the country, and it’s hurting our foreign and military policy.”

White House officials did not respond to HuffPost’s queries on this topic. In the past, they have denied that Trump changes positions or, alternatively, have argued that his unpredictability makes him effective.

For an administration notorious for its inconstant policy choices, the reversals of the past week and a half have been noteworthy nevertheless:

On April 9, Trump vowed that Russia, Iran and anyone else involved with the Syrian government’s suspected use of chemical weapons days earlier would “pay a price.” In an April 11 tweet, Trump even taunted Russia: “Russia vows to shoot down any and all missiles fired at Syria. Get ready Russia, because they will be coming, nice and new and ‘smart!’” Yet when U.S. missiles flew last Friday, the strike was similar to those launched a year ago in response to an earlier chemical weapons attack. Russian and Iranian troops and equipment were not targeted.

On Sunday, U.S. Ambassador to the United Nations Nikki Haley announced that the United States would be unveiling new sanctions against Russia because of its alliance with Syrian leader Bashar Assad. On Monday, Trump’s new economic adviser said that was not the case and claimed Haley was confused, to Haley’s consternation. The adviser later backtracked, saying Haley “was certainly not confused” but that “the policy was changed and she wasn’t told about it.”

Last Thursday, Trump declared at a meeting with farm state senators that he wanted to join the Trans-Pacific Partnership, a trade agreement among North American, Latin American and East Asian nations that Trump campaigned against and withdrew from in his first days in office. On Tuesday morning ― just prior to hosting meetings with the leader of one of those nations, Japan ― Trump declared on Twitter that the U.S. wouldn’t be entering the TPP after all. “While Japan and South Korea would like us to go back into TPP, I don’t like the deal for the United States,” he wrote.

Sen. Bob Corker, a Tennessee Republican and retiring chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, said he has become desensitized to Trump’s frequent reversals and zigzags. “Forget sanctions on Russia, I can name probably 10 other things where if one day we’re doing one thing, the next day we’re doing another,” he said Wednesday at a breakfast sponsored by The Christian Science Monitor.

The reason for the chaos, say those close to the White House, is Trump himself. He has little knowledge of issues important to the running of the nation, and little interest in acquiring it, they said. Despite this, he often has strong opinions on a variety of issues, which are prone to change with regularity.

“Just another day at the White House,” said one official on condition of anonymity.

On top of the ignorance, they add, is the mendacity ― the president’s willingness to say false things when he believes it suits his purpose.

“He lies as often as he breathes,” laughed one Republican close to the White House, also on condition of anonymity.

Trump last month bragged about his willingness to lie at a fundraising dinner. During a conversation with Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau, Trump told Republican donors, he challenged one of Trudeau’s statements about the two countries’ trade balance. “I didn’t even know... I had no idea. I just said, ‘You’re wrong,’” he boasted.

Burns said that foreign officials who speak with him continue to express dismay about Trump’s behavior.

“People, even 15 months in, are still stunned that someone of such low character could have been elected president of the United States,” he said, adding that Trump seems not to understand or care that the entire planet, not just his voting base, is listening to and reading his words.

“His audience is not just his supporters. His audience is the Russian foreign minister. It’s the Chinese government,” Burns said. “He’s firing off tweets right and left, with little regard for facts and context.”

The result, for foreign policy officials both inside and outside the United States, is likely to be ongoing confusion about the country’s positions on a variety of issues, from trade to Syria.

Corker said the problem is not as bad as it might be, because actual U.S. policy is carried out by officials at the State Department and the Pentagon, in accordance with direction from Congress and in line with previous policy. Regarding sanctions against Russia, for instance, U.S. policy has been tougher than Trump seems to want. “I see the things we’re actually doing, and they’re pretty strong,” Corker said.

But Tom Nichols, a Russia scholar at the Naval War College, said the chasm between Trump and the rest of the U.S. government in so many areas is not healthy.

“In this administration, our allies can’t rely on the messages from the people they usually deal with, because they have no idea what will come out of the White House,” he said. “Usually, it doesn’t get as far as the split on Russian sanctions between Haley and the White House. That was pretty dramatic. Our allies, unfortunately, are now trying to navigate a world that is effectively devoid of American leadership.”

Akbar Shahid Ahmed contributed to this report.Two more Democratic senators are introducing a bill that would create a version of Medicare for some working-age Americans, offering yet another sign that government-run insurance will figure prominently into the Democratic Party’s health care agenda going forward.

Sens. Jeff Merkley (Ore.) and Chris Murphy (Conn.) plan on Wednesday to introduce the “Choose Medicare Act,” which would launch a new, enhanced version of traditional Medicare. It would be available both to individual consumers buying their own coverage and employers who offer coverage to employees.

It’s possible to imagine Medicare Part E, as Merkley and Murphy propose to call the new program, someday absorbing most working-age people who don’t qualify for Medicaid. If that happened, the American health care system would more closely resemble the kind of “single-payer” system that exists in some countries abroad and many progressives would prefer to have in the United States.

Of course, whether Medicare Part E would really prove as attractive as Merkley and Murphy say ― and precisely what trade-offs the full legislation would entail ― remain very much open questions.

Medicare Part E would include two features of commercial insurance that traditional Medicare, which serves seniors, does not: a limit on out-of-pocket spending and coverage of pediatric services.

It would have to finance itself, with premiums from beneficiaries covering outlays, just like a private insurance plan would. Medicare Part E would benefit from some of Medicare’s efficiencies ― among other things, by paying less for services than commercial insurance typically does. Merkley and Murphy are counting on that differential to make Medicare Part E competitive on price and coverage.

Consumers who buy coverage on their own could get Medicare Part E through HealthCare.gov or one of the state-run exchanges, using federal tax credits if they qualify. The tax credits would actually be more generous, and available to people at higher incomes, than they are under the current law.

The legislation wouldn’t only help people who opt into Medicare E. People who buy coverage on the exchanges but prefer to stick with private insurance would also be eligible for the bigger, more widely available tax credits.

Seniors would also get something. The Merkley-Murphy bill gives traditional Medicare a cap on out-of-pocket expenses, something it currently lacks.

Bolstering the subsidies and traditional Medicare would require additional funds. And if history is any guide, making all of these numbers add up would prove difficult once the legislation is subject to more detailed analysis. As details of the plan became more clear, it would likely generate political opposition.

Sen. Jeff Merkley (D-Ore.) says he is seeking a path to some kind of Medicare-for-all system. Mark Wilson via Getty Images

Doctors, hospitals, drugmakers and other health care industry actors would inevitably warn, rightly or wrongly, that less revenue will mean closures, layoffs and waits for services.

But the specifics of the proposal probably matter less than what they signal about the Democratic Party’s thinking these days, as leaders in the party talk less about defending the Affordable Care Act’s coverage gains and more about improving on them.

Back in 2009 and 2010, when President Barack Obama and his congressional allies wrote the law, the question was whether to include a public insurance plan as an option exclusively for people buying coverage on their own. Even an exceedingly modest version of the idea couldn’t get through the Senate.

But now, virtually all Democrats talk about creating new government-run insurance programs or expanding existing ones. The only question is how big they will be and what role they will play.

The most ambitious idea for these programs comes from Sen. Bernie Sanders, the Vermont independent who caucuses with Democrats. He is a long-time advocate for creating a new, more comprehensive version of Medicare that would, within a few years, enroll everybody.

Merkley was among the 16 Democrats who co-sponsored the bill Sanders introduced this past September. “I am very supportive of the vision for Medicare-for-all and I want us to find a path to get there,” he said during a conference call with reporters on Tuesday.

Murphy, by contrast, did not co-sponsor the Sanders bill. He said on Tuesday that he preferred to make enrollment voluntary, although he fully expects a lot of volunteers.Yuri Gripas / Reuters

The stated goal of the Open Society Foundations is to foster human rights and civil society around the world. So it’s only appropriate that the George Soros-funded grantmaking network is bringing some democracy to its own workplace, in the form of a union contract for its workers.

Staffers at the New York-based foundation last week ratified their first collective bargaining agreement, making salaries and work responsibilities more transparent and giving employees a new measure of job security. Despite the liberal policy leanings of some other private foundations, OSF appears to be the first in the U.S. whose workforce has union representation.

“It was kind of intuitive to form a union, since we support unions,” said Chris Thomas, a 28-year-old legal assistant based in New York who was active in the organizing campaign. “There was a huge desire to have some sort of commitment to internal equity.”

Plenty of left-leaning, non-profit advocacy groups such as the ACLU and Human Rights Watch are union shops, but the world of big-time private philanthropy is pretty much union-free, like the vast majority of the private sector in general. It remains to be seen whether workers at other powerful grant machines like the Ford Foundation follow in the footsteps of OSF and seek a union.

OSF employees in New York and Baltimore held a union election in 2016, prompted in part by a major reorganization that jostled staffers. They voted 109-80 in favor of joining the Communications Workers of America Local 1180.

In response, the foundation’s management did not wage the sort of anti-union campaign favored by many U.S. employers. It took around a year and a half for an agreement on the terms of a collective bargaining agreement, which is not out of the ordinary for a first contract.

There likely would have been a scandal had management balked at the unionization, considering the institution’s progressive agenda and the liberal reputation of its billionaire founder. Funded by Soros’ fortune made as a hedge fund manager, OSF is known for pouring money into human rights campaigns abroad, and into immigration, criminal justice and other reform efforts at home. The organization had a 2017 budget of nearly a billion dollars.

“Unions and non-profits and private foundations have an opportunity that they shouldn’t shy away from.” - Kevin Hirano, Open Society Foundations

When the union push was afoot, the news site Inside Philanthropy wondered whether collective bargaining was compatible with the work of private foundations, noting the same fear that seems to crop up whenever non-union fields get a taste of union organizing ― “that it could limit the nimbleness of these institutions.”

OSF’s president, Patrick Gaspard, doesn’t seem too worried about that. Before joining the foundation last year, Gaspard spent much of his career in the labor movement, serving as a union organizer in New York and later as vice president and political director at the powerful Service Employees International Union, which now represents roughly two million workers.

In an email, Gaspard said OSF “has broken ground with this agreement” and was “proud to have led the way among foundations” by having a union contract.

“Round the world we stand with people working to access their rights,” Gaspard said. “This agreement is in keeping with our philosophy. In essence, to practice what we preach. I’m convinced that with this agreement we’ve emerged a strong, more unified organization.”

With their contract, OSF set minimum hiring salaries and across-the-board wage increases for the three years covered by the accord. They also locked in compensatory time off for extra work done, assured that promotions come with raises, and made clear who’s eligible for employer-paid cell phones, among other economic matters.

But Kevin Hirano, a fundraiser based in Baltimore, said even more important than compensation was achieving more transparency and fairness. The contract requires the foundation to clarify employees’ job responsibilities, while also setting up a labor-management committee and a grievance procedure, all of which Hirano said adds up to a larger seat at the table for employees.

“It took some convincing that we weren’t here to gouge anyone. We’re all here to make this organization better and make the world better,” he said. “I think unions and non-profits and private foundations have an opportunity that they shouldn’t shy away from.”

As for institutional “nimbleness,” employees did want to restrict some of that ― namely, the ability of the foundation to fire people for no good reason. Workers without contracts are generally at the employer’s mercy. OSF employees wanted to make sure that no one could be fired without first being put on notice about their job performance and given a chance to improve.

Thomas said the overall idea fueling the unionization was to commit the organization internally to values it claimed to uphold outside.Cary Elwes in November 2017. Jason LaVeris via Getty Images

Did you want to see another famous face from the ’80s in the next season of “Stranger Things”?

As you wish.

Cary Elwes, who played Westley in the beloved 1987 fantasy adventure film “The Princess Bride,” has signed on for the third season of Netflix’s sci-fi smash, the streaming service announced Wednesday.

The 55-year-old actor will play Mayor Kline, a character described as “handsome, slick and sleazy” and a “classic ’80s politician” who cares more about himself than the fictional town of Hawkins, Indiana, that he governs.

Since his swashbuckling turn as the Dread Pirate Roberts, Elwes starred in “Robin Hood: Men in Tights” and had guest turns on “The X Files” and “Psych.” In 2014, he published a tell-all about the making of “The Princess Bride.”

Joining Elwes for the third season is Jake Busey, the son of actor Gary Busey, who played Ace Levy in 1997’s underappreciated bug-zapping gem, “Starship Troopers.”

If you’re familiar with the film, you may remember Ace as the dude who played the electric violin.

Busey will play a character named Bruce, a reporter at The Hawkins Post who has “questionable morals and a sick sense of humor.”Just how did President Donald Trump cope when Twitter temporarily went down on Tuesday?

Late-night TV host Conan O’Brien thinks he knows.

On Tuesday’s “Conan,” the comedian amusingly imagined how Trump responded to the momentary unavailability of his favorite social media platform.

And it involved the opening of windows, and some choice words for passersby.New York City is a great place to visit, but if you live there, a long weekend like Memorial Day can be a nice chance to escape the city and explore somewhere new.

From charming towns to outdoor paradises, there’s no shortage of great getaway options. Here are 14 fun destinations worth a weekend trip, roughly in order of distance from the city. (Many of these also make for nice day trips).

Beacon

Barry Winiker via Getty Images

Located in the Hudson Valley, the town of Beacon, New York, has great options for art lovers ― from the Dia:Beacon museum to the Hudson Beach Glass studio and gallery. Storm King Art Center is also a short drive away.

Beyond the art scene, Beacon is also home to a “Dr. Who”-themed restaurant and just across the river from a motorcycle museum. It’s less than two hours away by car or train from New York City.

New Hope & Lambertville

Jeff Greenberg via Getty Images

Sitting on opposite sides of the Delaware River, the “picturesque” towns of New Hope, Pennsylvania, and Lambertville, New Jersey, are a favorite of travel writer Tracy Kaler, who runs the blog Tracy’s New York Life. “You’ll find art galleries, fantastic restaurants, one-of-a-kind shops, and general prettiness all around.”

New Hope and Lambertville are also full of cultural attractions like the historic New Hope & Ivyland Railroad, ghost tours and antique stores.

New Paltz

lightphoto via Getty Images

The town of New Paltz, New York, about two hours north of NYC, offers hiking, orchards, historic architecture and more.

“Growing up, my family and I would take annual trips to Mohonk Mountain House, usually in October to enjoy the fall foliage,” New York-based blogger Erica Choi told HuffPost.

“The grounds are beautiful and perfect for taking hikes, as well as taking boat rides out on the lake,” she said. “I recently visited and went ‘forest bathing,’ which is a form of meditation where you practice mindfulness in nature through your senses. The spa there is also a great way to treat yourself!”

North Fork

Kirkikis via Getty Images

“My favorite place to escape New York is the North Fork of Long Island,” Kaler said. “Beaches, farms, wine, sunsets ― what more do you need on a weekend away from the city?”

Indeed, the North Fork peninsula boasts popular wineries, boutique hotels, seafood restaurants and even a lavender farm. And it’s less than three hours from the city by car or train.

Philadelphia

Sean Pavone via Getty Images

Come for the history, stay for the cheesesteak. Philadelphia is full of tourist attractions ― from the Liberty Bell to Reading Terminal Market to the “Rocky” steps and statue.

Trains and buses between New York and Philly are abundant, and the city’s charming cobblestone streets and robust food scene are an added bonus.

Shelter Island

pianoman14 via Getty Images

“For something beachy, I love Sunset Beach on Shelter Island,” travel expert and Passported founder Henley Vazquez told HuffPost. “It’s not new, but it’s always fun, and the laid-back pace of Shelter Island offers a nice alternative to the busy Hamptons scene.”

The Shelter Island area features beaches, nature walks and waterfront restaurants.

Litchfield County

Jennifer Smith via Getty Images

“On long weekends, I love traveling up to Litchfield County in Connecticut,” travel photographer Marie Frei told HuffPost. “That area of the state is only about a two-hour drive from New York City, but the quaint, rural towns and the winding, forested back roads instantly make you feel like you’re very far from the city.”

“There are some great hikes near Bear Mountain and Mount Frissell, the highest point in the state. At Lake Waramaug State Park, you can rent canoes and kayaks from Memorial Day through Labor Day,” she added. “There are a number of farms in the area, so you can’t visit the region without stopping by Arethusa Farm Dairy in Litchfield for ice cream ― it’s the best.”

Montauk

ALAN SCHEIN via Getty Images

Featured in “Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind,” Montauk is an increasingly popular spot for people fleeing the city for the Hamptons.

Beyond the iconic lighthouse and classic beaches, Montauk is also home to the Surf Lodge restaurant and venue, Montauk Brewing Company and more.

The Catskills

brandtbolding via Getty Images

A weekend in the Catskills is a classic New York getaway for nature lovers.

Beyond the hikes and other outdoor fun, the area has attractions like the Thomas Cole House and the legendary Phoenicia Diner.

Cape May

Johann Schumacher via Getty Images

New Yorkers like to poke fun at New Jersey, but the Garden State has plenty of places to visit, from the casinos of Atlantic City to the beaches of Sea Girt.

On the beach side of things, Cape May is a beloved spot, with wineries, historic homes and beachfront resorts like Congress Hall.

Cooperstown

DebraMillet via Getty Images

Fans of America’s pastime know Cooperstown, New York, as the home of the National Baseball Hall of Fame.

Lake George

cbell7153 via Getty Images

This mountain getaway, about a four-hour drive from the city, attracted prominent New York families in the 19th and early 20th centuries.

On the southern end of the lake is Fort William Henry, a British fort from the French and Indian War that appeared in the movie “The Last of the Mohicans.”

Lake Placid

AlbertPego via Getty Images

Tucked in the Adirondack Mountains, the village of Lake Placid is most famous for hosting the 1932 and 1980 Winter Olympic Games. Today, it is a popular destination for travelers looking for beautiful outdoor landscapes and, in the winter months, opportunities for sports like skiing and snowboarding.

Visitors also have the chance to visit the site of the famous “Miracle on Ice” hockey game. The drive is about five hours from New York City, depending on traffic.

Montreal

Steven_Kriemadis via Getty Images

“For a longer drive, I recommend Montreal,” Kaler said. “It’s about six hours, but a gorgeous trip through the Adirondacks.”Evan Rachel Wood, who plays Dolores Abernathy, a robotic rancher’s daughter in “Westworld,” will finally make as much as her male costars Ed Harris (Man in Black) and Anthony Hopkins (Dr. Robert Ford) beginning in the third season, The Wrap reports.

“I almost got emotional,” Wood, who is pretty much the face of HBO’s sci-fi series, told the entertainment site. “I was like, ‘I have never been paid the same as my male counterparts … Never, never.’”

She added: “But I think now we’re all doing equal amounts of work and really hard work.”

Evan Rachel Wood plays Dolores Abernathy in "Westworld." Jean Baptiste Lacroix via Getty Images

Wood, 30, said she’s always fought for parity. Although she’s not in “dire straits” financially, she said, she’s been making “pretty much the same amount of money on things for years” and doesn’t believe it’s fair that women get paid less because they’re female.

“This is the first time that somebody made a point of being like, ‘Hey you’re getting this. And you deserve it.’ And that was nice,” she told The Wrap.

In April, HBO executive Casey Bloys told The Hollywood Reporter that the network took a cold, hard look at gender pay gaps on its shows and “made sure that there were no inappropriate disparities in pay.” Bloys said that if any were discovered, the company “corrected them going forward.”

AdvertisementWASHINGTON ― With weeks to go before President Donald Trump is expected to torpedo the nuclear agreement between Iran, the United States and five world powers, Senate Foreign Relations Committee Chairman Bob Corker (R-Tenn.) sees a small chance the landmark deal might survive.

“If nothing changes between now and May 12, the president absolutely is going to withdraw from the agreement ... I still hold out a degree of hope that when [French President Emmanuel] Macron and [German Chancellor Angela] Merkel are here, maybe there’s something, there’s a little bit of a breakthrough,” Corker said Wednesday morning, referring to upcoming visits by the two world leaders. While Macron has had an April 24 state visit to Washington planned for some time, the White House only announced Merkel’s April 27 visit on Wednesday, hours before Corker’s remarks.

Trump has to decide by May 12 whether he will continue to waive nuclear-related American sanctions on Iran. He has indicated that he will reimpose the sanctions unless the two-year-old deal ― under which Iran is allowed some sanctions relief and a partial reentry to the global economy in return for accepting limits on its nuclear development ― is modified.

““If nothing changes between now and May 12, the president absolutely is going to withdraw from the agreement ... I still hold out a degree of hope that when [French President Emmanuel] Macron and [German Chancellor Angela] Merkel are here, maybe there’s something, there’s a little bit of a breakthrough."” - Senate Foreign Relations Committee Chairman Bob Corker

In particular, he wants the deal amended to address Iran’s testing of ballistic missiles, tighten international inspections of Iranian facilities and prevent the removal of limits on the Iranian nuclear program in as early as 10 years’ time ― what are known as “sunset” clauses. The Islamic Republic is already complying with the deal as it currently stands, according to inspectors with the International Atomic Energy Agency, the international body tasked with monitoring compliance.

France, Germany and the United Kingdom are the closest American partners involved in the agreement; the other two parties are Russia and China. The Europeans have the best chance to woo Trump and keep the deal alive but have repeatedly said they will not accept tweaks that totally reshape it. They see such a process as requiring fresh negotiations or essentially destroying the accord automatically by making it unlikely that Iran would stay in.

The question now is whether European leaders can give Trump enough assurances to keep him from suspending the sanctions.

European officials are happy to develop plans to address Trump’s concerns on the missiles and the inspectors, Corker said. The trouble is the “sunset” aspect.

“I think it’s especially Germany that feels like dealing with the sunset is changing the deal,” the senator said at a Christian Science Monitor breakfast event. “I don’t.” Lawyers Corker has consulted agree with him and so do European officials behind closed doors, he claimed, implying they would not say so publicly for fear of criticism at home from supporters of the deal.

European companies have been eager to keep the deal in place and do business in Iran. If Trump does decide to re-apply U.S. sanctions in May, such companies would immediately be affected, Corker noted, because American enforcement applies not just to the Iranians but to those working with them.

With White House help, the senator started working on legislation last year that would prevent the U.S. from honoring the “sunset” commitments if Iran progressed to a point where it could build a nuclear weapon in less than a year. But the bill made little progress and he said Wednesday that it would have to come after any agreements with the Europeans, because Democrats would not vote for it otherwise.

Experts supportive of the Iran deal say that regardless of the concerns, there are multiple restrictions and transparency requirements on Iran after the “sunset” period begins that would still make it hard for the country to begin developing a nuclear arsenal if it wanted to.

President Donald Trump alongside French President Emmanuel Macron and German Chancellor Angela Merkel at the start of the G20 meeting in Hamburg, Germany, on July 7, 2017. AFP Contributor via Getty Images

But it’s Trump’s view that matters. The president has reluctantly waived nuclear sanctions against Iran on three occasions and has repeatedly criticized the deal. Trump continues to hear criticism of it through his network of informal advisers like old friends and business associates, Corker said.

“There are many people that are arguing to the president: ‘Look, the investment in Iran that was expected [as a result of the sanctions relief] hasn’t really occurred yet, but it’s coming down the pipeline. If we pull out of this agreement, it’s going to stop it, we’re going to keep them weak,’” the senator said. “There are people that are arguing to him that that would be a better way, to keep them weak, keep them weak, and then try to renegotiate a deal. There are other people that are arguing something totally different.”

A sometime critic of Trump, the influential retiring lawmaker has both been harsh on Iran and vocal about the value of some kind of compromise on the nuclear issue.His tweet about Bush, who died on Tuesday at 92, included a statement that was incorrectly dated April 17, 2017 — not 2018. Trump deleted the statement (which was released by the White House Office of the Press Secretary) two hours later, and substituted it with this post that had the date cropped out:Daniels appears on "The View" on Tuesday, April 17. Heidi Gutman via Getty Images

Daniels says she and Trump had the affair in 2006, and Trump attorney Michael Cohen arranged the payout to Daniels just before the 2016 election to silence her ― an exchange that may be illegal. Now, Daniels is fighting in court to get out of the agreement.

The adult film star, whose real name is Stephanie Clifford, told Penthouse Magazine that if she wins, she’ll give the money to the family planning organization in Trump and Cohen’s names, according to The Daily Beast. Penthouse will feature Daniels in an in-depth interview titled “Getting Intimate With The Most Wanted Woman In America,” which hits newsstands on May 8, the Daily Beast reported.

The interview will reportedly contain some “NSFW” details that were excluded from Daniels’ recent “60 Minutes” interview.

“He knows I’m telling the truth,” Daniels told “60 Minutes” about Trump, who has denied the affair ever happened.

Daniels says the affair with Trump started a few months after Melania Trump gave birth to Trump’s youngest son, Barron. Her story received renewed attention in January when it was revealed that Trump attorney Cohen arranged a $130,000 payment.

AdvertisementThat quote came from the rapper’s interview with GQ last week in which she said she loves FDR and political science.

“I’m obsessed with presidents. I’m obsessed to know how the system works,” she told the publication.

On Roosevelt, she said: “He helped us get over the Depression, all while he was in a wheelchair. Like, this man was suffering from polio at the time of his presidency, and yet all he was worried about was trying to make America great — make America great again for real. He’s the real ‘Make America Great Again,’ because if it wasn’t for him, old people wouldn’t even get Social Security.”

Sanders retweeted the graphic with the snippet from the interview, adding: “Cardi B is right.”Amy Schumer poses at the premiere of "I Feel Pretty" in Los Angeles on April 17. Mario Anzuoni / Reuters

Nothing can make Amy Schumer blush.

The “I Feel Pretty” actress gladly spilled tidbits about her sex life with new hubby Chris Fischer on “The Ellen Show” Wednesday during a game called “Ellen’s Burning Questions.” She ended up revealing a few details that made her mom ― who was sitting in the audience ― cover her face.

Things got off to a fairly tame start for the fill-in-the-blank game. Schumer told Ellen DeGeneres she feels pretty when she’s nude and that she’s afraid to try lots of drugs. But that didn’t last for long.

“Where’s the craziest place you’ve had sex?” DeGeneres asked. “My butt,” Schumer answered, without missing a beat.

″[Who is] someone you would most like to do a love scene with?” the talk show host said. “Joey from the New Kids [on the Block] today,” the comedian said, before praising ― uh ― her husband’s genitalia.

Watch the questions that made Amy’s mom go pink below:

During her time on the show, Schumer also hinted at the possibility of having kids with Fischer, whom she married in a surprise ceremony in February.

“I have never wanted kids,” she said. “And then I saw myself as a baby on your show and I thought, ‘Who am I to deprive the world of such a beautiful baby?’”

The 36-year-old previously dressed up as a baby on DeGeneres’ show, and Ellen put a picture up of the comedian in costume.

“Yeah so I think we’re gonna do it but just use my genetics,” Schumer said after seeing the picture.

The comedian also reflected on life with her husband, who she says has known her for about a year. The two were living together for about five months before Fischer, who is a chef, popped the question. Just a few days ago, the newlyweds celebrated their two-month anniversary together.

A post shared by @amyschumer on Apr 13, 2018 at 3:51am PDT

Schumer has spoken about how much she loves being married on her press tour for “I Feel Pretty.”Bill Cosby arrives for the first day of his sexual assault retrial at the Montgomery County Courthouse in Norristown, Pennsylvania, April 9, 2018. Jessica Kourkounis / Reuters

In early April, Judge Steve O’Neil asked potential jurors in Bill Cosby’s sex assault retrial a question he couldn’t have asked 10 months ago: “Do you know about, or have any knowledge of, the ‘Me Too’ movement or allegations of sexual misconduct in the entertainment industry?” Of the 120 potential jurors, only one had not heard of the ongoing national dialogue on sexual misconduct, power abuse and consent.

One of the biggest questions looming over the Cosby trial, now in its second week, is how the cascade of headlines about sexual predators over the past year will affect jurors. This is the first high-profile sex assault trial of the Me Too era, and some see it as a test of the movement’s ability to shift public opinion on sexual harassment and violence.

“The #MeToo movement is on trial,” wrote Boston Globe columnist Renée Graham. “Bill Cosby is the defendant in his sexual assault retrial, yet the undeniable subplot is whether the still-burgeoning movement will impact the verdict.” Jen Kirby asked in Vox: “Just how much has the world changed in the 10 months since the jury deadlocked on whether to believe Cosby’s accuser?”

During Cosby’s original trial last June, in which complainant Andrea Constand accused the TV star of drugging and sexually assaulting her in 2004, the jury could not reach a unanimous decision. In his retrial, many people are hopeful that the Me Too movement will help push jurors toward convicting a man whom at least 57 women have accused of sexual assault in the media.

But while the public discussion over sexual violence is progressing, reversing deeply entrenched beliefs is a longer and more complicated process ― especially inside a courtroom.

A notoriously low percentage of sexual assault cases get referred to prosecutors ― and even fewer result in a conviction ― in part because jurors hold a lot of inaccurate views about sex crimes. For example, there’s a widespread belief that sex assault involves a stranger attacking someone in a dark alleyway, when in reality, at least 72 percent of victims know their abusers, according to the Bureau of Justice Statistics. And people assume sexual abuse always involves physical force, but victims often don’t have injuries.

There are also myths about how victims should respond ― that in order to be considered credible, a victim has to fight off their abuser, flee the scene, file a police report immediately and have a flawless memory of the assault. But many victims freeze during the abuse, delay reporting the crime, have spotty or fragmented recollections of what happened and keep in contact with their abusers ― behavior that makes sense once you consider how trauma affects the brain, and the lasting psychological impact of being violated by someone you know or trust.

Instead of holding perpetrators fully responsible for sex crimes, there’s a tendency for the general public to blame victims for drinking too much, wearing too little or being sex workers or strippers.

“It would never cross the jury’s mind to say ‘When she left that window open, was she really wanting to get burglarized?’” said Dominic Willmott, a research fellow in forensic psychology at the University of Huddersfield in England. “However, in rape cases the question is always asked. It’s almost the victim that’s on trial, not the defendant.”

Judges and defense attorneys are constantly reinforcing these myths. The lawyers representing Cosby have tried to paint Constand as a gold-digging liar, pointing to the $3.4 million civil settlement she received in 2006 and highlighting inconsistent statements she made to police.

In a recent case involving a woman who accused a truck driver of holding her at knifepoint and raping her three times, the defense focused on the complainant’s history of sex work and drug use. The jury found the defendant not guilty despite DNA evidence linking him to 11 other sexual assault reports. And when a Canadian judge recently acquitted a taxi driver charged with sexually assaulting a woman passed out in his back seat, he declared that “clearly, a drunk can consent.” (The province’s top court later overturned that decision.)

While many jurors are still strongly influenced by these misconceptions, some experts think the Me Too movement has the power to enlighten them about the reality of sexual assault.

“This country has gotten a graduate-level course on the issues surrounding violence against women,” said Jan Langbein, chief executive of Genesis Women’s Shelter in Texas. “I think in a lot of ways we’ve stopped looking at the credibility of the victim as opposed to concentrating on the behaviors of the perpetrators.”

Hearing the graphic allegations against men such as Harvey Weinstein, Matt Lauer and Bill O’Reilly has likely helped jurors understand that sexual assault is “all about power and control,” Langbein said, rather than “what the victim wore and how much they had to drink.”

The many Me Too stories have also shown that sexual predators aren’t fire-breathing monsters ― they can be progressive comedians, charismatic TV hosts and beloved artists. These allegations have revealed how men in all industries use their professional authority to manipulate vulnerable women and bully victims into staying silent.

Yet despite this very public exposé on what sex assault really looks like, Willmott is not convinced Me Too will have bearing on Cosby’s fate. He conducted a study on whether debunking rape myths before a mock sex assault trial ― for example, explaining to jurors that stranger rape and false rape reports are rare, and that most victims don’t have injuries ― would change their feelings toward the defendant. He found that jurors are just as likely to return a not-guilty verdict whether or not they’ve received any supplemental information about sex crimes.

“These beliefs are so deep-rooted that people can’t push them aside,” he said. “They are so deeply embedded in what we believe, we almost can’t shake them off.”

People who believe myths about rape will simply ignore facts that don’t fit their opinions, Willmott said. In court, they tend to invent a story about the defendant’s innocence, and throughout the trial, they’ll “pick evidence that fits the version of the story they constructed.”

Though there is some research to show that having expert witnesses explain victim behavior can sway juror attitudes on issues such as delayed reporting of a crime, Willmott has found that a person’s overall bias against a complainant is hard to change.

“Their views aren’t linear, they are multi-level,” he said. “If you tackle one, there’s another 50 that remain untackled that tie into a broader picture of negative attitudes.”

“The public discussion over sexual violence is progressing. But reversing deeply entrenched beliefs is a longer and more complicated process.”

Kaarin Long, an assistant attorney in Ramsey County, Minnesota, is likewise dubious about whether the movement’s cultural progress will actually influence the outcome of trials. Having “a sort of general conversation that says sexual harassment in the workplace and sexual violence is wrong” is very different from making legal decisions as a juror, she said.

“You’re in a courtroom with one man, accused of a specific act, where 12 people have to unanimously agree it happened beyond a reasonable doubt,” she said. “Right now [Me Too] is not enough, in my view, to make the difference between guilty and not guilty in the courtroom.”

She’s also skeptical that the movement is as widespread as the media seems to believe. “The white feminist women of the world are joining together on it,” she said. “But in the cacophony of the experiences of people who don’t pay too much attention to these issues, it might not necessarily have as much force as we think.”

Others are worried that some jurors might be influenced by the backlash to Me Too, as seen with celebrities like Tony Robbins and Matt Damon who’ve accused the movement of attacking innocent men and, in Damon’s words, conflating rape with “patting someone on the butt.” (He later apologized for the remark.) “There are a lot of people who see women as gold diggers and money grubbers,” said Danielle McGuire, an author and historian who writes about racial and sexual violence. “And that’s the way the main survivor in this [Cosby] case is being portrayed.”

While McGuire thinks the Me Too movement will make people think more critically about sexual assault, she knows the more significant effects will require time.

“You don’t tear down the walls of patriarchy with a tweetstorm or a couple marches, even,” she said. “The Me Too movement will have to go on longer, and do more education and training.”

Willmott’s own research has led him to conclude that the most effective way to rid courtrooms of rape myths is to vet jurors more intensely. A potential jury pool would be asked a series of questions ― such as “Is it a biological necessity for men to release sexual pressure from time to time?” and “Do women receive ample support after a sexual assault?” ― in hopes of exposing attitudes that would prevent them from remaining impartial.

Willmott believes Me Too could indirectly influence future jurors if it leads to more education about consent in schools, but he doesn’t expect it will sway any of the 12 people responsible for deciding Cosby’s fate.

“A combination of factors may lead jurors to being less biased,” he said. “But I don’t think that’s going to happen in the short term, from this movement alone.”WASHINGTON ― Since the Affordable Care Act’s passage in 2010, repealing Obamacare has been the driving issue for the Republican Party.

GOP lawmakers voted to defund, change or repeal parts of the law at least 67 times while President Barack Obama was in office, and they promised voters that if they won control of the White House, they’d make the dream of full repeal come true.

Republicans received their chance in the 2016 elections, which handed the party control of both chambers of Congress and the White House. But they failed to get the job done last year as voters realized what they’d be losing and public opinion swung in favor of the law. The GOP has shown no signs of trying to take up repeal again this year.

Now, Republicans are giving up on Obamacare repeal as a campaign issue as well. Anti-Obamacare ad spending in the 2018 election cycle has plummeted compared to the same period in the previous three cycles, according to data compiled by Kantar Media/CMAG for HuffPost.

Kantar/CMAG data for HuffPost

“The reality of the situation is that Republicans really don’t have much to say about health care at this point,” said Geoff Garin, a Democratic pollster who is president of Hart Research.

“What are they going to say on it?” admitted a Republican strategist who requested anonymity to speak openly and who previously worked at the National Republican Congressional Committee. “We’ll repeal Obamacare? I mean, what are they going to say that’s believable?”

Democratic spending on health care ads is slightly up from where it was in the past three election cycles during the same period. And Democratic strategists and candidates say that for them, health care will be front and center.

“We see health care as the defining issue of the 2018 midterms,” said David Bergstein, spokesman for the Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee. “The Republican health care agenda is incredibly toxic with voters of every political persuasion.”

For the first time in an election cycle since Obamacare’s passage, a majority of the public now approves of the health care law. Democrats now have a sizable advantage over the GOP on the issue, too. And in a recent HuffPost/YouGov poll, voters chose health care as one of their top issues.

HuffPost chart created with Datawrapper

Even a poll commissioned by America First Policies, a pro-Trump group, found that lowering the cost of health care is the top issue for many voters. Of the respondents who said health care is a top concern, only 34 percent said they want Obamacare repealed and replaced. Forty-seven percent wanted problems with the law to be fixed, while 15 percent said they want it to stay exactly as it is.

America First Policies

“One of the ironies of the Republican attack on the Affordable Care Act is it’s made it more popular in voters’ eyes, especially as voters have a chance to compare the Affordable Care Act to the Republican alternatives,” Garin said.

Republican attempts to repeal Obamacare met a wall of opposition last year as the details of GOP alternatives became clear and Americans realized what it would mean for people who now benefit from the law’s protections and financial assistance. As part of a broader mobilization against the Trump administration and its policies, Obamacare supporters showed up at town halls and protests around the country, leading to high-profile confrontations and pleas to keep the health care law in place.

Health care is one of the most personal of issues ― far more so than tax cuts, which is what Republicans apparently want to run on this cycle ― and Democrats are using it in powerful campaign ads. Health care costs are still a significant concern for people, and the GOP has largely dropped any efforts to make health care more affordable.

Anna Greenberg, a Democratic pollster at Greenberg Quinlan Rosner Research, cautioned that while there’s no doubt that people are concerned about health care costs, she’s not sure if that issue ― or any other particular issue ― will be what drives people to the polls in November. In political discussions, people talk more about how much they hate the divisiveness in the country, she said.

“I think it’s going to be interesting to see how Democrats can bring the health care issue in as an indictment of Republicans and their values, but also as an economic conversation at a time when a lot of this is being driven by this kind of larger mood in the country,” she said.

Republicans sense that health care is no longer an issue they own. Rep. Mike Bishop (R-Mich.) is in what should be a reliably Republican district, but in an election year that’s already bringing unexpected wins to Democrats, Bishop’s seat is considered a bellwether that could be up for grabs. Last year, his campaign site had a section about repealing Obamacare.

Mike Bishop for Congress

This year, Bishop’s “issues” page has no mention of health care. Stu Sandler, a campaign consultant for Bishop, told The Washington Post that the new site reflects the congressman’s accomplishments and that he hasn’t changed his position on Obamacare.

“I’m sure Republicans want to change the topic,” said Jesse Ferguson, a Democratic consultant who works with groups on the health care issue. “If you asked the captain of the Titanic, he’d want to change directions too. But after you’ve already hit the iceberg, it’s too late.”

Tax cuts seem to be where Republicans are focusing their energy and pinning their 2018 hopes.

“I think running for the benefits of tax reform is where I’m going to focus my attention on speaking about why ... we should be the party in power and in control, and what that means for the American people,” Sen. Tim Scott (R-S.C.) said Tuesday when asked about health care in the midterms.

But so far, that measure ― which was supposed to be the highlight of the GOP legislative agenda ― isn’t resonating as much as the party would have liked. Toward the end of the heated special election in Pennsylvania’s 18th Congressional District last month, Republicans largely abandoned ads touting their signature piece of legislation.

On Tuesday, House GOP leadership told its members that they needed to get out there and start talking more about the tax cut law, because right now, it’s not at the top of the public’s minds.

Republicans did run ads on Obamacare in the Pennsylvania special election, going after Democrat Conor Lamb for supporting the health care law. And Republican Rick Saccone supported repeal. But ultimately, it didn’t work. Lamb won in a district where the Republican incumbent (who resigned over a sexual misconduct scandal) had run unopposed in the previous two cycles. Trump won there by 20 percentage points as well.

Nancy Pelosi and Conor Lamb’s agenda of higher taxes and bigger government is too liberal for #PA18 families and workers. pic.twitter.com/jq1CIpQmLg — Congressional Leadership Fund (@CLFSuperPAC) February 12, 2018

A Democratic poll found that the health care message was a winning issue in the race, with a majority of voters opposed to what the Republicans wanted to do to the Affordable Care Act.

On the anti-Obamacare side, the American Action Network is running the greatest number of ads ― and spending the most money ($1,253,700) ― this cycle, according to the data compiled by Kantar Media/CMAG for HuffPost. On the pro-Obamacare side, the group Save My Care has the highest number of spots, while J.B. Pritzker, who just won Illinois’ Democratic gubernatorial primary, has spent the most money ($2,173,010).

American Action Network is the biggest anti-Obamacare ad spender this cycle. Kantar Media/CMAG data for HuffPost

Save My Care has run the most ad spots in favor of Obamacare this cycle. Kantar Media/CMAG data for HuffPost

Yet the ongoing efforts to undermine the law ― and how that affects voter sentiments ― are an X-factor in all of this. Last year’s GOP tax bill eliminated the financial penalty for people who don’t get insurance. Without that penalty in place, healthy people are less likely to buy insurance, causing premiums for those who keep insurance to rise.

At the same time, Republicans at both the state and federal levels are doing what they can to change the rules on the kinds of insurance available. This is expected to result in cheap but less generous plans for people in good health ― and more expensive premiums for people who want or need more comprehensive coverage, including those with pre-existing conditions.

The effects of some of these changes will become apparent this fall, right before Election Day, as consumers begin to learn what coverage for next year will cost.

Republicans will likely respond as they always have, making the argument Sen. Dean Heller (R-Nev.) did in a closed-door event this month. The problem, they’ll say, is still with the law itself. Give Republicans more seats in Congress, and this time, they’ll actually repeal it.“Catastrophe” star Rob Delaney is hoping to turn his grief into a godsend for young cancer patients.

The comedian’s own son died of the disease in January, and on Monday he posted photos of Henry on what would have been his third birthday.

“He was such a sweet boy,” Delaney wrote with a photo of Henry from shortly before his death.

Here’s Henry not long before he died. You can see his little tracheostomy tube on his neck and his left eye is turned in due to nerve damage from surgery. He has a bus & a turtle though so he’s happy.He was such a sweet boy. pic.twitter.com/D3liQXOqyi — rob delaney (@robdelaney) April 16, 2018

The actor asked followers to donate to two British charities for sick children and their families, Rainbow Trust and Noah’s Ark Hospice, as a birthday gift to Henry.

“He loved everyone in those organizations very much,” Delaney wrote.

Today would’ve been our beautiful Henry’s 3rd birthday. If you’d like to give him a little gift, you can make a donation to @RainbowTrustCC: https://t.co/5kswt0oySK or @NoahsArkHospice: https://t.co/UueI6rI5Y3 He loved everyone in those organizations very much. pic.twitter.com/Ybbj1gVFis — rob delaney (@robdelaney) April 16, 2018“He’s tweeted at me probably 50 times,” Comey said on Tuesday’s program. “I’ve been gone for a year. I’m like a breakup he can’t get over.”

Trump attacked Comey on Twitter repeatedly last week, calling him an “untruthful slime ball” and a “proven LEAKER & LIAR” ahead of the release of the former FBI director’s book, A Higher Loyalty: Truth, Lies, and Leadership.

“I’m out there living my best life. He wakes up in the morning and tweets at me,” Comey cracked.

Comey also said there were things he knows about the Russia investigation that the public doesn’t, but he can’t speak about them. Readers won’t find those details in the book either, which was reviewed by the FBI.

“It’s not in the book and I can’t talk about it,” Comey said as the pair drank pinot noir out of paper cups.

“OK,” Colbert said gently, then offered: “Drink some more wine.”

Although Comey didn’t drink enough vino to let down his guard, he did speak long enough to go well beyond the allotted interview time. However, the full discussion was later posted online.