Director Milos Forman, responsible for Oscar-winning films like “One Flew Over the Cuckoo’s Nest” and “Amadeus,” died Friday in Connecticut at the age of 86.

Forman was born in 1932 in what is now the Czech Republic. Relatives raised him after his mother and the man he then believed to be his father were killed in Nazi death camps. Later, Forman discovered that his actual biological father had survived the war and ended up in Peru.

After graduating from film school in Prague in the mid-1950s, Forman began his career writing and assisting on other filmmakers’ projects. He started directing his own movies in the mid-1960s.

Milos Forman won the Oscar for Best Director twice. Ernesto S. Ruscio via Getty Images

He had an early success with “Loves of a Blonde,” which was nominated for an Academy Award for Best Foreign Language Film in 1967.

His satire “The Fireman’s Ball” was banned in Czechoslovakia in 1968 after the Soviets invaded and crushed any liberal strides the country had made. Forman immigrated to the United States and became a U.S. citizen in 1975.

That same year, he directed “One Flew Over the Cuckoo’s Nest,” which won five Academy Awards, including Best Director and Best Picture.

Forman would win another directing Oscar for 1984’s “Amadeus” and be nominated again for 1996’s “The People vs. Larry Flynt.” His other notable films include “Hair,” “Ragtime” and “Man on the Moon.” He also wrote and acted in several of his movies.(Reuters) - U.S. radio host Art Bell, known for his discussions of conspiracy theories and paranormal phenomena during his popular syndicated show “Coast to Coast AM”, has died at his home in Nevada aged 72, the local sheriff’s office said.

The show developed a cult following after he created it in 1993 and was touted as the country’s most listened to overnight radio program. It featured Bell expounding on topics as diverse as UFO sightings, Bigfoot and crop circles.

Bell retired in 2015 citing safety concerns for his family. His studios were located in his hometown of Pahrump, in Nye County, Nevada.

Nye County Sheriff Sharon Wehrly announced the death of the “longtime resident” in a brief video statement. She said he died on Friday, and that an autopsy was scheduled for later this week to determine the cause of death.President Donald Trump’s lawyer is doubling down after a new report suggesting that special counsel Robert Mueller can prove a big part of the Steele dossier.

McClatchy DC reported Friday that Mueller has evidence that Michael Cohen, a longtime personal attorney for Trump, traveled to Prague months before the 2016 election.

The outlet cited two unnamed sources familiar with the matter. If the report is indeed true, it would mark a significant development in Mueller’s investigation.

“Bad reporting, bad information and bad story,” Cohen wrote Saturday in a tweet denying the McClatchy article.

Proof of the alleged trip would lend support to the Steele dossier ― the report by former British intelligence official Christopher Steele containing allegations that the Trump campaign conspired with the Russian government to win the election. (The dossier is also how we know about the alleged “golden shower thing.”) Hillary Clinton’s presidential campaign and the Democratic National Committee hired the firm that retained Steele to compile opposition research on Trump.

According to the dossier, Cohen played a part in the alleged conspiracy. It says he used a meeting with a Russian nongovernmental organization as cover to meet with Russian officials during a trip to Prague in August or September 2016. They allegedly discussed a “coverup and damage limitation operation in an attempt to prevent the full details of Trump’s relationship with Russia being exposed,” and discussed how to make “deniable cash payments” to “Romanian hackers.”

Cohen, for his part, says he’s never been to Prague. He even shared his passport with BuzzFeed to support his claim.

In his tweet on Saturday, the attorney said he was in Los Angeles with his son at the time in question.

Bad reporting, bad information and bad story by same reporter Peter Stone @McClatchyDC. No matter how many times or ways they write it, I have never been to Prague. I was in LA with my son. Proven! https://t.co/ra7nwjUA0X — Michael Cohen (@MichaelCohen212) April 14, 2018

“Proven!” he wrote.

However, the lack of a Czech stamp in Cohen’s passport does not necessarily rule out the possibility that he traveled to the Czech Republic.

Sources told McClatchy that Cohen traveled to Prague through Germany and did not require a passport “because both countries are in the so-called Schengen Area in which 26 nations operate with open borders.” The sources did not say whether Cohen would have used a commercial or private plane to fly to Europe, or why there does not appear to be a record of such a trip.Some media pundits and one comedy host suggested Friday night that President Donald Trump’s decision to launch military strikes in Syria could be driven in part by his desire to distract America from the mounting scandals plaguing his White House.

Bill Maher quipped on “Real Time” that the military action against Syria should be called “Operation Desert Stormy” — for Stormy Daniels, the adult entertainment actress who says she had an affair with Trump.

Maher joked that Trump got the “go-ahead” for the strikes from “Fox & Friends.” Program co-host Ainsley Earhardt had asked early Friday, “If the president and France and the U.K. decide to strike Syria, don’t you think that story would be a bigger story than [former FBI Director James] Comey’s book that’s going to be released on Tuesday?”

On MSNBC, host Rachel Maddow noted more seriously that, regardless of the president’s true motivations, many may perceive the strikes as a deliberate distraction from his domestic problems.

“It is worth considering on a night like tonight that there are national security consequences to having a presidency that is as chaotic as Mr. Trump’s presidency, a presidency that is as consumed by scandal and criminal intrigue as his presidency is,” Maddow told viewers on Friday following Trump’s announcement.

“Even if you give the president every benefit of the doubt ... what else is going on in the president’s life right now unavoidably creates a real perception around the globe that that may have been part of the motivation both for what he did and particularly for when he did it,” she said.

The “perception that the president may have made these strikes in part because of scandal will affect the impact and the effectiveness of these military strikes — unavoidably,” Maddow added.

“It is a sad thing and it is an upsetting thing in terms of American influence in the world and the risks that we take when we use American military power anywhere.”

CNN’s Ana Navarro walked the line of both questioning Trump’s motivations and railing against a chemical weapons attack on a civilian population.

It is true Trump may have ordered strikes against Syria to distract attention from Comey book & Cohen investigation



It is true Assad is committing genocide. The international community cannot, must not allow him to kill Syrians ppl w/impunity



The two, are not mutually exclusive — Ana Navarro (@ananavarro) April 14, 2018

Merriam-Webster’s Twitter site reported a huge jump in searches for “tail wagging the dog” or “wag the dog,” which is what many people suggested had just happened.

Wag the Dog - Trump we know what you’re doing.



The Syrian chemical attack happened a WEEK ago.



Just YESTERDAY Trump tweeted that an attack on Syria may happen, "very soon or not so soon at all”.



He needed a distraction.



Don’t get distracted.#WagTheDog pic.twitter.com/W6lEcFuFbh — Rogue NASA (@RogueNASA) April 14, 2018A political appointee at the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services shared a social network post last year evoking lynchings, saying that America’s forefathers would have “hung” Barack Obama — and Hillary Clinton — for treason.

This was the post shared last year by Ximena Barreto, who now is deputy director of communications at the Department of Health and Human Services. Ximena Barreto shared tweet archive via CNN

The post by Ximena Barreto revealed Friday by CNN. Barreto was named deputy director of communications by the Trump administration in December. At the time she was a fringe right-wing political blogger who called herself “Republican Chick.” She also co-hosted for a time a YouTube show called “The Right View by Deplorable Latinas.”

Barreto was suspended Monday after Media Matters first reported Barretto’s posted support for the fake Pizzagate conspiracy theory, which accused Clinton and other top Democrats of running a child sex ring from a pizza shop in Washington, D.C.

Media Matters also reported Barreto’s posts or commentaries calling Islam a “fucking cult,” slamming last year’s Women’s March as “retarded” and saying blacks were “way more” racist than whites. Barreto “has been placed on administrative leave while the matter is reviewed,” a representative of HHS told Media Matters.

CNN also discovered anti-Semitic attacks in Barreto’s @RepublicanChick account that claimed Obama is controlled by billionaire Democratic donor George Soros and French President Emmanuel Macron is controlled by the Rothschild family.

CNN/Republican Chick screengrab

She also called Obama a “Muslim terrorist” and a “pansy” in posts found by CNN.

AdvertisementCohen is known to tape conversations with associates and store them, The Washington Post reported Thursday. Experts described the recordings to the Post as a potential “gold mine” for the FBI, saying that if they exist and are admissible in court, they could prove valuable to prosecutors.

Trump expressed outrage after the FBI raid, calling it a “disgraceful situation” and a “total witch hunt” during off-the-cuff remarks to reporters. On Tuesday, he tweeted that “attorney-client privilege is dead!”

Lawyer Michael Avenatti, who currently represents Daniels, responded to the CNN report in a tweet on Friday.Naomi Wadler, 11, wants adults to listen up. Illustration: Damon Dahlen/HuffPost Photos: Getty

Before she entered middle school, Naomi Wadler had gone viral.

On March 24, the 11-year-old fifth-grader was onstage speaking at the March for Our Lives in Washington, D.C. During her three-minute speech, she spoke decisively about the lack of sustained media attention that girls and women of color receive when they are impacted by gun violence. “I represent the African-American women who are victims of gun violence, who are simply statistics instead of vibrant, beautiful girls full of potential,” she said. “I am here to say Never Again for those girls too.”

Her speech was quickly circulated online, earning her fans like Sen. Kamala Harris, Shonda Rhimes, Tessa Thompson and Ellen DeGeneres. When I spoke with Wadler three weeks after her launch into the national conversation, she said the whole experience had been “weird,” but was still ready to use her new platform to give me and my fellow journalists some strong advice.

“The media can pay attention. I feel that a lot of them are very ignorant,” she told me, stressing that this ignorance is particularly clear when it comes to white journalists perpetuating racial stereotypes about black and brown people. “It’s the racial imbalance in the reporting that starts a chain reaction where then other people start to believe that.”

Wadler is certainly extraordinary. The fifth-grader first made headlines when she and classmate Carter Anderson planned a walkout at their elementary school in Alexandria, Virginia, in the wake of the Parkland shooting in February. (Wadler’s mother, Julie Wadler, who identifies as a moderate Republican according to The Guardian, went to high school with the father of Parkland victim Jaime Guttenberg.) On March 14, more than 60 students joined Wadler and Anderson in an 18-minute protest ― one minute for each victim of the shooting at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School, and an extra minute for Courtlin Arrington, a 17-year-old black high school student shot and killed in an Alabama classroom days earlier.

But Wadler is also still a kid. She giggles over the phone, does her interviews with her mother nearby, and has big, beautiful dreams not yet encumbered by the cynicism that so often accompanies getting older.

At Tina Brown’s Women in the World Summit on Saturday, she reiterated the power young people hold. “I’m not an 11-year-old girl who they can just hug and kiss,” she said. “I can deliver a message.”

During our phone conversation ahead the summit, Wadler and I spoke about her newly expansive platform, her hopes for the future, and her advice for us adults ― especially adult journalists. Us olds often forget just how smart kids are in general ― and how thoughtful, knowledgeable and opinionated we might have been at 9 or 11 or 15.

As Wadler explained, it’s on adults to check ourselves, step back and listen to young people. They “see the world through a different set of eyes,” she said.

How does it feel to have so many adults obsessed with you right now?

Naomi Wadler: Weird … I live in my house and I have my two dogs and my sister who I fight with and my mom who picks out dresses with me ― and people don’t know who I am, and now they do. So it’s a little weird!

Do you consider yourself to be an activist?

Julie Wadler: [Laughs] She’s thinking about that one.

NW: Well, I haven’t really thought about it. I feel like I’m just standing up for what’s right. I’m not really, like, “Ah, I’m an activist!” I’m just making the change. I’m not going onto the streets of D.C. and screaming for my causes.

“Black women don’t get as much media attention when they’re shot and killed. They don’t get trending Twitter hashtags, they don’t get Facebook posts dedicated to them, they don’t get whole Facebook pages dedicated to them.” - Naomi Wadler, 11

Did you always believe you had the power to make the world a better place, or did you have a moment where you decided that that was what you were going to do?

NW: I’ve grown up in an environment where I’m told that I can be what I want to be and do what I want to do. And for a period of time, I had a piece of blue duct tape in my mirror that said, “You can do anything.” I’m very thankful to have two parents that encouraged me as much as they did, causing me to probably have more confidence in my voice.

That is very lucky. Your parents sound awesome. Can you talk to me a little bit about how you got involved with March for Our Lives?

NW: Yes, I can. So I organized a walkout [after the Parkland shooting] for my school with my friend Carter. And it was well and good. We did the walkout. And then The Guardian did an article about me and Carter and they wanted to know why we’d added an extra minute for Courtlin Arrington … and our answer was that she was black. And that black women don’t get as much media attention when they’re shot and killed. They don’t get trending Twitter hashtags, they don’t get Facebook posts dedicated to them, they don’t get whole Facebook pages dedicated to them. So I thought this would be a good way to get a message across, and inspire.

And you really have gotten that message across. In your March for Our Lives speech you called out “the African-American girls whose stories don’t make the front page of every national newspaper.” Why was that the message that you really wanted to drive home to people who were listening on that day?

NW: Because, I mean, it’s my story. I don’t think that a white girl could have gotten up there and explained how this was unjust and how this is unfair and that she felt so bad. Because she hasn’t lived it, she doesn’t know what it’s like. So I think it was my story so it was a lot easier for me to put into words.

I’m a journalist, and I work with a lot of other journalists. What advice do you have for those of us who are in the media? How can the media do better?

NW: The media can pay attention. I feel that a lot of them are very ignorant, and they don’t know what’s going on around them. They believe everything they hear. And so that causes them to report that ― they hear that black men are dangerous, so then the next time it just happens to be a black man robbing that bank, they’re gonna say “black” in a concerned tone [when they report on the crime].

I feel that also when they report a story, if it was a black man who shot somebody, they’re animals, they’re barbaric, they’re terrible, they’re dangerous and you should stay away from them. If it’s a white man, he was mentally unstable. It’s gonna be OK, we’re gonna send him to a treatment center. He didn’t mean to. He was a nice man, I don’t know where this came from. So it’s the racial imbalance in the reporting that starts a chain reaction where then other people start to believe that.

What do you say to adults who try to dismiss young people because of their age?

NW: Be the bigger person. I don’t wanna go out onstage and say, “They say I don’t know what I’m talking about so I’m gonna tell them all the ways that they’re wrong.” Because by doing that, I’m the little person and I am proving them right. I’m being immature. I’m not having the mature, strong persona that I’m trying to put across if I go out onstage and start whining about how wrong they are. So I’m gonna go up there, I’m gonna be mature. I’m going to tell my story and I’m gonna make a difference, because that’s proving them wrong without addressing them.

In general, how do you think us adults can do a better job of listening to kids and following kids?

NW: They can realize that ... they’ve made their progress. It’s gotten better, it really has, since the 1950s and 1960s, but there are still these giant leaps that we need to take. So since I feel that young people see the world through a different set of eyes, they can really give a different point of view and say what they’ve been through and adults should listen.

Illustration: Damon Dahlen/HuffPost Photos: Reuters

So, I’m 30. You’re 11. What do you hope has changed in this country before you turn 30?

[At this point Wadler’s mother apologized, because they had to put me on mute so she could “hack up a hairball.” They both laughed a lot.]

NW: By the time I’m your age, I would like to hope that we would have made a lot more progress. I know that not everything’s perfect, and even though we might get stricter gun laws, there’s always going to be a problem. And so I hope by the time I’m your age, we would have educated our children, our grandchildren, the children after that on today’s issues and we wouldn’t have kept them in a bubble, so that they can do what we did. So that they can make a difference in the world they live in.

Are there any specific things that you’re like, I want that law to change, or I want to see this happen in our government or in our schools?

NW: I want to see stricter gun laws. You shouldn’t be able to walk into a store and buy an assault rifle without an ID, without a background check, without registering it. And we should make it harder to get the accessories that make semi-automatic rifles fully automatic rifles. And I would like further recognition and awareness of racism in the media.

And also, one other thing ― to help ruin the school-to-prison pipeline, so that black children, Hispanic children don’t go to school thinking “I am less than any white peer, and that I’m nothing more than a criminal.” Since they might drive past all these wealthy white schools that have uniforms and MacBooks and perfectly polished hallways, and so [children of color] think that they’re nothing better than a criminal and therefore that’s what they amount to.

“I hope that girls, especially black girls, realize that they have worth and they can do whatever they want to do.” - Naomi Wadler, 11

Your message has already had such an impact. You’ve effectively gone viral. What do you hope other girls who saw your speech or saw you on “The Ellen Show” take away from seeing you in that position?

NW: I hope that girls, especially black girls, realize that they have worth and they can do whatever they want to do. And they’re not restricted by the lines of poverty or racism, and they can amount to as much and more than I’ve amounted to. They can give speeches, they can become activists if they choose to identify that way. They can read books, they can empower other girls. They should know that they’re worth something. They’re not worthless and they can make a difference too.

I have a feeling that we’re going to see a lot of greatness from you ― we already have. But what do you hope to be and do when you grow up?

NW: When I grow up, I want to be a politician-slash-activist who runs my own business and is an entrepreneur who lives in my giant penthouse in New York City and/or Chicago and has a brown Siberian husky named Sheila. And I want to be executive editor and president of the New York Times ― the first black woman. Or the first Ethiopian woman.

Well, I would love to see you do all of those things.

JW: We’re laughing because she has a lot of options. If there’s already been the first black woman, she can be the first Ethiopian-American.

NW: First Ethiopian woman. And then on and on until we get to Ethiopian Jewish woman. And then I can be the first immigrant.

AdvertisementThe New York Working Families Party, a major force in the state’s progressive politics, voted Saturday to endorse Cynthia Nixon in New York’s Democratic gubernatorial primary.

Nixon, an actress and longtime education activist, received 91.5 percent of the vote at a meeting of the party committee in Albany.

“I am indebted to you today and every day, because you are the heart and the soul of the progressive New York that we want to create ― a New York that belongs to all of us,” Nixon said in a speech accepting the endorsement.

The move is a blow to New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo that sets the stage for one of the highest-stakes Democratic primaries since the 2016 contest between former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton and Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.). Nixon’s left-wing challenge to Cuomo, which has thus far been considered a long shot, now has one of the most sought-after liberal endorsements in the state.

The New York Working Families Party, which labor unions and community groups formed two decades ago as a progressive faction within the Democratic Party, also voted to endorse New York City Councilman Jumaane Williams for lieutenant governor. Williams is challenging incumbent Lt. Gov. Kathy Hochul (D).

Cuomo has sought to unite progressive groups and labor unions behind his bid for a third term. Three major unions backing Cuomo ― Service Employees International Union Local 32BJ, the Communications Workers of America District 1 and the Teamsters Joint Council 16 ― withdrew from the Working Families Party on Friday on the eve of the expected vote for Nixon.

Bill Lipton, director of the New York Working Families Party, claimed that the governor threatened to cut off contact with unions that back groups that have endorsed Nixon. Labor leaders at odds with the WFP have vehemently denied this version of events.

“There’s no truth to what Bill Lipton is saying ― this is nothing more than a diversionary tactic,” said Stuart Appelbaum, president of the Retail, Wholesale and Department Store Union. “Labor is leaving the party we started because Bill Lipton is using it for his own personal agenda.”

Cuomo’s campaign dismissed the significance of the Working Families Party’s blessing of Nixon, given the withdrawal of several of the labor unions that helped found it.

“The governor stands with the unions who have left the WFP and no longer feel it represents the interests of middle- and working-class New Yorkers,” said Abby Fashouer, a Cuomo re-election campaign spokeswoman.

Democrat Cynthia Nixon has picked up the endorsement of the New York Working Families Party in her bid for governor of New York. Shannon Stapleton / Reuters

Nixon’s rise is the culmination of eight years of progressive anger brewing against Cuomo. In two four-year terms, Cuomo has at once established himself as a fiscal conservative cozy with wealthy donors, and a shrewd operator capable of co-opting progressive priorities when it becomes politically convenient for him to do so.

A major sticking point for progressives has been Cuomo’s willingness to reduce public spending and his reluctance to raise taxes, particularly at the start of his administration. In 2014, he boasted that “any Republican would be proud” of his fiscal stewardship.

Cuomo also did little to help Democrats regain control of the state Senate, enabling an arrangement that stopped ambitious liberal legislation without saddling him with the blame for its demise. He approved of a 2012 gerrymandering plan that protected the Senate’s GOP majority.

And in 2013, after Democrats narrowly won back a majority anyway, Cuomo reportedly gave his private blessing to a coalition between Senate Republicans and a breakaway Democratic caucus known as the Independent Democratic Conference. The alliance returned power to the GOP despite Democrats’ numerical majority.

Cuomo managed to fend off an intraparty revolt in 2014, when the Working Families Party was considering endorsing his primary challenger, law professor and anti-corruption advocate Zephyr Teachout. Cuomo assuaged the party by promising to shepherd the passage of a $15 minimum wage, the decriminalization of marijuana, public financing for state political campaigns, a state-level DREAM Act, new protections for women’s reproductive rights and climate change legislation. He also pledged to help win back the state Senate for Democrats.

Of those promises, Cuomo has only delivered on the vow to pass the $15 minimum wage (though the earliest the new minimum will go fully into effect statewide is 2021). The state Senate remains in Republican hands, recreational marijuana possession remains a criminal offense and the other legislative priorities have failed to come to fruition.

New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo (D) is once again fending off a progressive primary challenger. Eduardo Munoz / Reuters

Cuomo and his allies point to a host of other policy achievements that he has presided over in his second term, including banning fracking, passing paid family leave and instituting free state college tuition for students from households earning up to $125,000 a year.

He has also tried to fashion himself a national leader in the liberal fight against President Donald Trump. With this end supposedly in mind, Cuomo brokered a deal that united the renegade IDC with the mainline state Senate Democratic caucus last week.

“The common enemy is defeating Trump and [Paul] Ryan and [Mitch] McConnell and defeating their agenda and taking over the New York state Senate so we can protect the state the way it needs to be protected,” he declared at a press conference announcing the agreement.

Left-leaning activists regard these moves, including the reunification of the Senate Democratic caucus, as concessions to their pressure that are nonetheless inadequate to tackle the state’s racial and economic inequality.

Since 2014, these critics have been spoiling for another opportunity to unseat Cuomo. But no elected officials have proven willing to risk being on the outs with the powerful chief executive in the event that their bid failed.

However, as an actress best known for her starring role in HBO’s “Sex and the City,” Nixon had little to lose by trying her hand against the governor.

At the same time, Nixon’s activism work makes her more than a mere celebrity candidate. For years, she has been a fixture of the protest movement pressuring Cuomo to provide more funding for public schools.

“Crushing inequality isn’t just something that happens.” - Cynthia Nixon

Nixon still faces steep odds in her bid against the famously deep-pocketed and popular Cuomo. Cuomo has over $30 million in his campaign war chest, nearly all of it raised from big donors in increments of more than $200.

A public poll in late March had Cuomo leading Nixon 66 to 19 percent.

The handful of Working Families Party members who spoke up against endorsing Nixon at Saturday’s meeting in Albany expressed their fears that her candidacy could inadvertently pave the way for a Republican governorship that would be far worse than the status quo.

They sought to avoid a situation where Nixon would remain on the Working Families Party ballot line even if she lost to Cuomo in the Democratic primary on Sept. 13. The result, they warned, could be a spoiler effect in which Nixon would take votes away from Cuomo after he emerged as the only viable contender in the general election.

In a bid to allay those concerns, Nixon told reporters after the endorsement that she would consult with the Working Families Party before deciding how to proceed after the primary.

To win in the primary, Nixon needs to erode Cuomo’s base of support in New York City and the surrounding suburbs where he swept Teachout in 2014. (Teachout’s strong showing upstate nonetheless handed her more than one-third of the vote with a fraction of Cuomo’s campaign funding.)

With fiery speeches against “corporate Democrats” and promises to legalize marijuana and pass state-level single-payer health care, Nixon is courting members of the Democratic base energized by Trump’s election and Sanders’ primary bid before that.

Nixon has also made addressing the specific needs of the state’s communities of color a key part of her pitch.

“Crushing inequality isn’t just something that happens,” Nixon said in her speech accepting the WFP endorsement on Saturday. “It’s an outcome that comes from a choice, a choice to slash taxes on the super-rich and corporations and slash services and opportunities on everybody else. It’s a choice to allow the schools that are attended by our students of color to be segregated, to be underfunded and to be over-policed.”

“This is the kind of choice we’re accustomed to seeing being made by Donald Trump,” she continued. ”But for the last eight years, it is a choice that we have seen made over and over and over again by our Democratic governor, Andrew Cuomo.”A Kansas police department is facing allegations of racism after a black man used his cellphone to record two white officers yanking him out of a vehicle after seeing “vegetation” on his window.

Rudy Samuel, 31, live-streamed the encounter on Facebook earlier this month after Winfield police stopped his car. Winfield is a small city situated along the Walnut River in Cowley County, Kansas.

“If you want to see a video of racial profiling, this is the poster child right here,” Kansas City attorney Brian McCallister, who is not representing anyone in the case, told HuffPost on Monday. “It was an abuse of power because they had no reason to use that kind of force.”

In the video, recorded May 13, Samuel says he’s been stopped by officers who claim he failed to signal within 100 feet of making a turn. Samuel narrates the first few minutes of the video and waits as the officers attempt to verify his driver’s license and vehicle registration. About two and a half minutes into the video, an officer can be seen approaching Samuel’s vehicle.

“Hey, Mr. Samuel, what caught my attention was this vegetation stuff right here,” the officer said.

After looking at what the officer is referring to ― which isn’t visible in the video but is apparently some sort of vegetation in the window seal ― Samuel can be heard saying, “That’s tree stuff, man … that’s gotta be from a tree.”

He later adds: “I don’t even smoke.”

The officer then tells Samuel he’s going to put the vegetation in an evidence bag, and he’s seen returning to his patrol car. He then returns with another officer.

The first officer can be heard telling Samuel to step out of his vehicle. When Samuel asks why, the officer claims it’s because of the “vegetation in the window.” Asked by Samuel to test the vegetation, the officer replies, “I ain’t gotta test it right now. I need you to step out for me.”

The officers then appear to reach into the vehicle and drag Samuel out. Samuel drops his cellphone at this point, but the phone continues to record, capturing the sound of officers detaining Samuel.

“You’re being detained so I can search the vehicle,” an officer can be heard saying. Samuel replies, “I give no permission to search that vehicle.”

Shortly thereafter, the video stops. Samuel later wrote on Facebook that one of the officers stopped the recording.

One of the officers who stopped Rudy Samuel on May 13. Facebook

Samuel, citing fears for his safety, directed HuffPost’s questions about the traffic stop to a man he identified as his spokesperson ― Peter Wright, of the Kansas-based Freedom 1 social justice group.

Wright said the officers detained Samuel until they finished searching his vehicle, then released him without a citation.

“This has happened to him before for no reason,” Wright said. “This young man has a good background. He’s a father, he’s engaged to be married and his grandfather is a minister. This was racially motivated.”

McCallister said police had no right to search Samuel’s vehicle.

“In order to search that car, they have to have reasonable suspicion that a crime is being committed or was committed,” the attorney explained. “That police officer is saying that the vegetation on the window is what gives him reasonable suspicion to search the car. In my opinion, that was pretext for searching the car.”

Winfield Police Chief Brett Stone declined to discuss the traffic stop, but did tell HuffPost it is “under investigation.”

Wright said Samuel is weighing his options and considering a lawsuit against the police department. “He has a biracial family and they’ve moved out of Winfield due to threats,” he said.

“He wants people to know what happened,” Wright added. “He’s lucky to be alive, because so many guys in situations like this are not able to tell their story.”

AdvertisementKentucky Gov. Matt Bevin apologized Sunday after recently saying school closings caused by teacher protests in his state were responsible for the sexual assault or poisoning of children left at home alone during that time.

“Clearly a tremendous number of people did not fully appreciate what it was that I was communicating,” Bevin said in a video posted to YouTube.

“Many people have been confused or hurt or just misunderstand what it was that I was trying to communicate. That’s my responsibility ― it truly is. And I apologize for those who have been hurt by the things that were said.”

Bevin’s apology follows fierce backlash sparked by comments he made about the teacher protests two days earlier.

“I’m offended by the fact that people so cavalierly, and so flippantly, disregarded what’s truly best for children,” Bevin said Friday at an impromptu news conference captured on video after teachers rallied at the state Capitol to stop school funding cuts.

Kentucky Gov. Matt Bevin on the teacher rallies today. “I guarantee you somewhere in Kentucky today a child was sexually assaulted that was left at home because there was nobody there to watch them.” pic.twitter.com/Q4PpzFsTt2 — Marcus Green (@MarcusGreenWDRB) April 13, 2018

Bevin also dissed protesting teachers for “hangin’ out, shoes off ... smokin’, leavin’ trash around, takin’ the day off.”

Bevin said “for a fact .... hundreds of thousands” of children were left home alone because schools were closed in 39 districts across the state to allow teachers and administrators to protest funding cuts.

“I guarantee you somewhere in Kentucky today a child was sexually assaulted that was left at home because there was nobody there to watch them,” he said. “I guarantee you somewhere today a child was physically harmed or ingested poison because they were home alone because a single parent didn’t have any money to take care of them.”

Bevin said, that in some “communities,” his fellow Kentuckians knew children would be home alone and “took advantage of it.” He added: “As surely as we’re having this conversation, children were harmed, some physically, some sexually. Some were introduced to drugs for the first time because they were vulnerable and left alone. It’s offensive. It really is.”

Teachers rallied in Frankfort to urge legislators to override Bevin’s vetoes of the budget and tax reform bills — which they did on Friday.

Kentucky Education Association President Stephanie Winkler told The Louisville Courier-Journal that she was “appalled” by Bevin’s remarks. Organizers said parents were given plenty of notice about school closings.

Jefferson County Teachers Association President Brent McKim told the Courier-Journal that using Bevin’s logic, schools should never close.

“The fact is, every school district did its level best to let parents know school was going to be closed with as much notice as possible,” McKim said. “The bottom line is that’s one day. He was cutting hundreds of millions of dollars from kids that would impact every day, and that’s what we were in Frankfort to stop. We were there with the overwhelming support and encouragement of our parents who know that we care about every student in our classes.”

This story has been updated to include Bevin’s apology.California police have released body camera footage of YouTube shooter Nasim Aghdam in her car in Mountain View calmly telling officers she wasn’t going to hurt anyone just hours before she opened fire at the company headquarters on April 3.

Three people were wounded in the shooting later that day at the YouTube offices in San Bruno, about 30 miles away. Aghdam, 39, died at the scene of a self-inflicted gunshot wound, according to police.

Aghdam was apparently asleep in the backseat of her car in a parking lot in Mountain View when an officer spotted her shortly after 1:30 a.m. Police called in her license plate number and discovered she had been reported missing by her family in San Diego.

A male and female officer knocked on the window of the car and asked Aghdam if she was aware that her family was searching for her.

“We didn’t get along together, so I left them,” Aghdam explained, adding that she drove straight to Mountain View from San Diego the previous day. Asked if she wanted to hurt herself or anybody else — or commit suicide, Aghdam responded: “No.”

Asked why she picked Mountain View, Aghdam said: “I wanted to sleep around here. I wanted to get out of those areas, out of San Diego. I have memories I don’t want to have.” She said she wanted “somewhere new” with “no memories about [the] past.”

She said she wasn’t on medication. Police found no other official alerts about Aghdam and left her, but they called her father, Ismail Aghdam, to tell him she had been located. He thanked them but later called to say that Aghdam was upset about YouTube and may have been in the area for that reason. But police said he did not warn them about the possibility of violence.

Police did not ask her if she had a gun. The 9-millimeter handgun she used in the shooting had been purchased legally. She went to a shooting range later that day before heading to the YouTube offices.

The suspected shooter in today’s YouTube incident has been identified. Please see press release for details - https://t.co/Xvr2l9bB9s pic.twitter.com/NEBoX3WWK5 — San Bruno Police (@SanBrunoPolice) April 4, 2018

Mountain View police defended how they handled the situation.

“Our officers followed proper procedure and protocol. They checked on the welfare of a person who, at the time, was reported missing but whose actions, demeanor and answers did not present any information which would cause us to believe she would be a threat to herself or others,” said Chief Max Bosel.

“The tragedy of the incident at YouTube weighs heavily on our hearts, but we support and stand by the actions taken by our officers in their contact with Ms. Aghdam.”

Aghdam was a prolific social media user and had several YouTube channels in multiple languages, including English, Farsi and Turkish. Her videos often showed her dancing or cooking vegan recipes. Her Instagram account had more than 55,000 followers. She began to complain in the months before the shooting that YouTube was suppressing content and was discriminating against her.

“She was always complaining that YouTube ruined her life,” her brother, Shahran Aghdam, told the San Jose Mercury News from the family’s home in Menifee, California.With Secretary of Defense James Mattis at his side, President Donald Trump speaks to his Cabinet on Nov. 1, 2017. A federal judge has blocked Trump's ban on transgender troops in the U.S. military. Kevin Lamarque / Reuters

WASHINGTON ― A federal judge late Friday barred the federal government from implementing President Donald Trump’s ban on transgender members of the military, finding that the ban had to be subject to a careful court review before implementation because of the history of discrimination against transgender individuals.

U.S. District Judge Marsha Pechman of the Western District of Washington ruled that transgender people were a protected class and that the injunctions against the implementation of the ban that had been issued in December should remain in place. She wrote that there was a “long and well-recognized” history of discrimination and systemic oppression against transgender people, that discrimination against transgender people was clearly “unrelated to their ability to perform and contribute to society,” that transgender people have immutable characteristics and that they lacked relative political power.

“Transgender people have long been forced to live in silence, or to come out and face the threat of overwhelming discrimination,” Pechman wrote.

“The Court also rules that, because transgender people have long been subjected to systemic oppression and forced to live in silence, they are a protected class. Therefore, any attempt to exclude them from military service will be looked at with the highest level of care, and will be subject to the Court’s ‘strict scrutiny.’ This means that before Defendants can implement the Ban, they must show that it was sincerely motivated by compelling interests, rather than by prejudice or stereotype, and that it is narrowly tailored to achieve those interests,” Pechman wrote.

While Trump had tweeted that he consulted generals and military experts about the ban, Pechman wrote that the government had “failed to identify even one General or military expert he consulted, despite having been ordered to do so repeatedly.”

Noting that Pentagon officials were surprised by the announcement and that Defense Secretary Jim Mattis got a heads up only one day beforehand, the judge wrote that she “is led to conclude that the Ban was devised by the President, and the President alone.”

Sharon McGowan, a former top official in the Justice Department’s Civil Rights Division who now works as director of strategy for Lambda Legal, wrote that Pechman “cut through the nonsense,” recognizing that the plan announced by the military was just a dressed-up version of Trump’s original ban.

Judge Pechman cut through the nonsense and realized that there was no “new ban” - just the same ole ban w/ some new packaging. Trans discrimination triggers strict scrutiny. Full stop. DOJ gets one last chance to defend policy but make no mistake - this ban is going DOWN! https://t.co/YaevJXouof — Sharon_McGowan (@SharonMcGowanDC) April 14, 2018

Read Pechman’s ruling below.The United States, France and the United Kingdom on Friday conducted a wave of coordinated airstrikes in Syria in response to a deadly chemical weapons attack last week in the town of Douma.

U.S. President Donald Trump announced the operation in a Friday night address from the White House and said the military campaign hit targets associated with the chemical weapons capabilities of the regime of Syrian President Bashar Assad.

“The purpose of our actions tonight is to establish a strong deterrent against the production, spread and use of chemical weapons. We are prepared to sustain this response until the Syrian regime stops its use of prohibited chemical agents,” said Trump, who had previously called the chemical attack “atrocious” and vowed Syria and its allies Russia and Iran would “pay a price.”

He tweeted Saturday that the strikes were “perfectly executed” and declared “Mission Accomplished!”

“The fact of this attack should surprise no-one,” British Prime Minister Theresa May said in a statement Friday night. “The Syrian Regime has a history of using chemical weapons against its own people in the most cruel and abhorrent way.”

“The red line established by France in May 2017 was crossed,” French President Emmanuel Macron said, referring to the use of chemical weapons.

The Navy cruiser USS Monterey fires a Tomahawk land attack missile on April 14, 2018. Handout . / Reuters

Friday’s operation drew strong condemnation from the Syrian regime and its allies. Assad said hours after the strikes that they made his regime even more determined to “fight and crush” terrorism.

Russian President Vladimir Putin denounced the strikes as an “act of aggression” that would have a “destructive influence on the entire system of international relations.”

The Kremlin called an emergency meeting of the United Nations Security Council on Saturday, where Russian Ambassador Vassily Nebenzia deplored the attack as “hooliganism,” according to a translation by Russian outlet Sputnik News, and said it “makes a catastrophic humanitarian situation worse.”

Russian authorities had previously declared that the suspected chemical attack that prompted the strike was staged. At the emergency meeting, French Ambassador François Delattre said French authorities have “no doubt” the attack both occurred and was ordered by Assad’s regime.

“We can all see that a Russian disinformation campaign is in full force this morning,” U.S. Ambassador Nikki Haley said. “The pictures of dead children were not fake news,” she added.

The military strike became necessary after Russia stymied diplomacy by blocking U.N. Security Council action on Syria’s chemical weapons six times, Haley said. In the event of future chemical weapons attacks in Syria, she said that Trump had told her “the United States is locked and loaded” to respond.

U.K. Ambassador Karen Pierce outlined four steps to reaching a diplomatic resolution in Syria, including an immediate ceasefire and destruction of chemical weapons stockpiles.

The Security Council later voted to reject a Russian resolution condemning the “aggression” in Syria.

NATO chief Jens Stoltenberg also voiced support of the strike on behalf of all 29 of his members, according to The Associated Press.

Earlier, Iranian Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei called Trump, May and Macron “criminals” in a speech cited by Iranian TV, according to Reuters. “U.S., allies will not gain any achievements from crimes in Syria. Attacking Syria is a crime. U.S. president, U.K. prime minister and the president of France are criminals,” he said.

Defense Secretary Jim Mattis briefs members of the media on the Syria airstrikes at the Pentagon on Friday night. Alex Wong via Getty Images

The Operation

Minutes after Trump’s announcement on Friday evening, journalists from Reuters and The Associated Press reported hearing loud blasts over Damascus, the Syrian capital.

The operation started around 9 p.m. EDT and focused on three targets associated with the Syrian regime’s chemical weapons program, Gen. Joseph Dunford, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, later confirmed in an evening news conference:

A scientific research center in the greater Damascus area.

A chemical weapons storage facility west of Homs.

A weapons storage facility and a command post close to the facility near Homs.

The strikes “successfully hit every target,” Pentagon spokeswoman Dana White said at a briefing Saturday morning. The Syrian military had claimed earlier in the day that it had intercepted “most” of the 105 missiles.

Lt. Gen. Kenneth F. McKenzie said that the U.S. had no indication of civilian casualties and that no aircraft or missiles involved in the operation were successfully engaged by Syrian air defenses.

Friday evening’s actions were a response to a chemical weapons attack on the town of Douma, in eastern Ghouta, last Saturday. The attack killed at least 70 people and rebel fighters were forced to relinquish control of the town to forces loyal to Assad shortly after.

Damascus, Moscow and Tehran all deny that the chemical attack was Assad’s doing. But Defense Secretary Mattis said Friday that the U.S. had conclusive evidence that chlorine gas was used in the Douma attack. He added the U.S. did not rule out that sarin gas was used as well.

McKenzie said on Saturday that the strikes had crippled the Syrian regime’s chemical weapons capabilities, but acknowledged that some of the infrastructure was still left. “I would say there’s still a residual element of the Syrian program that’s out there,” he said. “I’m not going to say that they’re going to be unable to continue to conduct a chemical attack in the future. I suspect, however, they’ll think long and hard about it.”

Tensions With Russia

On Friday, Trump once again called out Assad’s backers. “To Iran and Russia I ask, what kind of nation wants to be associated with the mass murder of men, women and children? The nations of the world can be judged by the friends they keep. ... Russia must decide if it will continue down this dark path or if it will join with civilized nations as a source for stability and peace.”

A Syrian child receives medical treatment after the chemical attack on Douma. Anadolu Agency via Getty Images

Although the Pentagon sought to avoid hitting Russian forces stationed in Syria to prevent a direct confrontation with Moscow, Friday’s operation is likely to further escalate tensions between the two countries.

By Saturday, there had been no indication that any Russian forces were hit. And Mattis said the U.S. had not detected any retaliatory action from Russia or Iran.

But the Russian Embassy in the U.S. warned that Friday’s strikes “will not be left without consequences.” On Saturday, Russian officials on Twitter called the “treacherous and insane” strikes a “clear and present danger to world peace” and demanded accountability.

Anti-aircraft fire is seen over Damascus on Saturday. Feras Makdesi/Reuters

A One-Time Shot

Trump ordered cruise missile strikes on a Syrian air base almost exactly one year ago following a chemical attack on civilians in the town of Khan Sheikhoun that the U.S. blamed on Assad. Experts said the U.S. retaliation last year did little to deter Assad’s campaign against his own people.

U.S. military leaders stressed on Friday that the new operation was much broader in scope and was “a one-time shot” aimed at debilitating Assad’s chemical weapons program in the long run.

It remains unclear, however, whether the latest strikes will do much to convince Assad and his powerful supporters that they must reconsider their approach.

While the Pentagon was adamant that the attack significantly decreased Assad’s chemical weapons capabilities, Syrian government forces had taken precautions at military bases throughout the week in anticipation of possible strikes. A Syrian official told Reuters on Friday that many of those sites had been evacuated ahead of the attack.

In his efforts to sustain his rule and bring Syria fully under his control, Assad has adopted a winner-take-all strategy that can bear any cost regardless of international condemnation. Just in the past two weeks, more than 1,000 people have been killed in a brutal offensive in eastern Ghouta, according to Doctors Without Borders.

Both Russia and Iran are likely to continue their support of Assad. Their presence deters further international action by raising the prospect of a major escalation.

The chief U.S. partner in the country, the Syrian Kurdish militia known as the YPG, remains uncertain about American intentions. And U.S. work on reconstruction to prevent the return of the self-described Islamic State is ongoing but could stop at any time.

Constitutional Questions

Former President Barack Obama, now remembered for promising military action if Assad crossed the “red line” of using chemical weapons, contemplated a strike in 2013. But Obama sought congressional approval and the strike never happened.

On Friday, before Trump had announced the operation, 88 House lawmakers challenged his legal authority to launch attacks against the Syrian regime without congressional approval. Republican Rep. Justin Amash (Mich.) later called the airstrikes “unconstitutional, illegal and reckless.”

Trump had set a path toward retaliation immediately after last Saturday’s reports of a chemical attack. “If President Obama had crossed his stated Red Line In The Sand, the Syrian disaster would have ended long ago!” he tweeted the following Sunday. “Animal Assad would have been history!”

Trump’s latest action further muddies his own approach to Syria. Just last week, he floated the possibility of imminently withdrawing the 2,000 U.S. troops stationed in the country. His top military advisers, meanwhile, offered a contradictory message, implying that the U.S. still has plenty to do to root out the Islamic State.LOS ANGELES ― On her first night without a home, Kaityanna Phillips cried herself to sleep on a sidewalk in front of a Shell gas station in north Hollywood.

She had arrived in Los Angeles on a one-way ticket from Texarkana, Texas, earlier that day. From the bus station in the heart of downtown L.A., she walked north for miles. At the edge of Hollywood, she forced herself to stop. Her feet were swollen. Her phone was dead. She was hungry and exhausted. Phillips was 20 years old and completely alone.

Phillips had started walking with one destination in sight ― the Los Angeles LGBT Youth Center. When she entered the building the next day and admired its rainbow mural, she instantly realized: “This is the only place for me here.”

The center is a haven for the LGBTQ youth who make up a disproportionate number of the young people experiencing homelessness in L.A. The center helps them confront challenges similar to those many other people in the streets face. Directors at the organization report that many of the youth experience depression, anxiety and other mental health concerns. They describe repeated rapes, assaults and other abuse.

But the center also helps them navigate an additional battle ― one for their own identity. While struggling to find stability, queer youth on the street are also struggling to carve out their own place in life. And as they fight to stay alive and stay true to themselves, the issues facing LGBTQ youth are quickly becoming one of the most complicated challenges in fighting homelessness in Los Angeles.

High schoolers embrace at the 2017 Models of Pride Conference at the University of Southern California. Daniela Silva

Phillips came to California in hopes of finding something better. Her community in Texas didn’t accept or understand her gender identity, and she didn’t feel safe or wanted in her hometown. So at the age of 20, though she had never left home before, Phillips left Texas for the promise of a better life in Los Angeles.

Three years after her move, she laughs recalling that first night on the street. “I thought I was going to die. For real, I thought that was it,” she said. “‘Lay me down, I’m gonna die, it’s over.’ And that was just the first night.”

Since then, she’s had more than a dozen “addresses” in tents on the sidewalks of Hollywood. The center remains the closest thing she has to a home.

“People see trans people as a disgrace,” Phillips said, leaning back in her chair and tugging down on her bright pink shirt. “Even in the LGBT community. No one wants to talk about us. No one wants to help us. So when you walk in the center, and you’re their first priority... you never want to leave.”

Providing the complex and personalized care that young people like Phillips need is a large and difficult job.

There is little research into the mental health of LGBTQ youth, especially in the scope of homelessness studies, and none specifically focused on trans and nonbinary youth. But the few existing studies indicate that queer people end up on the street in disproportionate numbers. LGBTQ youth account for 40 percent of young people on the street nationwide, according to the Center for American Progress. The same study has found that while about 20 percent of U.S. teens in general are queer, 40 percent of homeless U.S. teens are queer. There is no precise data for the number of LGBTQ youth living on the streets of L.A.

These trends are connected to the wide range of challenges that young LGBTQ people face. Young queer people are 25 percent more likely to be sexually assaulted and twice as likely to run away from foster and group homes, the Center for American Progress found. Transgender people have an unemployment rate three times higher than the average American, research from GLAAD shows.

Faced with trauma, acute needs and questions about their gender identities, homeless LGBTQ youth need access to both mental and physical health care to make it through. They need food, showers and a safe place to rest. Many require education in the medical basics of affirming their gender identities. And many face tremendous fear, despite desperately wanting to take the next step.

Mateo Diaz and Lynn Foster at the 2017 Models of Pride Conference at the University of Southern California. It was the first time they joined an event of this scale. Daniela Silva

Phillips is currently transitioning from male to female with the help of the center. She’s scheduled to undergo gender affirmation surgery in six months. The center has connected her with doctors, helped her secure proper prescriptions and enrolled her in therapy to guide her through the process, and is paying for the entire process.

But while Phillips is desperate for the surgery to take place, the transition is difficult to manage while living in a tent on an L.A. street.

Even in the months leading up to the procedure, the challenges have been apparent. The most valuable item in Phillips’ tent is a stack of paper ― her prescriptions for estrogen and spironolactone, an anti-androgen. She tries to have them on her at all times, but has struggled nonetheless to keep her medications safe and up to date. Staying on top of the medication is vital: Missing even a day can result in violent mood swings and depression.

The conditions in her tent raise additional concerns about the months ahead. Many people who undergo this kind of affirmation surgery do it in two stages — first the breast enhancement, then the vaginoplasty, or vice versa. Phillips plans to do it all at once. The healing process takes three months, with risks ranging from discomfort to bleeding that could require hospitalization.

Phillips’ tent is shaded in the afternoons, but at noon it takes the full brunt of the blazing sun. Over the summer, when temperatures rose into the triple digits, simply sitting up became an exhausting task.

Despite the challenges, Phillips hardly appears concerned about the surgery, or what comes next. In fact, she couldn’t be more excited. “I’ve always been a woman,” she said. “This is who I am. I can’t wait for this any longer.”

The unique role of the LGBT Youth Center lies in providing personalized care for queer youth, even when they don’t have a home or a job. For homeless LGBTQ youth, the issue isn’t necessarily a lack of access to assistance — it’s a lack of the proper assistance.

“The other shelters, they can’t help me. This is the only place that can help,” said Justin, whose last name is being withheld to protect their safety. “I wouldn’t stay anywhere else, even if there was another shelter. I’d rather stay on the street outside the center, and at least eat there and shower there and have somewhere to go.”

The skin above Justin’s eyebrows is emblazoned with black ink. The name of Justin’s grandmother slants in Arabic script above the left; the English word “identity” arches over the right.

“I’ve had to fight for this one all my life,” Justin said, rubbing a thumb across the curling ink that spells out I-D-E. “It’s the most important thing, I think, for me. I’ve given up everything for this.”

Justin is nonbinary, a person who doesn’t identify as solely female or male. Like many nonbinary youth, Justin prefers the pronouns “they” and “them” rather than “he” and “him” or “she” and “her.” A tattoo on the back of Justin’s left hand reflects this identity in black and red ink — a face with flowing hair and painted lips on one side, and a stubbled, chiseled male jawline on the other.

Justin became homeless shortly after graduating high school in Chicago in 2013. On their first night on the streets, they wandered for hours before crawling under a bush outside a parking garage. Rats and squirrels scuffled through the leaves around their head.

“You don’t understand how scary it is until you’re living it,” Justin said. “I think most people think they can handle it, they can handle living like that, but once you’re there... it’s a different level of being scared. It changes you.”

Justin started out in a tent with a few other nonbinary youth, just a few blocks south of the center. But at night, the other youth in the tent often used drugs. Inches away, Justin watched, fear churning in their stomach. After a week of watching their friends soothe themselves to sleep with drugs, eyes glassy and faces blank, Justin left.

The center helped Justin remain grounded. They slept on the streets near the building, eating every meal and spending every day in its computer lab and lounge. Eventually, a spot opened up for Justin in a bed. But even after leaving the center for their own apartment, Justin remains close by.

A homeless person makes his way down Los Angeles' Hollywood Boulevard one morning in February 2012. Mike Blake / Reuters

Despite the role the center plays in the lives of many LGBTQ youth, it can’t reach every young homeless person in Los Angeles. The organization currently struggles with a waitlist of over a year for new people.

Organizers in the center are hopeful about the addition of the Anita May Rosenstein Campus, scheduled to open in Hollywood in early 2019. The campus is expected to add 100 bed spaces for LGBTQ youth, doubling the total resources. But the center will remain localized in the Hollywood area, limiting access for any youth who live on the outer edges of the sprawling Los Angeles metropolitan area. Ample resources, it seems, won’t be forthcoming any time soon.

Three years after they came to Los Angeles, life is looking up for Justin. With a job at a hip clothing store and a six-month lease in an apartment shared with friends, they feel as if homelessness could be in the past.

In many ways, Justin is a success story. They no longer live on the streets. Their life is beginning to return to “normal.” Yet the fear of instability never leaves.

“I’m terrified that at any moment, it could just go away again,” they said.

For Phillips, the upcoming surgery is her only focus. “I’m getting my procedure. I’m getting my dream job,” she said. “Things will be better. I know it.”