A five-story mural of a blue penis painted on a Stockholm apartment building is to be covered up after locals mobilized against it.

The piece, by artist Carolina Falkholt, was up for only a week before neighbors began to take action. The company that owns the block, Atrium Ljungberg, told the local publication Aftonbladet they had received multiple complaints.

Carolina Falkholt's piece is seen in Stockholm, April 11. Shutterstock

“Culture and art are important in developing interesting urban environments,” Camilla Klimt, Atrium Ljungberg’s marketing manager, told Aftonbladet, according to The Guardian. “Of course, we care about artistic freedom. But at the same time, we must respect neighbors’ opinions.”

Klimt added that they would let the penis remain for a short amount of time so others can enjoy the art before it’s painted over.

The company reportedly didn’t know in advance that Falkholt was going to put a massive penis on one of its buildings.

Falkholt’s phallic work has drawn public opprobrium before. In December, her depiction of a giant red penis covered the wall of an apartment building on Broome Street in New York. It was painted over three days later.

Yep, that's one big penis. Lev Radin/Pacific Press via Getty Images

Falkholt, who did not respond to HuffPost’s request for comment, told The Guardian in 2017 that her work is meant to signify not feeling ashamed of our bodies or of sexuality.LOS ANGELES — Tony Rosado sits in the silent back room of El Mercado with a giant stack of papers piled in front of him on a sturdy wooden table. The papers are part of his appeals to stop the construction of Lorena Plaza, a 49-unit supportive housing complex that has been proposed for an empty parcel of land next to his market in this historically Latino neighborhood east of downtown.



“Why in Boyle Heights?” he asked. “I dare you to go try and build this in Beverly Hills. It would never get through.”

El Mercado, which Rosado took over after his father died in 2014, is a three-story restaurant and market packed with stalls of vendors, or puestos, selling cowboy boots, Communion dresses, religious paraphernalia, tubs of obscure moles and dried sweets. Boyle Heights is one of the most heavily Latino communities in the city, and El Mercado is its vibrant nerve center.

Lorena Plaza is one of the complexes that nonprofit developers have proposed to house the 58,000 people experiencing homelessness in Los Angeles. Voters approved a 2017 ballot measure calling for a $1.2 billion bond to fund permanent supportive housing for the chronically homeless. But where exactly that housing should go has proven a much more difficult question.

Boyle Heights is known citywide for its residents’ vigorous anti-gentrification efforts. They’ve fought to keep richer, whiter transplants from encroaching on their territory. In a sense, Rosado’s fight to keep housing for the homeless out of his neighborhood is part of the same struggle for agency.

Rosado says Lorena Street isn’t the right place for housing for the homeless. El Mercado gets busy on the weekends, and cars zoom down Lorena Street and into the parking lot. A Metro train line also runs nearby.

“To put a sensitive population so close to a busy cultural center and next to exposed railroad tracks?” Rosado said. “I don’t think that’s the right thing to do.”



Since the 1960s, El Mercado has been open to vendors, documented or not. Razzan Nakhlawi

The Rosado family has been fighting Lorena Plaza for years. They filed an environmental appeal with the city’s Planning and Land Use Management Committee in May 2017, citing uncapped oil wells on the property that could present a danger to residents if they leaked. The family found a sympathetic ear with Councilmember Jose Huizar, who approved their appeal in the committee and stalled construction until a full environmental review was conducted.

Housing developers and other critics claim such resistance pits communities against the will of citywide voters. In an open letter to Huizar during the appeal meetings, L.A.’s top nonprofit developers argued that the appeal “would deny Los Angeles voters the mandate and action they overwhelmingly supported.”

“We all care and we all want to eradicate homelessness,” said Janet Kim, a Los Feliz resident and member of a multi-neighborhood homelessness task force, SELAH Neighborhood Homeless Coalition, that includes residents from Silver Lake, Echo Park, Los Feliz, Atwater Village and Hollywood. The problem, she said, is “that people are on the fence about how we’re going to do that.”

This concern isn’t limited to Boyle Heights. Residents of Venice ― a wealthy, white oceanside neighborhood where companies like Snap Inc., Google, YouTube and Vice have mutated the community into a post-gentrification business district of sorts ― have also fought plans to build housing for the homeless.

Suburbanites in leafy, pleasant Temple City have successfully stalled the redevelopment of a motel that was planned for supportive housing. Property owners in Lincoln Heights are also rallying against a handful of housing proposals. “Five is too many,” reads the mission statement of the Coalition to Protect Lincoln Heights.

Still, Rosado thinks his situation in Boyle Heights is different from other conflicts around the city. Residents here feel their voices have been ignored, and say community outreach was inadequate for this kind of development.

Young girls look at toys in El Mercado. Razzan Nakhlawi

A Community of Friends, the nonprofit developer seeking to build Lorena Plaza, seems surprised by the backlash. In the past 30 years, ACOF has built 42 supportive housing complexes in the city without much controversy.

“The word I would use to describe us was ‘stealth,’” said Dora Leong Gallo, ACOF’s director. “We built the buildings, we operated and moved people in, and nobody was the wiser. People ask if this is a brand-new thing, like we’ve never done it before. That’s not quite true.”

Gallo knows better than most the complexities of building units in a city historically constrained by rigid planning laws, and ACOF usually navigates the process well. But the Lorena Plaza development has been particularly difficult.

Gallo believes the Rosados’ environmental appeal was disingenuous. The opposition to Lorena Plaza stems from stereotypes of the homeless, she argued, pointing to the Rosados’ initial appeals. The late Pedro Rosado told a Metro Board hearing in 2013 that he was “very appalled how people are not mentioning that in this facility they are trying to bring mentally ill people to put our children at risk.”

A restaurant with mariachis in El Mercado is a big draw for local families. Razzan Nakhlawi

Boyle Heights was already primed for a fight over development. Non-local artists have been opening new galleries here, like 356 Mission and BBQ LA, which attracted the ire of activist-residents. Last year, Weird Wave Brewers, a coffee shop owned by two white men and a Latino man (none of whom live in Boyle Heights), opened on Cesar Chavez Avenue, prompting concerns that the neighboring Arts District ― which is demographically wealthier, whiter and younger ― was trickling into the barrio.

Rosado argues that the city is taking advantage of the mostly Spanish-speaking, low-income residents of Boyle Heights, and that other neighborhoods would never have to fight so hard to keep out a proposal like this.

“They would lobby their representatives and then bombard their offices with calls,” he said. “They would pull all their financial support for their campaigns if their representatives were allowing these types of projects to get through.”

He suggested that people experiencing homelessness be housed on the outskirts of the city, “where it’s not the white-collar people that are affected or the blue-collar.”

On March 6, the L.A. City Council held a final vote on the Lorena Plaza environmental appeal. Dozens of supporters of the project, identified by fluorescent yellow stickers that said “Lorena Plaza, SUPPORTER,” packed the aisles of City Hall’s chambers. There did not appear to be any critics of the development present.

The Rosado family was not in attendance, but their lawyer read aloud a statement arguing that the city is responsible for investigating the environmental concerns thoroughly, and urging the council to pursue a new assessment.

ACOF’s Gallo also addressed the council, telling them her organization has “remained optimistic and steadfast in our belief that this is a good project at a good location, and reasonable people who care about the state of homelessness in Los Angeles can successfully negotiate a solution.”

Huizar, the councilmember, raised concerns about community involvement in the proposal.

“It’s not an issue of NIMBYism or against permanent supportive housing. It’s an issue about community process, building trust, no matter what you’re building ― whether it’s a retail center, permanent supportive housing, commercial,” he said. “Whatever it is, there needs to be trust between the applicant, the developer and the local community, and that’s what was lacking here.”

Yet Huizar recommended that his colleagues deny the appeal and allow ACOF to build Lorena Plaza. Then the council cast its vote: thirteen in favor of allowing the development to go forward, and zero opposed.

Gallo said she was pleased with the result, especially Huizar’s about-face. “It’s a pretty incredible feeling to have him change his mind, because it’s hard, and he does want what is best for his community, and I recognize that,” she said. Gallo expects to break ground in fall 2019, with a completion date toward the end of 2020.

Tony Rosado said he is “disappointed,” but isn’t backing down yet. “We’re going to continue fighting it,” he said. “We’re going to pursue our legal options.”

In a statement to HuffPost, Huizar said the developer has agreed to complete the necessary environmental review, and will ensure the soil is clean. He also emphasized the importance of community involvement as the city seeks housing solutions for people experiencing homelessness.

“As we unroll our efforts to construct permanent supportive housing throughout the City, we need to be completely honest with the public from the outset and throughout the approval processes,” he said. “That doesn’t mean everyone will be happy with every project, but unlike this process, at least we’ll all be clear about what is being proposed.”

On April 5, Rosado filed suit against the city of Los Angeles, alleging that environmental law had been broken. The writ, submitted by Rosado’s lawyers, asks for the city’s decision to be vacated in lieu of a full environmental review. It also asks for the suspension of the “authority of City and City Council... to grant any authority, permits or entitlements as part of the Project” until a full review is conducted.LOS ANGELES ― Every time Graciela Fernandez gets off the bus at Skid Row, she clutches her industrial-grade, cross-body bag with thick straps. She checks the road in both directions and scans for danger. Carefully, she makes her way down the street she called home until just three months ago.

Fernandez first arrived at Skid Row early one morning in July 2015, wearing nothing but a tank top, her underwear and ripped sneakers. She’d fled an abusive boyfriend who, she says, had threatened her with a knife and trapped her in a remote house for days. At 4:00 that July morning, she searched the line of colorful tents for Connie Revoiro. Fernandez had met Revoiro, who goes by the name “Mama Cuba,” on a scouting trip to the area three weeks before. Now Mama Cuba was her only hope.

“I searched from tent to tent to tent until I found her,” Fernandez said one day this past October. “It was awful. I didn’t come out of Mama Cuba’s tent for three or four days. I was terrified. Wherever she would go, I was there, because I was so scared.”

Nearly three years later, Fernandez is still frightened by Skid Row. She’s had her purse stolen more times than she can count. Once, a man yelling vulgar things followed her and grabbed her by the arm. She beat him with a wooden stick until he let go.

The number of homeless people in Los Angeles County went up more than 23 percent last year, according to the annual homeless count. Nearly 58,000 people were living on the street at the time of the count, about 4,500 of them in the Skid Row area ― a four-mile stretch of downtown Los Angeles often dubbed “the homeless capital of America.”

Women account for a third of people experiencing homelessness in L.A. As women like Graciela Fernandez and Mama Cuba navigate the challenges of living in a community where drug use, mental illness and assault are prevalent, they are particularly vulnerable to violence, predators and abuse. Amid a lack of shelter beds and resources to help them cope, loosely formed networks of women have banded together to fill the unmet needs. Some have found support in each other as they unite to survive and to demand solutions.

Skid Row is a meeting place for L.A.’s homeless community. Its streets are lined with tents, sleeping bags and suitcases and carts filled with prized possessions. Clusters of tents and makeshift structures have turned into quasi-separate neighborhoods, where people play cards, visit each other’s pets and barter for items like toilet paper and nail polish.

“The street is the street,” Mama Cuba said one day last fall, flashing a toothless, red-lipsticked grin. “It’s hard to live in the streets. There’s a lot of fights. Everything could be fine. It could be fine for a second, and all of the sudden everything jumps.”

Mama Cuba has many adopted Skid Row “daughters,” women like Fernandez who look to her for support in their darkest times. “If they’re hungry, they come to me. That’s why they call me Mama Cuba,” she said. “If there’s an extra blanket, not even extra, I give my own, I’m giving my last, I don’t really care.”

Yet Skid Row friendships can be difficult, complicated by mental illness, substance abuse and the daily struggle for survival. Today, Fernandez’s feelings for Mama Cuba swing between gratitude and betrayal. She knows how much Mama Cuba did to help her in her time of need, but she says Mama Cuba’s drug addiction and mental health problems have led her to steal from her multiple times ― a charge Mama Cuba vehemently denies.

Mental illness and substance abuse

Mental illness and drug addiction are major challenges in Skid Row that contribute to the vulnerable position of some of the women.

“Sexual assault and sexual harassment are everywhere,” said Angelia Harper, who goes by the name “Big Momma of Skid Row.”

After escaping homelessness herself, Harper has spent the last 20 years walking around the area by night in an effort to increase safety and help women get the resources they need, especially after an assault. More than 90 percent of the women in Skid Row have experienced physical or sexual violence in their lives, according to a 2016 assessment carried out by the Downtown Women’s Center, an L.A. nonprofit.

Compounding the problem, and the trauma, Big Momma explained, is that many perpetrators go free. “A lot of them are still looking at their abuser or the person that perpetrated the crime against them,” Big Momma said of the women she works with.

Some women fear reporting crimes to law enforcement because they believe they’ll risk retaliation. Others are hesitant to engage with police, for any number of reasons. Some are undocumented; some are on probation or parole; others struggle with substance abuse or have had negative experiences with law enforcement in the past. Even if a woman does report her assault and the perpetrator is arrested, it’s not uncommon for them to get released the same day.

Mama Cuba in her tent in Skid Row. Ariel Tu

Shelters aren’t always a safe haven

The longer women are homeless, the harder the climb back to stability becomes. But while many women are eager to escape the violence of the streets, their options are scarce. “There are no other avenues out,” Big Momma said.

There are a number of social services, shelters and nonprofit organizations in Skid Row, but the needs of the neighborhood’s population far outweigh the available resources.

There are only two overnight emergency shelters that serve single women in Skid Row, with 90 beds at the Midnight Mission and 350 beds at Union Rescue Mission. Both organizations have been providing shelter to the area’s homeless since the early 20th century, but it wasn’t until this past June that the Midnight Mission opened its doors to women who needed overnight housing. Before, the shelter only served homeless men.

Because space is limited, women who arrive at the shelters are first assessed by case managers. Their individual circumstances determine whether they get priority for a bed that night, how long they can stay and what other resources they are eligible for.

Big Momma is frustrated by the lack of shelter services available to women, particularly for victims of domestic violence and sexual assault. “Once a shelter is full, it’s full. There’s nothing else in place,” she said.

The current shelter system also fails single women for reasons that go beyond scale.

Through her experience helping trauma victims, Big Momma has learned that many of them, particularly those who have lost children, don’t feel comfortable staying in shelters designed for women and children. “They don’t want to be around these kids. They don’t want to have reminders that they were once this woman, that everything was great in their lives until this happened to them,” she said.

The emergency shelters that are available for single women aren’t necessarily safe or welcoming environments. In the DWC’s 2016 survey of women in certain L.A. neighborhoods, including Skid Row, nearly one-third of the women who slept in emergency shelters or transitional housing reported feeling unsafe. Women have complained about disrespectful staff, violent incidents and traumatic experiences.

Linda Sanders, a registered nurse, moved into Union Rescue Mission’s emergency shelter after her husband’s gambling addiction led him into crippling debt, which resulted in the loss of the couple’s home. She described a chaotic, unsanitary environment where she often felt unsafe.

“I’d say at least 80 percent [of the women at URM] have mental illnesses,” she said. “Some were previously incarcerated. Some are drug addicts. They’re very loud and they just wake up irate.”

Alexandra Monsibaez, URM’s public relations coordinator, said it can be challenging when so many women are living together in a confined space.

“We try our best to keep it as safe as possible for everyone,” Monsibaez said. “Sending women back out into the street if they are suffering from addiction or mental health issues can exacerbate those problems.”

According to DWC’s 2016 survey, 50 percent of homeless women in the area have mental health issues and 28 percent are recovering addicts.

“We’re doing the best that we can with the resources that we have, but we’re overwhelmed with the size of the problem,” URM chief executive Andy Bales said. “We have a policy of never turning away a woman in need, because there are sexual predators out on the streets.”

URM has an enclosed space where women who aren’t able to get a bed can spend the night on a mattress on the floor. The organization is working to construct a permanent dome-shaped structure that is expected to shelter 137 more women.

A woman walks past a sign posting the ordinance that led to the explosion of tents housing the homeless on Los Angeles streets near Skid Row. AFP Contributor via Getty Images

‘We need to get together’

The women in Skid Row need shelters that protect them, more access to affordable housing and a guarantee that their abusers won’t be free to retaliate against them. But until that happens, women band together in order to survive.

With the help of her new partner, Graciela Fernandez recently secured a studio apartment miles away from the noise and commotion of Skid Row. But Fernandez still returns every weekend to cook for her old neighbors in the area’s “Cuban Barrio.” “I can’t just forget them. These people were my family,” she said.

Fernandez and Mama Cuba have set aside their differences. “She did betray me, but she learned from that experience and how much it hurt me,” Fernandez said. “I love her to death. I’d never leave her behind.”

CORRECTION: A previous version of this story misstated the current number of beds at Union Rescue Mission. The number is 350, not 168.A video showing Philadelphia police officers handcuffing and removing two black men from a Starbucks store has gone viral and incited allegations of racism, but the police commissioner insists his officers did “absolutely nothing wrong.”

Author Melissa DePino tweeted a video on Thursday showing officers escorting two black men out of a Starbucks in Center City as bystanders questioned why the men were being arrested.

@Starbucks The police were called because these men hadn’t ordered anything. They were waiting for a friend to show up, who did as they were taken out in handcuffs for doing nothing. All the other white ppl are wondering why it’s never happened to us when we do the same thing. pic.twitter.com/0U4Pzs55Ci — Melissa DePino (@missydepino) April 12, 2018

“The police were called because these men hadn’t ordered anything,” DePino wrote on Twitter. “They were waiting for a friend to show up, who did as they were taken out in handcuffs for doing nothing. All the other white ppl are wondering why it’s never happened to us when we do the same thing.”

DePino told local news outlet Billy Penn that the incident happened around 4:30 p.m. Thursday and that a friend of hers shot the video.

The clip shows a man in a vest questioning why an arrest is taking place. Lauren A. Wimmer, defense attorney for the pair who was arrested, told BuzzFeed that the man in the vest is Andrew Yaffe, a friend who was meeting the men at Starbucks. She declined to give the names of her two clients.

“What did they get called for?” Yaffe asks an officer in the video. “’Cause there are two black guys sitting here meeting me?”

Another voice can be heard saying, “They didn’t do anything. I saw the entire thing.”

Wimmer told BuzzFeed that a white female manager at the store had asked the pair to leave when they came in and did not order anything. According to Wimmer, the men said they were waiting to meet someone, and the manager called the police.

Philly Voice pointed to a second, longer video uploaded to YouTube that shows an officer telling Yaffe that the other two individuals were being arrested for “trespassing.” Yaffe calls what the officers are doing “discrimination.”

In an interview with Philly Magazine, DePino, who filmed the first video, said she was sitting “very close” to the two men.

She said a “girl behind the counter” had apparently called 911 before the cops arrived and told the men they were “trespassing.”

“They guys wanted to know what they did,” DePino told the magazine. “And then more cops and more cops and more cops show up.”

DePino said other customers in the store asked both the cops and the employee why the men were being arrested.

“And then they freaking put them in handcuffs and perp-walked them out the freaking store,” she told Philly Magazine. “These guys never raised their voices. They never did anything remotely aggressive.”

DePino also said she would not return to the Starbucks location in light of the arrest.

Ben Waxman, a spokesman for the Philadelphia District Attorney’s Office, told HuffPost that the two men were released at 1:30 a.m. Friday. He said the DA will not bring charges against them.

“We declined to bring charges against the two men because there was a lack of evidence that a crime was committed,” Waxman said.

The Philadelphia Police Department did not reply to a request for comment from HuffPost, but Police Commissioner Richard Ross said in a Facebook Live video posted Saturday afternoon that the officers “did absolutely nothing wrong.” They responded to the scene, he said, after receiving a 911 call reporting “a disturbance” and “trespassing.”

Starbucks employees told the responding officers that the two men had asked to use the restroom, Ross said. Employees said they told the pair that the restroom was only for paying customers and asked them to leave, and the pair allegedly refused. The men allegedly told the employees to go ahead and call the police.

According to Ross, police “politely” asked the pair to leave several times and they continued to refuse and behaved rudely toward the officers. The officers, he said, did everything right.

“They followed policy. They did what they were supposed to do. They were professional in all their dealings with these gentlemen,” the commissioner said.

“As an African-American man, I am very aware of implicit bias,” Ross added, noting that all officers in the police force receive “implicit bias training.”

The video can be watched in full below:

When asked for comment from HuffPost, a Starbucks spokesman pointed to the company’s statements on Twitter.

“We apologize to the two individuals and our customers and are disappointed this led to an arrest,” Starbuck’s statement reads. “We take these matters seriously and clearly have more work to do when it comes to how we handle incidents in our stores.” The statement also said the company would be reviewing its policies.

Later Saturday, CEO Kevin Johnson apologized in a statement, saying the company has “begun a thorough investigation of our practices.” Johnson said he and the regional vice president plan to meet with Philadelphia community leaders and law enforcement and “hope to meet personally with the two men who were arrested.”

“Our store manager never intended for these men to be arrested and this should never have escalated as it did,” Johnson said in the statement.

We apologize to the two individuals and our customers for what took place at our Philadelphia store on Thursday. pic.twitter.com/suUsytXHks — Starbucks Coffee (@Starbucks) April 14, 2018

Philadelphia Mayor Jim Kenney said the incident left him “heartbroken” and “appears to exemplify what racial discrimination looks like in 2018.”

He said Starbucks’ apology for the incident was insufficient, and he has asked Ross to review the police department’s policies about responses to similar complaints.

“I believe a thorough review is fully warranted given the unfortunate outcome of this event, particularly at a time when our criminal justice reform efforts are focused on avoiding needless incarcerations,” Kenney added.

This story has been updated with comment from Philadelphia’s mayor.Indian activists and students protest the rape of an 8-year-old child and a rape case in Unnao, Uttar Pradesh, in New Delhi on Thursday. SAJJAD HUSSAIN via Getty Images

In a grim development to a sexual assault case involving a state lawmaker in India, the alleged victim’s father died in police custody on Monday after sustaining injuries that his family said were from retaliatory beatings ordered by the lawmaker and his supporters.

Kuldeep Singh Sengar, a member of the legislative assembly in the state of Uttar Pradesh, has been accused of raping the man’s teenage daughter. Sengar has been defiant in his denial of the alleged assault, which reportedly took place last summer in the city of Unnao and had been largely ignored by the public and media until last weekend, when the alleged victim attempted to burn herself to death near the residence of the chief minister of Uttar Pradesh.

The self-immolation was in protest of what the teenager said was indifference and inaction by politicians and law enforcement officials who’d failed to pursue ― and, in some cases, even abetted ― the man she said raped her.

Lucknow: A woman & her family allegedly attempted suicide outside CM Residence. Her family alleges the woman was raped by a BJP MLA & his accomplices & no action is being taken. pic.twitter.com/Srl5yQqhXP — ANI UP (@ANINewsUP) April 8, 2018

A day after her attempted suicide, the girl’s father, identified by local news outlets as 55-year-old Pappu Singh, died while in police custody. His family, who The Guardian reported had tried “for months” to get police to investigate the rape allegations against Sengar, said Pappu Singh was attacked by the lawmaker and a group of men, including Sengar’s brother, last Tuesday after they “barged” into the family’s home.

The men also molested two young girls in the home, the family said.

Kuldeep Singh Sengar speaks to the media in Lucknow, India, on Wednesday. Hindustan Times via Getty Images

Sengar, a member of the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party, was charged with rape, criminal intimidation and abduction of a minor on Thursday, reported The Hindustan Times. The Central Bureau of Investigation, India’s top investigative body, is now investigating the charges against the lawmaker.

Sengar told reporters this week that the charges are part of a “conspiracy” being leveled against him by “low-status people.”

On Thursday, Sengar told the Times of India that the teen had been “tutored to build rape case against me.”

Sengar’s alleged victim told reporters this week that police officers had been there when her father was beaten “but did nothing.”

“[They] took him to the police station and put him in jail,” the teen said. “They did not take him to hospital ― maybe if they had, he could have been saved.”

The girl said her father was beaten again while in prison. According to NDTV, a postmortem report showed the man had multiple wounds and bruises on his body. The report said he died of “shock and septicemia.”

Kuldeep Singh (Sengar) isn't being arrested. I don't know if his brother is arrested. I demand that they be hanged till death. They've made my life miserable. I want justice. They killed my father: Woman who has leveled rape allegations against BJP MLA Kuldeep Singh Sengar #Unnao pic.twitter.com/fHJBcjrj52 — ANI UP (@ANINewsUP) April 10, 2018

Six police officers have reportedly been suspended, and a number of other men, including Sengar’s brother, Atul Singh Sengar, have been arrested in connection with the man’s death.

Pappu Singh’s family has called for justice this week, and people across India have reacted with fury to what has been described as a cover-up by law enforcement officials of Sengar’s alleged crime and a failure of the state to protect the teenager and her family.

BRK: BJP MLA Kuldeep Singh Sengar, who has been accused of rape by a Unnao woman, reached UP secretariat to meet CM. Defends himself over allegations pic.twitter.com/TtCWyq6mcr — Rohan Dua (@rohanduaTOI) April 9, 2018

“The police facilitated the beating to death of the father of the girl,” Vrindra Grover, an Indian supreme court lawyer who specializes in sexual assault cases, told Al Jazeera. “If the police is going to not act according to the law but at the behest of the accused, then there can be no hope for justice. Today law and justice are a mirage that we are offering the women of this country.”

“The state is supposed to protect the people. This lawmaker is shamelessly flaunting his power by saying that he has the blessings of the entire state government,” Grover added.

On Thursday night, Rahul Gandhi, head of the opposing Congress party, led a candlelight vigil in New Delhi to call for justice for sexual assault victims, including the teenager in Unnao and an 8-year-old girl who was raped and murdered in January.

“This is not a political protest, this is a national matter. The government should be able to protect the dignity of women in this nation,” Gandhi told reporters during the march.An officer in Houston was filmed on May 19 ordering a woman to put her hands up, saying, "Pretend like we’re going to shoot you." Facebook

Video of a white Texas cop making a racially insensitive remark to an unarmed black woman has gone viral on social media.

In video of the Saturday incident, which you can watch below, a bystander records a group of Houston cops with weapons drawn surrounding a small SUV.

Around the 2:24 mark, after ordering two people out of the vehicle, a white officer tells a black woman in the back seat to step out and raise her hands above her head. When the woman apparently doesn’t raise her hands to his satisfaction, the officer makes what could be construed as a threat.

“Pretend like we’re going to shoot you,” the cop yells over a loudspeaker at about 2:37.

“Why would you say that?” the woman filming wonders aloud.

The last passenger to exit the vehicle appears to be injured and can be seen using a crutch to limp toward the officers. When he finally reaches them, an officer grabs the crutch and tosses it aside.

At the end of the video, which lasts about six and a half minutes, an officer is seen driving off in the SUV. It’s not clear why the vehicle didn’t get towed, as is typical in such situations.

In an era of increased scrutiny of police shootings ― especially those involving white cops and black Americans ― the officer’s choice of words is troubling.

“There is no excuse for such threatening statements, particularly given the high number of unjustified police shootings... and the fact that the woman appears to be complying,” Andre Segura, legal director for the American Civil Liberties Union of Texas, told HuffPost. “The officer’s statement demonstrates a disregard for the sanctity of the lives of those whom our police officers are sworn to protect.”

Contacted by HuffPost on Tuesday, the woman who filmed the video said she’s afraid to discuss it and asked that her name not be used.

“The news media has used my name and possibly put me in danger with the police,” she said. “I’m afraid that they may retaliate against me in some way.”

Authorities have not released the name of the officer who made the disturbing remark or the names of the individuals who were in the vehicle.

In a statement, Houston police Chief Art Acevedo said the officers were conducting a felony stop on a suspected stolen vehicle.

“During the stop, the officers followed tactics and procedures designed to take suspects into custody in a manner that maximizes safety for both officers and suspects,” Acevedo said. “While the tactics used were consistent with policy, the phrase in question is not consistent with the expectations of the Houston Police Department.”

Segura said Acevedo should have indicated what, if anything, the department is doing to address the incident.

“While we appreciate Chief Acevedo’s quick acknowledgement... we urge [Houston police] to immediately investigate and take steps to ensure that this does not reoccur,” he said.Pope Francis wrote in a letter that he made “serious errors” in handling Chile’s sex abuse scandal due to what he called a “lack of truthful and balanced information.” Remo Casilli / Reuters

Advocates say Pope Francis’ apology to Chilean sex abuse victims is a good “first step” ― but they’re expecting much more action from the pontiff on a scandal that has thoroughly rocked Chile’s Catholic Church.

In a letter published on Wednesday, the pope admitted that he made “serious errors” in handling Chile’s sex abuse scandal due to what he called a “lack of truthful and balanced information.” The pope has summoned all 32 members of Chile’s bishops conference to Rome in May to hear the results of an investigation into the crisis and to discuss short- and long-term changes. Francis is also planning to meet personally with abuse victims and ask for their forgiveness.

The Vatican said on Thursday that Pope Francis’ letter to Chilean bishops effectively declared a “spiritual state of emergency” for the country’s Catholic Church. Vatican spokesman Greg Burke told The Associated Press that Francis is taking the situation seriously and assuring the victims that “Yes, we believe you, you have your place in the church.”

Tim Lennon, president of the Survivors Network of those Abused by Priests (SNAP), told HuffPost that he is waiting for the pope to take concrete action, and not just offer expressions of “thoughts and prayers.”

“We hope this is a first step,” Lennon said about the pope’s letter. “Victims of sexual abuse need help and support, not just a show of concern.”

People protest against Juan Barros, current Bishop of Osorno, in front of a cathedral in Osorno, Chile, on Feb. 23, 2018. Abuse victims say Barros witnessed abuse by Chile’s the Rev. Fernando Karadima, who was convicted in 2011. NurPhoto via Getty Images

Francis has been dealing with the fallout from a rocky January trip to Chile, where he was caught on tape accusing Chilean abuse victims of slander. In follow-up interviews, Francis defended Bishop Juan Barros, whom victims say witnessed abuse by Chile’s most notorious pedophile priest, the Rev. Fernando Karadima.

The Vatican convicted Karadima of sexual abuse in 2011. But Barros has long enjoyed Francis’ favor ― the pope appointed him to lead the diocese of Osorno in 2015, ignoring the protestations of Chilean politicians and even some Catholic church leaders.

Francis’ actions this week are “long overdue but welcome” the research organization BishopAccountability, which tracks clergy sex abuse worldwide, said in a statement.

The pope’s tone seemed “strikingly different” from his previous approach toward the Chilean victims, Anne Barrett Doyle, the organization’s co-director, told HuffPost.

“It is clear that Pope Francis is trying to convey a change of heart,” Doyle wrote in an email. “While papal apologies in the abuse crisis are nothing new, this is the first time we can recall that a pope has conceded error in how he personally handled a situation of abuse.”

The bishop of Osorno, Juan Barros, takes part in an open-air mass celebrated by Pope Francis near the Chilean city of Iquique on Jan. 18, 2018. VINCENZO PINTO via Getty Images

However, Doyle said that Francis’ claim that he lacked information about the allegations against Barros “beggars belief.”

Victims and other witnesses of Karadima’s crimes testified extensively during church, criminal and civil trials, Doyle said.

A committee from Chile’s bishops conference had recommended that Barros resign, according to the AP. The pope also received a letter from a victim in 2015 that outlined how Barros witnessed the abuse carried out by Karadima. It’s unclear whether the pope actually read that letter.

“Few abuse cases in the global Catholic church have generated as much information, testimony and documentation as the Karadima case,” Doyle wrote. “If Francis was misinformed or inadequately informed, it was because he chose to be so.”

On Thursday, Burke explained to the AP that the pope receives a lot of information from many sources. The pontiff has now read a 2,300-page dossier about the Barros case.

“Let’s just say it’s very clear now the pope has a complete picture of the situation,” the Vatican spokesman said.

People protest against Bishop Juan Barros in Osorno, Chile, on Feb. 23, 2018. NurPhoto via Getty Images

For Lennon and other members of SNAP, true progress on this issue would mean a church-wide commitment to turning over all reports of abuse, both new and old, to local law enforcement for investigation.

Doyle said she hopes to see Barros removed from his post and to see the Vatican order an investigation into the Marist Brothers in Chile, a religious order that is also facing allegations of child sexual abuse. Another step would be the establishment of tribunals for judging and disciplining bishops and religious superiors who enable the sexual abuse of children.

“The cover-up by church officials, and the sexual assault of children and vulnerable adults by clergy, is a persistent and catastrophic situation,” Doyle said. “Only systemic reform of this magnitude will begin to resolve it.”

Pope Francis, with Vatican spokesman Greg Burke, speaks to reporters during his return flight from a trip to Chile and Peru on Jan. 22, 2018. VINCENZO PINTO via Getty Images

But creating any kind of change at the Vatican is a notoriously slow process. In 2014, Francis formed a commission on sex abuse to offer advice on how to protect children. Commission members sought to encourage changes that would hold bishops accountable for protecting predators and send a strong message that bishops were obligated to notify police when they discovered predator priests.

Two members of the commission, both abuse survivors, were frustrated by the slow pace of change and resigned. The commission’s mandate expired in December and it lapsed into an inactive state. Francis revived the commission this February amid growing criticism that the Vatican wasn’t doing enough to address clergy sexual abuse.

Marie Collins, an Irish victim of clerical abuse and former commission member, said she resigned due to the Vatican’s “unacceptable” resistance to change.

Collins told HuffPost the serious mistake that Francis referred to in his letter had caused Chilean survivors a “great deal of unnecessary hurt.”I. Lewis "Scooter" Libby, former chief of staff to Vice President Dick Cheney, was sentenced in 2007 to 30 months in prison and fined $250,000 for his role in the CIA leak case. Larry Downing / Reuters

President Donald Trump reportedly plans to pardon I. Lewis “Scooter” Libby, the former chief of staff to Vice President Dick Cheney who was convicted of perjury and obstruction of justice after a leak that disclosed a CIA agent’s name.

Sources told ABC News and The Washington Post that Trump has been considering the pardon for a few months, but there was no clear timeline for when it might happen.

While there was also no sense of the president’s motive for a pardon, John Bolton, Trump’s new national security adviser, was among those who advocated for Libby’s exoneration, The New York Times reported.

The chief prosecutor in Libby’s case, Patrick Fitzgerald, also happens to be friends with former FBI Director James Comey.

Libby was charged in 2005 with lying to the FBI, lying to investigators and obstruction of justice in an investigation of who leaked the identity of Valerie Plame, who at the time worked as a covert CIA operative, to various journalists. He was sentenced in 2007 to 30 months in prison and fined $250,000 for his role in the leak case.

Trump’s most controversial pardon to date was that of former Arizona Sheriff Joe Arpaio last August. Arpaio has a long history of discrimination and unlawful policing towards Latinos. He’s now running for Senate.President Donald Trump pardoned I. Lewis “Scooter” Libby Friday, the former chief of staff to Vice President Dick Cheney who was convicted in 2007 of perjury and obstruction of justice after a leak that disclosed a CIA agent’s name.

“I don’t know Mr. Libby, but for years I have heard that he has been treated unfairly,” Trump said in a statement from the White House. “Hopefully, this full pardon will help rectify a very sad portion of his life.”

Cheney issued a statement about the pardon.

“Scooter Libby is one of the most capable, principled, and honorable men I have ever known. He is innocent, and he and his family have suffered for years because of his wrongful conviction,” the former vice president said.Tom Williams via Getty Images

WASHINGTON ― There is perhaps no purer form of politics than a leadership race in the U.S. House of Representatives.

Members trade varying forms of support for other favors. They box out other competitors from running. And, in the case of conservative Jim Jordan (R-Ohio), they delicately put themselves forward to angle for something else.

Jordan said Friday morning that while “there is no speaker’s race right now,” if there was one, he’s been “urged by colleagues” to “consider” running and is “definitely open to that.”

Jordan, the first chairman of the meddlesome Freedom Caucus, almost certainly will never be Speaker of the House. The speaker needs 218 public votes on the floor, and it’s difficult to see Jordan ever getting there. But posturing now to throw his hat in the ring likely isn’t about winning that race. Instead, Jordan and other conservatives may be setting themselves up to stymie any other candidate and potentially make a deal for another position ― or, at least, get other concessions.

The dream scenario for conservatives is that in exchange for supporting a speaker they receive support for Jordan as majority leader. The two candidates would then run as a slate, potentially picking up the endorsement of President Donald Trump along the way, and pushing through both Republicans. While the speaker needs a majority of the whole House, the leader only needs a majority of Republicans behind closed doors, and conservatives believe Jordan could get there with the right pressure from the right people.

That demand might still be a little too ambitious, however, particularly if the Freedom Caucus only ends up holding a few dozen votes. The very fact that Jordan is now publicly putting himself out there suggests there isn’t yet any deal between Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy (R-Calif.) ― the natural heir to replace retiring Rep. Paul Ryan (R-Wis.) as speaker ― and the Freedom Caucus. And McCarthy may not be all that interested in a speakership where Jordan is the majority leader setting the floor agenda.

“The dream scenario for conservatives is that in exchange for supporting a speaker they receive support for [Jim] Jordan [R-Ohio] as majority leader.”

Either way, even if they don’t get their first ask, conservatives could still negotiate to get other demands, like proportional representation on more desired committees or procedural reforms. But ultimately their hand is only as strong as the number of votes they hold.

Freedom Caucus Chairman Mark Meadows (R-N.C.) did mention Friday that he was confident no one currently has the votes to become speaker. “So anybody who says, well, this person can’t be speaker, or that one, there is no one in this body who could be speaker other than Speaker Ryan,” Meadows said.

But conservatives aren’t the only ones banking on no one being able to get to 218 votes.

The whole strategy from Majority Whip Steve Scalise (R-La.) seems to be to wait and let McCarthy falter in his quest to get a majority of the House, at which point Scalise could ride in and save the GOP conference from itself ― a scenario that played out two and a half years ago when McCarthy dropped out of the speaker’s race and Ryan entered the fray.

That strategy has its own problems though, especially if McCarthy were to get within striking distance of the number. Scalise may believe the Freedom Caucus and his own loyalists can block McCarthy from getting the numbers, but Scalise is already getting backed into supporting McCarthy for speaker himself, and if the Freedom Caucus cut a deal with McCarthy for Jordan to take the leader spot, it’s not unimaginable that McCarthy and Jordan ― both of whom are close with Trump ― could get the president to pressure Ryan out sooner rather than later.

In that sense, the deal conservatives may be offering to McCarthy might be an enticing one. He could likely ascend to the speakership now and take his chances in November that Republicans hold the House.

Of course, if Republicans lose the House, which is a distinct possibility, McCarthy’s reign could be very short-lived, and Republicans would be setting themselves up for an even more ugly leadership race. But that’s just one of the risks involved in this ploy.

If everything goes the way Ryan has laid out ― where he remains speaker through the elections and until the end of this Congress ― Republicans will get to see if they retain control of the majority and whether they need to have a speaker race. But even then, Jordan’s gambit could pay off. Conservatives believe Republicans may want a more fiery minority leader if they lose the majority, and though Jordan would certainly have trouble winning that race, conservatives are interested in seeing the mood of the conference then.

Asked Friday whether Republicans may want a different person to be speaker than they would minority leader, Jordan said, “Who knows?”

Jordan did deny that his shadow candidacy may be about leverage. “That’s not the point, that’s not the focus, that’s not even a question that should be asked at this moment,” he said.

But it’s hard to believe Jordan when the Freedom Caucus has shown for years that they have a knack for these sorts of tactical situations.

When HuffPost asked Meadows Friday what he’d say to people who think Jordan’s candidacy is just about leverage for the Freedom Caucus, Meadows said those people would be thinking “there is a whole lot more strategy to members of Congress than what I’ve evidenced in the last six years.”Teachers and students fill the state Capitol in Oklahoma City to demand more funding for education. Joseph Rushmore for HuffPost

The union that coordinated a nearly two-week walkout by Oklahoma teachers invited members to return to work on Friday, declaring victory with the work stoppage while acknowledging not all its goals had been met.

The Oklahoma Education Association said it had seen “no significant legislative movement” over the past week, despite flooding the Capitol in Oklahoma City with thousands of teachers each day. The union announced it would support teachers whether they continued to stay off the job or headed back to their classrooms, signaling that most schools would soon reopen.

“We recognize that our formal efforts to lobby elected leaders have achieved all that we will be able to accomplish this legislative session,” the union’s president, Alicia Priest, said in a statement.

The walkout had shut down most schools across the state, with teachers calling for more education funding after years of deep cuts. Despite making headway with lawmakers early on, the union was unable to convince the GOP-dominated legislature to pass the tax hikes needed to raise the revenue teachers wanted.

Although lawmakers agreed to expand gambling in the state and tax more online sales, Republicans did not take up a vote on repealing a capital gains tax break, as the union had demanded. They also voted to repeal a tax on hotel and motel stays that was part of an education funding bill passed shortly before the walkout, creating a shortfall that the union said must be filled.

The union was probably wary of continuing a formal walkout for much longer if progress at the Capitol was stalled. School districts had already burned through their snow days and would have to make up any additional time schools were closed. It’s possible public support for the teachers would start to wane the longer kids were at home.

Teachers won average raises of roughly $6,000, but they did so through legislation passed before they began their walkout. Many of them said the raises were secondary to increasing general school funding, as the state faces a severe teacher shortage and schools lack basic supplies and modern textbooks.

Many teachers hopped on to the union’s Facebook page on Thursday to say they were unhappy with the decision to wind down the walkout.

“We came to get additional funding for schools, and that’s been the narrative for teachers the whole time,” Beth Wallis, a teacher in the Tulsa suburbs, told HuffPost. “In my opinion, we haven’t gotten what we came here for. We can’t call it a success just yet.”For more than a year, evangelical pastor Ralph Drollinger has been holding regular Bible studies on Capitol Hill for members of President Donald Trump’s Cabinet.

The pastor, who holds traditional views on women and outright condemns same-sex relationships, recently claimed that his Bible studies are also getting rave reviews from the president himself.

In an interview with the BBC, Drollinger said that, although the president doesn’t participate in his Bible study group, Trump does receive weekly copies of the pastor’s teachings.

Drollinger told the BBC that Trump “writes me back notes on my bible studies.”

“He’s got this leaky Sharpie felt-tip pen that he writes all capital letters with,” Drollinger said in the interview published Sunday. ”‘Way to go Ralph, really like this study, keep it up.’ Stuff like that.”

The White House did not respond to HuffPost’s request for confirmation that Trump reads Drollinger’s teachings.

Drollinger is the founder of Capitol Ministries, a group that seeks to evangelize elected officials. The group has started Bible studies in 43 state capitols, according to the BBC, and also holds meetings for members of the Senate and House.

The Cabinet Bible study group has several prominent members who go whenever they are able, according to the BBC, including Vice President Mike Pence, Education Secretary Betsy DeVos and Attorney General Jeff Sessions.

A spokesperson for Capitol Ministries told HuffPost that Drollinger’s role as a Bible study teacher is to “help individual professing Christian legislators grow in their faith and knowledge of God’s Word and precepts, and to lead men who do not know Him to Christ.” The spokesperson emphasized that Drollinger was not appointed by anyone to teach these Bible studies ― rather, he established them.

During the meetings, Drollinger examines one verse of Scripture at a time, which means one book of the Bible could take more than a year to complete. The pastor has recently completed teaching his D.C. Bible study groups about the Sermon on the Mount, a set of moral teachings by Jesus that many Christians consider central to the faith.

President Donald Trump with members of his Cabinet at the White House on March 8. Kevin Lamarque / Reuters

In addition to these weekly Bible studies, Drollinger also posts supplemental topical studies on his website. These notes are distributed every week to members of the Cabinet, Senate and House, and to Trump, the spokesperson said. The supplemental topics are occasionally brought up during the in-person Bible studies.

In the BBC interview, Drollinger compared himself to a waiter who is tasked with serving God’s moral teachings to people.

“If God is the chef, then I’m just the servant, and I hope the guys like the meal,” he said. “But on the way out of the kitchen, I’m not going to alter what’s on the plate. So my job is just to be a servant.”

If people don’t like the message, he said, “you have to go talk to the chef [God]. Unless I’ve altered what’s on the plate ― which, hopefully in my discipline, I don’t.”

But although the pastor claims the lessons he’s dishing out come straight from God, there’s considerable debate within American Christianity about some of his conservative teachings.

American Christian denominations have varying opinions on whether women should be ordained as priests and if women should submit to men within a marriage. But Drollinger subscribes to a deeply conservative view of gender roles. While he believes women can be leaders in business and in politics, he doesn’t think women should be on equal footing with their husbands within a marriage or with men in the church.

“Those [prohibitions] are clear in scripture… it doesn’t mean, in an egalitarian sense, that a woman is of lesser importance. It’s just that they have different roles,” Drollinger told the BBC.

Drollinger also believes that homosexuality and same-sex marriages are “illegitimate in God’s eyes.” He laid out his case against marriage equality in an article on his website in January, writing, “Legalizing same-sex ceremonies in any state is a very, very serious matter in the eyes of God, and ... such ‘progressive thinking’ eventually evokes His wrath.”

Drollinger’s opinions about homosexuality and women’s roles may not diverge too far from views that the evangelical politicians closest to Trump already hold. Pence, who calls himself an evangelical Catholic, has said in the past that same-sex marriage is contrary to God’s will, claiming in 2006 that it would lead to the “deterioration of the family” and ultimately “societal collapse.” Sessions has made similar statements declaring that same-sex marriage erodes American culture and values.

And as a whole, most white evangelical Protestants still oppose same-sex marriage (59 percent), according to Pew Research Center data from 2017.

However, the share of white evangelicals who support same-sex marriage has grown in recent years ― from 27 percent in 2016 to 35 percent in 2017. This growth in support is driven in large part by younger white evangelicals.

Several mainline Protestant denominations, and even some evangelical pastors, have rejected theology that excludes queer people.

Then-candidate Donald Trump holds a Bible while speaking at the Iowa Faith and Freedom Coalition Forum in Des Moines, Iowa, in September 2015. Brian Frank / Reuters

On his website, Drollinger opines that the work of “scripture-twisting clerics” who preach a more inclusive gospel is even more dangerous to the country than the “bullying of the LGBT lobby.”

“It is not the place of the state nor its populace to redefine what God has created. Such is arrogance of the highest order,” Drollinger wrote. “Man should not define God’s ways; God’s ways should define man’s.”

The pastor says he doesn’t tell members of his Bible studies how to vote. But he hopes reinforcing a conservative interpretation of Scripture will help them make the right decisions.

“I will put the blueprint on the engineer’s seat on the train,” he told the BBC. “And it will show you the right tracks to the station. But I’m not going to tell you what tracks to take. But you’ve got to be pretty stupid not to follow the blueprint, because it’s there.”

Drollinger said he doesn’t think Trump is “working off my blueprint.”It looks like Elastigirl got an incredible job opportunity.

On Friday, Disney dropped the official trailer for the long-awaited “Incredibles 2,” and from the looks of it, the team at Pixar had a whole lot of fun challenging gender roles.

Helen Parr, the matriarch of a superhero family and down-low Super named Elastigirl (Holly Hunter), is offered a fancy job by Winston Deavor (Bob Odenkirk), a “rich, suave telecommunications bigwig” who wants to change public perceptions of Supers and bring them “back into the sunlight.”

This leaves her superhero husband, Bob Parr/Mr. Incredible (Craig T. Nelson) at home with their three children.

What could possibly go wrong juggling a trio of kids with budding superpowers?

Disney/PixarAlton Sterling, left, and Antonio “Tony” Sterling. Reuters/Facebook

Alton Sterling’s cousin died of a single gunshot wound to the head before his body was found inside a burning vehicle in Louisiana early Thursday, according to the results of an autopsy.

Based on those findings, the manner of death for 34-year-old Antonio “Tony” Sterling, of St. Gabriel, has been labeled a “homicide,” according to a Friday email sent to HuffPost by East Baton Rouge Coroner Dr. Beau.

Antonio Sterling’s body was discovered at about 4 a.m. Thursday, after Baton Rouge firefighters extinguished an automobile blaze in a vacant lot. The body, authorities said, was found in the backseat of the vehicle.

Police spokesman Sgt. Don Coppola Jr. told HuffPost on Friday an investigation into the case is ongoing, adding “there are no known suspects at this point in time.”

A Baton Rouge resident told Baton Rouge’s WBRZ-TV that people in the area are reluctant to speak to police due to fear of retaliation. Those fears reportedly stem from an incident that occurred last year, when an individual who witnessed an unrelated shooting wound up dead.

“We’re afraid of revenge,” the resident said. “Certainly, I’ve seen them dealing drugs. And I’m almost certain if we were not to be identified, we would tell what we saw.”

Antonio Sterling’s cousin, Alton Sterling, was fatally shot July 5, 2016, outside a Baton Rouge store where he frequently sold CDs. Authorities claim the father of five was uncooperative when officers approached him after receiving a report of a man with a gun. Bodycam footage shows Officer Howie Lake II wrestling Sterling to the ground, and later Officer Blane Salamoni shooting him multiple times at close range in the back and chest.

The shooting sparked heated protests across the country. However, both the Justice Department and Louisiana Attorney General’s Office declined to press charges against either officer. Salamoni was ultimately fired over the shooting, and Lake received a three-day suspension.

It’s unclear when Antonio “Tony” Sterling was last seen alive. The medical examiner did not reveal a time of death.

Sandra Sterling, an aunt of Alton Sterling, told the local newspaper The Advocate that Antonio Sterling is a father of two and had recently moved to St. Gabriel with his girlfriend.

Anyone with information on this incident is asked to contact the Violent Crimes Unit at 225-389-4869 or Crime Stoppers at 225-344-7867.