They're saying the NRA took Russian money to support the Republican party in the last election. Maybe that's why Trump and his flying monkeys are so accommodating? Is Wayne LaPierre also Putin’s stooge -- or just another run of the mill demon from hell? #BanTheNRA pic.twitter.com/7r0J9NP2ng“You used to call girls and get rejected on the phone,” he said. “Now it’s all texting. If you text a girl and they don’t text you right back, it’s over.”

Also in the interview, Spade revealed he watched “all 600 hours” of Prince Harry and Meghan Markle’s wedding. Then he took a playful swipe at her Hollywood fame, but the joke appeared to fall flat.

“He said he wanted a famous girl from America, that knew the crazy life, the paparazzi and the fame and everything. And I go, ‘Ah, you picked Meghan Markle? OK.’”

“It’s not exactly Jennifer Lawrence,” he continued. “She’s on ‘Suits,’ but she’s not even the most famous person on ‘Suits.’”On Monday night, the “Jimmy Kimmel Live” host name-checked Hannity, Fox Business host Lou Dobbs and “those dummies on Fox & Friends” for being gullible when it comes to what he called the “paranoid delusions” of President Donald Trump. Kimmel then cooked up a lizard-people conspiracy that he said the network would happily spread ― if Trump said it first.Saturday’s royal wedding between Prince Harry and the newly named Meghan, Duchess of Sussex, went off without a hitch.

But, what if it hadn’t?

Dutch entertainment website BlendTV imagines the ceremony going hilariously awry in this mashup video, which is now going viral:

The royal spoof has even received the seal of approval from wedding cellist Sheku Kanneh-Mason.Two unidentified men set off a bomb late Thursday night at the Bombay Bhel restaurant in Mississauga, Ontario, Canada. More than a dozen people were injured. Mark Blinch / Reuters

TORONTO (Reuters) - Two unidentified men walked into a restaurant on Thursday in the Canadian city of Mississauga and set off a bomb, wounding more than a dozen people, local police said.

The blast went off in the Bombay Bhel restaurant at about 10:30 p.m local time. Fifteen people were taken to the hospital, three of them with critical injuries, the Peel Regional Paramedic Service said in a Tweet.

Pics from the restaurant explosion at Hurontario St & Eglinton Av in #Mississauga. Plaza is sealed off, approx 15 people transported to hospital, 3 critical. Sources saying incendiary devices were found inside the restaurant. pic.twitter.com/b5ZX6NVeSx — Jeremy Cohn (@JeremyGlobalTV) May 25, 2018

The two male suspects fled after detonating their improvised explosive device, Peel Regional Police said in a Tweet. No one has claimed responsibility, and the motive for the attack was not known.

The men entered the restaurant and set down what appeared to be a paint can or pail, which exploded after they fled, Sergeant Matt Bertram told the New York Times. The bomb was filled with “projectable objects,” he said.

Police posted a photograph on Twitter showing two people with dark zip-up hoodies walking into an establishment. One appeared to be carrying an object.

Peel Police said one suspect was in his mid-20s, stocky, and wore dark blue jeans and a dark zip-up hoody pulled over his head, with black cloth covering his face. The second was thin, and wore faded blue jeans, a gray t-shirt and a dark zip-up hoody over his head, also with his face covered.

2 suspects attended the scene, detonated an Improvised Explosive Device within the restaurant. Several injured were taken to local hospital and 3 in critical condition were taken to a Toronto Trauma Centre. pic.twitter.com/yzCT59UVN6 — Peel Regional Police (@PeelPoliceMedia) May 25, 2018

Two parties fled the scene immediately after the incident. 1st described as male, 5’10-6feet, stocky build, mid-20s, light skin, wearing dark blue jeans, dark zip up hoodie pulled over head, baseball cap with light grey peak, face covered with black cloth material. — Peel Regional Police (@PeelPoliceMedia) May 25, 2018

2nd male described as 5’9”-5’10”, fair skin, thin build, faded blue jeans, dark zip-up hoodie hood pulled over head, grey t-shirt, dark coloured skate shoes, face covered. Looking for public’s assistance in identifying the parties that fled following the explosion. — Peel Regional Police (@PeelPoliceMedia) May 25, 2018

Please contact (905) 453-2121 or 12CIB at ext. 1233 — Peel Regional Police (@PeelPoliceMedia) May 25, 2018

Roads in the area were closed and a large police presence was at the scene, with heavily armed tactical officers arriving as part of the large emergency response, local media reported.

The attack in Mississauga comes a month after a driver plowed his white Ryder rental van into a lunch-hour crowd in Toronto, killing 10 people and injuring 15.

Mississauga is Canada’s sixth-largest city, with a population of 700,000 people, situated on Lake Ontario about 20 miles west of Toronto. Bombay Bhel is an Indian restaurant chain in the metro area of Mississauga.WASHINGTON ― The race for Georgia’s Republican gubernatorial nomination is all about the culture war.

The three leading candidates have aired ads showing themselves wielding rifles and handguns. One declared he owned a “big truck” just in case he needed to round up criminal illegals and “take them home myself.” Not to be topped, another started a statewide tour with a “deportation bus.”

The attention-grabbing ads and stunts have highlighted a seven-candidate race in which, should none get more than 50 percent of the vote in Tuesday’s primary, the top two finishers will advance to a late July runoff.

The frontrunners are Lt. Gov. Casey Cagle and Secretary of State Brian Kemp.

In one of Kemp’s ads, he holds a shotgun while “interviewing” a young man interested in dating one of his daughters. The requirements for wooing that daughter?

“Respect and a healthy appreciation for the 2nd Amendment,” the suitor replies.

The uproar generated by the ad could help Kemp stand out in a field that includes former state Sen. Hunter Hill, state Sen. Michael Williams and former Navy SEAL and businessman Clay Tippins.

Cagle also holds a gun in one of his spots, as a narrator brags about his endorsement by the National Rifle Association. The NRA’s backing came after he pushed an amendment to kill a tax break benefiting Georgia-based Delta following the company’s decision ― in reaction to February’s mass school shooting in Parkland, Florida ― to end a discount program for NRA members flying to the group’s national convention. (Never mind that the discount program was rarely used.)

In another ad, Cagle brags about his work to end so-called sanctuary cities for undocumented immigrants in the state.

Hill, who has the endorsement of Sen. Ted Cruz (R-Texas), released an ad where he shoots a target and argues the age requirement to buy a handgun should be lowered to 18 from 21. “As governor, I won’t give an inch on our 2nd Amendment,” he says in the ad.

But those ads were just a set-up for the biggest free media play in the race: Williams’ deportation bus, which he drove around the state, promising “to fill this bus with illegals and send them back to where they came from. He would do so by implementing a program that allows state and local police to enforce immigration law under a partnership with the U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement agency.

It worked. Williams received attention from local and national media, even landing an interview with Fox News ― a prize for any candidate in a competitive GOP primary. (Williams also received plenty of mockery when the bus briefly broke down.)

The winner of the GOP primary will face one of the two Democrats, both former state representatives, in November: Stacey Abrams or Stacey Evans.

The DCCC vs. Laura Moser

Democrat Laura Moser's campaign in Texas' 7th Congressional District became a flashpoint in battles between progressive insurgents and the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee. The Washington Post via Getty Images

The showdown between journalist and activist Laura Moser and lawyer Lizzie Fletcher has become much bigger than a normal race for a House district nomination.

The decision by the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee to attack Moser as unelectable turned the contest into a symbol of a broader battle between progressive candidates and the national party apparatus. That drove donations to Moser, helping to lift her over other candidates in the March primary and into a runoff against Fletcher, who has the backing of EMILY’s List.

The runoff campaign between the two fizzled somewhat ― The Texas Tribune labeled the contest “boring,” and the progressive energy and money animating Moser’s insurgency appears to have dried up.

The winner of the race will face Rep. John Culberson in a 7th Congressional District centered around west Houston. Democratic presidential nominee Hillary Clinton won the district by fewer than 2 percentage points in 2016. If Moser does pull off a win in the runoff, the race will become an instant test of whether progressives can win despite Democratic establishment doubts.

The Club For Growth Takes Texas

The Club for Growth, which views itself as the enforcer of GOP orthodoxy on free-market economics, has had an up-and-down few years. Its attacks on Donald Trump in the GOP presidential primaries were unable to stop his march to victory. Still, they ended up loving his tax cuts ― while hating his proposals to enact tariffs and restrict free trade.

The group sees a slew of open House seats in heavily Republican territory in Texas as a chance to reassert its influence. Club for Growth Action, the group’s political arm, has aired TV ads in four different districts in the run-up to Tuesday’s GOP runoffs. The group backs Michael Cloud (who’s also been endorsed by former Texas GOP Rep. Ron Paul) in the 27th District, former Cruz chief of staff Chip Roy in the 21st, local official Ron Wright in the 6th, and GOP activist Bunni Pounds to replace Republican Rep. Jeb Hensarling in the 5th.

Pounds, Cloud, Roy and Wright are all expected to join the House Freedom Caucus if elected to Congress.

Remember Georgia’s 6th District?

Republican Karen Handel defeated Democrat Jon Ossoff in a special election last year in the most expensive House race in U.S. history. Jessica McGowan via Getty Images

The special election last year to replace then-Health and Human Services Secretary Tom Price in Congress turned into the most expensive House race in the nation’s history, with over $40 million spent on TV and radio advertising alone. In the end, Republican Karen Handel triumphed over Democrat Jon Ossoff in an early test of Democratic resistance to Trump.

The Democratic primary to challenge Handel this year has been sleepier, to say the least.

Former TV news anchor Bobby Kaple has raised the most money in the field, and earned the endorsement of former Gov. Roy Barnes and former Atlanta Mayor Andrew Young. Kevin Abel, a businessman, also amassed a significant war chest.The Oscar-winning "Call Me By Your Name" was seen by GLAAD as a high point in a year short on LGBTQ representation. John Phillips via Getty Images

LOS ANGELES (Reuters) - Romance “Call Me By Your Name” may have won a screenplay Oscar, and Disney’s family-friendly “Beauty and the Beast” had a gay character, but movies from Hollywood’s major studios last year had the lowest percentage of lesbian, gay, transgender and bisexual characters since 2012, according to a report released on Tuesday.

Gay and transgender media advocacy group GLAAD said in its annual Studio Responsibility Index that of the 109 releases by the seven largest movie studios in 2017, just 14, or 12.8 percent, included LGBTQ characters.

GLAAD called on Hollywood to have 20 percent of annual film releases include a gay, lesbian, bisexual, transgender or gender fluid character by 2021, rising to 50 percent of output by 2024.

Box office hits like “Wonder Woman” and “Black Panther” have smashed old Hollywood notions that movies that champion women and people of color do not have global appeal, GLAAD said.

“It is time for LGBTQ stories to be included in this conversation,” GLAAD President Sarah Kate Ellis said in the report.

GLAAD praised movies like tennis film “Battle of the Sexes,” Oscar best picture winner “The Shape of Water” and independent transgender tale “A Fantastic Woman” from Chile that won the best foreign language Oscar in March.

But it gave the thumbs-down to “Thor: Ragnarok” for deleting references to two characters who are bisexual or queer in the original Marvel comic book source material, criticized “Baywatch” for its “many jokes relying on gay panic for cheap laughs,” and said “Pitch Perfect 3” sidelined a lesbian character.

Despite the slide in LGBTQ characters in 2017, GLAAD said 2018 had already shown welcome progress, with movies like gay young adult film “Love, Simon” and the raunchy teen comedy “Blockers.”

The report expressed hope for upcoming films, such as musical “Mamma Mia 2,” where GLAAD said it would like to see Colin Firth’s gay character further explored, and “The Girl in the Spider’s Web,” where lead character Lisbeth Salander is bisexual in the original Stieg Larsson novel.

As for “Bohemian Rhapsody,” the upcoming biopic about Queen singer Freddie Mercury who died in 1991 of AIDS complications, GLAAD said it hoped the film would “make a powerful impact by fully exploring his queer identity.”

AdvertisementSephora is offering a new series of classes celebrating inclusivity and catering to the transgender and nonbinary community.

The classes are the third initiative in a series of in-store programming that Sephora launched in 2016 with Classes for Confidence, complimentary in-store workshops for people experiencing major life transitions. Previous classes, for example, have offered “techniques and products that address the visible effects of cancer treatments.”

Sephora’s transgender cast members ― the brand’s name for its employees ― developed and will host the series. They held their first preview on May 22 in New York City.

Sephora “held focus groups and worked with our employees experiencing their own gender journeys to help determine class content, sensitivity training procedures, and to help figure out which stores would make the most sense,” Corrie Conrad, head of social impact and sustainability at Sephora, told the publication Them.

“The trans and nonbinary community is a beloved part of our community and we want to be allies. That’s the point of all our programming: Whether you’re entering the workforce or questioning your gender, that’s a major life transition. We want to be there for you,” Conrad said.

According to its website, Sephora is donating $10 to the Sephora Stands project, which funds the program, for every Sephora Stands Fearless lipstick and $16 for each Sephora Stands retractable brush it sells.

In addition to holding classes at 150 locations around the world, the brand will offer video tutorials for this series on YouTube.Stacey Evans/Stacey Abrams

Should Democrats nominate a candidate based on their record of standing up for progressive values, or their vision for the future?

And should the party court white moderates to implement that vision, or expand the electorate by exciting millennials and voters of color who don’t regularly show up to the polls?

Those are the questions at the heart of Tuesday’s Democratic primary for governor of Georgia.

Stacey Abrams, the former Georgia House minority leader and the odds-on favorite in the race, is running on a solidly progressive platform and the premise that Democrats do not need to cater to the largely white “swing” voters who have abandoned the party in droves.

Stacey Evans, a former colleague of Abrams’ in the House, is running on ever-so-slightly more moderate policies aimed at capturing just enough Republicans and independents to win. At the same time, Evans has argued that on several key bills, Abrams was too willing to compromise with Republicans, especially in a high-profile 2011 vote to cut the state’s free public college program.

If elected in November, either candidate would be the first woman to govern Georgia. But Abrams’ election would be more historic: She would be the first African-American female governor in the country.

A host of national liberal groups, Democratic Party leaders and donors have placed their bets with Abrams, whose voting rights work put her on the national map years ago.

If, as is likely, Abrams wins the primary, Democrats will have a rare opportunity to test the theory that a candidate of color at the top of the ballot and a turnout-the-base strategy can win in challenging territory. She would face an uphill climb, most likely against one of three deeply conservative Republicans: Lt. Gov. Casey Cagle, Secretary of State Brian Kemp or state Sen. Michael Williams.

As a result of the unique nature of Abrams’ candidacy, the national party would likely draw outsize lessons from her performance in the general election, whether that’s fair or not, according to Jeff Hauser, a veteran Democratic strategist who runs the Center for Economic and Policy Research’s Revolving Door Project.

“The stakes get a little magnified unfortunately when somebody is a historic candidate,” Hauser said. “People will be reading a little too much into the results one way or another, and that’s unfortunate, because white men don’t have to face that.”

“What is truly radical about Abrams’ campaign is that she is running to the left to grow the base.” - khalid kamau, South Fulton city councilman

The policy differences between Abrams, 44, and Evans, 40, are hard to spot. They both support raising the minimum wage, using Affordable Care Act funding to expand Medicaid and eliminating the use of cash bail.

However, the contrast becomes clearer in the two candidates’ framings of their respective bids.

Abrams, who founded the nonprofit New Georgia Project to register voters of color in 2014, has focused intensely on strengthening voting rights and expanding the electorate.

It’s a theme that Abrams drives home in a two-and-a-half-minute video advertisement that weaves together her parents’ struggles in Jim Crow Mississippi and her own career fighting for voting rights, starting as a 19-year-old speaker at the 1993 March on Washington.

“Your ability to participate in government, to improve your life, is contingent on your access to the ballot box,” Abrams states in the ad.

One of Abrams’ most vocal and generous supporters is Steve Phillips, a senior fellow at the Center for American Progress, and author of Brown Is the New White. Phillips argues that Democrats need no longer bother trying to win the votes of increasingly conservative white voters, when diverse candidates who embrace a civil rights agenda can successfully leverage the power of “the new American majority” ― progressive whites, Latinos, Asian Americans and black voters, especially black women.

Phillips is married to Susan Sandler, the daughter of two fabulously wealthy liberal donors, providing him with powerful backing to apply his political research.

PowerPAC Georgia, a PAC affiliated with Phillips’ nonprofit Democracy in Color, has spent $1.5 million on voter engagement to elect Abrams.

The outside cash provides Abrams an edge, even though both candidates’ campaigns had brought in about $2.3 million each as of the end of March. (Evans, who is wealthy from her work winning one of the largest Medicare fraud cases in U.S. history, self-funded most of her haul.)

And from his sizable perch on Twitter, Phillips has praised high-ranking Democrats for backing Abrams ― and lambasted others, including former Vice President Joe Biden, for failing to do so.

Am I correct in my understanding that @JoeBiden was actually IN Atlanta five days before the primary election and still has not endorsed @staceyabrams? #GaPol — Steve Phillips (@StevePtweets) May 18, 2018

Biden aside, Abrams has rallied a truly impressive array of support from national Democratic Party leaders for her bid ranging from Sens. Kamala Harris (D-Calif.) and Cory Booker (D-N.J.) both of whom have stumped for her, to Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.) and Our Revolution, the progressive group that emerged out of his campaign. Abrams held a get-out-the-vote rally in Atlanta on Saturday where Ilyse Hogue, president of NARAL Pro-Choice America, and Valerie Jarrett, a former top adviser to then-President Barack Obama, both spoke.

Abrams’ supporters tend to speak about their enthusiasm for her in terms of the historic nature of her candidacy and the power it has to reshape politics in an increasingly purple state that is about one-third black.

“What is truly radical about Abrams’ campaign is that she is running to the left to grow the base,” said khalid kamau, a South Fulton city councilman who won his April 2017 race with the help of Our Revolution and the Democratic Socialists of America. (In accordance with the Yoruban African tradition, kamau spells his name with lowercase letters.)

“It will transform the state,” he added. “I don’t understand how anybody who lived through Barack Obama could not see that.”

Stacey Abrams speaks at a Young Democrats of Cobb County meeting on Nov. 16, 2017. Christopher Aluka Berry / Reuters

For her part, Evans is wagering that the story of her rise from a childhood of rural poverty, and her subsequent fight to protect the HOPE scholarship have the power to both excite Democratic base voters as well as some moderates who don’t always back the party.

It is a more traditional playbook embodied by former Gov. Roy Barnes, one of Evans’ most prominent backers and the last Democrat to occupy the governor’s mansion in Georgia.

The watchword of Evans’ campaign is “hope,” which she employs liberally to describe both her overall mission for the state, and her commitment to HOPE, the free college program that secured her a place in the middle class.

The program is also the greatest point of contention between Abrams and Evans ― a symbol of what Evans claims is Abrams’ shallow commitment to the policies she professes to champion. In 2011, with the program facing a shortfall, Abrams voted for a bill signed by Republican Gov. Nathan Deal that dramatically scaled back the program.

Abrams argues that with a small minority in the legislature, her participation was essential to limiting the scope of the damage and ensuring that Deal held state pre-K funding harmless. But Evans and many state Senate Democrats thought that Democratic leaders could have held out for a better deal, and to some extent, that no deal at all was better than giving Republicans bipartisan cover for the legislation.

In a 30-second ad narrated by a college-bound black woman, Evans highlighted the disproportionate impact of the HOPE cuts on the state’s African-American residents, citing a statistic that 97 percent of African-American residents lost access to full scholarships as a result of the 2011 law’s higher grade and SAT requirements.

“As governor, I’ll fully restore HOPE scholarships ― for all our kids,” Evans concludes at the end of the ad.

Abrams, by contrast, has proposed something she calls “HOPE 2.0” that would make the program more needs-based, rather than merit-based.

Tami Chappell / Reuters

Evans has also attacked Abrams for failing to disclose to her colleagues that her small business was the recipient of a state contract while she was negotiating with Deal. Abrams, who disclosed her ties to the company on official disclosure forms, maintains that her conduct has both legal and ethical, since she walled herself off from the company’s dealings with the state government.

In addition, Abrams has elicited scrutiny for a host of other votes, from a Republican-led gerrymandering bill about which she claims to have been misled, to legislation scaling back early voting, which she says provided financial relief to rural communities without restricting access to the ballot box.

The plausibility of Abrams’ explanations notwithstanding, her controversial record as a House Democratic leader has won her her fair share of critics, among whom are many of the state’s current and former African-American elected officials.

Abrams critics who have endorsed Evans include former state Senate minority whip Vincent Fort, and current state Reps. Ronnie Mabra, Dar’Shun Kendrick and Keisha Waites.

Atlanta Mayor Keisha Lance Bottoms (D) has not formally endorsed Evans, but she donated $1,000 through her campaign fund to the candidate.

Evans has her own share of less-than-progressive votes, including support for a bill making it easier for the state to take over troubled schools, and legislation that would have eased regulations on debt settlement companies that serve low-income borrowers. (The former became law; the latter went nowhere.)

But Evans does not portray herself as the most progressive candidate in the race, making her voting seem less out of step with her image. If she defies the odds and beats Abrams, it may be due to a sense among some voters that Abrams’ campaign-trail rhetoric simply doesn’t match her record.Students in Los Angeles protest against gun violence during the National School Walkout on April 20. NurPhoto via Getty Images

Lawmakers in the California Assembly voted Monday to advance a bill that would authorize employers, co-workers and school personnel to request the temporary confiscation of guns from individuals determined to pose a danger to themselves or others.

The legislation, AB 2888, would build on California’s existing “red flag” law, passed in 2014 following a deadly shooting spree in Isla Vista. The 22-year-old gunman in that case had reportedly exhibited a number of warning signs before killing six people, and then himself, in the rampage.

The current red flag law gives family members, roommates and law enforcement officers the power to petition the court to remove firearms from individuals who have displayed dangerous behavior. Judges then hold a hearing to determine whether to order the gun owner to surrender their firearms and stay away from all guns, typically for a year, although the restraining orders can be extended beyond that based on additional evidence.

The new bill would expand the list of people who can file for such restraining orders to include a subject’s employer and co-workers and the staff of a high school or college that the person has attended in the last six months.

“We’re grappling with this issue of gun violence as a nation,” bill sponsor Assemblyman Phil Ting (D) told HuffPost. “I’ve never said this is a panacea, but it’s just one of many solutions we have to offer.”

The state’s courts have issued around 200 restraining orders to prevent gun violence since the original law went into effect in 2016, according to Ting. He said his bill would provide additional opportunities to catch troubling behavior.

“Once you move away from home and you’re an adult, you may not spend time with your family,” said Ting. “You may not have much interaction with law enforcement, but chances are if you’re working, you see your co-workers every day for eight-plus hours a day, and you’re with them not just in the work environment but socially.”

Ting pointed to the February massacre in Parkland, Florida, as a case in which a red flag law ― and specifically this sort of broader statute ― might have been able to save lives. Although the suspect in that shooting, a 19-year-old former student at the high school, had attracted the attention of local authorities on numerous occasions before his attack, school staff had also reported concerning behavior as far back as 2016. Florida is among the nine states with a red flag law and one of the four to have ushered through legislation since the Parkland shooting.

In 2016, Ting filed a similar bill to broaden California’s red flag law, following the mass shooting in San Bernardino, which began at an office holiday party. Gov. Jerry Brown (D) ultimately vetoed the legislation, calling it “premature to enact a further expansion” even as the initial law was just going into effect.

A year later, Ting’s San Francisco area district faced its own mass shooting when a disgruntled UPS employee walked into his workplace and fatally shot three colleagues, before killing himself.

When it comes to school safety specifically, restraining orders aimed at stopping gun violence are only part of the equation, said Amanda Wilcox, legislative chair of the California chapters of the Brady Campaign to Prevent Gun Violence. She noted a California law that holds parents criminally liable if they leave their gun where a child can access it and mentioned other resources, like the Brady campaign’s Speak Up hotline, that allow students to anonymously report violent threats made by their peers.

“Practices and law and policies that make homes safer would also keep schools safer,” she told HuffPost.

Wilcox said she supports Ting’s bill and suggested that the relatively few restraining orders issued in the past two years under the original law show that it isn’t being overused, as opponents argued it would be.

“The standards of proof are high in the law,” she said. “It probably needs to be used more, but also under the law it’s supposed to be a last resort if there’s not another way to remove the guns.”

With more time to educate Californians on how the red-flag process works, Wilcox said she’s hopeful these restraining orders will be able to keep more guns out of the hands of dangerous individuals.

“What I don’t want is a case where it could have been used and should have been used and wasn’t, and someone is dead because of that,” she said.Retired Marine fighter pilot Amy McGrath trailed her Democratic primary opponent by 40 points in December. But her own internal polls say she could win Tuesday's primary in Kentucky's 6th Congressional District. Amy McGrath for Congress

UPDATE: May 22 ― Retired fighter pilot Amy McGrath won Tuesday’s Democratic primary in Kentucky’s 6th Congressional District, defeating Lexington Mayor Jim Gray.

PREVIOUSLY:

LEXINGTON, Ky. ― Amy McGrath’s campaign for Congress hadn’t even officially started, and it was already broke.

Last June, the former Marine fighter pilot retired from the military to move home to Kentucky and launch a political career. McGrath is everything a national Democratic campaign official would want in a new candidate ― she is a woman and a veteran, and while she isn’t a small business owner, her husband is. Still, she struggled to win over Democratic Party insiders in Kentucky and Washington, most of whom were waiting for Jim Gray, the popular mayor of Lexington, to decide whether he would pursue Kentucky’s 6th Congressional District seat instead.

So in July, with a bit of money in the bank and desperation beginning to set in, McGrath’s campaign manager, Mark Nickolas, decided that he had to do something crazy. He told McGrath, who hadn’t yet unpacked from her move, to dig her bomber jacket out of a box. He took his fledgling candidate to Lexington’s Blue Grass Airport, stood her in front of a fighter jet, and told Mark Putnam, the ad man who has made Democratic candidates from Missouri to Wisconsin go viral, to start filming.

The ad that resulted told a simple story: As a child, McGrath begged her congressman to help overturn the military’s ban on women in combat, to no avail. But the Pentagon reversed course when she was in high school. She enrolled in the U.S. Naval Academy, joined the Marines and became the first woman to ever fly an F-18 fighter jet in combat.

McGrath relates this anecdote over b-roll of soaring jets, with a quick departure to point out that Republicans want to take away Kentuckians’ health care. You could discern the message of the commercial all the way from Paducah: McGrath is a woman and a fighter, and she won’t be deterred from achieving her goals.

When Nickolas answered his cell phone on the morning of Aug. 1, 2017, the day he planned to launch the ad, the voice on the other end had bad news: McGrath had raised just $50,000 so far. The ad had cost $57,000. Her campaign was $7,000 in the red, and she’d barely said hello.

“I thought to myself, ‘Did I just destroy her career?’” Nickolas said.

On the contrary: Over the next three days, McGrath became a national political sensation, a symbol of the wave of Democratic women running for office in the age of Trump. Comedian Sarah Silverman called her a “badass” on Twitter. Chelsea Handler invited McGrath to appear on her show. More than 1 million people watched the video, and money ― lots of money ― began rolling in: McGrath raised more than $340,000 in the 72 hours after the commercial first aired.

What the ad didn’t do, however, was win over national Democrats ― namely, the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee, or DCCC, which continued to recruit Gray. Neither did it push Gray out of the race: When he finally declared his candidacy in December, Gray held, according to McGrath’s own internal polling, a 40-point lead.

But handshake by handshake, McGrath quickly narrowed the gap. Going into Tuesday’s primary, she was either fast on Gray’s heels or out in front, depending on whose polling you believe, and the DCCC has quietly taken the position that either Democratic hopeful will have a strong chance to beat Republican incumbent Rep. Andy Barr in November.

“I think people are hungry for new leaders, and a new generation of leaders. They’re tired of the old guard. They want folks who aren’t hand-picked.” - Amy McGrath

Ideologically speaking, there is little daylight between McGrath and Gray. The distinction between them lies mainly in affect and strategy, with McGrath continuing to push an outsider vs. insider narrative of the primary even as she seemed to become at least some of the insiders’ preferred candidate.

While she may well lose her primary, McGrath’s campaign contains some lessons for a party desperate to flip districts like this one. She unabashedly pandered to the sort of discontent that swept President Donald Trump into office, but she took care to hitch it to issues like jobs and health care — particularly to the efforts of her state’s senior senator, Republican Mitch McConnell, to “take health care away from over a quarter-million Kentuckians.”

Grievance plus stuff. Stick that on your lawn sign.

The challenge facing McGrath’s campaign was immediately evident for any visitor to her campaign office near the University of Kentucky’s campus in Lexington. Her opponent had headquartered his 2016 campaign for Rand Paul’s U.S. Senate seat out of the same office; across the drive, a small house still had a “Gray for U.S. Senate” campaign sticker plastered on the front door.

And though McGrath’s initial ad had garnered her national attention, Gray still seemed like an obvious front-runner in the early months of the race: He is the mayor of the district’s biggest base of reliably Democratic votes and oversees a city with a 3 percent unemployment rate. He won the 19-county area by three points in the Senate race against Paul. And in a year when the DCCC is going for broke trying to gain the 24 seats it needs to regain the House majority, Gray is a bit of a luxury: a wealthy businessman in a marginally competitive district who has the ability to relieve financial pressure on the national party by self-financing at least part of his campaign.

Lexington Mayor Jim Gray, Amy McGrath's primary opponent, has promised to “send some adult supervision to Washington.” Bryan Woolston/Reuters

Gray also comes with progressive bona fides: A popular mayor who’s transformed Lexington, he supported removing the city’s Confederate statues; he’s a small-town Kentuckian who helped turn his family business into a construction giant; he’s viewed favorably by 77 percent of primary voters. He supports raising the minimum wage to $15 an hour and expanding Obamacare; he touts a record of targeting utility monopolies that would seem to fit neatly into the new Democratic antitrust agenda. A win in the primary and again in November would make him the first openly gay congressman in Kentucky’s history.

But what would ordinarily be a compelling biography instead became something of a liability in an election year that has thus far favored political outsiders ― especially when they’re women. In Virginia, Pennsylvania, Nebraska and beyond, insurgent female candidates have knocked off more established opponents with stronger-on-paper political resumes, feeding off the sense that Americans (and especially Democrats) want a new generation of political leaders to emerge.

So what Gray and national Democrats saw as strengths, McGrath and her team instantly pegged as weaknesses. Without much room to differentiate herself on the issues, McGrath instead chose to paint Gray as a favorite son of the national Democratic establishment, the hand-picked choice of Washington rather than of central Kentucky.

“I think people are hungry for new leaders, and a new generation of leaders,” she said. “They’re tired of the old guard. They want folks who aren’t hand-picked.”

The characterization isn’t exactly accurate: Aside from the Senate run, Gray’s entire political career has been spent on the Lexington city council or in the mayor’s office, and he’s hardly been a prominent voice in statewide or national Democratic politics. But by playing up her status as an outsider ― a veteran, a mother, a woman, three things she says there aren’t enough of in Congress ― McGrath’s narrative has taken hold nonetheless, and her calls to shake up Congress have resonated strongly against Gray’s safer, duller call to “send some adult supervision to Washington.”

A victory on Tuesday would make Amy McGrath the latest woman from outside the Democratic political mainstream to succeed in the 2018 primaries. Patrick T. Fallon/Bloomberg via Getty Images

Yet as McGrath’s national profile grew after her first ad, she remained relatively unknown and perhaps even a little suspect to Kentucky voters. A native of Edgewood in northern Kentucky, she’d never lived in the central part of the state and had only relocated to the district in June, upon retiring from the U.S. Naval Academy.

(Gray attempted to punch back on this point in the race’s closing days, releasing an ad that hit McGrath for only recently moving to Kentucky. But groups like VoteVets, a nonprofit that promotes veteran candidates and their issues, have slammed the ad as an attempt to “swift-boat” McGrath’s campaign.)

Even before Gray entered the race, Nickolas, who had managed former Rep. Ben Chandler’s (D) successful 6th District campaign in 2004, outlined an aggressive retail politicking strategy to get McGrath in front of voters ― not just on TV, but in their homes, churches, billboards and mailboxes.

Nickolas ― who thought he was out of politics for good until Chandler urged him to meet with McGrath ― said he was instantly swayed by her grasp of the issues and the realities of politics, which she had honed during stints working for Rep. Susan Davis (D-Calif.) in Congress during her time in the military. Most of all, he was impressed by her passion, and he banked on his belief that if they had to chance to meet her, Kentucky voters would feel the same.

McGrath, meanwhile, purchased ad space in every local newspaper in the district and published an editorial detailing why she had chosen to run now, in 2018, and here, in central Kentucky. She piggybacked off the popularity of the initial ad, which gained her thousands of social media followers, to hold Q&A’s with voters in the district that were broadcast on Facebook. She hit all 19 counties in her first few months in the race, stumping across the region and spending hours, even days, in areas that had once been reliable Democratic strongholds but have trended red for more than a decade.

In a district where Democrats still hold a registration advantage, she has pushed the message that the national party has abandoned its voters here. “The Democrats here feel left behind by the national party,” she said. “The national party, to them, is Washington D.C. They don’t have the same values. They’re led by San Francisco and New York. They don’t see leaders from here or the Midwest. And they’re focused on the wrong things.”

“You can be a progressive and still do well in more conservative areas, as long as those rural voters get a sense that you’ll fight for them.” - McGrath campaign manager Mark Nickolas

Led by San Francisco and New York. You don’t need a decoder pin to understand what McGrath is getting at. But she goes no further. She doesn’t counterpose issues of identity — transgender access to bathrooms, women’s rights, race — against the economic concerns of white, working-class voters. McGrath is pro-choice. She’s a vocal critic of Trump’s efforts to ban transgender people from the military. She thinks his effort to ban refugees and immigrants from majority Muslim countries is discriminatory and misguided.

McGrath doesn’t shy away from those issues when voters bring them up, and she believes her military service helps bridge the gap between the two sides when they do disagree. But she’s primarily focused on what she sees as the concerns that the district’s old-school Democrats who’ve been voting Republican still share with the national party: chiefly, health care and the economy.

She has argued for not just protecting the Affordable Care Act but expanding it to include a public option and a lower age of eligibility for Medicare, against the Republican tax cut package for which incumbent Barr voted, and for raising the minimum wage. She describes herself as a “fiscal conservative,” but mostly to score points off of Barr for passing deficit-fattening tax cuts after years of fear-mongering on that very same issue.

And in a direct appeal to the rural parts of the district, she’s advocated for an expansive role for the federal government, arguing that it should invest heavily in broadband, infrastructure, and job and economic development in areas left behind by the decline of manufacturing and the collapse of the coal industry.

“We ought to have the federal government funding high-speed broadband in those areas. And we ought to do it for our country,” McGrath argued during an interview in her Lexington campaign office. “Eisenhower didn’t say, ‘Let’s let private industry build the highways.’ No, the government did that. And it powered our country. FDR brought electricity to Appalachia. The federal government did that.”

McGrath speaks in a folksy, unpolished manner, with the occasional curse word slipping out, her voice rising and falling and sometimes cracking as she talks about the ugly direction the country she fought for has taken, or about Barr’s vote to repeal the health care law that gave thousands of local residents coverage for the first time. “The average household income here in Kentucky is about $50,000. That’s not a lot,” she said. “When you have Andy Barr coming in and saying, ‘I’m going to repeal Obamacare and give you health savings accounts’ ― dude, they don’t have the money for health savings accounts.”

The more Kentuckians have gotten to see of McGrath, the more the message she’s aiming for has set in.

“A lot of people say they want to shake things up. She’s believable in that regard, just because of her demeanor,” said Al Cross, a veteran Kentucky political journalist. “She comes across as somebody who wants to get things done and won’t take no for an answer.”

“The average household income here in Kentucky is about $50,000 ... When you have Andy Barr coming in and saying, ‘I’m going to repeal Obamacare and give you health savings accounts’ ― dude, they don’t have the money for health savings accounts.” - Amy McGrath

That invocation of Franklin Delano Roosevelt, meanwhile, isn’t an accident ― it was the New Deal and the local economic populists who supported it, like former Kentucky Sen. (and Vice President) Alben Barkley, who painted the state blue a century ago. In a state where Democrats have continually lost ground over the last decade, McGrath is arguing that “we have to talk about the things that made these people Democrats in the first place,” Cross said. “FDR is the guy who confirmed people as Democrats. And Alben Barkley did too. And it’s been a long time since either of those guys were around.”

Even before the polls began to shift, there were signs that the strategy was working. Last fall, McGrath traveled to Anderson County ― one of the district’s largest counties ― to meet with Ben Carlson, the conservative editor of the local daily newspaper, the Anderson News. Carlson was impressed, not just by McGrath, but by the enthusiasm people had about her.

“I haven’t sensed, in a congressional race, this kind of enthusiasm for a candidate in the 12 years I’ve been running the paper. For either party,” Carlson said. “She’s brought that kind of excitement to it.”

To Nickolas, that’s evidence that this sort of hyperlocal campaigning in districts where voters increasingly feel detached from both sides of the national debate can help Democrats win back seats.

“I think it’s a reminder that sometimes we get away from the fundamentals,” Nickolas said. “We get seduced by the latest way of communicating. Too many campaigns put their money on TV and digital, and what suffers is the old school face-to-face communication with voters.”

McGrath’s style of campaigning, Nickolas believes, is crucial for Democrats in purplish districts like Kentucky’s 6th. The grievance gets people’s attention; the stuff gets their votes.

“They want to know: ‘Are you going to go to Congress and represent me? Are you going to care about me?’” Nickolas said. “She leads with that: ‘We may not agree on some of the issues. But you should believe that I’m going to have your back.’”A coin released by the White House to celebrate a planned U.S.-North Korea summit. The talks’ status and their outcome remain uncertain. STR / Getty Images

UPDATE: May 24 ― President Donald Trump on Thursday canceled his scheduled peace summit with North Korean leader Kim Jong Un, citing the dictator’s “tremendous anger and open hostility.”

PREVIOUSLY:

A commemorative coin released by the White House is drawing ire over its depiction of President Donald Trump face-to-face with North Korean dictator Kim Jong Un.

The flashy coin, known as a challenge coin, shows the two men’s portly profiles with the words “Peace talks” above them. Both men’s names are printed along the coin’s border, with Kim referred to as “Supreme Leader” ― a title that the U.S. government is not known to use.

The coin was released to memorialize the pair’s planned peace summit — which, as of this week, may not happen.

The coin’s depiction of Donald Trump with North Korean dictator Kim Jong Un has raised eyebrows. REUTERS FILE PHOTO / Reuters

White House press secretary Sarah Sanders waved off questions about the coin during a press briefing on Tuesday, saying the White House Communications Agency, a special military unit that provides support to the president and his staff, is the organization responsible for its design. The agency did not immediately respond to a request for comment from HuffPost.

In addition to the status of the two leaders’ announced June 12 meeting in Singapore being up in the air as of this week, critics are expressing concern over Kim’s being given such a prestigious recognition while sharing a platform with the U.S. president.

In addition to torturing and causing the death of American college student Otto Warmbier, North Korea is widely known for human rights abuses against its people and foreigners. It has threatened to wage a nuclear attack on the U.S. and South Korea. It most recently refused to dismantle its nuclear arsenal unless it first sees some benefits.

Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer is among those urging Kim’s removal from the coin.

I urge the White House to take Kim off the coin. Challenge coins are a time honored tradition and certainly appropriate in this situation, but Kim Jong Un’s face has no place on this coin. He is a brutal dictator and something like the Peace House would be much more appropriate. https://t.co/ZHUKVqW7yN — Chuck Schumer (@SenSchumer) May 22, 2018

“Challenge coins are a time honored tradition and certainly appropriate in this situation, but Kim Jong Un’s face has no place on this coin. He is a brutal dictator and something like the Peace House would be much more appropriate,” Schumer tweeted.

The Peace House, on the border between North and South Korea, has been proposed by Trump as a meeting place for the men. It’s where Kim met with South Korean President Moon Jae-in last month.

Robert E. Kelly, a political analyst on Korean international affairs and a professor at South Korea’s Pusan National University, also decried the design on Twitter, calling it “gross” and “un-American.”

Are you kidding me?! This is just gross. Whose personality cult exactly is this summit legitimizing? This is un-American. Can’t imagine what Fox would say if any other POTUS did this. Wow. Just wow. https://t.co/rn79W4RWO9 via @voxdotcom — Robert E Kelly (@Robert_E_Kelly) May 22, 2018

Others on social media raised eyebrows over both men’s physical depictions. Trump’s jawline appears much more defined than it typically appears, while Kim has noticeable rolls under his chin.

I wonder if Kim Jong Un will like the extra few chins they added to the Military Office coin. pic.twitter.com/LzIKiSRwSI — Levi Gibian (@LeviGibian) May 21, 2018

As far as their relationship goes, placing the two men’s faces side by side appears to blanket over what has been a pretty volatile relationship.WASHINGTON ― His client insists there was “NO COLLUSION” with Russia to win the presidency, but Donald Trump’s lead lawyer, Rudy Giuliani, has a new theory of the case: What’s the big deal if he did?

In a recent interview with HuffPost, Giuliani initially disputed the notion that Trump’s daily citing, in the final month of his campaign, of Russian-aligned WikiLeaks and its release of Russian-stolen emails constituted “colluding” with Russia.

“It is not,” Giuliani said.

Then he switched tacks.

“OK, and if it is, it isn’t illegal... It was sort of like a gift,” he said. “And you’re not involved in the illegality of getting it.”

While much of the recent attention on special counsel Robert Mueller’s investigation into Russia’s efforts to elect Trump has focused on meetings between the Trump campaign and individuals linked to Russian officials, a big piece of “collusion” evidence has been in plain sight all along.

As the GOP nominee, Trump started receiving U.S. intelligence briefings on Aug. 17, 2016 ― at which time, according to sources who spoke on condition of anonymity, Trump would have learned that analysts had concluded that Russia was behind the theft of emails from the Democratic National Committee and was releasing them through WikiLeaks. That group, which bills itself as a “transparency” organization, has for years been considered an arm of Russian spy agencies by the U.S. intelligence community.

On Oct. 7, 2016, U.S. intelligence went public with their analysis about Russia and WikiLeaks. “These thefts and disclosures are intended to interfere with the U.S. election process,” said the statement from the Department of Homeland Security and the Office of the Director of National Intelligence.

“You say stolen. I say, emails that were put out in the public domain. You’d also have to believe that U.S. intelligence was correct. They’ve been right about a lot of things. They’ve been wrong about a lot of things. I certainly wouldn’t trust Clapper or Brennan as far as I could throw them.” - Rudy Giuliani

Trump, though, ignored all of that information. Instead, starting just three days later as WikiLeaks began releasing batches of emails stolen from Clinton campaign chairman John Podesta, Trump began praising WikiLeaks in campaign speeches and interviews and urging Americans to read the emails for themselves.

“WikiLeaks! I love WikiLeaks,” Trump told an audience in Wilkes-Barre, Pennsylvania, on Oct. 10.

“It’s just the latest evidence of the hatred that the Clinton campaign really has for everyday Americans and you see, and you see so much from these WikiLeaks,” Trump said in Panama City, Florida, the following day.

“I’ll tell you, this WikiLeaks stuff is unbelievable,” Trump said on Oct. 12 in Ocala, Florida. “It tells you the inner heart. You’ve got to read it and you’ve got to maybe get it, because they’re not putting it out.”

That was the same day the WikiLeaks Twitter account sent a direct message to Trump’s son Donald Jr., asking his father to highlight the stolen emails and offering a web link for Trump to advertise. Fifteen minutes after that direct message, candidate Trump sent out a tweet praising WikiLeaks. Two days later, Trump Jr. sent out the link WikiLeaks had provided.

Trump continued citing WikiLeaks and their stolen emails right through Election Day, as did others in his campaign. Giuliani, a campaign adviser who frequently appeared with Trump at rallies, himself cited WikiLeaks on Oct. 9 in a CBS News interview ― just two days after the intelligence community’s statement about Russia’s involvement.

HuffPost contacted more than half a dozen Trump campaign officials for this story. Not one was willing to explain why Trump knowingly and repeatedly ― more than 160 times, according to Politifact ― cited documents stolen by Russian intelligence agencies in the final month before the election. The White House did not respond to HuffPost’s queries on the matter.

Giuliani said he is still not convinced the emails were stolen by Russia, and that he is unwilling to accept the word of former CIA Director John Brennan or former Director of National Intelligence James Clapper.

“You say stolen. I say, emails that were put out in the public domain,” Giuliani said. “You’d also have to believe that U.S. intelligence was correct. They’ve been right about a lot of things. They’ve been wrong about a lot of things. I certainly wouldn’t trust Clapper or Brennan as far as I could throw them.”

Clapper on Wednesday defended the assessment he oversaw. “The intelligence community assessment on the Russian interference in the 2016 Presidential election was prepared by about two dozen of the best analytic experts on Russia drawn from CIA, NSA, the FBI, and ODNI,” he told HuffPost. “It is regrettable that the president and his surrogates spend so much time attacking the messengers who were attempting to convey truth to power about the profound threat to our country by Russia, and spend virtually no time or display no sense of urgency about countering that threat.”

Attacking those messengers was something Trump began doing just two days after that Oct. 7, 2016 statement, after he was challenged about his continual praise of Russian President Vladimir Putin during the presidential debates.

On Oct. 9, at the second debate, Trump disputed the U.S. intelligence assessment. “She doesn’t know if it’s the Russians doing the hacking,” Trump said of Democratic nominee Hillary Clinton. “Maybe there is no hacking. But they always blame Russia.”

Eleven days later, at the third and final debate: “She has no idea whether it’s Russia, China or anybody else,” Trump repeated. “And our country has no idea.”

Since the election, the U.S. intelligence community and the Senate intelligence committee have both released reports stating what intelligence analysts concluded in the summer of 2016: Not only was Russia interfering in the election in coordination with WikiLeaks, but it was doing so with the goal of electing Trump.

“Those are simply the facts,” said Sen. Mark Warner (D-Va.), the ranking member of that committee. “So Mr. Giuliani could not be more wrong. Make no mistake, these are dangerous efforts aimed at distracting us from the truth and they have the chilling effect of dismissing the seriousness of the Russian threat.”

Former acting CIA Director John McLaughlin agreed. “Giuliani is just wrong on that point,” he said. “Either Trump simply didn’t care that this material came from the Russians, or was so foolish and naïve to think that it was OK to use it, or, and it’s a big ‘or,’ that he did so knowing full well that he was cooperating with the Russians.”

One former Trump campaign staffer said he believes he understands exactly why Trump and his team used the Russian-provided material: They were desperate and decided they would use it and worry about consequences later.

“I don’t think they were working with them. I think they were willing to take advantage of it. It’s about winning,” said Sam Nunberg, who had been fired by Trump more than a year before the election. “You’re supposed to win. That’s just the reality of it.”Satirical stalwart The Onion published one of its funniest bits in years, but this time it was the real deal: An actual cease-and-desist email from Michael Cohen concerning a story about Donald Trump.

In 2013, Cohen, a longtime attorney for Trump, was apparently livid about a piece in the outlet that purported to be “written” by his client. It was headlined: “When You’re Feeling Low, Just Remember I’ll Be Dead In About 15 Or 20 Years.”

“Let me begin by stating the obvious … that the commentary was not written by Mr. Trump,” Cohen wrote in the email dated Jan. 24, 2013. “Secondly, the article is an absolutely disgusting piece that lacks any place in journalism; even in your Onion.”

Cohen demanded immediate removal of this “disgraceful piece from your website and issue an apology to Mr. Trump ... This commentary goes way beyond defamation and, if not immediately removed, I will take all actions necessary to ensure your actions do not go without consequence.”

The big finish: “Guide yourself accordingly.”

In the spirit of transparency, here is Mr. Cohen’s letter, printed in full: https://t.co/uPnzZYUtyZ pic.twitter.com/HWAhxudr2d — The Onion (@TheOnion) May 21, 2018

The Onion said it’s ready to talk now.

https://twitter.com/TheOnion/status/998619468430565377

There’s always the possibility that the email is itself an Onion parody. But Cole Bolton, Onion editor in chief at the time, referenced the email in an interview with “Today” in 2016 when discussing how people respond to articles about them. He added: “You should read that thing. It’s the most wonderful thing in the world.”

And a spokesman for The Onion vouched for its authenticity in a tweet Monday:

I can confirm the email itself is the real deal. From Michael Cohen to our press email address in 2013.



The rest of the story is obviously in @TheOnion's signature satirical voice... https://t.co/bix0OLB5nP — David Ford (@ItsDavidFord) May 21, 2018House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi (D-Calif.) and Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer (D-N.Y.) rolled out an education funding plan at the Capitol on Tuesday. Aaron Bernstein / Reuters

As more and more teachers protest their states’ funding cuts, Democrats in Congress say they have a plan to restore school spending and boost teacher pay.

On Capitol Hill on Tuesday, party leaders joined teachers’ union officials to promote a slate of policies aimed at addressing the growing number of teacher walkouts that have shaken up statehouses across the country. The measure would steer $100 billion in federal funds toward schools and ensure that teachers could bargain collectively on salaries, benefits and working conditions.

“We’re here because teachers are marching on state Capitols across the country,” said Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer (D-N.Y.). “Teachers of America, the Democrats hear you loud and clear.”

Democrats said their plan would pay for those investments by paring back some of the tax cuts for the wealthy in the Republican tax package passed by Congress last year and signed by President Donald Trump. Parts of the plan were introduced last year as the Democratic Party’s new “Better Deal” agenda, which is heavy on antitrust and labor law reform.

The leaders didn’t specify which parts of the Republican tax plan they would target for repeal, referring only to tax breaks for the rich and special-interest loopholes. At the heart of the Republican plan was a massive corporate tax cut. Although families in all income brackets are expected to have smaller tax bills next year, independent analysts say most of the benefits from the plan will go to the wealthy.

“The very wealthiest should not have such a large tax cut,” Schumer said. “I think the odds of something like this [education proposal] passing are large in the next several years … Our day is going to come sooner than you think.”

The Democrats’ plan isn’t going anywhere for now, as Republicans still hold a majority in both chambers and occupy the White House. But the education plan helps Democrats put down a marker before the midterm elections, just as the teacher walkouts have galvanized grassroots activists and spurred a backlash against Republican austerity.

Most states pulled back on education funding when tax revenues fell during the Great Recession. Spending still hasn’t returned to 2008 levels in certain states, several of which went on to implement tax cuts that left even less money for schools and salaries. The teacher strikes have tended to hit states with the deepest cuts.

“Republicans are fighting to slash teacher and school budgets. This is one of the dumbest things Republicans have done,” said House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi (D-Calif.).

The walkouts began in late February, when West Virginia teachers went on strike to protest low pay, rising health costs and poorly equipped classrooms. The successful work stoppage prompted similar walkouts and school closures in Oklahoma, Kentucky, Arizona and North Carolina, all with Republican-controlled statehouses that have cut taxes in recent years while school funding has dropped, when adjusted for inflation.

The images of striking teachers and crumbling textbooks has prompted several states to increase school funding and teacher pay to varying degrees. Congressional Democrats said it still isn’t enough. Their plan would dedicate $50 billion to states to raise teacher pay and another $50 billion to states to spend on school infrastructure and curriculum.

Another, less direct way the plan could boost teacher salaries is through more union contracts. The states that have seen teacher strikes and walkouts tend to have weak labor laws, in some cases even outlawing collective bargaining by public-sector workers. In West Virginia, for instance, the unions have no ability to bargain contracts and guaranteed raises with school districts, only to lobby lawmakers for higher salaries.