UN Women, the United Nations group devoted to gender equality and women’s empowerment, may need to do some internal soul-searching.

Tucked inside the organization’s recent job listing seeking a “storyteller” was some boldly sexist language ― a perfect example of the very kind of gender stereotyping UN Women is devoted to combating.

The posting seeks an “extremely talented writer with a knack for crafting compelling content,” the listing reads. Fairly basic language ― but then, under a bulleted list of responsibilities, things take a turn.

After reiterating that the writer should be aligned with UN Women, the listing said “tone must be appropriate.” What tone exactly? “Witty, humorous, considerate, masculine (smart sarcasm)” [bolding ours].

UN Women

After HuffPost reached out to UN Women on Wednesday afternoon, the organization removed the line.

“Obviously it came across different from what we intended,” said Elizabeth Nyamayaro, who heads UN Women’s HeForShe campaign, an initiative that seeks to include men in the fight for gender equality. Nyamayaro said that mission was part of the reason the “masculine” language wound up in the ad. “We are looking for someone able to communicate to a broad diverse audience and that includes men,” she said.

She said going forward they would do more to monitor the language of their job listings. Nyamayaro emphasized that her group’s mission is gender equality. “Discriminating against women makes absolutely no sense,” she said. She pointed out that the group has had success in pushing large companies closer to parity.

Yet it is notable that even an organization committed to gender equality would make such a misstep, an indicator of how elusive the goal can be.

“This posting expresses explicit, outward gender bias,” said Joelle Emerson, the founder and CEO of Paradigm, a consulting firm that works with companies on diversity and inclusion strategies to fight discrimination. “It’s shocking to see the word “masculine” appear in a job description for UN Women. Even more offensive, the job posting seems to define ‘masculine’ as ‘smart and sarcastic.’”

To which we say, really, UN Women? Women can’t possibly be sarcastic?

I mean, what with having to look pretty all the time and nurture babies and all, how could women possibly nail an edgy sarcastic tone? Only a masculine voice could possibly be talented enough to figure all this out.

A woman looking for a new job sent the listing to HuffPost, saying she was taken aback by the gendered language.

“When I first read the ad, I was flummoxed. It just seemed too ironic to be believed ― like it was an Onion version of a job ad. I would normally be very interested in working at the U.N., the ad has certainly given me pause,” wrote the woman, who wished to remain anonymous so her current employer wouldn’t know she was hunting for new work.

“The thing is, I know many U.N. workers are genuinely interested in gender equality. But for this specific position, it seems like there’s been some neglect, and that at least some of the people involved have a very backward view of gender. I’m left wondering: Who and how many people vetted this cringe-worthy ad? How many eyes read those words and thought that the tone was just right?”

Beyond the blatantly offensive wording, Emerson also pointed out that even that basic-seeming language about looking for a “talented” writer with a “knack” is problematic. The problem is that UN Women seems to be hunting for an innately talented person, not someone with a proven track record or a learner.

Some research has shown that this kind of a language in a job listing can turn off female and minority candidates.

“This language communicates a belief in innate abilities. You either have it or you don’t,” said Emerson. “We know this type of language can deter candidates from underrepresented backgrounds.”

Emma Watson speaking at the launch of UN Women's "HeForShe" initiative at the United Nations in 2016. Brendan McDermid/Reuters

This kind of attitude is somewhat surprising from UN Women, a well-known organization that’s worked with a number of progressive entertainers and has been pushing huge companies on the issue of gender diversity.

That said, the UN as a whole isn’t exactly known for being particularly proactive about gender equality. Less than two years ago, the organization came under fire for making the cartoon character of Wonder Woman the honorary ambassador of its female empowerment campaign. This was before actress Gal Gadot resurrected the fictional superhero ― and at a time when several women were in the running to be the first female secretary general in the organization’s history. They lost out to a man.

Emma Watson, the actor best known for playing feminist icon Hermione Granger in the “Harry Potter” films, was appointed the UN Women’s Goodwill ambassador in 2014. That same year, she gave a widely hailed speech on gender equality to launch UN Women’s “He for She” campaign, an effort to get men involved in the fight for gender equality.

Watson spoke movingly of getting beyond stereotypes about men and women.Khloe Kardashian has welcomed a baby girl with basketball player Tristan Thompson, according to multiple outlets.

The reality TV star reportedly delivered her first child on Thursday morning near Cleveland, where she spends some of her time to be closer to Thompson, a center with theCleveland Cavaliers.

Thompson, mother Kris Jenner, sisters Kim and Kourtney Kardashian, as well as best friend Malika Haqq, were by Khloe’s side when she gave birth, according to TMZ.

The baby’s arrival comes just days after several videos surfaced in which Thompson was allegedly caught cheating while Khloe was pregnant. Footage from a Washington, D.C., nightclub in October shows the NBA star kissing multiple women, while another shows him getting close to a different woman.

Neither Thompson nor Khloe has responded to the videos.

Tristan Thompson and Khloe Kardashian pictured together at his birthday party. Jerritt Clark via Getty Images

In mid-March, the couple prepared for their new arrival with a lavishly pink baby shower boasting celebrity guests and, of course, sisters Kourtney, Kim, Kendall Jenner, Kylie Jenner and mother Kris.

Both Kim and Kylie recently welcomed daughters of their own, Chicago and Stormi, as the KarJenner family continues to expand.

A post shared by Khloé (@khloekardashian) on Mar 11, 2018 at 6:49pm PDT

A post shared by Khloé (@khloekardashian) on Mar 11, 2018 at 3:57pm PDT

“My baby shower was unbelievable, magical, everything I could have dreamed of and more!!!” Khloe shared on her website after the celebration. “We felt so much LOVE from everyone and it is a day I know Tristan and I will never forget. I’m still dreaming.”

While sister Kylie kept private about her pending arrival, Khloe took fans along with her throughout her pregnancy journey, sharing updates about the baby’s gender, her cravings and her fears along the way.

“I’ve wanted to have a baby for so long. It’s just the perfect timing. God always has a plan, and I just wanted to do it on my time and when I felt comfortable to do so,” she told Ellen DeGeneres while appearing on DeGeneres’ talk show.

The Good American designer had previously struggled with fertility issues during her tumultuous marriage to basketball player Lamar Odom, who has since admitted he carried on multiple affairs during their relationship.

Tristan Thompson and Khloe Kardashian pose at his birthday party in March. Jerritt Clark via Getty Images

In September 2017, Kardashian confirmed that she was dating Thompson via a Snapchat video. The two have been inseparable ever since, with the NBA player becoming a fixture on the family’s reality TV show “Keeping Up with the Kardashians.”

“I’m so blessed that Tristan has been beyond supportive! He’s helped me overcome any fear or anxiety that I have!” Khloe wrote on her website the month before the cheating scandal. “He’s always so reassuring and confident about everything when it comes to our baby.”

With a new batch of KarJenner children running around, there’s no chance that we’ll see the end of the famous family anytime soon.

“I am now so excited my daughter will have forever best friends with Chicago and Stormi!!,” Khloe said on a recent episode of the family show. “Thank you Lord for our princess.”LOS ANGELES, CA and NEW YORK, NY ― ICM Partners, one of the world’s preeminent talent and literary agencies, today announced a partnership with HuffPost, the global media platform that serves as a leading source of news, commentary, entertainment, features and lifestyle content for an audience of 155 million users world-wide. ICM Partners will work in conjunction with HuffPost and their compelling intellectual property to create multi-platform opportunities.

“ICM Partners is a world class agency, and the perfect partner to help us find new opportunities for HuffPost’s award-winning journalism,” said Hillary Frey, executive editor of HuffPost. “Whether it’s an agenda-driving piece from our long-form digital magazine Highline on ‘What Bullets do to Bodies,’ an investigation of sexual harassment in the hospitality industry, or a deep-dive into the millenial financial crisis, the stories we publish have a lasting impact on our audiences. We look forward to expanding on that in new ways and formats.”

“The entertainment industry is paying such close attention to the world around us, more so than ever before. Consequently, there’s an intense desire to bring socially relevant and impactful storytelling to ever-expanding audiences. ICM’s partnership with HuffPost will allow us access to their impressive roster of great writers, thinkers, and thought leaders. We couldn’t be more excited about this new relationship,” said Rich Green, Head of Media Rights for ICM Partners.

About ICM PARTNERS

ICM Partners is dedicated solely to the representation of artists, content creators, authors, artisans and journalists. Many of the biggest hits in motion pictures, television, music, and publishing were created on the page, on the stage, in front of, and behind the camera by the agency’s clients. The company has the expertise of a legacy agency, with decades of experience in the business, coupled with the entrepreneurial spirit of its agent owners who bought the company in 2012, and operate it with its client’s best interests at the forefront of everything they do. The firm has offices in New York, Los Angeles, Washington D.C., and London.

About HuffPostI believe in life we need to see and truly be seen by the most important people in our lives. Deb, from day one, we had that. 22 years later ... it only gets deeper. You and the kids are the greatest gift I will ever receive. I love you a gazillion times around the world. pic.twitter.com/VsoDq4HxDw“Just because you are winning does not make abuse OK," Olympic gymnast Aly Raisman told an audience at Louisiana State University on Wednesday. Christopher Polk via Getty Images

Aly Raisman has a powerful message for survivors of sexual assault.

The Olympic gymnast and sexual abuse survivor was at Louisiana State University on Wednesday night for a speaking event in partnership with the Delta Gamma sorority. Raisman discussed her book Fierce and what recovery has looked like for her since coming forward with abuse allegations against former USA Gymnastics doctor Larry Nassar.

“It’s OK to not be OK,” Raisman told the crowd of more than 1,000 students, The Advocate reports.

Raisman, 23, talked about testifying against Nassar in January during the former doctor’s sentencing hearing. Over 260 athletes accused Nassar of serial sexual abuse under the guise of medical treatment while he was a trainer for USA Gymnastics and at Michigan State University. He received three concurrent sentences of 60 years, 40-125 years and 40-175 years in prison.

Aly Raisman talking about her day in court testifying against Larry Nassar #DGLSU #AllinforAly pic.twitter.com/D5j8j1KrmC — Caitie Burkes (@caitie1221) April 12, 2018

“I’m not as strong as I looked in those 12 or 13 minutes,” Raisman said of her now iconic impact statement, which she read aloud to Nassar in court. “I don’t think people understand how much it affects me every day ... It took everything I had to be strong in that moment.”

She told the crowd that some people still believe she shouldn’t complain about the abuse she endured because of the gold medals she’s won at past Olympics. To that, she responded: “Just because you are winning does not make abuse OK.”

“I think that it’s important to recognize that this Me Too movement is not just in Hollywood, it’s not just in gymnastics, it’s not just in other sports,” Raisman continued, according to LSU’s Daily Reveille. “It’s everywhere, including colleges. I’m not going to sit here and pretend, nor should anyone else, that sexual assault is not a very big problem on these campuses. It’s not something that’s talked about enough.”

In a follow-up interview with The Advocate, Raisman reflected on her recent activism and what she hopes her legacy will be.President Donald Trump is just as fixated on the so-called pee tape allegations as the rest of the world is, former FBI Director James Comey writes in his new memoir, according to The Washington Post and the New York Post.

According to Comey’s telling in A Higher Loyalty: Truth, Lies, and Leadership, Trump was obsessive about disproving the most salacious allegations in the infamous intelligence dossier about him: that there is footage of him watching prostitutes urinate in the same Moscow hotel suite that the Obamas had once stayed in.

Trump “strongly denied the allegations, asking — rhetorically, I assumed — whether he seemed like a guy who needed the service of prostitutes,” Comey wrote of conversations he had with Trump about the dossier compiled by former British intelligence officer Christopher Steele.

Trump brought up the alleged incident with him at least four times in January 2017, according to the 304-page memoir.

“I’m a germaphobe,” the president reportedly told him as he tried to show the unlikelihood of the “golden shower” event.

“There’s no way I would let people pee on each other around me. No way,” he reportedly told Comey, who served as the bureau’s director until Trump fired him the following May amid the FBI’s investigation into whether Trump’s campaign colluded with Russia to influence the 2016 election.“You used to call girls and get rejected on the phone,” he said. “Now it’s all texting. If you text a girl and they don’t text you right back, it’s over.”

Also in the interview, Spade revealed he watched “all 600 hours” of Prince Harry and Meghan Markle’s wedding. Then he took a playful swipe at her Hollywood fame, but the joke appeared to fall flat.

“He said he wanted a famous girl from America, that knew the crazy life, the paparazzi and the fame and everything. And I go, ‘Ah, you picked Meghan Markle? OK.’”

“It’s not exactly Jennifer Lawrence,” he continued. “She’s on ‘Suits,’ but she’s not even the most famous person on ‘Suits.’”Bill Cosby stands next to his spokesman, Andrew Wyatt, as Wyatt addresses media on Tuesday. Pacific Press via Getty Images

Bill Cosby’s request for a mistrial was denied Wednesday after one of his accusers had an outburst in court on the third day of the comedian’s sexual assault retrial.

Chelan Lasha, one of the five women allowed to testify as evidence of Cosby’s “prior bad acts,” took the stand Wednesday and alleged Cosby drugged and assaulted her when she was 17 years old in Las Vegas in 1986. She was visibly emotional and crying while on the stand, multiple outlets reported.

After Lasha’s testimony, Judge Steven O’Neill began giving instructions to the courtroom about the upcoming lunch break. Unprompted, Lasha looked at Cosby and addressed him from the stand.

Reports are conflicted on Lasha’s exact wording. According to multiple outlets, she said: “You remember, don’t you, Mr. Cosby?” Other outlets, including Reuters, reported that she said: “You know what you did.”

The defense immediately objected to Lasha’s outburst and asked O’Neill for a mistrial. The judge denied the request but instructed the jurors to disregard Lasha’s comment. He also gave her a warning.

Chelan Lasha cries as she returns to the courtroom on Wednesday. Pool via Getty Images

Lasha testified that Cosby had made her feel “special” when she was a teen.

“I was a good girl,” she said, according to Jezebel. “He took that all away from me. I trusted that man.”

Cosby is charged with three counts of aggravated indecent assault. He is accused of drugging and sexually assaulting Andrea Constand, a former women’s basketball coach at Temple University, in 2004. Cosby reportedly paid Constand $3.4 million in a civil lawsuit settlement in 2006. In June, a jury failed to reach a unanimous decision on the charges and O’Neill declared a mistrial.

More than 50 women have accused Cosby of sexual assault, with many saying he drugged and raped them. In a big victory for prosecutors, O’Neill ruled in March that five accusers could testify because their stories closely resemble the allegations made by Constand.“Law & Order: Special Victims Unit” struck a nerve this week with a storyline that reflected the ongoing debate over transgender people in the military.

Wednesday’s episode, titled “Service,” focused on a trial involving a young woman, Sandy “Sky” Ksenivch (played by Morgan Taylor Campbell), who worked as an escort and was allegedly raped in a hotel room. One of the witnesses in the case was a soldier named Jim Preston (Marquise Vilsón).

Preston, who was in the same room at the time of the alleged incident, was initially hesitant to cooperate with investigators. By the episode’s conclusion, it became clear why: Testifying would require Preston to reveal that he identifies as transgender.

In a climactic scene, Preston took the stand and discussed his gender identity during cross-examination by attorney James Olson (Christopher Wiehl).

“I am a transgender man. If you wanted to know that, you could have just asked,” he said in the scene, which you can view above.

Among those to praise the show’s depiction of such a hot-button issue was series star Mariska Hargitay, who plays SVU commanding officer Olivia Benson.

So proud #SVU so loudly stated tonight that trans rights are human rights. That members of our military — regardless of gender identity — should be proud to be exactly who they are: service members who can’t imagine not helping people. To show that LGBTQ+ representation 1/2 pic.twitter.com/PoZjDReSlH — Mariska Hargitay (@Mariska) April 12, 2018

On tv need not be only about victimhood, but can be about heroism that serves in defense of survivors — regardless of that survivor’s profession. That the liberation of marginalized groups must be hand in hand, intersectional, and in support of one another. 2/2 — Mariska Hargitay (@Mariska) April 12, 2018

“Taking on this role, I had to do my homework by speaking with people of trans experience who are presently in the service to get a sense of what they are actually going through now,” the actor told GLAAD’s Nick Adams. “Under the current administration, there seems to be a significant change for them in the way they are being treated.”

Ultimately, Vilsón hopes his “Law & Order: Special Victims Unit” performance will help to clear up some viewers’ “fear and misinformation when it comes to trans folks.”A Michigan teen, Mujey Dumbuya, was scheduled to testify against her alleged rapist in court before she vanished from her school bus stop in late January. Days later, she was found dead in the woods.

On Wednesday ― the week she would have appeared in court ― prosecutors charged the man, Quinn Anthony James, with her murder in a case that illustrates the fears some girls and women have when reporting assaults.

James, 43, had been released late last year on $100,000 bail while awaiting trial. He became a person of interest in the case quickly after Dumbuya’s strangled body was discovered in Kalamazoo, around 50 miles from her home in Grand Rapids. She was 16.

An undated photo of Mujey Dumbuya provided by someone connected to the family on GoFundMe. GoFundMe

Witnesses said James had been searching for someone to assist him in the murder and disposal of the body, leading authorities to a Detroit man named Gerald Bennett, 58. Together, James and Bennett plotted to kill Dumbuya, Kent County Prosecutor Christopher Becker announced Wednesday. Bennett allegedly received a vehicle from James as payment.

Charges against James include first-degree premeditated murder, conspiracy to commit murder, kidnapping and imprisonment, while Bennett is charged with conspiracy to commit murder.

Dumbuya’s original allegations against James stem from a reported sexual assault last summer in a parked car located around eight miles from her school, East Kentwood High. James had been employed as a maintenance worker for the school district until administrators learned of the alleged assault. He was fired in November, arrested, charged with four counts of criminal sexual conduct and released on bail.

Becker cited substantial evidence tying James to Dumbuya’s murder, from content on the suspect’s phone to forensic proof.

Records placed James near the teen’s home and bus stop the night before she went missing, he said. On the day of her disappearance, Jan. 24, images captured by a trail camera show a vehicle of the same type James had loaned from a dealership that same day ― a black GMC Acadia ― “in close proximity” to where her body was found. Prosecutors allege that James lied about his whereabouts during that timeframe.

Forensic evidence also “ties James to the victim’s clothing,” prosecutors said.

Police located the vehicle Bennett allegedly received at his girlfriend’s residence in Detroit, along with video showing him with James the day before Dumbuya’s disappearance. Prosecutors say James was wiring money to Bennett’s girlfriend.

Fear of retaliation is often cited among reasons women and girls choose not to report sexual assault.

“I used to tell them [sexual assault survivors]: That [violent retaliation] something you see on TV. That’s really not going to happen,” Becker told reporters Wednesday after announcing the charges. “This is very rare, an extremely rare event, so I’m not going to take the whole criminal justice system and say this is a failure.”

Shortly after Dumbuya’s death, James was arrested on another rape charge in a different case and is currently in jail.In an image shared on Twitter, the actor/artist depicted Zuckerberg as Marvin the Martian, the planet-claiming Looney Tunes character known for his temper:

Congress gets a visit from planet Zuckerberg. “I shall prevent any further election meddling by destroying the Earth with my Illudium Q-36 Explosive Space Modulator App! The sudden drop in Facebook’s stock has made me angry! VERY ANGRY INDEED!!!” pic.twitter.com/qwCpJoUqnS — Jim Carrey (@JimCarrey) April 11, 2018

Earlier this year, Carrey deleted his Facebook page, sold his stock in the company and urged others to do the same “because @facebook profited from Russian interference in our elections and they’re still not doing enough to stop it.”

At the time, he shared a different portrait of Zuckerberg:

I’m dumping my @facebook stock and deleting my page because @facebook profited from Russian interference in our elections and they’re still not doing enough to stop it. I encourage all other investors who care about our future to do the same. #unfriendfacebook pic.twitter.com/KHWgZzhhmp — Jim Carrey (@JimCarrey) February 6, 2018

Carrey has been using his art for social commentary, sharing what he called an official portrait of President Donald Trump:

Dear Smithsonian National Portrait Gallery @NPG, I know it’s early but I’d like to submit this as the official portrait of our 45th President, Donald J. Trump. It’s called, 'You Scream. I Scream. Will We Ever Stop Screaming?' pic.twitter.com/LrCmlXXpv7 — Jim Carrey (@JimCarrey) March 29, 2018

He’s also taken on right-wing media:

If u believe wrestling is real u may even believe Fox news, Info Wars and the robotic drones on Sinclair Broadcasting. But wrestling doesn’t harm viewers. Performers like Sean Hannity and Alex Jones should join the WWE where their hyperbole will do less damage to the culture. pic.twitter.com/HHsfvRaToJ — Jim Carrey (@JimCarrey) April 3, 2018

Scott Pruitt, administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency:

I looked on Trivago. The cheapest room in Washington is a youth hostel with bunkbeds at $81 a night. The $50 room Scott Pruitt got was a bribe from an energy lobbyist. Need your pipeline approved? Do it through Pruitt! pic.twitter.com/DaSdgvFPmv — Jim Carrey (@JimCarrey) April 5, 2018Vermont Gov. Phil Scott (R) signed a set of new gun restrictions into law on Wednesday, fulfilling what he’s called his “moral and legal obligation and responsibility to provide for the safety of our citizens.”

The legislative package raises the minimum age for purchasing a firearm to 21, enhances background check requirements for private gun sales, and bans high-capacity magazines and bump stocks. Other measures expand law enforcement’s ability to confiscate guns from individuals labeled an “extreme risk” and people arrested for domestic assault.

At a signing ceremony in front of supporters and critics at the state capitol in Montpelier, Scott defended the new laws as an appropriate response to mass gun violence over the past year in places like Parkland, Florida, and Las Vegas.

“Today we choose action over inaction, doing something over doing nothing, knowing there will always be more work to do, but today we chose to try,” Scott said. “This is not the time to do what’s easy, it’s time to do what’s right.”

Gun advocates booed the governor and let out screams of “coward” and “traitor.”

The modest overhaul of the state’s gun laws marks a significant change for Vermont, a blue state with a large rural population and a rich tradition of hunting and outdoor activity. Although lawmakers have debated gun control in the past, such measures historically haven’t received much support.

Scott himself had previously toed the pro-gun line and carried an endorsement from Gun Owners of Vermont ahead of his 2016 gubernatorial campaign. In the hours after the Parkland shooting in February, he signaled that he wasn’t interested in revisiting Vermont’s gun laws, which are among the loosest in the nation. But he appeared to change course just a day later, following the Feb. 15 arrest of a Vermont teenager who had allegedly planned a similar shooting at a high school in Fair Haven, Vermont.

The suspect in that case, an 18-year-old, was legally able to purchase a shotgun, but would not be allowed to do so under the new state law.

“As governor, I have a responsibility to provide for the safety of our citizens, especially our kids,” Scott said at a February news conference announcing he’d be open to looking at gun policy reform.

He echoed that sentiment in a March statement following the state legislature’s passage of the new gun restrictions, saying recent mass shootings had proven that “no state is immune to the risk of extreme violence.”

Beginning Wednesday, Vermonters below the age of 21 will no longer be allowed to purchase firearms unless they can show they have completed a hunter safety course. The previous age restriction for long guns, including rifles like the AR-15, was 18 years old.

The new limits on the sale of high-capacity ammunition magazines will also go into effect immediately. The restrictions apply to rifle magazines that hold more than 10 rounds or pistol magazines that hold more than 15 rounds. Dealers in the state have until Oct. 1 to sell any magazines they already have in stock.

People with high-capacity magazines purchased before the law’s implementation are exempt from the legislation. Gun stores in Vermont reported an uptick in magazine sales ahead of Wednesday’s bill signing. At a rally earlier this month, firearms advocates handed out 1,200 free 30-round rifle magazines.

Vermont Gov. Phil Scott (R) signed a package of new gun restrictions into law on Wednesday, drawing both support and criticism. Christinne Muschi/Reuters

With Scott’s signature, nearly all private gun sales in Vermont now require a background check conducted by a federally licensed firearms dealer. Transactions between family members will not be subject to the requirement.

The new law also sets into motion a process for law enforcement to petition for “extreme risk protection orders,” which will allow police to confiscate firearms from individuals found to be dangerous to themselves or others.

The state ban on bump stocks, the accessories the Las Vegas gunman attached to his semi-automatic rifles to allow them to simulate automatic fire, will go into effect on Oct. 1 and will prohibit all possession of the devices.

Gun advocates have harshly criticized the new laws, arguing that they’ll infringe on the rights of otherwise law-abiding individuals while doing little to protect public safety.

“The tyranny of democracy has overwhelmed the protections of my constitutional, individual rights,” Bill Moore, a firearms policy analyst for the Vermont Traditions Coalition, which lobbied against the gun measures, told The Associated Press.

A number of pro-gun organizations in Vermont have vowed to challenge some of the new restrictions, including the ban on high-capacity magazines.

Gun violence prevention groups have meanwhile lauded Scott for supporting what they see as reasonable reforms to state gun laws.

“The cultural shift signified by having these laws in place will be hard for some, but the day-to-day experience of most law-abiding gun owners in Vermont will be impacted very little,” said Clai Lasher-Sommers, executive director of GunSense Vermont, in a statement.Hundreds of students from a predominantly black school in Miami’s Liberty City neighborhood took to the streets earlier this week to protest gun violence ― and national media barely covered it.

On Tuesday, teens from Miami Northwestern Senior High School marched from their school’s campus to a housing complex where four young people were shot on Sunday. Kimson Green, a 17-year-old sophomore at the school, and Rickey Dixon, an 18-year-old alumnus, were killed. Students chanted: “No justice. No peace. No violence in the streets,” the Miami Herald reported.

STUDENTS WALKOUT: Here’s an aerial view of the massive crowd of Miami Northeastern High Students on the streets protesting against gun violence after 2 students were shot and killed in #LibertyCity @Dreamdefenders @studentswalkout @WPLGLocal10 pic.twitter.com/OQvJoJfVnw — MJ (@EMJAEEE_) April 10, 2018

The shootings and subsequent protest in Liberty City ― an area where gun violence has been a recurring issue ― were just hours away from Parkland, Florida, where 17 people were killed in a mass shooting at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in February.

“It’s a racial thing,” 16-year-old student Mi-Olda Faustin told the Miami Herald at Tuesday’s protest. “If you’re white, you get more publicity about these things.”

“Like Stoneman Douglas, if they can … let their voices be heard, why can’t we do the same and let our voices be heard?” another unidentified student participating in the protest told local NPR reporter Nadege Green. “Why can’t we do the same thing? It’s because we’re black? It’s because we’re in the ghetto ... because we’re poor ... and they’re richer? I don’t understand.”

Several students during the walk out talked about the support and platform students from Marjory Stoneman Douglas received. They asked, where was this support for them? Where is it now? pic.twitter.com/kOBjd43dcU — Nadege C. Green (@NadegeGreen) April 10, 2018

Amid the public attention focused on March for Our Lives’ student leaders, who are largely white, some teens of color ― both at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School and beyond ― have spoken out about how they are getting less recognition.

“We’re saying you don’t see much of us at the forefront,” 17-year-old Stoneman Douglas junior Mei-Ling Ho-Shing, who is black, told HuffPost last week. She and a group of other black students at the school held a news conference late last month to express that their voices weren’t being sufficiently heard by the media or their own peers.

Green ― who has long been covering gun violence in the area and is also an alumnus of Miami Northwestern ― tweeted that national attention to the Parkland students’ movement likely helped the Liberty City students’ march get even the level of media and political attention that it did. Local students have long been activating around the issue of gun violence, she said, but their previous marches got little to no recognition.

It’s worth noting that the student leaders of March for Our Lives have made a significant effort to make their movement inclusive and recognize other communities hurt by gun violence. As the Miami Northwestern march took place, several prominent Parkland student activists tweeted their support.

#NorthwesternWalkout because especially in communities and situations involving poc, no one should have to grown up with the fear of being shot and and in many cases survive only to be ignored. — Emma González (@Emma4Change) April 10, 2018

I’m so proud of the students from Liberty City for walking out today. We’re in this fight together...for the same, unfortunate reason. #NorthwesternWalkout — Jaclyn Corin (@JaclynCorin) April 10, 2018Troop 6000 was created in 2016 to allow the thousands of girls living in the New York City shelter system to participate in Girl Scouts.

Homeless children make up nearly 40 percent of those housed by the city’s shelter system. A report last year by the Institute for Children, Poverty, and Homelessness found that the typical homeless elementary school student missed 88 days of school ― almost half the school year.

Participation in an organization like Girl Scouts gives girls a “stronger sense of self, achieve higher levels of education, and are more likely to reach a higher socio-economic status,” according to Girl Scout research.

“Every girl in the five boroughs of New York City deserves a chance to reach her full potential: to have her eyes opened to possibilities for college and careers, to make loving and supportive friends, to learn from caring female mentors, and to chart her own course to achieve her goals. That’s what Troop 6000 is all about,” the Girl Scouts of Greater New York’s website says.

Troop 6000′s approximately two dozen members are preparing for the big Union Square cookie sale, Corinthia Fludd, Troop 6000’s recruiting specialist, told AM New York.

The girls have “been wanting to do this for so long,” Fludd said. “It’s the number one thing they ask.”Television audiences got their first glimpse of FX’s hotly anticipated, history-making series “Pose” with the release of the show’s first trailer Thursday.

Members of the ball scene strut their stuff in the new clip promoting the ’80s-themed dance musical, which debuts in June.

The eight-episode season will “explore the juxtaposition of several segments of life and society in New York: the ball culture world, the rise of the luxury Trump-era universe and the downtown social and literary scene,” according to a news release.

Anchoring the show will be Evan Peters and Kate Mara as Stan and Patty, a New Jersey couple. “Dawson’s Creek” icon James Van Der Beek will appear as Matt, Peters’ “financial kingpin” boss.

Much of the buzz around “Pose,” which is created by Ryan Murphy, Brad Falchuk and Steven Canals, has been about its inclusivity. The show is set to make history by featuring television’s largest cast of trans actors in series regular roles and the largest LGBTQ cast for a scripted series.

In December, Murphy praised the show as “a game changer” about “the universal quest for identity, family and respect.”

“Along with being a dance musical and an affirming look at American life in the 1980s, I’m so proud that ‘Pose’ and FX has made history right from the beginning by featuring the most trans series regular actors ever in an American television production,” he said at the time. “I can’t wait for people to see this incredibly talented, passionate cast.”Conan O’Brien annoying a friend on a drive through Italy might not seem like the stuff of comedy dreams ― but the laughs amble along.

O’Brien and his late-night show’s associate producer, the self-styled Italy expert Jordan Schlansky, know how to push each other’s buttons. In this droll road trip clip from the “Conan” travel special Wednesday, they elevate their game.

O’Brien complains about their walnut-sized Fiat and notes that it doesn’t have airbags. “It has a windbag,” he says, gesturing to Schlansky.

When Schlansky starts blathering on about how it’s all about the journey, not the destination, O’Brien tells him he sounds like a 15-year-old girl writing in a yearbook.

O’Brien brings a secret weapon ― a sound machine ― to amuse himself just in case his pal pontificates.

“If you lecture me, the farts are coming back,” O’Brien warns.A vehicle drives into a group of protesters demonstrating against a white nationalist rally in Charlottesville, Virginia, on Aug. 12, 2017. AP

None of these attacks were charged as ― or could have been charged as ― acts of domestic terror by the federal government. Americans want that to change.

Sixty-eight percent of Americans say there should be a federal criminal law against domestic terrorism, according to a new HuffPost/YouGov survey. Nearly half conceded that, before taking the survey, they were unaware that there wasn’t a federal criminal law that broadly outlaws acts of domestic terrorism. Another 24 percent weren’t sure if they’d heard that fact before.

Americans who said they previously didn’t know there wasn’t a federal crime of domestic terrorism were even more likely to say that should change: 83 percent of them said there should be a federal criminal statute against domestic terrorism.

“The fact is, while the U.S. Code defines the phrase ‘domestic terrorism,’ there are currently no penalties attached to that definition. Therefore ‘domestic terrorism’ is not a crime in and of itself under federal law.” - FBI Special Agent Thomas O'Connor

It’s “not surprising” that a lot of Americans don’t realize domestic terrorism isn’t a federal crime, said FBI Special Agent Thomas O’Connor. He is the head of the FBI Agents Association, which has been working with the bureau and Justice Department, as well as lobbying congressional leaders, to create a federal criminal domestic terrorism statute.

“Most American assume that ‘domestic terrorism’ is a federal crime,” O’Connor said this week in a statement issued to HuffPost in his capacity as head of the FBIAA. “The fact is, while the U.S. Code defines the phrase ‘domestic terrorism,’ there are currently no penalties attached to that definition. Therefore ‘domestic terrorism’ is not a crime in and of itself under federal law.”

“Congress can quickly and easily end this confusion and fix the problem by amending the U.S. Code to make domestic terrorism a crime subject to specific penalties that apply irrespective of the weapon or target involved in the crime,” he added.

The HuffPost/YouGov survey found that support for a federal domestic terrorism law was bipartisan: 82 percent people who voted for Hillary Clinton, and 69 percent of people who voted for Donald Trump, said there should be such a law.

Forty percent of Clinton voters thought domestic extremists posed a greater threat to the United States than foreign extremists, while 49 percent of Trump voters thought foreign extremist groups like the Islamic State were more of a threat. Just 3 percent of Trump voters though domestic extremist groups were a bigger threat, while 6 percent of Clinton voters thought foreign terrorist organizations were a bigger threat. (Forty-nine percent of Clinton voters thought domestic and foreign extremists posed an equal threat.)

There was a significant gap between Clinton and Trump voters in terms of how they judged the government’s response to domestic extremist threats: 75 percent of Clinton voters thought the government didn’t take domestic extremism seriously enough, while just 34 percent of Trump voters agreed.

Use the widget below to further explore the results of the HuffPost/YouGov survey, using the menu at the top to select survey questions and the buttons at the bottom to filter the data by subgroups:

The U.S. Code defines the term domestic terrorism, but there’s not a criminal statute that lays out penalties for attacks motivated by extremist ideologies.

Some types of violent acts committed by domestic terrorists can be charged under other federal laws, but the government has more tools to use against foreign extremists ― which results in disparate outcomes for Muslim and non-Muslim violent extremists.

Take, for examples, the prosecutions of Sayfullo Saipov and James Alex Fields Jr. Saipov drove a rented truck into a bike path in lower Manhattan last fall, killing eight people and injuring a dozen. Fields is the neo-Nazi accused of driving his car into a crowd in Charlottesville last year.

Among the slew of federal charges Saipov faces is a count of providing and attempting to provide material support to ISIS — a terrorism charge. He also faces eight counts of murder in aid of racketeering and 12 counts of attempted murder in aid of racketeering because federal prosecutors have labeled ISIS a criminal enterprise. Fields, meanwhile, faces a state charge of first-degree murder. Even though Attorney General Jeff Sessions said the attack was “the definition of domestic terrorism,” he hasn’t been charged with any crime on the federal level, let alone a terrorism-related crime.

Sixty-five percent of Americans think the attack in Charlottesville counts as terrorism, according to the HuffPost/YouGov poll. Twenty percent said they weren’t sure, and 15 percent said the attack wasn’t terrorism. Clinton voters were more likely to think the Charlottesville attack was terrorism: 80 percent said it was, compared to 63 percent of Trump voters.

The lack of a federal crime of domestic terrorism affects how media outlets cover such attacks, as reporters often take the lead from prosecutors when describing them. Federal law enforcement officials are constrained in their ability to label acts of domestic terrorism as such for fear it could impact a future prosecution, as the Justice Department’s top domestic terrorism official explained earlier this year.

“The department is very judicious about deploying the term in the first instance, and typically will only do so in the backend of litigation when the facts and circumstances are going to be clear,” Thomas Brzozowski said. By that point, he noted, the media narrative tends to be firmly established.

Under the current federal law, perpetrators can only be prosecuted on a terrorism-related charge when they’ve either taken a very specific type of action or if they have claimed allegiance to a foreign terrorist organization that’s on a list made up of mostly radical Islamist groups. In practice, this has meant the vast majority of people the government charges as terrorists are Muslim.

Even retweets in support of a designated foreign terror group like ISIS can be considered material support, and raise the possibility of a federal terrorism-related charge. According to The Intercept’s Trial and Terror project, nearly 70 percent of terrorism defendants in FBI stings since 9/11 have been charged with “material support” — a charge that can’t be applied to violent domestic extremists, the majority of whom are likely to be white or non-Muslim. The material support charge also makes it easier for the government to run sting operations against supporters of foreign terrorist groups than it is against domestic extremists.

An equivalent material support law that applied to domestic extremist groups would be unconstitutional and highly problematic: The government shouldn’t be labeling U.S.-based organizations, whose speech is protected by the First Amendment, as terrorist organizations. But supporters of a change to the current federal law say the legislation could be tailored to apply only to acts of violence committed to advance a political agenda by intimidating the public or influencing government policy.

“I think that domestic terrorism should be put on the same moral plane as international terrorism,” Mary McCord, the former head of the Justice Department’s National Security Division, previously told HuffPost. “When the reason for a crime of violence is in order to influence a civilian population, or influence actions of the government ... it certainly has the same level of seriousness and should be taken just as seriously as international terrorism.”

The outcomes for non-Muslim defendants can end up being much different than they are for people charged under laws that apply only to international terrorism. Muslim defendants will on average receive a 211-month sentence, according to a report released this month by the Institute for Social Policy and Understanding. Non-Muslim defendants, meanwhile, receive on average receive a 53-month sentence.

ISPU

This disparity is likely due in part to Muslims receiving more severe terror charges. Of Muslim defendants allegedly involved in violent plots, 83 percent faced terror charges, including material support of a terror group, and weapons of mass destruction, according to the ISPU. Less severe charges were filed against non-Muslim defendants, with 83 percent facing non-terror charges of possession of a firearm as a felon, or possession of means to make explosives.

It’s not as if right-wing and other non-Muslim extremists are less dangerous than Muslim extremists. If anything, studies have shown the opposite to be true. But you’d never know that from reading Justice Department press releases. The DOJ “issued press releases from its national office six times as often in regards to violent plots by Muslim-perceived perpetrators than violent plots by non-Muslim-perceived perpetrators,” the ISPU report says.

ISPU

The problem is compounded by the media.

Muslim perpetrators of alleged foiled violent ideological plots received a staggering 770 percent more media coverage than non-Muslim perpetrators of the same alleged crimes, according to an ISPU analysis of print archives of The New York Times and The Washington Post.

The lack of a federal criminal domestic terrorism statute also means the FBI doesn’t track crimes of domestic terrorism, so there aren’t federal statistics to illustrate the scope of the problem.

“If you look up domestic terrorism in general and try to figure out the numbers of domestic terrorism incidents that have taken place in the United States over the past 20 years, you’re never going to come up with an accurate number because people haven’t been charged with domestic terrorism,” the FBI’s O’Connor previously told HuffPost.



The net effect is that the word “terrorism” among Americans is all but synonymous with “Muslim” — which both minimizes the very real danger of non-Muslim extremists and further foments bigotry against Muslim Americans.

“American Muslims have been unfairly targeted and profiled using a double standard under current federal terrorism laws,” Nihad Awad, executive director of the Council on American-Islamic Relations, said in a statement.

The HuffPost/YouGov poll consisted of 1,000 completed interviews conducted March 27-29 among U.S. adults using a sample selected from YouGov’s opt-in online panel to match the demographics and other characteristics of the adult U.S. population.

HuffPost has teamed up with YouGov to conduct daily opinion polls. You can learn more about this project and take part in YouGov’s nationally representative opinion polling. More details on the polls’ methodology are available here.On Monday night, the “Jimmy Kimmel Live” host name-checked Hannity, Fox Business host Lou Dobbs and “those dummies on Fox & Friends” for being gullible when it comes to what he called the “paranoid delusions” of President Donald Trump. Kimmel then cooked up a lizard-people conspiracy that he said the network would happily spread ― if Trump said it first.President Donald Trump bashed The New York Times once again Thursday, claiming a report that suggested he sought to fire special counsel Robert Mueller in December was “fake news.”

Trump tweeted that he “would have fired” Mueller, the head of a federal probe into whether Trump’s 2016 presidential campaign colluded with Russia, in December had he wanted to do so.

If I wanted to fire Robert Mueller in December, as reported by the Failing New York Times, I would have fired him. Just more Fake News from a biased newspaper! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) April 12, 2018

Trump’s insistence that he has the power to remove Mueller is at stark odds with many legal experts who say Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein is the only person who can directly fire Mueller.

According to a Department of Justice regulation:

The Special Counsel may be disciplined or removed from office only by the personal action of the Attorney General. The Attorney General may remove a Special Counsel for misconduct, dereliction of duty, incapacity, conflict of interest, or for other good cause, including violation of Departmental policies. The Attorney General shall inform the Special Counsel in writing of the specific reason for his or her removal.

Since Attorney General Jeff Sessions has recused himself from the Russia probe, the next person in line to hold such power would be Rosenstein.

White House press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders said Tuesday that she believes Trump “certainly” has the ability to remove Mueller from the investigation.

“I know a number of individuals in the legal community, and including at the Department of Justice, said he has the power to do so,” Sanders told reporters during a press briefing.What a ratty thing to do ― blaming mice for 1,000 pounds of missing marijuana.

That’s the dubious excuse eight police officers in Pilar, Argentina, gave after a half-ton of pot disappeared from a police warehouse.

About 13,000 pounds of bud were supposed to be in storage, but a recent police inspection revealed 1,000 pounds were missing, according to The Guardian.

Javer Specia, the city’s former police commissioner, was ordered to explain the shortfall to a judge. He and three subordinates told the skeptical jurist the missing marijuana must have been eaten by mice.

Experts, however, sent that theory up in smoke, saying rodents wouldn’t confuse marijuana with food. In the off-chance they did, the mice likely would have died from the dope, and investigators would have found the cannabis-laden corpses, according to USA Today.

“Buenos Aires University experts have explained that mice wouldn’t mistake the drug for food, and that if a large group of mice had eaten it, a lot of corpses would have been found in the warehouse,” a spokesperson for the judge said.Upon further questioning, the woman backtracked that she may have had a “dream or vision” of nude photos being taken of her, but her attorney said the governor had admitted taking photos of her more than once. Greitens was indicted in February on charges of first-degree felony invasion of privacy over the photographs and is set to stand trial in May, according to CNN.

Greitens’ accuser said that the photographs were used to blackmail her into silence. She told the committee that the governor told her not to mention his name or he would “take these pictures, and I’m going to put them everywhere I can.”

The woman testified that she asked to be let down from her bindings and tried to leave when Greitens then took her into a “bear hug.” Greitens then took off his pants and coerced her into having oral sex, she told the committee.

“I felt as though that would allow me to leave,” the woman’s testimony reads.

She also testified that she met with Greitens again in May 2015, when she had consensual oral sex with him. When she met with him in June, the woman alleged, Greitens slapped her upon learning she had sex with her estranged husband.

The slap did not leave a mark but “was just jarring. It wasn’t sweet and gentle; it was forceful,” the report states.

Greitens and the woman allegedly ended the affair in October 2015, and she never saw him again, she testified.

Although Greitens has admitted to having an extramarital affair, he denies the accusations of blackmail.

The House report notes that the governor did not cooperate with its investigation, saying that “Greitens has declined to participate in this fact-finding process at this time. Greitens declined to provide the requested testimony, documents, and sworn answers to interrogatories.”

The governor, at a news conference just before the House committee released its report, characterized the investigation as a “political witch hunt.”

“Keep in mind how this was written: No standards of evidence were used, no witnesses were cross-examined, no one who was representing me was allowed in the room and no members of the press or the public were allowed in the room,” Greitens said. “If the committee had waited 33 days, they would have received a full set of facts. Instead, it was decided to publish an incomplete document made in secret.”One day Fabiana LeFleur decided to use all parts of the frogs she hunted. Ana LaFleur

When Fabiana LeFleur decided to make her own bikini, she hopped right to it.

Which makes sense since she used frogs as the material.

The 28-year-old LeFleur lives in Henderson, Louisiana, and grew up hunting and fishing around the bayou. Her father taught her not to waste anything from an animal.

“When my father took a deer, he always made it a point to use every part that he could, not only eating the meat but also tanning the hides, sometimes even carving the bones into knife handles,” she told local station KLFY TV.

She recently decided to apply her father’s advice to amphibians.

“I went out hunting and caught seven frogs, which worked out well because one of them didn’t turn out well,” she told HuffPost. “I didn’t choose carefully from a very large catch.”

After removing the meat for a meal, she sewed the animals together into an eye-catching swimsuit.

“The most difficult part of making the bikini was the skinning of the frogs,” LeFleur told HuffPost. “Normally, to filet a frog you would just make a cut around the belly and pull off the pants to expose the legs. To keep the whole things intact, I had to turn them completely inside out without damaging the skin so it’s a more delicate operation.”

The results, as you can see, are truly ribbiting, er, riveting. Photos of LeFleur in the frog swimsuit are going viral.

Ana LaFleur

Urbanites might find the idea of going skin-to-skin with an amphibian a little hard to take, but LeFleur said frog hides are no different from any other animal byproduct used to make clothing.

“The only difference is that you can really see what they are in my suit,” she said. “I didn’t cut off the limbs and the heads. I thought it was a more interesting aesthetic. Personally, the process of extracting silk from worms seems a lot grosser than stitching a couple hoppers together.”

Once the frog hides were dried, she sewed them together with sinew and then covered them with several layers of shellac to make the bikini waterproof.

Although she is happy with the results, LeFleur admits wearing the suit presents some challenges.

“They don’t have an underwire, so there’s not as much support as a standard bathing suit,” she said. “As a piece of sportswear, a wardrobe malfunction would be inevitable.”

The frog bikini close up. Ana LaFleur

In fact, LeFleur doesn’t plan to wear the suit very often.

“My uncle has a bear skin hanging in our family’s hunting cabin and my mother says I should hang it right next to that,” she said. “I think that’s a pretty good place for it.”

She hopes her frog bikini inspires more people to find ways to use materials they would otherwise discard. However, she has no plans to go into business selling similar suits.Kentucky teachers rally outside the state Capitol on April 2. They plan to return on Friday to protest pension changes, potential budget cuts and charter schools. Bill Pugliano via Getty Images

LOUISVILLE ― School districts across Kentucky will once again shut down as teachers plan to flood the state Capitol on Friday to rally for public-school funding and protest newly signed changes to public pension programs.

As of Thursday afternoon, at least 36 districts had decided to close Friday, citing teachers calling in sick or the likelihood that they would. The closures include public schools in Louisville and Lexington ― the two largest school districts in the state.

MAP UPDATE!



Updated 5:47 p.m.. Thursday. (OLDAM and HANCOCK = RED)



RED = out for rally/Frankfort, GREEN = Out for spring break. YELLOW = Half-day (🙄) WHITE = Currently in session Friday.



36 counties and counting! #120Strong pic.twitter.com/sj7GCjcdtd — Kenny Colston (@Kenny_Colston) April 12, 2018

Friday will mark at least the third day of widespread forced closures since Kentucky’s state Legislature passed the pension overhaul in a late-night vote two weeks ago. The day after the vote, teachers called in sick and closed schools in more than 25 counties.

The following Monday, an estimated 5,000 teachers protested in Frankfort, and schools in each of the state’s 120 counties that were not already closed for spring break shut down.

“We’re encouraging people to show up in force and make sure our legislators and our governor hear loud and clear that we shall not be moved,” said Gay Adelmann, the co-founder and president of Save Our Schools Kentucky. The nonprofit advocacy group has organized protests in Frankfort throughout the 2018 legislative session and will demonstrate again Friday.

Kentucky’s teacher protests, unlike those in West Virginia and Oklahoma, have focused largely on pension changes. The overhaul, which Gov. Matt Bevin (R) signed into law Wednesday, includes small reforms that will reduce benefits for some current teachers and public employees, and will also convert pensions into “hybrid” 401(k)-style plans for new hires.

The pension legislation, however, was merely the spark that set ablaze decades of teacher frustration over education funding and the treatment of Kentucky’s public schools.

That frustration began to boil over last year when the Legislature, fully in Republican control for the first time in nearly a century, passed a bill to allow charter schools in the state.

The issue was the potential “diversion of public money into charters,” said David Allen, a former president of the Kentucky Education Association.

“That laid the groundwork,” Allen said.

“It’s a dismantling, step by step by step, of public education.” - Pam Dossett, Kentucky teacher

Then, in January, Bevin proposed drastic cuts to schools and public education programs, even though funding was already tight. In inflation-adjusted terms, Kentucky’s K-12 budget was down 16 percent since 2008, according to the Kentucky Center for Economic Policy.

Bevin’s proposal prompted dire warnings from school superintendents around the state, who said some cuts would push Kentucky’s poorest school districts to the brink of insolvency.

“Teachers have been easy targets for a long time,” said Travis Gay, a teacher in Adair County who has helped organize teachers through Facebook groups and grassroots campaigns. But now, he said, it’s even worse.

“I don’t think there is any way to look at it other than as an attack on public education,” Gay said.

Many Kentucky teachers, meanwhile, have come to believe that Bevin’s approach to education isn’t driven by the interests of taxpayers or its public schools. They see it as part of a broader movement, led by U.S. Education Secretary Betsy DeVos, to further privatize education by deliberately undermining public schools.

“It’s a dismantling, step by step by step, of public education,” said Pam Dossett, a teacher in Hopkinsville. “So they can sit back and say, ‘Our public schools, they’re not working.’ And then they can replace them all with charter schools.”

So while Kentucky teachers held smaller protests throughout the first three months of the year, they were pushed over the edge by the pension bill and the manner in which it was passed: Republican leaders attached it at the last minute to unrelated public wastewater legislation. At last week’s rally in Frankfort, teacher after teacher called that moment a “breaking point.”

Like their counterparts in Oklahoma and West Virginia, teachers here are also angry over more than 20 years of budget cuts and funding reductions. Those cuts have eroded major gains the state’s teachers and schools won the last time educators walked off the job en masse, in 1988.

Those protests led to a state Supreme Court decision that ordered Kentucky to reform its public school system. The state Legislature, then under Democratic control, passed a $1.3 billion tax increase to help fund an overhaul that earned national praise.

But since then, Kentucky has undergone 20 separate rounds of budget cuts, according to Jason Bailey, executive director of the Kentucky Center for Economic Policy.

Not all of them have hit education, but many have. As a result, the funding gaps between poor rural districts and larger, wealthier ones that sparked the 1990 education reform effort have begun to widen again.

Educators, meanwhile, have been forced to teach with outdated textbooks that haven’t been replaced in years. Louisville teacher Andrew Bailey told HuffPost last week that he hasn’t received new books since 2008. As in other states, teachers have increasingly had to purchase supplies for their classrooms with their own money.

And they’re being squeezed in other ways. Teachers in Kentucky are facing more stringent testing and accountability standards from both the state and federal governments, and they’re required to obtain a master’s degree to maintain state certification ― without any tuition assistance of course. Put it all together, and educators feel they aren’t remotely close to getting the resources they need.

“There’s pressure on us to fulfill mandates that we don’t have the resources to fulfill,” Dossett said. “It’s nearly impossible to fulfill what they want us to.”

The state’s education budget will be a major issue at Friday’s rally. Amid the protests last week, the Legislature restored funding for many of the education-related programs Bevin had initially sought to cut.

Teachers were far from satisfied with the overall budget, which still left Kentucky’s K-12 public schools with less per-pupil funding, on an inflation-adjusted basis, than they received a decade ago. But many saw it as a better alternative to Bevin’s, especially because it met a key demand by dropping any funding for charter schools.

Bevin nevertheless vetoed the Legislature’s budget this week.

Widespread teacher walkouts forced more than 25 Kentucky school districts to close two weeks ago. At least 36 will be closed on Friday amid more protests. Bill Pugliano via Getty Images

Legislators could still vote to override Bevin’s vetoes. If they don’t, though, they will have little time to reach a compromise that will please the governor, as the state’s 2018 legislative session ends Saturday.

That has sparked fears among many Kentucky teachers that the absence of a budget could leave Bevin with wide discretion over state finances, a position that could allow him to cut public education budgets as he’d initially attempted, and potentially restore funding for charters.

“No raises for 10 years, no respect for our pensions anymore,” said Mike Haile, a retired teacher from Henderson County.

Because the legislative session is about to close, walkouts and protests could soon end too. But the movement won’t, teachers insist.

On Thursday, Kentucky Attorney General Andy Beshear, a Democrat, joined teachers and police unions in suing to stop the pension overhaul, arguing that it violates the state constitution.

More than 40 teachers are now running for public office in Kentucky in an effort to unseat legislators who voted in favor of charter schools and the pension overhaul, and last week’s protests inspired at least four more to launch write-in campaigns.

And as Kentucky educators have drawn inspiration from teachers in Oklahoma and West Virginia, they have begun to organize in new ways. Bevin may lay blame for teacher opposition at the feet of unions like the Kentucky Education Association and the Jefferson County Teachers Association ― members of which he said were acting with a “thug mentality” ― but teachers said the protests are largely the result of grassroots organizing. They credit groups like Save Our Schools Kentucky and Kentucky 120 United, which has created regional Facebook groups to connect teachers across the state.

Now, Kentucky teachers see their movement as a chance to take the lead nationally in the fight for the future of public education.