Another full-length trailer for the much anticipated “Ocean’s 8” just dropped, and it is a PARTY.

The film takes place in part at the famed annual Met Gala at New York’s Metropolitan Museum of Art.

The film features a gorgeous wardrobe for our favorite actresses. Youtube

Sandra Bullock plays a leading role in the movie as Debbie Ocean, Danny Ocean’s sister. Danny Ocean, played by George Clooney in the previous “Ocean’s” films, was the original leader of the pack of thieves.

Bullock is clearly taking up that mantle in the new films, except her lady-led crew includes Helena Bonham Carter, Cate Blanchett, Anne Hathaway, Mindy Kaling, Sarah Paulson, Awkwafina and Rihanna.

The cast on a subway train. Warner Bros

Anne Hathaway wearing stunning jewels. Youtube

In addition to the gorgeous gowns and stunning jewels, the trailer features Rihanna as a hacker with incomparable coolness and the similar tech-based thievery montages we’ve come to love and expect from the “Ocean’s” franchise.An estimated 2.5 million American households take out payday loans every year. Thomas Hawk

Three years ago Cynthia Tucker relocated from South Carolina to Raytown, Missouri ― a suburb just outside Kansas City ― to be closer to her children and grandchildren. To cover costs of the move, the 62-year-old widow took out a short-term loan. But her borrowed $675 quickly spiraled into a nightmare.

“By the time I thought I had paid over half the loan back, I realized I had gotten nowhere because it had already added hundreds of dollars on top of what I originally owed,” says Tucker, who believes that the lender failed to clearly explain the risks to her. “I thought I was making progress, but with these recurring charges it became so stressful.”

Cynthia Tucker managed to get out from under payday loans with help from a credit union. Cynthia Tucker

Tucker is not alone. An unexpected medical bill or an unplanned auto repair can toss many people into financial trouble, and 44 percent of adult Americans say they’d struggle to cover an additional expense of several hundred dollars. This is music to the ears of payday loan companies like the one Tucker turned to – voracious businesses that provide cash-strapped people with small, short-term loans, charging high interest rates and fees.

An estimated 2.5 million American households ― about one in 50 ― take out payday loans every year. A typical loan is $350 and costs $15 for each $100 borrowed. Given that more than 80 percent of payday loans are rolled over, or are followed by another loan within two weeks, it’s not hard to see how some of America’s most financially insecure can get trapped in debt indefinitely.

Proponents of the industry point to the lifeline payday loans can provide for people like Tucker.

But there’s a growing movement of alternatives aimed at better supporting those in need. Tucker, for example, turned to the Holy Rosary Credit Union, which paid off her payday loan and issued her a new one with a much lower interest rate. She eventually repaid the credit union and moved on with her life.

Like banks, credit unions offer checking, savings and loan services. But unlike banks, which primarily serve shareholders, credit unions are nonprofit entities set up by members and governed by a volunteer board. Importantly, they generally charge discounted loan rates and lower fees than traditional banks.

A new credit union is set to open this spring in Kansas City, following an eight-year fundraising effort. The WeDevelopment Federal Credit Union is a community development credit union that will differ from most banks and traditional credit unions by specifically focusing on those who have never had access to a bank, or who have been shunned by banks because of past financial trouble.

Community development credit unions “believe in providing individuals with second, third and fourth chances,” says Paul Woodruff, vice president of community development at a community development credit union based in St. Louis.

Paul Woodruff's team is helping Kansas City leaders get their community development credit union started. Lindy Drew of Humans of St Louis

Kansas City is racially segregated, which means sharp differences in economic supports for different racial groups. In 2013, for example, 45 percent of the city’s black residents lacked access to a bank account or a financial institution.

WeDevelopment will be located in downtown Kansas City, near its second-busiest public transit spot, and is designed to serve residents in one of the most distressed parts of town.

Its operations will rely on interest earned from loans and investments, and moderate transaction fees. Those involved with WeDevelopment told HuffPost they cannot yet give specifics on interest rates, but say they will be competitive with banks. Organizers say they will pursue grants to supplement the cost of services like financial education training.

Woodruff’s team has been helping Kansas City leaders get WeDevelopment off the ground. More than 700 individuals have expressed interest in joining the new credit union, and organizers hope to sign up at least 1,500 members within its first year. Prospective members must live, work, or worship nearby.

“We want to help get people on the path to building credit, to building a secure banking relationship, to building wealth,” says Ajamu Webster, WeDevelopment’s board chair. He adds that community development credit unions are more than just a way for individuals to advance their personal goals. “There’s a social compact that comes with being a member,” he says. “They’re social institutions. This is a social movement.”

Ajamu Webster, WeDevelopment's board chair. Ben Rich Production

The Rev. Susan McCann, board president of the neighborhood advocacy group Communities Creating Opportunity, says community development credit unions are an important part of providing fair financial opportunities to all. But even community-focused credit unions can’t replace the need to change state laws around payday loans, McCann says. Missouri’s lax payday loan laws allow lenders to charge up to 1,950-percent annual interest. Communities Creating Opportunity and other consumer advocates have been pressuring state lawmakers for years to cap the interest rate at 36 percent ― the maximum rate Congress allows anyone in the armed forces or their family members to be charged. “Imagine if we can get two, three, four-thousand members in three years ― getting that many people who are tied to an institution that’s thinking about economic development,” Webster says. “This can become a community political force, giving us a new voice to influence what happens in our neighborhoods and the city.” For more content and to be part of the “This New World” community, join our Facebook Group.On the one hand, it might seem like good polling news for the president. Despite the growing scandals, Americans chose Donald Trump as the second most admired man. On the other hand, he’s probably not going to enjoy hearing who ranked ahead of him.

YouGov also surveyed 37,000 people in 35 nations; in that poll, Gates topped the “most admired men” list, followed by Obama, action movie star Jackie Chan, Chinese President Xi Jinping and Chinese tech billionaire Jack Ma. Trump finished 17th on the global survey, just behind Pope Francis and just ahead of Hong Kong actor Andy Lau.

On a country-by-country basis, Obama finished ahead of Trump in all of the surveyed nations except one: Russia.Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg appears at a House Energy and Commerce Committee hearing on Wednesday. His time on Capitol Hill this week led to many memes and edited images. The Washington Post via Getty Images

But one is truly out of this world.

Evan, who preferred to be identified by only his first name to protect his privacy, edited a photo to make the Facebook CEO look like Data, a character from “Star Trek” who is an android. The 19-year-old from Canada posted the image to Reddit with the caption: “Lt. Commander Zuck in court after his plan to study humans in greater detail backfires.”

Evan posted this photo to Reddit. EvanOfTheYukon via Reddit

Not only does the picture poke fun of Zuckerberg’s robotic responses void of emotion while in the hot seat in Congress, but the sign in front of him is also a pun.

“Mr. Data Accumulator” it reads, referring to both the “Star Trek” character’s name and Cambridge Analytica, the company that harvested data from Facebook users without their knowledge.

Many Reddit users really loved the image and came up with puns of their own:

Though the image is undeniably clever, Evan is the first to admit he didn’t come up with the idea on his own. During Zuckerberg’s two days of testimony, some people on social media pointed out that the CEO looked a lot like Data.

Mark Zuckerberg’s manner has always reminded me of someone, but I could never quite grasp hold of it.



Just now it hit me, watching him testify about data. pic.twitter.com/4Zs2eGlsHD — Matthew Teague (@MatthewTeague) April 10, 2018

Evan told HuffPost that he saw a few images online of Zuckerberg with Data’s trademark yellow eyes and captions that read something along the lines of: “The more of your data I gather, the more I understand what it means to be human.”

He liked the jokes and was about to send an image to one of his friends but thought, “You know, whoever did this didn’t really put a lot of effort into it, I think I can do better.”

And so he did.

“Data is an Android from the 24th century who can’t feel emotions (usually), and expends a great deal of effort attempting to understand the human condition,” Evan told HuffPost. “Mark Zuckerberg is an awkward man who is the CEO of a massive social media platform.”

“It’s just a dumb, funny joke, which is all I ever intended my picture to be,” he added.WATCH: During her confirmation hearing this morning (yes, this morning – in 2018), judicial nominee Wendy Vitter refused to say whether she agreed with the result in Brown v. Board of Education. #UnfitToJudge pic.twitter.com/RWroh0XUIC — The Leadership Conference (@civilrightsorg) April 11, 2018

Federal judicial nominee Wendy Vitter refused to say on Wednesday whether she agreed with the landmark civil rights case that desegregated U.S. public schools.

During her confirmation hearing, Vitter, whom President Donald Trump nominated to become a federal judge in the Eastern District of Louisiana, would not say whether she believed the Supreme Court case, Brown v. Board of Education, was correctly decided when Sen. Richard Blumenthal (D-Conn.) asked her about it.

“I don’t mean to be coy, but I think I get into a difficult area when I start commenting on Supreme Court decisions ― which are correctly decided, which I disagree with. Again, my personal, political or religious views, I would set aside,” she said, adding that she would uphold legal precedent.

Undeterred, Blumenthal repeated his question, which Vitter evaded again.

“Respectfully, I would not comment on what could be my boss’ ruling, the Supreme Court,” Vitter said. “I would be bound by it. And if I start commenting on, ‘I agree with this case, or don’t agree with this case,’ I think we get into a slippery slope.”

The New Orleans lawyer’s comments on segregation were not the only controversial moment of her confirmation hearing. A staunch opponent of abortion, Vitter also evaded Blumenthal’s questions about comments she’d made about Planned Parenthood killing more than 150,000 women a year.Saturday’s royal wedding between Prince Harry and the newly named Meghan, Duchess of Sussex, went off without a hitch.

But, what if it hadn’t?

Dutch entertainment website BlendTV imagines the ceremony going hilariously awry in this mashup video, which is now going viral:

The royal spoof has even received the seal of approval from wedding cellist Sheku Kanneh-Mason.“One of the last scenes we were filming was in a pound, a kennel. I foolishly walked in and I thought, ‘Are these actor dogs or are these real up for adoption dogs?’ And sure enough they were, so I was walking up and down the aisles and saw this one dude and he didn’t belong there. I snagged him and he’s such a good dog. They aged him at about one, he acts like a puppy, he’s got the energy of a puppy, he’s just such a sweetheart, he’s such a good boy. He loves dogs, he loves kids, he’s full of love.”SINGAPORE (Reuters) - Pan-European air traffic control agency Eurocontrol on Tuesday warned airlines to exercise caution in the eastern Mediterranean due to the possible launch of air strikes into Syria in next 72 hours.

Eurocontrol said that air-to-ground and/or cruise missiles could be used within that period and there was a possibility of intermittent disruption of radio navigation equipment.

Russia and the United States tangled on Tuesday at the United Nations over the use of chemical weapons in Syria as Washington and its allies considered whether to strike at President Bashar al-Assad’s forces over a suspected poison gas attack last weekend.

“Due consideration needs to be taken when planning flight operations in the Eastern Mediterranean/Nicosia FIR area,” the agency said on its website in reference to designated areas of airspace, without specifying the origin of any potential threat.

Eurocontrol’s warning cited a document from the European Aviation Safety Agency, Europe’s safety regulator, a copy of which was not immediately available.YANGON, April 11 (Reuters) - A judge on Wednesday rejected a request for dismissal of a case against two Reuters reporters jailed in Myanmar after being accused of possessing secret government papers.

A court in Yangon has been holding preliminary hearings since January to decide whether Wa Lone, who turned 32 on Wednesday, and Kyaw Soe Oo, 28, will be charged under the colonial-era Official Secrets Act, which carries a maximum penalty of 14 years in prison.

Reuters journalists Wa Lone (above, center) and Kyaw Soe Oo (not shown) are facing a maximum penalty of 14 years in prison for doing their jobs. Stringer . / Reuters

Judge Ye Lwin said there was “a proper reason” for the accusations against the two reporters and therefore “they should not be released.”

The judge said it wasn’t yet time for the motion to dismiss because he wanted to hear the eight remaining prosecution witnesses out of the 25 listed, according to the reporters’ defense lawyer Khin Maung Zaw.

In a statement, Reuters President and Editor-in-Chief Stephen J. Adler said: “We are deeply disappointed with the court’s decision.”

He added: “We believe that there are solid grounds for the court to dismiss this matter and to release our journalists. Wa Lone and Kyaw Soe Oo were reporting on issues in Myanmar in an independent and impartial way. They have not violated any laws in the course of their newsgathering and were simply doing their jobs. We will continue to do all we can to secure their release.”

Defense and prosecution lawyers made legal arguments in front of the judge a week ago, after the defense filed a motion to have the case thrown out two weeks ago.

The reporters’ lawyers had argued that the testimony from witnesses called by the prosecution was insufficient to charge the pair. They also pointed to what they said were inconsistencies in witness testimony and procedural mistakes made by the authorities during the arrest and subsequent searches.

Lead prosecutor Kyaw Min Aung had argued against the dismissal of the case, reiterating the prosecution’s position that the documents that the police say the reporters had in their possession were secret and that the court could assume they intended to harm the security of the country.

On Wednesday, Kyaw Min Aung left the courtroom before reporters could ask him for comment on the ruling.

Myanmar government spokesman, Zaw Htay, could not be immediately reached for comment. He has previously told Reuters that under Myanmar’s constitution the courts were independent and has declined to comment on the case, citing ongoing court proceedings.

‘TIRED OF PRETENDING’

Wa Lone and Kyaw Soe Oo have been in custody since their arrests on Dec. 12.

Wednesday’s hearing drew one of the largest crowds of diplomats and journalists since the start of the proceedings.

The courtroom was packed, with diplomats from France, the European Union, the United States and Japan among those attending.

Some reporters from local and international media brought a birthday cake for Wa Lone who blew the candles out on the way to the courtroom.

Wa Lone’s wife Pan Ei Mon, who is pregnant with their first child, broke down in tears after the hearing, telling journalists, “Wa Lone told me ‘not to expect too much’ but I’m always expecting as his wife.”

She added: “I want them to be released as soon as possible. I’m so tired of pretending that I’m okay in front of my husband. I’m so tired. I don’t want to pretend anymore.”

The two Reuters journalists had been working on a Reuters investigation into the killing of 10 Rohingya Muslim men in the village of Inn Din, in western Myanmar’s Rakhine state, during an army crackdown that has sent nearly 700,000 people fleeing to Bangladesh.

Seven Myanmar soldiers have been sentenced to “10 years in prison with hard labor in a remote area” for participating in the massacre, the army said on Tuesday.

“The culprits who committed the massacre were sentenced to 10 years in prison. However, the ones who reported on it - us - are accused under a law that can get us imprisoned for 14 years,” Wa Lone shouted to reporters on the steps of the court, before being pushed inside a police pickup truck.

“So, I’d like to ask the government: ‘Where is the truth? Where is the truth and justice? Where is democracy and freedom?’”

The two reporters have told relatives they were arrested almost immediately after being handed some rolled up papers at a restaurant in northern Yangon by two policemen they had not met before, having been invited to meet the officers for dinner.

Police witnesses, however, have said the reporters were stopped and searched at a traffic checkpoint by officers who were unaware they were journalists, and found to be holding documents relating to security force deployments in Rakhine.

In its argument, the defense said the papers contained only publicly available information and could not be deemed secret.By Hamid Ould Ahmed

ALGIERS (Reuters) - More than 250 people including members of Western Sahara’s Polisario independence movement were killed when a military plane crashed in a field outside Algeria’s capital on Wednesday, officials said.

Television footage showed crowds gathering around the smoking and flaming wreckage near Boufarik airport southwest of Algiers. A line of white body bags could be seen on the ground next to what media said was a Russian Ilyushin transport plane.

A total of 257 people died in the crash, state TV reported.

A member of Algeria’s ruling FLN party told the private Ennahar TV station the dead included 26 members of Polisario, an Algerian-backed group fighting for the independence of neighboring Western Sahara – a territory also claimed by Morocco in a long-running dispute.

The plane was heading to Tindouf, an area on Algeria’s border with Western Sahara, but crashed on the airport’s perimeter, Algeria’s defense ministry said.

Tindouf is home to thousands of refugees from the Western Sahara standoff, many of them Polisario supporters.

U.N. attempts to broker a settlement have failed for years in the vast desert area, which has contested since 1975 when Spanish colonial powers left. Morocco claimed the territory while Polisario established its self-declared Sahrawi Arab Democratic Republic there.

Algeria’s defense ministry issued a statement expressing condolences to families of the victims.

In February 2014, an Algerian Air Force Lockheed C-130 Hercules crashed in a mountainous area in eastern Algeria killing 77 passengers and leaving one survivor.“Speaker Paul Ryan is a truly good man, and while he will not be seeking re-election, he will leave a legacy of achievement that nobody can question,” Trump tweeted.

Speaker Paul Ryan is a truly good man, and while he will not be seeking re-election, he will leave a legacy of achievement that nobody can question. We are with you Paul! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) April 11, 2018

Trump is scheduled to have dinner with Republican congressional leaders Wednesday night.

Ryan, who has served the House and his state’s 1st District since 1999, reluctantly became House speaker in 2015 after the abrupt departure of his predecessor, Ohio Rep. John Boehner. It was a position Ryan said he never dreamed of taking.

Rumors that he may leave office ― either before or after the 2018 midterms ― have circulated for months, in particular after Ryan led the overhaul of the U.S. tax code in December.

President Donald Trump shakes hands with Speaker of the House Paul Ryan after Congress passed sweeping tax overhaul legislation in December. Carlos Barria / Reuters

After reaching that goal, he reportedly felt comfortable enough to leave office, a decision that was influenced in part by Trump’s behavior, Axios reported.

Trump, having heard the rumors in December, personally called Ryan to express his displeasure if Ryan left Congress, White House press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders told reporters.

“The speaker assured the president that those were not accurate reports and that they look forward to working together for a long time to come,” Sanders said.

Rumors that Paul Ryan may leave office have circulated for months. In December, Trump personally called Ryan to ensure he wouldn't resign. Yuri Gripas/Reuters

In January, he told CBS News that his decision to run again would be decided in late spring, after consulting with his wife.

If he had decided to run, he would have faced Democrat Randy Bryce who has quickly racked up a considerable amount of campaign funding, though has been considered a long-shot candidate.

AdvertisementJoe Raedle/Getty Images

By Teresa Wiltz

Fifty years ago, just a week after Martin Luther King Jr. was assassinated and cities went up in flames — President Lyndon B. Johnson signed the Fair Housing Act. For the first time, housing discrimination was illegal.

The law also did something else: It required cities to “affirmatively further fair housing” — that is, to actively eliminate segregation in their communities.

Civil rights advocates hoped the law would be the key to finally ending the extreme racial segregation around the country. But enforcement of the law was sporadic at best, and a half-century later, segregation remains deeply entrenched in the United States. In fact, some of the nation’s most diverse cities — those with large non-white populations — are among the most segregated.

To remedy this, the Obama administration in 2015 approved stringent guidance that gave communities a blueprint for addressing racial segregation aggressively — and threatened the denial of millions of federal dollars if they failed to do so.

But in January, the Trump administration suspended the rule. Some cities and counties are proceeding with their desegregation plans, but the delay by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development could make things harder for them on several levels, said Thomas Silverstein, counsel for the Lawyers’ Committee for Civil Rights Under Law, a Washington, D.C.-based nonprofit formed in 1963 at the behest of President John F. Kennedy to combat racial discrimination.

Even if cities try to submit their plans to HUD, they won’t receive feedback about how to improve them, he said. Without HUD oversight, it will be harder for cities to get community members involved in the planning process, or to get neighboring jurisdictions to cooperate with plans, he said.

“There is only so much that core cities can do if the suburbs choose not to take this process seriously,” Silverstein said.

The latest to pledge progress is New York City, which in March announced that it would study patterns of segregation throughout its five boroughs and come up with a plan to combat it.

Chicago; Contra Costa County, California; Dallas; and Los Angeles County say they’re moving forward with their plans.

“Now is not the time to roll back on advancement,” said Maria Torres-Springer, commissioner of the New York City Department of Housing Preservation and Development. “These issues are too important for us not to take very decisive action.”

Still, housing advocates say, even if cities go ahead with their desegregation plans, it’s likely to be a long and drawn-out process. Some three years after President Barack Obama’s missive, many of the cities are still just in the preliminary stages of their desegregation proposals, and they don’t have concrete plans in place.

At the hearing, Carson said, “we try to create a fair environment for all people in all of our policies.” He said the administration halted the rule because “we were petitioned by dozens and dozens of cities and municipalities to in fact delay because it cost between $100,000 and $800,000 to follow the regulations that were put in place… This is great if you have a lot of money.” He had previously described the rule as an example of “government-engineered attempts to legislate racial equality” that amounted to “failed socialist experiments.”

“We have gone backwards since the civil rights era,” Warren told him. “It is HUD’s job to help end housing discrimination — that’s what the law said. You said you would enforce these laws. You haven’t, and I think that’s the scandal that should get you fired.”

Assessing Segregation

In the late ’60s and early ’70s, then-HUD Secretary George Romney (father of Mitt Romney), saw the Fair Housing Act as a mandate for integration. So he denied grant requests from locales that he thought would have fostered race-based segregation. But President Richard Nixon shut down Romney’s desegregation efforts.

That left a law without any teeth, according to Debby Goldberg, vice president of housing policy and special projects for the National Fair Housing Alliance, an advocacy group based in Washington, D.C. The law prohibited housing segregation, but it didn’t provide cities and other jurisdictions with specifics about how to combat it, she said.

Cities didn’t have to do much to meet HUD requirements beyond writing a report every few years analyzing impediments to achieving fair housing in the jurisdiction, Goldberg said.

“It was laughable,” she said.

The Obama-era rule required that local governments consult with members of their community to assess fair housing, publicly report details of segregation and pockets of poverty, and provide detailed five-year plans on what they are going to do about it — or risk losing millions of dollars in HUD funding.

Housing advocates say the directive forced city and county officials to see how often public housing is concentrated in highly segregated, extremely poor neighborhoodswith the worst performing schools and the highest exposure to environmental hazards.

And it gave them tools, such as an interactive map, to get the job done. “You can see disparities in ways that people haven’t been conscious of,” Goldberg said.

The new rule wasn’t without its critics. Howard Husock, vice president for research and publications at the Manhattan Institute, a conservative think tank, said the Obama rule was “tone deaf,” forcing communities to relocate low-income families into high-income areas, despite what those communities want.

“The risk you’re taking is you’re building new ghettos and isolating pockets of low-income people,” Husock said.

In announcing the delay in January, HUD officials said cities receiving federal block grants needed “additional time and technical assistance” to complete the plans. They also said that in the meantime, they would not be reviewing the reports that some cities had submitted.

Even if the HUD rule survives, combating segregation is unlikely without the understanding that it isn’t the result of individual prejudice or discrimination, said Richard Rothstein, a housing policy expert with the Economic Policy Institute and the author of The Color of Law: A Forgotten History of How Our Government Segregated America. Rather, he said, it is the result of decades of policymaking by government at the local, state and federal levels.

Over the years, a number of cities and states have been sued and accused of either doing nothing to alleviate segregation or actively promoting it by disproportionately building affordable housing in poor, minority neighborhoods.

Other cities have tried to address segregation — and failed. Baltimore, for example, after being sued in 2005 over historic patterns of housing discrimination, started offering developers financial incentives to create affordable housing in affluent neighborhoods. But the programs had no takers, according to a 2015 report by The Baltimore Sun.

Since 2007, Chicago, a deeply segregated city, has required residential developers that receive city assistance to set aside some units for low-income families. But according to a January report by the Chicago Reader, city aldermen often block those developments in their wards. Or developers opt to pay a fee instead of building those low-income units.

Remedying segregation means reckoning with the reality of government-sanctioned, or de jure segregation, Rothstein said.

The HUD housing rule is “important as a prod, or a symbol, but it’s a weak rule to begin with,” Rothstein said, because it assumes that white communities aren’t aware that they’re segregated and want to do the right thing.

“There’s no consensus that we need to desegregate,” Rothstein said.

The Costs of Segregation

A city can be diverse — with a large minority population — without being integrated. To be integrated, sociologists say, cities must have people from different racial and ethnic groups living together and having equal access to opportunities.

Segregation comes at a cost for everyone, including whites, according to a March report by the Urban Institute and the Metropolitan Planning Council, a Chicago-based group. The study looked at segregation patterns in the 100 largest U.S. metropolitan areas, between 1990 and 2010, and found that less-segregated communities have higher average incomes, better education and fewer homicides. Regions with lower segregation between whites and Latinos had higher life expectancy rates. And more blacks and whites attain college degrees in racially inclusive metro areas.

“A rising tide lifts all boats,” said Mark Treskon, who coauthored the report.

But while segregation has declined somewhat over the years, integration within the United States remains elusive, according to a December report by the Brookings Institution, a think tank in Washington.

For example, despite significant gains by middle-class blacks since the 1970s, segregation continues to hurt them in terms of home values and health outcomes, sociologists say. For the most part, black and white families continue to live apart. Even affluent black families are more likely to live in poor neighborhoods than white families who earn the same or less.

Some in the black middle class “do want to live in areas where our grandmothers live; we want to stay in our local communities,” said Chancela Al-Mansour, executive director of the Housing Rights Center, a Los Angeles-based civil rights organization that has worked on the city’s desegregation plan. “For others, it’s racism.”

A February investigation by the Center for Investigative Reporting found that denying conventional mortgage loans to blacks and Latinos continues at far higher rates than whites, something the report calls “modern-day redlining.”

Although policing the banks normally falls to the federal government, the Trump administration in February eliminated the enforcement powers of a division of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau that combats discrimination against minority borrowers.

Keeping It Moving

The 2015 Obama housing rule staggered the deadlines for cities and counties to submit desegregation plans. So when the rule was suspended in January, some cities and counties were much further along in the process than others. New York and San Diego, for example, were in the beginning stages.

New York decided to move forward. But Erik Caldwell, San Diego’s director of economic development, said he didn’t see how the city could proceed with its plan — there was no way to submit it to HUD.

When asked whether anything prevented San Diego from going ahead with its plans, Caldwell said, “HUD is definitely saying, ‘Do not do it.’” (The HUD website does instruct jurisdictions to hold off on completing desegregation plans, but does not specify what will happen if they complete them anyway.)

Instead, the city is working on an “analysis of impediment” report, which is what HUD used to require of cities. Caldwell said the city may incorporate elements of the 2015 housing rule, such as the interactive map, in its report.

He said the city, which is majority minority, doesn’t fit the traditional mold of a segregated city like those east of the Mississippi River. Even historically Latino or African-American neighborhoods are diverse, because many other ethnic groups live there too, he said.

“That doesn’t mean that you still don’t have systemic problems in San Diego or communities with higher rates of poverty, unemployment and other socio-economic challenges,” he said.

Los Angeles County officials completed their desegregation plan last month. (At HUD’s request, they are calling it an analysis of impediment report, but they are incorporating more extensive elements required under the Obama-era rule.) The county — population 10 million — is one of the largest, and has some of the costliest housing, in the country.

The county surveyed thousands of residents about their communities and the barriers they faced. A lack of affordable housing was one of the main complaints, said Emilio Salas, Los Angeles County’s deputy chief of housing and community development.

The county (separate from the city of Los Angeles and other county jurisdictions) will develop affordable housing in areas with small minority populations, creating 50 new units and overseeing the lease of up to 128 others over the next five years. With other state and local funding sources, the county hopes to fund as many as 4,795 units in that time, according to Salas. The county will also counsel households and property owners that allege violations of fair housing laws and create a homeowners fraud prevention program to prevent low-income buyers from being duped.

Developers are typically willing to build affordable housing, Salas said. The pushback tends to come from residents in affluent neighborhoods who take a “not in my backyard” approach. To counter that, he said, takes a “huge education process” to convince them that affordable housing developments can blend seamlessly into the neighborhood.

The city of Pomona, California, recently completed its segregation report. It found that segregation levels, while moderate, hadn’t changed much since 1990 and that black, Asian and Latino residents tended to live in lower-income areas of the city. One factor contributing to segregation was landlords not taking federal Section 8 housing vouchers, the report found. Other factors: zoning laws, the location of affordable housing, lending discrimination and a lack of fair housing enforcement.

As part of a two-year plan, the city is focusing on increasing affordable housing stock, housing the homeless, and helping low-income renters cover security deposits.

The city also will provide first-time, lower-income homeowners with as much as $100,000 for a down payment, according to Beverly Johnson, the city’s housing services manager. In some instances, down-payment assistance programs can combat segregation, a 2015 Xavier University study found.

Remedies

Well-designed affordable housing programs are a cost-effective way to promote racial and class integration without affecting property values, crime rates or taxes, said Douglas Massey, a Princeton professor of sociology who coauthored Climbing Mount Laurel: The Struggle for Affordable Housing and Social Mobility in an American Suburb.

What’s more, Massey said, for poor families, the ability to settle in an integrated, advantaged neighborhood yields higher rates of employment, increased earnings, and improved health for adults, along with better education for children.

In pockets around the country, desegregation efforts are bearing fruit, housing advocates say.

Civil rights lawsuits filed against some cities resulted in new ways of integrating low-income families into middle-class neighborhoods, according to Rothstein. Lawsuits against the public housing authorities in Dallas and Baltimore resulted in programs that increased housing subsidies for Section 8 recipients to rent in higher-income neighborhoods, known as “high opportunity” neighborhoods.

Other remedies that have seen success are banning or revising zoning ordinances that prohibit multifamily units or allow single-family homes only on certain lots, according to Rothstein. New Jersey and Massachusetts have “fair share requirements” to integrate low-income families into richer communities. And Montgomery County, Maryland, a suburb of Washington, requires developers to set aside some units for lower-income families in buildings of 20 or more units — even in the most exclusive, high-rent locales.

But to be effective, these methods need to be expanded nationwide, Rothstein said.Some of Facebook’s most recognizable employees react to Mark Zuckerberg’s testimony on Capitol Hill. #LSSC pic.twitter.com/gfEYObX8Mp — The Late Show (@colbertlateshow) April 11, 2018

Everyone had a hot take on Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg’s congressional testimony on Tuesday ... even the emojis.

“The Late Show with Stephen Colbert” created a short animation showing the reaction symbols doing what they do best: reacting.Do data breaches and fake ads by Russian political operatives make you want to quit Facebook?

“Conan” put together a public service announcement to help you go cold turkey while Facebook founder Mark Zuckerberg testifies about his social media company in Washington.

You’ll have to share corny memes in person, actually call old high school classmates on the phone and give real thumbs-ups to things you like.President Donald Trump announced on Friday evening that the United States and its allies Britain and France had launched airstrikes on Syria in response to a suspected chemical attack that killed dozens on Saturday.

Earlier this week, Trump had raged against Syria and the regime of President Bashar Assad. On Wednesday, Trump suggested that missiles aimed at Syria “will be coming.”

Here’s what you need to know about the reported atrocity.

What happened?

More than 40 Syrians, including men, women and children, choked to death after a suspected chemical attack in the city of Douma on Saturday. Some of the victims were discovered with foam coming out of their mouths, huddled in homes that reeked of chlorine.

At least 500 others were treated for symptoms “consistent with exposure to toxic chemicals,” the World Health Organization said Wednesday.

The attack took place in eastern Ghouta, near Damascus. The Assad regime has fought for years to take the area back from rebels, and an intensified push began a few months ago. A February bombing campaign killed more than 500 people in one week.

Rebels on Sunday appeared to reach a deal with the Syrian government, agreeing to cede the territory in Douma and move to another part of the country, The New York Times reported. Tens of thousands of people are expected to leave the area.

Two days later, a barrage of missiles was fired at a Syrian airbase in the Homs province. The Syrian Observatory for Human Rights, a war monitoring group, said 14 people were killed in that attack.

More than 40 were killed and some 500 injured by the suspected chemical attack, according to the White Helmets. Anadolu Agency via Getty Images

Who is responsible?

Chemical weapon inspectors are preparing to head to Syria to find out, though their schedule is still unknown.

Aid groups have blamed the Assad regime, backed by Russia and Iran. Trump himself appeared to place blame on the Assad regime, tweeting shortly after the attack that the Syrian president was behind “another humanitarian disaster for no reason whatsoever.” He also gave the Syrian leader a new nickname: “Animal Assad.”

The Syrian government strongly denied involvement, and Russia issued a stark warning in an attempt to halt retaliation.

“A military intervention under far-fetched and fabricated pretexts in Syria, where there are Russian soldiers at the request of the legitimate Syrian government, is absolutely unacceptable and could have the most dire consequences,” the Russian Foreign Ministry said in a statement obtained by Agence France-Presse.

The perpetrators of Monday’s attack on the airbase are also unknown, but the Russian Defense Ministry and Syria have accused Israel of carrying out the bombings. Israel has not responded to the accusations, though The Associated Press notes it typically refrains from commenting on strikes.

What happened last time?

Trump ordered a missile strike against Syria in April 2017 after a separate chemical attack killed more than 80 people. Some 59 Tomahawk cruise missiles were fired at an airfield that was a base for Syrian fighter jets, radar equipment and air defense systems.

The move was meant to send a firm message to Assad, and at the time, Trump said it was in the “vital national security interest of the United States to prevent and deter the spread and use of deadly chemical weapons.”

“The more we fail to respond to the use of these weapons, the more we begin to normalize their use,” then-Secretary of State Rex Tillerson said

Russia retaliated with a war of words. A spokesman for President Vladimir Putin said the strike dealt a “significant blow to relations between Russia and America, which are already in a poor state.”

Shayrat Airfield in Homs, Syria is seen in this DigitalGlobe satellite image released by the U.S. Defense Department on April 6, 2017 after announcing U.S. forces conducted a cruise missile strike against the Syrian Air Force airfield. Handout . / Reuters

What happened earlier this week?

On Wednesday, Trump was already reportedly considering options, including the “missiles” he hinted at on Twitter.

Russia vows to shoot down any and all missiles fired at Syria. Get ready Russia, because they will be coming, nice and new and “smart!” You shouldn’t be partners with a Gas Killing Animal who kills his people and enjoys it! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) April 11, 2018

The New York Times noted that the White House was mulling a more “robust” strategy that could include an escalation of force. Officials worried that a strike similar to the one a year ago may not be strong enough, and Trump may choose multiple targets or carry out a longer, multi-day campaign, the paper reported.

Trump spoke with French President Emmanuel Macron and U.K. Prime Minister Theresa May on Tuesday about a possible coordinated response.

The Syrian military had been put on alert and moved to protect airports and bases against a possible strike, according to The Washington Post.

“As we’ve said, all options are on the table,” White House press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders told reporters on Tuesday. “But I’m not going to get ahead of anything the president may or may not do in response to what’s taken place in Syria.”Photo illustration: Yahoo News photos: Getty Images 2 Dado Ruvic/Reuters

As Facebook sends its promised updates this week, telling users whether or not they were one of the 87 million whose personal data may have been scraped by Cambridge Analytica to create and position online political advertising, Jody Podolsky won’t even need to look. She is certain none of her information was sold because she’s sure there was no information of hers out there to sell.

Of the two kinds of people in the world — those who embrace social media and those who shun it — she is of the group that has never really used platforms like Facebook, Twitter, Instagram and Snapchat. Of the estimated 280 million Americans over the age of 13, 213 million are on Facebook, leaving the rest to call their friends one at a time when they get a new puppy, or send postcards from vacation rather than posting photos.

And now, as Facebook founder Mark Zuckerberg testifies before Congress for two days about the data-mining operation, and the House Permanent Select Committee investigates whether Cambridge Analytica was working with the Kremlin, “shunners” like Podolsky are feeling vindicated.

“I wouldn’t say I’m feeling smug, it’s more complicated than that,” says Podolsky, an author, film producer and small business owner in Los Angeles. “Facebook traded on our identities, our privacy, with impunity, for their own gain. That was their business model, to sell our very selves to advertisers. I know that is genius. It’s even awesome. It’s also terrifying that it is awesome.”

Yahoo

The reasons non-users give for non-using are varied and nuanced. For Podolsky, it’s about the misappropriation of the concept of friendship. “I think initially what caught my aversion was Facebook’s co-option of the word ‘friend,’” she says. “I found it incrementally arrogant and intrusive to decide they could diminish the obligations and commitments of actual friendship. That’s where my personal antipathy started.”

For Rachel Bamberger, it was about the substitution of a virtual experience for a real one. “I try to find pleasure in real face time with my friends, or reading a book or listening to music,” says the high school senior. “I don’t read books online because I love the smell of real books and the feel of actually turning the pages in my hand. You lose all the sensory parts when you spend all that time staring at a screen.”

For others, the core reason was the fear of loss of privacy. “I’m even hesitant to talk to you,” said one office administrator in Florida who, nothing if not consistent, declined to be quoted by name. “I definitely wouldn’t want you to identify me in an article.”

She recalls passing an old-fashioned phone booth as part of a display and having to explain its purpose to her young children. “They asked, ‘What’s it for?’ and I had to say ‘There’d be a phone in there and you would close the door so you can talk,’” she recalls. “It used to be that phone calls were presumed to be private. Now it’s blah, blah, blah, hysterectomy, blah, blah, blah, my yeast infection, blah, blah, blah.”

She’s tried what she insists is “the Facebook fad” a few years ago when a group she’d joined that met up for agility training for dogs began using the site for scheduling. “I joined for my dog, and within half an hour of getting onto Facebook, a client who had sexually harassed me wanted to friend me, and right after him I got a request from a woman who I had worked with who I knew to be mentally ill. I just felt so exposed. I just closed my account,” and, as a result, stopped attending agility training sessions.

“I did lose out on that social interaction,” she says, “because I didn’t want this other element.”

Yahoo

Michael Gerstein, in turn, says he has stayed off social media because he’s long feared something much like the Cambridge Analytica news of the past few weeks. “It’s the Wild West,” he says, where “people are grabbing all sorts of information about you and you don’t know what they know or how they use it.” He works in corporate finance in Manhattan, responsible for budgeting and forecasting, and was originally put off by the fact that “Facebook has to be doing something like this because they have to make money, but I didn’t understand exactly what that something is, and I’m not comfortable with things I don’t understand.”

He has never used Twitter or Snapchat, he says. He does have a Facebook account, but “I have never posted. I have replied to posts, but I couldn’t even tell you how to post.” The reason he even opened the account in the first place, he says, is “because my wife wanted her profile to say she is ‘married’ and it won’t say that unless your spouse also has an account.” (His wife was mistaken.) Still, the account exists, and he has 62 Facebook friends. Any one of those might have answered the 2014 Cambridge Analytica survey that the company then used to access the information of everyone in that user’s friend list. Which means he may in fact have been part of the data sweep. “Even being careful doesn’t protect you from being vulnerable,” he says.

Ellen Fader, a Manhattan psychotherapist, believes she has been similarly victimized despite being careful. She joined LinkedIn in the the early days of the site and “apparently clicked the wrong thing by mistake.” As a result, “It sent a blast email to my entire contact list, including everyone’s name and email listed publicly. These were clients in my therapy practice and now everyone on the list could see everyone else. I could have lost my license professionally. That was my worst fear about technology, and it came true.”

All that is why she only used her fitness tracker for a very short while, she says. All she wanted to do was count her daily steps, but “you have to sign all these agreements in order to participate with them,” she says. It started her thinking: Someone out there is going to know my heart rate, my sleeping pattern, how many steps I take. Do I want all that data out there? Who knows what they are doing with your information? No, she says, she doesn’t think anyone actually cares how much she walks, but she didn’t think that anyone cared to sell Facebook friend lists to the Russians either.

Yahoo

Fader, who just turned 65 — and who was filling out Medicare forms online when reached by phone at her Manhattan apartment — emphasizes that it is not because of her age that she is resistant to new technology. “There’s the idea out there that older people don’t know how to use this and that’s why they stay away,” she says, but in fact she has a website for her business and spends much of her day on the computer. It is not that she is incapable of understanding the new ways, she says, but because she understands them too completely.

“In my mind, as a psychotherapist, the most important thing in this world is human connection,” she says, “and social media does foster a version of that, but it’s a version that has us relating to a device rather than a set of eyes that’s gazing at you. If we fast forward, what are people going to be like 100 years from now? Will they remember how to relate in real life at all? I think the implications and the ramifications are enormous.”

Sherry Hamby, a psychology professor at the University of the South who studies victimization of vulnerable communities in Appalachia, agrees that age is probably not the primary factor for those who shun social media, including some of the rural populations she studies. In her experience, few of the presumed reasons actually hold true. For instance, while it is assumed that individuals who live in Appalachia do not own the latest in technology because they can’t afford it, her research has found that “the deeper reason is a lot of skepticism about technology and a lot of consideration of the ways it changes life.”

Her research paper titled “Technology in Rural Appalachia: Cultural Strategies of Resistance and Navigation” was one of dozens about “Privacy at the Margins” included in a special issue of the International Journal of Communication this month. Each of the papers was about a discrete population — from aboriginal communities in Australia to disadvantaged urban communities in India to college sophomores at big universities in urban areas — and each concludes that the decisions about technology use are driven by how users feel about the effect of a particular technology on their private, offline life.

Yahoo

Hamby’s research was conducted before the 2016 elections, so she does not know how her subjects feel about their choices to limit their social media use in light of the Cambridge Analytica controversy. She says she hopes to go back and find out.

Podolsky, for one, insists she does not take any pleasure in her prescience.

“Do I feel smart? No,” she says. “Mark Zuckerberg is smart. He’s a genius. He created this interpersonal interplanetary connection and that is an outstanding accomplishment. Mine wasn’t a prophecy, it was just me trying as a human being to resist the forces of the marketplace on my identity.”

She may have succeeded in that she won’t be getting a message from Facebook this week telling her whether she was in fact a victim of the latest of those forces, but she acknowledges she pays a price for opting out of a medium that reaches a third of the world.

Podolsky, who is currently writing a book, says that “the first question publishers ask is, ‘What’s your social media presence, how many clicks do you get?’”Two unidentified men set off a bomb late Thursday night at the Bombay Bhel restaurant in Mississauga, Ontario, Canada. More than a dozen people were injured. Mark Blinch / Reuters

TORONTO (Reuters) - Two unidentified men walked into a restaurant on Thursday in the Canadian city of Mississauga and set off a bomb, wounding more than a dozen people, local police said.

The blast went off in the Bombay Bhel restaurant at about 10:30 p.m local time. Fifteen people were taken to the hospital, three of them with critical injuries, the Peel Regional Paramedic Service said in a Tweet.

Pics from the restaurant explosion at Hurontario St & Eglinton Av in #Mississauga. Plaza is sealed off, approx 15 people transported to hospital, 3 critical. Sources saying incendiary devices were found inside the restaurant. pic.twitter.com/b5ZX6NVeSx — Jeremy Cohn (@JeremyGlobalTV) May 25, 2018

The two male suspects fled after detonating their improvised explosive device, Peel Regional Police said in a Tweet. No one has claimed responsibility, and the motive for the attack was not known.

The men entered the restaurant and set down what appeared to be a paint can or pail, which exploded after they fled, Sergeant Matt Bertram told the New York Times. The bomb was filled with “projectable objects,” he said.

Police posted a photograph on Twitter showing two people with dark zip-up hoodies walking into an establishment. One appeared to be carrying an object.

Peel Police said one suspect was in his mid-20s, stocky, and wore dark blue jeans and a dark zip-up hoody pulled over his head, with black cloth covering his face. The second was thin, and wore faded blue jeans, a gray t-shirt and a dark zip-up hoody over his head, also with his face covered.

2 suspects attended the scene, detonated an Improvised Explosive Device within the restaurant. Several injured were taken to local hospital and 3 in critical condition were taken to a Toronto Trauma Centre. pic.twitter.com/yzCT59UVN6 — Peel Regional Police (@PeelPoliceMedia) May 25, 2018

Two parties fled the scene immediately after the incident. 1st described as male, 5’10-6feet, stocky build, mid-20s, light skin, wearing dark blue jeans, dark zip up hoodie pulled over head, baseball cap with light grey peak, face covered with black cloth material. — Peel Regional Police (@PeelPoliceMedia) May 25, 2018

2nd male described as 5’9”-5’10”, fair skin, thin build, faded blue jeans, dark zip-up hoodie hood pulled over head, grey t-shirt, dark coloured skate shoes, face covered. Looking for public’s assistance in identifying the parties that fled following the explosion. — Peel Regional Police (@PeelPoliceMedia) May 25, 2018

Please contact (905) 453-2121 or 12CIB at ext. 1233 — Peel Regional Police (@PeelPoliceMedia) May 25, 2018

Roads in the area were closed and a large police presence was at the scene, with heavily armed tactical officers arriving as part of the large emergency response, local media reported.

The attack in Mississauga comes a month after a driver plowed his white Ryder rental van into a lunch-hour crowd in Toronto, killing 10 people and injuring 15.

Mississauga is Canada’s sixth-largest city, with a population of 700,000 people, situated on Lake Ontario about 20 miles west of Toronto. Bombay Bhel is an Indian restaurant chain in the metro area of Mississauga.WASHINGTON ― The race for Georgia’s Republican gubernatorial nomination is all about the culture war.

The three leading candidates have aired ads showing themselves wielding rifles and handguns. One declared he owned a “big truck” just in case he needed to round up criminal illegals and “take them home myself.” Not to be topped, another started a statewide tour with a “deportation bus.”

The attention-grabbing ads and stunts have highlighted a seven-candidate race in which, should none get more than 50 percent of the vote in Tuesday’s primary, the top two finishers will advance to a late July runoff.

The frontrunners are Lt. Gov. Casey Cagle and Secretary of State Brian Kemp.

In one of Kemp’s ads, he holds a shotgun while “interviewing” a young man interested in dating one of his daughters. The requirements for wooing that daughter?

“Respect and a healthy appreciation for the 2nd Amendment,” the suitor replies.

The uproar generated by the ad could help Kemp stand out in a field that includes former state Sen. Hunter Hill, state Sen. Michael Williams and former Navy SEAL and businessman Clay Tippins.

Cagle also holds a gun in one of his spots, as a narrator brags about his endorsement by the National Rifle Association. The NRA’s backing came after he pushed an amendment to kill a tax break benefiting Georgia-based Delta following the company’s decision ― in reaction to February’s mass school shooting in Parkland, Florida ― to end a discount program for NRA members flying to the group’s national convention. (Never mind that the discount program was rarely used.)

In another ad, Cagle brags about his work to end so-called sanctuary cities for undocumented immigrants in the state.

Hill, who has the endorsement of Sen. Ted Cruz (R-Texas), released an ad where he shoots a target and argues the age requirement to buy a handgun should be lowered to 18 from 21. “As governor, I won’t give an inch on our 2nd Amendment,” he says in the ad.

But those ads were just a set-up for the biggest free media play in the race: Williams’ deportation bus, which he drove around the state, promising “to fill this bus with illegals and send them back to where they came from. He would do so by implementing a program that allows state and local police to enforce immigration law under a partnership with the U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement agency.

It worked. Williams received attention from local and national media, even landing an interview with Fox News ― a prize for any candidate in a competitive GOP primary. (Williams also received plenty of mockery when the bus briefly broke down.)

The winner of the GOP primary will face one of the two Democrats, both former state representatives, in November: Stacey Abrams or Stacey Evans.

The DCCC vs. Laura Moser

Democrat Laura Moser's campaign in Texas' 7th Congressional District became a flashpoint in battles between progressive insurgents and the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee. The Washington Post via Getty Images

The showdown between journalist and activist Laura Moser and lawyer Lizzie Fletcher has become much bigger than a normal race for a House district nomination.

The decision by the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee to attack Moser as unelectable turned the contest into a symbol of a broader battle between progressive candidates and the national party apparatus. That drove donations to Moser, helping to lift her over other candidates in the March primary and into a runoff against Fletcher, who has the backing of EMILY’s List.

The runoff campaign between the two fizzled somewhat ― The Texas Tribune labeled the contest “boring,” and the progressive energy and money animating Moser’s insurgency appears to have dried up.

The winner of the race will face Rep. John Culberson in a 7th Congressional District centered around west Houston. Democratic presidential nominee Hillary Clinton won the district by fewer than 2 percentage points in 2016. If Moser does pull off a win in the runoff, the race will become an instant test of whether progressives can win despite Democratic establishment doubts.

The Club For Growth Takes Texas

The Club for Growth, which views itself as the enforcer of GOP orthodoxy on free-market economics, has had an up-and-down few years. Its attacks on Donald Trump in the GOP presidential primaries were unable to stop his march to victory. Still, they ended up loving his tax cuts ― while hating his proposals to enact tariffs and restrict free trade.

The group sees a slew of open House seats in heavily Republican territory in Texas as a chance to reassert its influence. Club for Growth Action, the group’s political arm, has aired TV ads in four different districts in the run-up to Tuesday’s GOP runoffs. The group backs Michael Cloud (who’s also been endorsed by former Texas GOP Rep. Ron Paul) in the 27th District, former Cruz chief of staff Chip Roy in the 21st, local official Ron Wright in the 6th, and GOP activist Bunni Pounds to replace Republican Rep. Jeb Hensarling in the 5th.

Pounds, Cloud, Roy and Wright are all expected to join the House Freedom Caucus if elected to Congress.

Remember Georgia’s 6th District?

Republican Karen Handel defeated Democrat Jon Ossoff in a special election last year in the most expensive House race in U.S. history. Jessica McGowan via Getty Images

The special election last year to replace then-Health and Human Services Secretary Tom Price in Congress turned into the most expensive House race in the nation’s history, with over $40 million spent on TV and radio advertising alone. In the end, Republican Karen Handel triumphed over Democrat Jon Ossoff in an early test of Democratic resistance to Trump.

The Democratic primary to challenge Handel this year has been sleepier, to say the least.

Former TV news anchor Bobby Kaple has raised the most money in the field, and earned the endorsement of former Gov. Roy Barnes and former Atlanta Mayor Andrew Young. Kevin Abel, a businessman, also amassed a significant war chest.