Only 39 percent of American Catholics say they attend church in any given week, according to a new Gallup report. Monashee Frantz via Getty Images

Weekly church attendance by American Catholics continues its decadeslong decline, a new Gallup report shows.

About 39 percent of Catholics reported attending church in any given week, according to data collected between 2014 and 2017 and released Monday. That’s down from 45 percent between 2005 and 2008. And it’s a huge drop from 1955 when Gallup polling reported weekly Mass attendance at 75 percent.

Even older Catholics, who are typically more religiously committed than younger ones, have stopped going to church as often. For the first time, Gallup found that no more than 49 percent of Catholics in any age group reported attending church in the past week.

“Given that young Catholics are even less devout, it appears the decline in church attendance will only continue,” wrote Lydia Saad, a senior editor at Gallup.

Attending Mass on Sundays is one of the five requirements laid out by the Roman Catholic Church as a minimum for leading a Christian life. In 1955, many Catholics of all ages fulfilled this obligation, according to Gallup. But Mass attendance declined rapidly through the 1970s and has continued to decrease at a slower pace since then. Gallup reports that Mass attendance stabilized briefly in the mid-2000s, before resuming a “downward trajectory” over the past decade.

Gallup’s survey also analyzed the attendance rates of Protestants, which it defined as all denominations of that branch of Christianity along with anyone who chose the generic term “Christian” to describe themselves. The pollster found that the number of Protestants who said they attended church within the past seven days has remained relatively stable since 1955. Protestant youth are more likely than Catholic youth ― 36 percent to 25 percent ― to say they’ve attended church in any given week.

While their rate of church attendance has remained steady, however, the percentage of Americans identifying as Protestants has declined sharply, from 71 percent in 1955 to 47 percent between 2014 and 2017.

On the other hand, the percentage of Americans who identify as Catholics has remained relatively stable ― 24 percent in 1955 and 22 percent in the latest polling. Gallup suggests this overall stability is largely a result of the growth of the Hispanic Catholic population.

Gallup’s results are based on data aggregated from multiple nationally representative surveys conducted near the middle of each decade from the 1950s through the present.

Mark M. Gray, who directs Catholic polling at Georgetown University’s Center for Applied Research in the Apostolate, told HuffPost that his team’s surveys indicate an even lower rate of weekly attendance for Catholics. (He suggested CARA’s surveys may do a better job at working around people’s bias toward giving socially desirable answers.)

Gray estimates that Mass attendance declined from about 62 percent in 1958 to about 30 percent today in any given week, other than those containing Ash Wednesday, Easter and Christmas. CARA’s research indicates that the percentage of Catholics attending Mass has remained relatively steady since 2000.

Narrowing the data to look at only those who say they go to Mass every week results in an even bleaker picture, according to CARA. Just 22 percent of Catholics describe themselves as regular weekly attendees today.

Protestant youth are more likely than Catholics of the same age to say they’ve attended church in any given week. kadirdemir via Getty Images

Gray said that people who attend Catholic churches don’t necessarily notice this decline on the ground.

“It depends on which ground you are viewing from,” he said. “There have been Catholic population losses in the Northeast and Midwest and gains in the South and West. In the former, they are closing and consolidating parishes and in the latter, they are trying to build bigger facilities with more parking.”

“Currently, the Catholic population is not well aligned with the brick and mortar of parishes,” Gray said.Sephora is offering a new series of classes celebrating inclusivity and catering to the transgender and nonbinary community.

The classes are the third initiative in a series of in-store programming that Sephora launched in 2016 with Classes for Confidence, complimentary in-store workshops for people experiencing major life transitions. Previous classes, for example, have offered “techniques and products that address the visible effects of cancer treatments.”

Sephora’s transgender cast members ― the brand’s name for its employees ― developed and will host the series. They held their first preview on May 22 in New York City.

Sephora “held focus groups and worked with our employees experiencing their own gender journeys to help determine class content, sensitivity training procedures, and to help figure out which stores would make the most sense,” Corrie Conrad, head of social impact and sustainability at Sephora, told the publication Them.

“The trans and nonbinary community is a beloved part of our community and we want to be allies. That’s the point of all our programming: Whether you’re entering the workforce or questioning your gender, that’s a major life transition. We want to be there for you,” Conrad said.

According to its website, Sephora is donating $10 to the Sephora Stands project, which funds the program, for every Sephora Stands Fearless lipstick and $16 for each Sephora Stands retractable brush it sells.

In addition to holding classes at 150 locations around the world, the brand will offer video tutorials for this series on YouTube.WASHINGTON ― House Speaker Paul Ryan (R-Wis.) announced Wednesday that he’s retiring at the end of the year, leaving his party scrambling to find a strong candidate for his seat and Democrats with a better shot at potentially winning the district.

The filing deadline for Wisconsin’s 1st Congressional District is June 1, which gives the GOP just under two months to field a candidate they like. A couple of Republicans are already running, but they’re not exactly viable. There’s Paul Nehlen, a white nationalist who got banned from Twitter and booted from the Wisconsin GOP. Another candidate is Nick Polce, an Army Green Beret and first-time candidate who raised a meager $17,000 in the last filing period.

In comparison, the top Democrat in the race, Randy “Iron Stache” Bryce, raised a whopping $2.6 million in the same period.

Bryce is also already raising money off of Ryan’s retirement, with his campaign sending out this email barely an hour after the news broke.

Randy Bryce campaign

So what’s the plan at the National Republican Congressional Committee, the body in charge of getting Republicans elected to the House?

“Our plans are simple,” said NRCC spokesman Chris Martin. “Hold the seat and continue to expose the badly flawed records of the Democrats in the race.”

But there is no clear GOP frontrunner for the seat.

Nehlen said he wished Ryan “health and prosperity in his retirement, and plenty of time with his family here in Wisconsin.” But he dinged Ryan for not doing enough in the House to secure the border with Mexico.

“After twenty years in Congress, the border is still not secure,” Nehlen said in a statement that is misleading, if not false. “We need a well-defended double fence, or a wall, every step of the way from the Gulf of Mexico to the Pacific Ocean; otherwise, you cannot effectively deport anyone from this country.”

Matt Batzel, a Wisconsin-based national executive director of American Majority, an organization that trains grassroots conservative leaders, said there are “plenty of good options” for other GOP candidates in Ryan’s district.

Some of the names he’s hearing include state Sen. Dave Craig, University of Wisconsin Regent Bryan Steil and Wisconsin Assembly Speaker Robin Vos.

State Rep. Samantha Kerkman told a local Wisconsin reporter that she’s considering running and will make a decision in the next couple of days.

Two senior House GOP aides also recently floated the idea to HuffPost of Ryan’s deputy chief of staff, Andy Speth, running for the seat.

One Wisconsin political operative speculated that state Sen. Leah Vukmir could jump into the race, too. Vukmir is currently running for a U.S. Senate seat, but she’s trailing in the primary and might have an easier time in a House race.

Meanwhile, some Republicans are making it clear they’re not interested in Ryan’s seat. State Sen. Van Wanggaard, whose name was floated to HuffPost by two political operatives, told a local reporter Wednesday that he’s not running.

Randy Bryce meets with supporters at a campaign rally in February 2018. Bloomberg via Getty Images

Democrats certainly gain an advantage with Ryan out, and Bryce, for one, is a fundraising machine. The party also appears to have the wind at its backs heading into November. But the district remains pretty solidly Republican: The Cook Political Report rates the seat as “Lean Republican,” and Ryan defeated his opponent in 2016 by more than 30 points.

There are also tensions between the Democratic candidates. Bryce, a union ironworker, is running in the August primary against Cathy Myers, a longtime schoolteacher who’s miffed about national Democrats rallying behind Bryce.

Myers has said some of Bryce’s comments have been “misogynistic” and criticized a statement his aide made to VICE comparing her to Nehlen, the white nationalist candidate. Supporters of Myers, who raised $264,000 in the last filing period, say Bryce is the creation of Hollywood as he collects donations from celebrities including Gwyneth Paltrow, Susan Sarandon and Charlize Theron.

“No one has been able to answer this for me: Why is Randy Bryce a better candidate to beat Paul Ryan?” Myers said in a recent interview with The New York Times. “I’m talking about his qualifications, not his money.”A Pennsylvania school district is arming its roughly 500 teachers with 16-inch baseball bats in an effort to boost security in the wake of the Parkland school shooting.

Teachers in the Millcreek Township School District, located in the the state’s northwest corner, received the mini bats after a training day on how to respond to school shootings, reported Erie News Now.

“It is the last resort,” Superintendent William Hall told Erie News Now. “But, it is an option and something we want people to be aware of.”

The bats, which will be kept locked in each classroom, are mostly “symbolic,” Hall said.

“Unfortunately, we’re in a day and age where one might need to use them to protect ourselves and our kids,” Hall told the outlet.

A school district representative did not immediately respond to HuffPost’s request for comment.

Last month, another Pennsylvania school district announced it was equipping each classroom with five-gallon buckets of rocks.

“If an armed intruder attempts to gain entrance to any of our classrooms, they will face a classroom full of students armed with rocks, and they will be stoned,” Blue Mountain School District Superintendent David Helsel told the state House Education Committee.WASHINGTON ― President Donald Trump signed an executive order on Tuesday that ostensibly cracks down on loafing among welfare recipients.

“Our country still struggles from nearly record high welfare enrollments,” White House adviser Andrew Bremberg told reporters Tuesday evening. “Part of President Trump’s effort to create a booming American economy includes moving Americans from welfare to work.”

There is no federal program actually called “welfare,” a catchall term for safety net social services that is loaded with racial meaning ― polling suggests most Americans incorrectly believe welfare is something that mostly benefits African-Americans.

The order itself will have no immediate effect on any program or benefit. Like many other executive orders before, all it does is direct agencies to review their policies and eventually make suggestions.

“It’s a messaging statement,” Elizabeth Lower-Basch, a senior policy analyst with the Center for Law and Social Policy, said in an interview. “It’s a bow tying together all the things they’re doing in different agencies.”

Prior to Trump’s order, the federal agencies in charge of the biggest social welfare programs had already taken steps toward reducing enrollment. The Department of Health and Human Services said this year it will allow states to impose “work requirements” on Medicaid recipients. The Department of Agriculture is reviewing options for stricter enforcement of work requirements that already exist under the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program, which is commonly known as food stamps.

The trouble is agencies don’t have a ton of leeway to make changes that aren’t explicitly allowed by the laws creating or governing those programs. That’s why Medicaid work requirements are facing a tough legal challenge. It’s also why Trump’s order on Tuesday tells agencies to evaluate their ability to promote work requirements “to the extent permitted by law.”

Still, it would be a mistake to dismiss the order as entirely inconsequential, said Donna Pavetti, vice president for family income support policy at the liberal Center on Budget and Policy Priorities.

“Even though it doesn’t specifically say ‘change law’ it does provide a framework that will set a tone and frame for what comes afterwards,” Pavetti said.

Pavetti noted that Bill Clinton’s 1992 campaign pledge to “end welfare as we know it” did not itself end welfare. It did, however, propel Clinton to the White House and set the stage for 1996 legislation that actually did decimate the federal government’s only program that provided direct cash assistance to poor people. That program’s successor, called Temporary Assistance for Needy Families, serves a fraction of the eligible population that its predecessor reached.

It will still be up to Congress to make major changes to Medicaid or food stamps. Republicans missed their chance to reform Medicaid last year with the failure of their health care legislation. The party’s conservative wing wants to rewrite the SNAP statute this year with harsher eligibility rules, though Democrats will have significant say over the legislation because of their filibuster power in the U.S. Senate.

One thing Trump’s order does do immediately is create newspaper headlines about Trump harshing on “welfare,” which could serve as grist for the white nationalists among Trump’s core supporters. Fifty-nine percent of Americans said they think most welfare recipients are African American, according to a HuffPost / YouGov poll conducted in February.WASHINGTON ― House Speaker Paul Ryan (R-Wis.) announced Wednesday that he would not seek re-election in November, prompting the normal convulsions of Washington praise for Ryan and his “legacy.”

President Donald Trump tweeted that no one could question Ryan’s “legacy of achievement,” and Ryan himself said he was proud of all the things he had accomplished as speaker, namely the tax cuts he helped push through last year and the big increases to military spending he oversaw last month.

But aside from a failed policy agenda — which you can read about here — Paul Ryan’s real legacy will always be this: A feckless leader who oversaw Trump’s takeover of the Republican Party and of Congress.

For all the posturing Ryan did in May 2016 about how he wasn’t ready to endorse Trump, for all the light rebukes of racism or the vacillating support after the Access Hollywood tape, the speaker led reluctant Republicans right to Trump’s feet.

Perhaps no person has done as much to normalize or enable Trump as Ryan, because everyone implicitly believed the speaker might stand up at some point and that it might matter. In so many ways, Ryan was supposed to be the anti-Trump. His squeaky-clean looks and talking points temperament run completely counter to a man who seemingly says and does whatever he wants.

“Paul Ryan’s real legacy will always be this: A feckless leader who oversaw Trump’s takeover of the Republican Party and of Congress.”

Ryan toyed so many times with not backing Trump during the campaign: After denouncing Trump’s proposed Muslim ban; after calling Trump’s attacks on a judge of Mexican descent “textbook” racism; after saying he wouldn’t campaign for a man so proud of his ability to “grab them by the pussy.”

And yet, by the very end of the campaign, Ryan found a way to support him. And once Trump was elected, Ryan found new ways to accept the president’s abuses. He made excuses that Trump was “new at this.” He watched the House Intelligence Committee become a partisan circus amid serious questions about Russian interference in U.S. elections. And he stood by silently, ignoring the tweets ― even joking about ignoring the tweets ― as Trump has lied, attacked the media and debased the presidency on a near-daily basis.

Paul Ryan’s name is now synonymous with the cowardice of the Republican Party. Even when Trump’s policies directly contradicted the GOP, like they have with free trade or government spending, Ryan found a way to fuse Trump’s stark vision with one that might be palatable to Republicans. And even when Trump insisted that, no, he meant exactly what he said, like he did after Ryan insisted on a “scalpel” approach to tariffs, Ryan backed away from directly standing up to the president.

That’s been a price Ryan was willing to pay. Trump has been the empty vessel that Ryan desired to sign Republican policies, like the tax cuts he touts as a major rewrite of the tax code. And Trump’s lack of involvement in crafting policies like those in the massive $1.3 trillion omnibus bill was key to its passage. (Trump didn’t get his border wall, but he never seemed to truly understand that. And the huge increases in spending that might have given another Republican president pause were quickly accepted when aides told Trump that vetoing the bill might result in him catching blame for a shutdown and having to miss a weekend at Mar-a-Lago. “Fuck that,” the president said, according to The Wall Street Journal.)

Kevin Lamarque / Reuters

But part of Ryan’s legacy should also be in the disappearing role of Congress. Where the Trump administration could have used rigorous oversight, Republican lawmakers have taken a cue from the speaker and just accepted the president’s business dealings as unworthy of investigation. The Oversight Committee is uninterested in examining why Cabinet secretaries are flying around on private jets or in first class, or how they’re renting Capitol Hill apartments from lobbyists for $50 per night.

Despite the president’s decision to launch a missile strike against Syria once before and now threatening more military engagement in the coming days, there hasn’t been a single hearing on the legal justification for that war. Ryan came into the speakership saying he’d like to vote on a new Authorization for Use of Military Force to fight the self-described Islamic State, but a new AUMF vote never came. He wouldn’t even allow the debate, just as he’s blocked legislation to permanently fix the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals immigration program that Trump canceled last year.

While it’s not new for a speaker to stymie certain legislation, Ryan has taken the job to new heights. During his entire speakership, there has been only one bill that came to the floor under what’s called an “open rule,” meaning anyone can offer an amendment to the legislation ― and even then, it wasn’t truly an open rule, as there were pre-printing requirements and a prohibition on amendments striking the last word.

And all the while, Ryan has claimed with a straight face that the process in Congress has been “phenomenal.” (He actually said that the same day the House voted on a 2,232-page omnibus bill that was released about 15 hours earlier.)

In many ways, that should be how Ryan is remembered: Confidently claiming that what he’s doing, or the things Republicans have accomplished, are major feats, that he’s a serious policy thinker even when his actions are nakedly political, and that he’s being honest and forthright when he’s being anything but.In his monologue on “Late Night,” Meyers said: “At this rate, Trump’s gonna run out of people who want to work in the White House and he’s gonna have to hire Hillary Clinton himself.” The line got a big ovation.

The host then imagined the conversation between the two, with Trump asking, “So what do you want to be in charge of?”

To which, Clinton replies, “All of it.”

Meyers also took shots at Mark Zuckerberg’s Facebook testimony to Congress, and the FBI raid on Trump attorney Michael Cohen’s office.Emily Blunt pretty much had no idea who John Krasinski was before she met her future husband.

The same can’t be said of Krasinski.

The former “The Office” star, who directed “A Quiet Place” and starred in it alongside his wife, was already well aware of Blunt’s work when the two first locked eyes. That’s thanks to a little film from 2006 called “The Devil Wears Prada,” in which Blunt plays a character named Emily.

“I was full stalker status,” Krasinski told Graham Norton on the U.K.’s “The Graham Norton Show” last week. The actor then mimicked wearing binoculars like an obsessed fan: “I was just like, ‘Hey, you wanna go out on a date with me?’”

The Graham Norton Show

Krasinski, 38, then admitted to watching Blunt’s breakout film “give or take 72” times, but also tried to give an innocent explanation.

“Back in the day, us elderly people used to channel surf,” Krasinski told Norton. “It’s just one of those movies that whenever you’re going through the channels, you just stop and you look.”

That’s when Blunt, 35, decided to straight-up call out her husband on his love of the film.

One day she came home and found Krasinski watching “The Devil Wears Prada,” she told Norton. She walked in right when Anne Hathaway’s character, Andy, is going through a style evolution, shown through a montage of Andy wearing what Blunt described as “numerous fabulous outfits.”

“He was watching the montage bit and he goes, ‘Annnnnnnnd, that’s my favorite outfit.’”

The Graham Norton Show

To see the montage and Krasinski’s favorite ensemble (it’s the one with the beanie) check out the video below.That was wheel unfortunate.

A contestant on “Wheel of Fortune” Monday had every letter of the puzzle revealed ― and still got the answer wrong.

With $7,100 at stake, all Jonny had to do was read “Flamenco dance lessons.” Only he pronounced “Flamenco” as “flamingo” and got buzzed for being incorrect. Another contestant then solved it.

We don’t have the heart to call him a bird brain.

“You gave us a ‘G’ instead of a ‘C,’” host Pat Sajak told Jonny. The game-show crew then checked the replay and the decision stayed.

Julian Batts knows your pain, Jonny. In 2014 he mispronounced Achilles on a completely revealed board and lost a chance at a million bucks.The Environmental Protection Agency pointed to social media posts that were critical of Administrator Scott Pruitt to help justify his massive security expenses, The New York Times reported Tuesday.

However, some lawmakers and top EPA officials say that, although such posts may be frequent, there’s little evidence to suggest that any of them were direct threats requiring a response or that they warranted Pruitt’s frequent use of first-class and business-class tickets and a 20-person security team to protect him from the general public. The cost of Pruitt’s security detail, including salaries and travel, has been estimated at nearly $3 million, according to The Associated Press.

For months, the EPA justified the expenses as necessary because of a sharp uptick in threats, including what a spokesman referred to as “an unprecedented amount of death threats.” In one instance, the agency’s Office of Criminal Enforcement told Politico that Pruitt was “approached at the airport numerous times, to the point of profanities being yelled at him.”

But two Democrats, Sens. Tom Carper of Delaware and Sheldon Whitehouse of Rhode Island, said in a letter Tuesday to Senate Environment and Public Works Chairman John Barrasso (R-Wyo.) that they were provided with an internal EPA document that said a threat assessment did not justify such expenses. The agency document, which the senators did not publicly release, said EPA officials repeatedly tried to tell senior leadership that “the ‘threat’ to the administrator was being inappropriately mischaracterized” by Pruitt’s security detail.

“The memo states that ... ‘EPA Intelligence has not identified any specific credible direct threat to the EPA Administrator,” the lawmaker’s letter, obtained by the Times, states. The assessment, they said, “DOES NOT employ sound analysis or articulate relevant ‘threat specific’ information appropriate to draw any resource or level of threat conclusions regarding the protection posture for the Administrator.”

Mario Caraballo, a top EPA staffer who helped draft the internal memo, was fired Tuesday, Politico reported. The agency declined to comment on the dismissal, but a source told Politico that Caraballo was removed over a personnel issue and that agency leadership was unhappy with his report.

“They’re trying right now to just keep pressure on the wound,” an unnamed source told Politico. “They’re trying to find out where these leaks are coming from .... They’re in full panic mode right now.”Former US Attorney Preet Bharara: "The likelihood that Michael Cohen is going to be charged is high" https://t.co/Ta7vnpREj9 pic.twitter.com/PHtyNNRNyo — CNN Politics (@CNNPolitics) April 11, 2018

Former U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara had grim news for President Donald Trump’s personal lawyer, Michael Cohen, whose office was just raided by the FBI: Charges are likely coming.

Getting a search warrant to raid a lawyer’s office is a big deal ― especially if that lawyer is counsel to the sitting president of the United States, he said during his appearance on Anderson Cooper’s CNN show Tuesday night.

Bharara, who was fired from his post as U.S. attorney for the Southern District of New York last year, the very office that executed the raid on Cohen’s home and office, said that if he were the one who had to approve such a move, he would want a lot more evidence than probable cause.

“So I predict, as we saw with Paul Manafort, that if they decided they had enough evidence to engage in a very aggressive move, then the likelihood that Michael Cohen is going to be charged is high,” he said, without elaborating on what those charges might be.

The Washington Post reported Cohen is under investigation for potential bank fraud, wire fraud and campaign finance violations.

The U.S. Attorney in the Southern District of New York executed the raid, but Bharara’s successor, U.S. Attorney Geoffrey Berman, was recused from the Cohen investigation. Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein, who is overseeing Robert Mueller’s investigation into Russia’s meddling in the 2016 election, personally signed off on the warrant.

Bharara was fired from his post in March 2017 after he says he refused to return Trump’s phone call. Since then, he has taken a contributor position with CNN and has emerged as a vocal critic of the president, often providing sharp responses to Trump’s many tweets.

Attorney–client privilege is dead! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) April 10, 2018AFP/ GETTY IMAGES

Not again.

Getty-syndicated Agence France-Presse images released earlier this week misidentified Mark Zuckerberg’s longtime executive assistant Andrea Besmehn as his wife, Priscilla Chan. Zuckerberg and Besmehn were photographed ahead of the Facebook CEO’s marathon congressional testimony that kicked off on Tuesday.

Besmehn and Chan do not look the same — nope, not at all. Here’s a photo of Chan, BTW:

Priscilla Chan is the co-founder of the Chan Zuckerberg Initiative, created to promote equality in health, education and scientific research. Michael Kovac via Getty Images

The photo agency has since admitted on its website that the caption had indeed mistaken Besmehn for Chan, and urged users to update their information accordingly. However, the photo and incorrect caption had already been used in a number of articles, as Slate pointed out. Getty Images has not responded to HuffPost’s request for comment.

The mistake is particularly frustrating considering other recent errors the agency has made identifying celebrities of Asian descent.

Just last month, the agency confused Kelly Marie Tran with Mirai Nagasu at the Oscars. When Getty issued an apology, it initially incorrectly spelled Tran’s name as “Tan.”

Shortly before that, Getty mistook actress Kimiko Glenn from “Orange Is the New Black” for “Downsizing” star Hong Chau.

It seems the organization has yet to learn its lesson.

Oh, and just in case you needed another reminder: Not all Asians look the same.Stacey Evans/Stacey Abrams

Should Democrats nominate a candidate based on their record of standing up for progressive values, or their vision for the future?

And should the party court white moderates to implement that vision, or expand the electorate by exciting millennials and voters of color who don’t regularly show up to the polls?

Those are the questions at the heart of Tuesday’s Democratic primary for governor of Georgia.

Stacey Abrams, the former Georgia House minority leader and the odds-on favorite in the race, is running on a solidly progressive platform and the premise that Democrats do not need to cater to the largely white “swing” voters who have abandoned the party in droves.

Stacey Evans, a former colleague of Abrams’ in the House, is running on ever-so-slightly more moderate policies aimed at capturing just enough Republicans and independents to win. At the same time, Evans has argued that on several key bills, Abrams was too willing to compromise with Republicans, especially in a high-profile 2011 vote to cut the state’s free public college program.

If elected in November, either candidate would be the first woman to govern Georgia. But Abrams’ election would be more historic: She would be the first African-American female governor in the country.

A host of national liberal groups, Democratic Party leaders and donors have placed their bets with Abrams, whose voting rights work put her on the national map years ago.

If, as is likely, Abrams wins the primary, Democrats will have a rare opportunity to test the theory that a candidate of color at the top of the ballot and a turnout-the-base strategy can win in challenging territory. She would face an uphill climb, most likely against one of three deeply conservative Republicans: Lt. Gov. Casey Cagle, Secretary of State Brian Kemp or state Sen. Michael Williams.

As a result of the unique nature of Abrams’ candidacy, the national party would likely draw outsize lessons from her performance in the general election, whether that’s fair or not, according to Jeff Hauser, a veteran Democratic strategist who runs the Center for Economic and Policy Research’s Revolving Door Project.

“The stakes get a little magnified unfortunately when somebody is a historic candidate,” Hauser said. “People will be reading a little too much into the results one way or another, and that’s unfortunate, because white men don’t have to face that.”

“What is truly radical about Abrams’ campaign is that she is running to the left to grow the base.” - khalid kamau, South Fulton city councilman

The policy differences between Abrams, 44, and Evans, 40, are hard to spot. They both support raising the minimum wage, using Affordable Care Act funding to expand Medicaid and eliminating the use of cash bail.

However, the contrast becomes clearer in the two candidates’ framings of their respective bids.

Abrams, who founded the nonprofit New Georgia Project to register voters of color in 2014, has focused intensely on strengthening voting rights and expanding the electorate.

It’s a theme that Abrams drives home in a two-and-a-half-minute video advertisement that weaves together her parents’ struggles in Jim Crow Mississippi and her own career fighting for voting rights, starting as a 19-year-old speaker at the 1993 March on Washington.

“Your ability to participate in government, to improve your life, is contingent on your access to the ballot box,” Abrams states in the ad.

One of Abrams’ most vocal and generous supporters is Steve Phillips, a senior fellow at the Center for American Progress, and author of Brown Is the New White. Phillips argues that Democrats need no longer bother trying to win the votes of increasingly conservative white voters, when diverse candidates who embrace a civil rights agenda can successfully leverage the power of “the new American majority” ― progressive whites, Latinos, Asian Americans and black voters, especially black women.

Phillips is married to Susan Sandler, the daughter of two fabulously wealthy liberal donors, providing him with powerful backing to apply his political research.

PowerPAC Georgia, a PAC affiliated with Phillips’ nonprofit Democracy in Color, has spent $1.5 million on voter engagement to elect Abrams.

The outside cash provides Abrams an edge, even though both candidates’ campaigns had brought in about $2.3 million each as of the end of March. (Evans, who is wealthy from her work winning one of the largest Medicare fraud cases in U.S. history, self-funded most of her haul.)

And from his sizable perch on Twitter, Phillips has praised high-ranking Democrats for backing Abrams ― and lambasted others, including former Vice President Joe Biden, for failing to do so.

Am I correct in my understanding that @JoeBiden was actually IN Atlanta five days before the primary election and still has not endorsed @staceyabrams? #GaPol — Steve Phillips (@StevePtweets) May 18, 2018

Biden aside, Abrams has rallied a truly impressive array of support from national Democratic Party leaders for her bid ranging from Sens. Kamala Harris (D-Calif.) and Cory Booker (D-N.J.) both of whom have stumped for her, to Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.) and Our Revolution, the progressive group that emerged out of his campaign. Abrams held a get-out-the-vote rally in Atlanta on Saturday where Ilyse Hogue, president of NARAL Pro-Choice America, and Valerie Jarrett, a former top adviser to then-President Barack Obama, both spoke.

Abrams’ supporters tend to speak about their enthusiasm for her in terms of the historic nature of her candidacy and the power it has to reshape politics in an increasingly purple state that is about one-third black.

“What is truly radical about Abrams’ campaign is that she is running to the left to grow the base,” said khalid kamau, a South Fulton city councilman who won his April 2017 race with the help of Our Revolution and the Democratic Socialists of America. (In accordance with the Yoruban African tradition, kamau spells his name with lowercase letters.)

“It will transform the state,” he added. “I don’t understand how anybody who lived through Barack Obama could not see that.”

Stacey Abrams speaks at a Young Democrats of Cobb County meeting on Nov. 16, 2017. Christopher Aluka Berry / Reuters

For her part, Evans is wagering that the story of her rise from a childhood of rural poverty, and her subsequent fight to protect the HOPE scholarship have the power to both excite Democratic base voters as well as some moderates who don’t always back the party.

It is a more traditional playbook embodied by former Gov. Roy Barnes, one of Evans’ most prominent backers and the last Democrat to occupy the governor’s mansion in Georgia.

The watchword of Evans’ campaign is “hope,” which she employs liberally to describe both her overall mission for the state, and her commitment to HOPE, the free college program that secured her a place in the middle class.

The program is also the greatest point of contention between Abrams and Evans ― a symbol of what Evans claims is Abrams’ shallow commitment to the policies she professes to champion. In 2011, with the program facing a shortfall, Abrams voted for a bill signed by Republican Gov. Nathan Deal that dramatically scaled back the program.

Abrams argues that with a small minority in the legislature, her participation was essential to limiting the scope of the damage and ensuring that Deal held state pre-K funding harmless. But Evans and many state Senate Democrats thought that Democratic leaders could have held out for a better deal, and to some extent, that no deal at all was better than giving Republicans bipartisan cover for the legislation.

In a 30-second ad narrated by a college-bound black woman, Evans highlighted the disproportionate impact of the HOPE cuts on the state’s African-American residents, citing a statistic that 97 percent of African-American residents lost access to full scholarships as a result of the 2011 law’s higher grade and SAT requirements.

“As governor, I’ll fully restore HOPE scholarships ― for all our kids,” Evans concludes at the end of the ad.

Abrams, by contrast, has proposed something she calls “HOPE 2.0” that would make the program more needs-based, rather than merit-based.

Tami Chappell / Reuters

Evans has also attacked Abrams for failing to disclose to her colleagues that her small business was the recipient of a state contract while she was negotiating with Deal. Abrams, who disclosed her ties to the company on official disclosure forms, maintains that her conduct has both legal and ethical, since she walled herself off from the company’s dealings with the state government.

In addition, Abrams has elicited scrutiny for a host of other votes, from a Republican-led gerrymandering bill about which she claims to have been misled, to legislation scaling back early voting, which she says provided financial relief to rural communities without restricting access to the ballot box.

The plausibility of Abrams’ explanations notwithstanding, her controversial record as a House Democratic leader has won her her fair share of critics, among whom are many of the state’s current and former African-American elected officials.

Abrams critics who have endorsed Evans include former state Senate minority whip Vincent Fort, and current state Reps. Ronnie Mabra, Dar’Shun Kendrick and Keisha Waites.

Atlanta Mayor Keisha Lance Bottoms (D) has not formally endorsed Evans, but she donated $1,000 through her campaign fund to the candidate.

Evans has her own share of less-than-progressive votes, including support for a bill making it easier for the state to take over troubled schools, and legislation that would have eased regulations on debt settlement companies that serve low-income borrowers. (The former became law; the latter went nowhere.)

But Evans does not portray herself as the most progressive candidate in the race, making her voting seem less out of step with her image. If she defies the odds and beats Abrams, it may be due to a sense among some voters that Abrams’ campaign-trail rhetoric simply doesn’t match her record.Mariah Carey opened up about living with bipolar II disorder in a revealing new interview with People magazine published Wednesday.

Carey said she was first diagnosed in 2001, but only recently began seeking treatment.

“Until recently I lived in denial and isolation and in constant fear someone would expose me,” the 48-year-old said. “It was too heavy a burden to carry and I simply couldn’t do that anymore.”

Carey told People that she goes to therapy and takes medication for bipolar II disorder, which is marked by episodes of depression and hypomania. Hypomania is characterized by mild bouts of hyperactivity and elation.

At first, the singer said she just thought she had a “severe sleep disorder.”

“I was irritable and in constant fear of letting people down. It turns out that I was experiencing a form of mania,” she said. “Eventually I would just hit a wall. I guess my depressive episodes were characterized by having very low energy. I would feel so lonely and sad — even guilty that I wasn’t doing what I needed to be doing for my career.”

The singer is not alone in her experience. The National Alliance on Mental Health estimates that about 2.6 percent of the U.S. population is affected by bipolar disorder (an umbrella term that includes bipolar II).

Now that she’s been seeking treatment, Carey said that she’s in a “really good place right now.”

“I’m comfortable discussing my struggles with bipolar II disorder. I’m hopeful we can get to a place where the stigma is lifted from people going through anything alone,” Carey said. “It can be incredibly isolating. It does not have to define you and I refuse to allow it to define me or control me.”

Demi Lovato is another celebrity who has been open about her bipolar disorder diagnosis and how treatment has helped her manage the condition.

In an interview with Ellen DeGeneres last year, the singer said “I’m bipolar and proud and I live well with it.”

“I think that that’s the goal for everyone with a mental illness,” Lovato explained. “The reality is, one in five Americans has a mental health condition, so as long as they get the right treatment team in place and the right treatment plan, then they can live well with it.”

Amen to that.

Head here to read the rest of Carey’s interview with People, or pick up a copy when the magazine hits newsstands on Friday, April 13.Trump, as a candidate and before, railed against former President Barack Obama for doing exactly what he did himself on Wednesday: giving away his military plans.

His rants date back to 2013, when Obama announced that the use of chemical weapons in Syria would represent a “red line” that could spur a U.S. military response:Cynthia Nixon’s campaign for governor continues with her latest video about why she supports legalizing the use of recreational marijuana in New York.

“There are a lot of good reasons for legalizing marijuana, but for me, it comes down to this: We have to stop putting people of color in jail for something that white people do with impunity,” said Nixon in a video posted on Twitter Wednesday.

Nixon, who in March announced her run against incumbent governor Andrew Cuomo in the upcoming Democratic primary, notes in the video that 80 percent of New Yorkers arrested for marijuana are black or Latino.

“The simple truth is, for white people, the use of marijuana has effectively been legal for a long time,” she says. “Isn’t it time we legalize it for everybody else?”

A lot of you have been asking about my position on marijuana. Here it is. pic.twitter.com/iEKLHgClFN — Cynthia Nixon (@CynthiaNixon) April 11, 2018

While Nixon has spoken out about recreational legalization in New York before, this discussion on how it correlates to the issue of racial inequality is particularly refreshing and needed.

The gubernatorial candidate and former actress goes on to say in her campaign video that white people and people of color use marijuana at roughly the same rates. Yet black people in New York are arrested or detained for marijuana 4.5 times more than white people, according to a report by the ACLU.

“The consequences follow people for the rest of their lives, making it harder to get jobs or housing, and for noncitizens, putting them in the crosshairs of deportation,” she says.

80% of New Yorkers arrested for marijuana are black or Latino. pic.twitter.com/pAjugEXXum — Cynthia Nixon (@CynthiaNixon) April 11, 2018

The 52-year-old also says that legalizing would “generate millions of dollars in tax revenue” and “create new agricultural opportunities for New York’s farmers.”

Currently, eight other states and Washington, D.C., have legalized marijuana for recreational use. New York state does have a medical marijuana program, though it is extremely restrictive.

Cynthia Nixon speaks to people at the Bethesda Healing Center in Brooklyn, New York, on March 20, 2018. TIMOTHY A. CLARY via Getty Images

Current New York governor Andrew Cuomo (D) had previously called marijuana a “gateway drug” in 2017, though his stance has since shifted slightly. In January 2018, Cuomo proposed a study in his 2018 budget plan that explores the potential impacts of recreational marijuana use in New York State.

Of the study, Cuomo said: “If it was legalized in Jersey and it was legal in Massachusetts and the federal government allowed it to go ahead, what would that do to New York, because it’s right in the middle? This is an important topic, it’s a hotly debated topic, pardon the pun, and it’d be nice to have the facts in the middle of the debate once in a while.”

The study will now move forward after the state’s $168 million state budget was approved in March.Rapper Eve, left, shared how Janet Jackson, right, took care of her at an award show after-party. Getty Images/HuffPost

The first time Eve met Janet Jackson was less than ideal.

The rapper and co-host of CBS’s “The Talk” revealed during a segment on Tuesday that the first time she met Jackson was at a party after her drink had been spiked. Eve told her co-hosts Sharon Osbourne, Julie Chen, Sara Gilbert and Sheryl Underwood that she was at an after-party for an award show when she started feeling “crazy.”

“I was kind of walking around putting my drink down, talking to people, coming back, picking my drink up,” she said. “Probably about an hour after the last time I picked my drink up, I started feeling crazy. Not drunk.”

Eve said she began crying because she knew something was really wrong.

“I get put into a room and I’m crying and I’m like, ‘Guys, I’m telling you something’s wrong, something’s wrong,’” she recalled. “And then I hear this really soft voice that’s like, ‘It’s OK, it’s OK, I’ll take care of it.’”

And, of course, it turned out to be the one and only Janet Jackson who had come to Eve’s rescue.

“And she’s like, ‘I got this, don’t worry, relax, calm down,’” Eve said of Jackson.

Watch the full clip below.Missouri Gov. Eric Greitens announced Wednesday that he’s the target of a “political witch hunt” as he held a news conference before the release of a state House committee’s report on its investigation into accusations of sexual misconduct and blackmail.

“Here today, a report will make accusations about my personal life. We fully expect the report being released tonight will include lies and falsehoods. I want to say again what I said in the beginning: This is a political witch hunt,” Greitens told reporters.

The first-term Republican governor has been under investigation after admitting to an extramarital affair with his hairdresser. The woman claims Greitens took nude photographs of her without her consent and that the governor attempted to blackmail her. The governor’s accuser claimed on Monday that she may have had a “dream or vision” of nude photos being taken of her, but her attorney says the governor has admitted taking photos of her more than once.

Greitens, who denies trying to blackmail her, was indicted in February on charges of first-degree felony invasion of privacy over the photographs, according to CNN. He is also the subject of an FBI inquiry and House special investigative committee inquiry in Missouri.

The House committee is expected to release its report Wednesday evening.

The governor, a married father of two children, called his affair a “personal mistake” and told reporters that the report would be full of “false, outlandish and salacious accusations.” Greitens continually referred to his court date “in 33 days” and insisted that he would be exonerated at trial.

“Keep in mind how this was written: No standards of evidence were used, no witnesses were cross-examined, no one who was representing me was allowed in the room and no members of the press or the public were allowed in the room,” Greitens said. “If the committee had waited 33 days, they would have received a full set of facts. Instead, it was decided to publish an incomplete document made in secret.”

Greitens continued to characterize the allegations against him as an “absurd political witch hunt” that dates to the beginning of his political career. He went on to compare the investigations into his behavior to those occurring in Washington D.C., alluding to the special counsel investigation into President Donald Trump’s 2016 campaign ties to Russia.Conservative commenters Diamond (left) and Silk appear in a photo posted to Facebook on April 6. Diamond and Silk

Members of Congress managed to ask Mark Zuckerberg several questions about Diamond and Silk during the Facebook founder’s testimony on Capitol Hill this week.

And now, an answer to your question: Who?

Diamond and Silk are famous on the internet ― so you may not have heard of them in real life.

Billing themselves as President Donald Trump’s “most outspoken and loyal supporters,” the sisters have earned a following by posting fervid videos of their conservative views to social media.

During Trump’s 2016 campaign they expressed support for his rhetoric on controversial issues including race and immigration through their videos and Fox News appearances. They ended up traveling around the country to stump for him as representatives of a very small group of black, female Trump supporters.

Hailing from North Carolina, the sisters ― real names Lynette Hardaway (Diamond) and Rochelle Richardson (Silk) ― have shown an enthusiasm for pretty much everything Trump does that appears unmatched by any in the Republican establishment.

The duo’s most popular video on YouTube to date is an August 2015 defense of Trump after then-Fox News host Megyn Kelly asked during a candidate debate about the misogynistic language he used on Twitter. It has 1.7 million views. On Facebook, a broad defense of Trump posted in November 2015 has earned 1.9 million views.

Despite their popularity and the fact they’ve now been posting for years, Facebook earlier this month deemed their page ― which counts more than 1.4 million likes ― as “unsafe to the community.”

The sisters in a post said they had been corresponding with Facebook since September because they believed the site had throttled their reach and was not sending out notifications to fans when they had new content. On April 6, they found out why, and were told the decision was “final.”

Just so you know, we will always have our Presidents back.

"Don't Get It Twisted!"



(Official White House Photo by Shealah Craighead) pic.twitter.com/d5YwEqbT3g — Diamond and Silk® (@DiamondandSilk) March 24, 2018

In a statement issued Monday, Facebook said the message Diamond and Silk received about their content was “inaccurate,” and the company “looks forward” to speaking with the sisters about the problem.

Which brings us to Congress.

As Zuckerberg sat answering questions on Cambridge Analytica ― the research group accused of exploiting user data to help Trump’s 2016 campaign ― multiple lawmakers used the moment to bring up Facebook’s imbroglio with Diamond and Silk, alleging censorship.

Sen. Ted Cruz (R-Texas) inquired about bias by Facebook on Tuesday, followed by Reps. Joe Barton (R-Texas) and Marsha Blackburn (R-Tenn.) on Wednesday.

“Diamond and Silk are not terrorism,” Blackburn told Zuckerberg.

Zuckerberg responded by saying his team had “made an enforcement error, and we’ve already gotten in touch with them to reverse it.”Michael Avenatti, the attorney for porn star Stormy Daniels, predicted that the personal attorney for President Donald Trump will crumble under pressure.

“Any guy, in my experience, who has to constantly tell you how tough he is ... is not a tough guy,” Avenatti said of Michael Cohen, the attorney who was the subject of FBI raids on Monday.

“He’s closer to a purse puppy than a tough guy,” Avenatti said.

Cohen paid $130,000 as part of a nondisclosure agreement just before the 2016 election to Daniels, who claims she had an affair with Trump in 2006.

The New York Times reported that “one of many topics” investigators were looking at included records related to that payment, with The Washington Post reporting that investigators were specifically looking at allegations of bank fraud and campaign finance violations.

Avenatti said Trump set his longtime fixer up to be his fall guy but warned the president that Cohen ultimately won’t take the fall because he won’t be able to take the heat.

“He picked the wrong fixer. He trusted too many personal secrets with Michael Cohen,” he said. “And I think Michael Cohen is going to fold like a cheap deck of cards on Mr. Trump, and the results are going to be very, very bad.”Moviegoers nationwide got their first look at “Anything,” a controversial drama starring Matt Bomer as a transgender woman, with the debut of the film’s trailer this week.

Based on Timothy McNeil’s play of the same name, “Anything” follows widower Early (played by John Carroll Lynch), who moves from Mississippi to Los Angeles after the death of his wife. As Early begins to settle into his new city, he strikes up an unlikely relationship with Freda (Bomer), a trans sex worker who lives next door. (Catch the full trailer above.)

“Anything” earned respectable reviews when it debuted at the 2017 Los Angeles Film Festival, with The Hollywood Reporter calling it a “touching, tentative love story.” However, the movie has been the source of heavy controversy since Bomer was announced to star in 2016.

Among those to express their distaste over the decision to hire a cisgender male actor to portray a trans character was actress Jen Richards, who tweeted that she’d auditioned for the role of Freda:

I auditioned for this. I told them they shouldn't have a cis man play a trans woman. They didn't care. https://t.co/T7YFe6OeX9 — Jen Richards (@SmartAssJen) August 28, 2016

and “Sense8” star Jamie Clayton:

I really hope you both choose to do some actual good for the trans community one day. @MRodOfficial @MattBomer https://t.co/9WHwNu7HFm — Jamie Clayton (@MsJamieClayton) August 30, 2016

Both Clayton and Richards identify as transgender in real life.

The performers certainly had a point. Two recent Hollywood hits ― 2013’s “The Dallas Buyers Club” and 2015’s “The Danish Girl”― have featured transgender storylines, with trans characters portrayed by cisgender actors Jared Leto and Eddie Redmayne, respectively.

Mark Ruffalo, who starred opposite Bomer in “The Normal Heart” and is an executive producer of “Anything,” said he understood the trans community’s concerns after the controversy arose.

To the Trans community. I hear you. It's wrenching to you see you in this pain. I am glad we are having this conversation. It's time. — Mark Ruffalo (@MarkRuffalo) August 31, 2016

In all honesty I suggested Matt for the role after the profound experience I had with him while making "The Normal Heart". — Mark Ruffalo (@MarkRuffalo) August 31, 2016

Ruffalo nonetheless defended Bomer’s casting, saying the “White Collar” star “poured his heart and soul into this part.”

The debate will likely resume as the film’s release date gets closer. However, associate producer Kylene K. Steele, who identifies as trans, is encouraging viewers to approach “Anything” with “an open heart and an open mind.”

“Matt did an amazing job, and he’s a phenomenal actor,” Steele told IndieWire. Acknowledging she was “really upset” by the criticisms in advance of the movie’s release, she added: “You shouldn’t be judged by who the person’s gender is, if they can pretend and be the person that’s fit for the role, then that’s the way it should be.”

Ultimately, Steele said she hopes the message of “Anything” will resound beyond viewers who identify as LGBTQ.

“It’s about being human. It’s not about being trans, it’s not about being straight, it’s not about being gay,” she said. “I think if people come to the film, they’ll see it is just love, it is compassion, I hope they see it’s a human thing, seeing beauty in everything, [and] what love can do.”During the casting of "Killing Eve," Sandra Oh realized how much she'd internalized the racism of the entertainment industry. Noam Galai via Getty Images

Actress Sandra Oh, best known for her role as Dr. Cristina Yang on “Grey’s Anatomy,” recently opened up about how racism in Hollywood has affected her life.

Oh, who is starring in BBC America’s new drama series “Killing Eve,” spoke to Vulture about a revelation she had when she was first talking with her agent, Nancy, about the show. Oh said she suddenly realized just how much she’d “internalized” the industry’s racism.

“I was quickly scrolling down the script, and I can’t really tell you what I was looking for. So I’m like, ‘So, Nancy, I don’t understand, what’s the part?’” the Korean-Canadian actress recalled in a Vulture article posted this week. “And Nancy goes, ‘Sweetheart, it’s Eve, it’s Eve.’ In that moment, I did not assume the offer was for Eve. I think about that moment a lot. Of just going, how deep have I internalized this? [So] many years of being seen [a certain way], it deeply, deeply, deeply affects us. It’s like, how does racism define your work?”

She’d instinctively assumed that she wasn’t being considered for a lead role, Oh explained. And she noted that Hollywood’s treatment of people of color had certainly contributed to her mindset.

“I didn’t even assume when being offered something that I would be one of the central storytellers. Why?” she told Vulture. “After being told to see things a certain way for decades, you realize, ‘Oh my God! They brainwashed me!’ I was brainwashed!”

“Killing Eve” marks the first time that the actress has been cast in a lead role on a major television series. But Oh was widely regarded as a pioneer even before the new program for her time on “Grey’s Anatomy.” She was one of the only regular Asian cast members on U.S. television and even received a Golden Globe award for her performance. The significance of that role to those of Asian descent isn’t lost on Oh, either.

“Young Asian people who come up to me have a certain vibration, and I receive it, and I understand it, and I feel emotional just talking about it,” Oh told Vanity Fair this month. “I’m here for you. And I’ll continue doing everything I can to fill something that I know you need right now, that we don’t yet have as a community.”

Against the backdrop of the current entertainment landscape, Oh’s achievements are particularly impressive. A study of diversity in Hollywood found that barely more than 3 percent of film roles in 2016 went to Asian actors, compared with the more than 78 percent that went to white actors. In broadcast scripted shows, 5 percent of the roles during the 2015-2016 season went to Asian actors, whereas 66 percent went to white actors. The numbers are even bleaker when examining roles in cable scripted shows.House Speaker Paul Ryan (R-Wis.) has spent the better part of his political career trying to shred America’s social safety net, so that literally tens of millions of Americans would lose supports they use to get food, health care and pay their most basic bills.

Ryan, who announced Wednesday that he won’t seek re-election this fall, mostly hasn’t succeeded in this effort. But he has left an indelible impact on the Republican Party’s identity.

As an architect of the GOP’s budget blueprints, its vice presidential nominee in 2012 and the leader of the House’s majority caucus since 2015, Ryan has laid out a detailed, sweeping agenda of lower taxes and government spending. If ever fully enacted, it would arguably amount to the most radical domestic policy overhaul since the mid-1960s.

Ryan’s one big victory was on taxes ― he was instrumental in writing and passing the bill that President Donald Trump signed late last year. It will dramatically reduce what the wealthiest Americans pay, realizing one of Ryan’s long-held dreams.

But so far, at least, Republicans haven’t privatized Medicare, repealed the Affordable Care Act, or transformed programs like food stamps into smaller, state-run initiatives. And while most Republicans still endorse these proposals, the public does not.

Ultimately, that could be Ryan’s true legacy: Tethering his party to an extreme, deeply conservative agenda that the public rejects, starting with the November midterm elections.

Ryanism, Randism, And Republicans

Ryan first gained national attention in 2010 at a televised, bipartisan meeting on the effort to pass then-President Barack Obama’s health care reform bill. He’d been a representative for about a decade then. He distinguished himself among GOP attendees at the session with Obama for his knowledge of policy intricacy and ability to articulate a deeply conservative vision of government that would spend and do much less.

The ensuing midterms gave Republicans control of the House and gave Ryan, incoming chairman of the budget committee, a chance to flesh out that agenda. The resulting proposal, known as the “Path to Prosperity,” called for giving states more flexibility to administer programs such as the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program, typically referred to as food stamps.

Ryan’s ideas for those programs built on the concept of “welfare reform” legislation Congress passed in 1996, which put a lid on federal funding and delegated more authority to states ― ultimately resulting in far fewer eligible Americans receiving benefits. Ryan had worked on Capitol Hill as a staffer at the time.

Perhaps the most striking element of Ryan’s proposal was its call to reinvent Medicare, the wildly popular program for the elderly that politicians attack at their own peril.

Ryan promised not to alter the program for people currently on it or within 10 years of eligibility. But he proposed to treat future beneficiaries differently, providing them with a voucher for private insurance rather than a guarantee of benefits. Over time, the voucher would lose value relative to health care costs, experts predicted, so that seniors would be increasingly responsible for their own medical bills.

After Ryan released a slightly revised version of the budget one year later, Robert Greenstein, president of the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, called it “a remarkable document — one that, for most of the past half-century, would have been outside the bounds of mainstream discussion due to its extreme nature.”

If enacted, Greenstein warned, it would produce “the largest redistribution of income from the bottom to the top in modern U.S. history,”

Ryan insisted such redistribution would ultimately leave the poor better off, in part by improving the economy as a whole. But he also justified his agenda in moral terms, speaking frequently about “makers” (i.e., people who work and earn good incomes) and “takers” (i.e., lazy people who subsist on government assistance).

Ryan has cited Ayn Rand, the libertarian philosopher, as a major influence. At a 2005 conference, audio of which the Atlantic eventually obtained, he said, “It is the morality of what is occurring right now, and how it offends the morality of individuals working toward their own free will to produce, to achieve, to succeed, that is under attack, and it is that what I think Ayn Rand would be commenting on.”

After the 2012 presidential election, Ryan made a concerted effort to put the makers-and-takers rhetoric behind. He traveled the country visiting private-sector charities that rehabilitated drug addicts and helped them find jobs.

But his agenda never really changed.

The poverty tour resulted in a book and a new policy pitch that simply applied the “welfare reform” playbook to all federal poverty programs, albeit with a greater emphasis on case management for poor people.

And just last year, during a public discussion of Medicaid with National Review editor Rich Lowry, he remarked that “we’ve been dreaming” about cuts to such social programs “since you and I were drinking out of a keg.”

Ryan As The Wonk King

Ryan was hardly the first Republican to call for a sweeping rollback of New Deal and Great Society programs. Ryan’s agenda was in many ways a direct descendant of the plans that Newt Gingrich, the Georgia Republican, proposed and tried to enact when he became House Speaker in 1995.

But quite unlike Gingrich, who was famous for his rhetorical and stylistic intemperance, Ryan cultivated an image as a calm, serious thinker ― and as a candid one, too. Over and over again Ryan warned of a “debt crisis” and, sometimes, blamed previous GOP congressional leaders for their complicity in making deficits bigger during the presidency of George W. Bush.

Ryan frequently presented his plans as an attempt to restore fiscal order and gained a reputation as a serious fiscal hawk. In 2011, the Committee for a Responsible Federal Budget gave Ryan one of its “fiscy” awards.

That recognition did not age well. Ryan turned out to be as committed to fiscal responsibility as his Republican predecessors were ― which is to say, he wasn’t very committed at all, as a handful of critics had long warned. (One of them was New York Times columnist Paul Krugman, who in 2010 called Ryan a “flimflam man.”) Although he didn’t like to advertise it, he too had voted for those deficit-busting proposals of the Bush era.

And once Ryan was in charge of writing GOP budgets, starting in 2011, he relied heavily on generous assumptions about economic growth and unspecified spending cuts that nobody seriously believed Congress would make.

An Extreme Agenda ― And An Unpopular One

When Trump became president, Ryan finally had the opportunity he’d coveted for so long ― a chance to use his blueprint and transform public policy. On taxes he got his way, more or less. Although the final bill did not enact many of the changes he desired, it gave enormous new breaks to the very wealthiest Americans, while handing only a pittance to the middle class.

The new law’s corporate tax cut is permanent, while the individual tax cuts aren’t ― which means that the majority of Americans would actually end up paying more, although Republicans have made clear their hopes that lawmakers will eventually make those cuts permanent, as well.

The tax cuts are likely to add $1.5 trillion to the deficit, according to the Congressional Budget Office. If all the reductions become permanent, the impact will be even larger.

Ryan’s assault on government programs fared rather differently.

Immediately after Trump’s election, Ryan joined with his Senate counterpart, Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.), to vow immediate action on repealing the Affordable Care Act. But although wiping out “Obamacare” had become the GOP’s defining cause, and one Trump had identified as his top priority, multiple efforts to pass sweeping repeal bills failed.

The bill shepherded through the House couldn’t get Senate approval, the Senate couldn’t come together on its own measure, and in the end Republicans had to settle on repeal of the law’s individual mandate, the financial penalty for people who don’t have coverage. That’s a meaningful change to the law, and one that conservatives celebrated, but it leaves most of the Affordable Care Act’s edifice in place.

The effort didn’t fail by much. A key Senate bill fell just one vote short when Sen. John McCain (R-Ariz.) issued a dramatic, unexpected thumbs down on the floor. But by then the measure was already deeply unpopular and it was no surprise why.

For all of the Affordable Care Act’s shortcomings and despite the public’s decidedly mixed feelings about it, people overwhelmingly supported the new protections for pre-existing conditions and the expansion of insurance ― through both Medicaid and subsidized private coverage ― that had put medical care within reach for millions.

Most Republicans haven’t given up on repeal, or the rest of Ryan’s agenda for that matter. If Republicans continue to hold governing majorities in Congress, they will have yet another opportunity to enact at least some of his proposals, carrying on Ryan’s crusade while he cheers on from the sidelines.