Students in Los Angeles protest against gun violence during the National School Walkout on April 20. NurPhoto via Getty Images

Lawmakers in the California Assembly voted Monday to advance a bill that would authorize employers, co-workers and school personnel to request the temporary confiscation of guns from individuals determined to pose a danger to themselves or others.

The legislation, AB 2888, would build on California’s existing “red flag” law, passed in 2014 following a deadly shooting spree in Isla Vista. The 22-year-old gunman in that case had reportedly exhibited a number of warning signs before killing six people, and then himself, in the rampage.

The current red flag law gives family members, roommates and law enforcement officers the power to petition the court to remove firearms from individuals who have displayed dangerous behavior. Judges then hold a hearing to determine whether to order the gun owner to surrender their firearms and stay away from all guns, typically for a year, although the restraining orders can be extended beyond that based on additional evidence.

The new bill would expand the list of people who can file for such restraining orders to include a subject’s employer and co-workers and the staff of a high school or college that the person has attended in the last six months.

“We’re grappling with this issue of gun violence as a nation,” bill sponsor Assemblyman Phil Ting (D) told HuffPost. “I’ve never said this is a panacea, but it’s just one of many solutions we have to offer.”

The state’s courts have issued around 200 restraining orders to prevent gun violence since the original law went into effect in 2016, according to Ting. He said his bill would provide additional opportunities to catch troubling behavior.

“Once you move away from home and you’re an adult, you may not spend time with your family,” said Ting. “You may not have much interaction with law enforcement, but chances are if you’re working, you see your co-workers every day for eight-plus hours a day, and you’re with them not just in the work environment but socially.”

Ting pointed to the February massacre in Parkland, Florida, as a case in which a red flag law ― and specifically this sort of broader statute ― might have been able to save lives. Although the suspect in that shooting, a 19-year-old former student at the high school, had attracted the attention of local authorities on numerous occasions before his attack, school staff had also reported concerning behavior as far back as 2016. Florida is among the nine states with a red flag law and one of the four to have ushered through legislation since the Parkland shooting.

In 2016, Ting filed a similar bill to broaden California’s red flag law, following the mass shooting in San Bernardino, which began at an office holiday party. Gov. Jerry Brown (D) ultimately vetoed the legislation, calling it “premature to enact a further expansion” even as the initial law was just going into effect.

A year later, Ting’s San Francisco area district faced its own mass shooting when a disgruntled UPS employee walked into his workplace and fatally shot three colleagues, before killing himself.

When it comes to school safety specifically, restraining orders aimed at stopping gun violence are only part of the equation, said Amanda Wilcox, legislative chair of the California chapters of the Brady Campaign to Prevent Gun Violence. She noted a California law that holds parents criminally liable if they leave their gun where a child can access it and mentioned other resources, like the Brady campaign’s Speak Up hotline, that allow students to anonymously report violent threats made by their peers.

“Practices and law and policies that make homes safer would also keep schools safer,” she told HuffPost.

Wilcox said she supports Ting’s bill and suggested that the relatively few restraining orders issued in the past two years under the original law show that it isn’t being overused, as opponents argued it would be.

“The standards of proof are high in the law,” she said. “It probably needs to be used more, but also under the law it’s supposed to be a last resort if there’s not another way to remove the guns.”

With more time to educate Californians on how the red-flag process works, Wilcox said she’s hopeful these restraining orders will be able to keep more guns out of the hands of dangerous individuals.

“What I don’t want is a case where it could have been used and should have been used and wasn’t, and someone is dead because of that,” she said.Fox News host Laura Ingraham returned to the airwaves on Monday, ready to fight what she described as the “left’s propaganda.” But by Tuesday morning, it seemed her week-long Easter vacation wasn’t long enough to stop the flood of sponsors pulling their ads from “The Ingraham Angle” over comments she made about school shooting survivor David Hogg.

Meal delivery service Blue Apron and dietary supplement maker SlimFast both ran spots on “The Laura Ingraham Angle” on Monday. But amid questions from media outlets and angry posts from customers on social media, both companies announced they would no longer do so in the future:

We were unaware that our ad would be running on The Laura Ingraham Angle last night. We will no longer be advertising on the show, and will be working with our media buying partners to more closely monitor where our ads appear going forward. — Blue Apron (@blueapron) April 10, 2018

We have stopped advertising on the Laura Ingraham show and have no plans to resume in the near future. We are also monitoring all ad placements carefully. — SlimFast (@SlimFast) April 10, 2018

IBM, the lone blue-chip advertiser on Ingraham’s program, told The Wrap on Wednesday it had also pulled its ad spots.

Ingraham drew fierce criticism last month after she mocked Hogg, 17, on Twitter for not getting into some of his preferred colleges. Hogg responded by calling on advertisers to boycott her program.

Many did so.

Ingraham issued an apology on Twitter a day after her initial post, but the action did little to stem the departures. At least 19 companies have pulled their spots from the program, including Hulu, Nestle, TripAdvisor and Liberty Mutual. Allstate also quietly dropped the show, saying her comments were “inconsistent with our values.”

In contrast, some companies ― including My Pillow ― announced that they had no intention of pulling their ads. My Pillow ran two spots on Monday.Rep. Devin Nunes (R-Calif.), a staunch supporter of Donald Trump, said on Tuesday night that he’s ready to begin impeachment proceedings. Just not against the president.

Nunes told Fox News that he was ready to hold FBI Director Christopher Wray and Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein in contempt of Congress for failing to provide documents related to the 2016 counterintelligence investigation into Russian interference in the election and possible ties to the Trump campaign.

Nunes even appeared to give a deadline of Wednesday evening, warning it “will get really complicated” after that.

“We’re not going to just hold in contempt,” he told Laura Ingraham. “We will have a plan to hold in contempt and to impeach.”

“To impeach Christopher Wray?” Ingraham asked.

“Absolutely,” Nunes replied.

“Rod Rosenstein?”

“We’re not messing around here.”

Nunes also predicted it wouldn’t reach that point because the documents would be turned over.The New York Times editorial board has issued another searing indictment on President Donald Trump’s character and leadership.

In a blistering piece published Tuesday, the Times’ editorial board taunted the president about Monday’s FBI raid of the office of Michael Cohen, Trump’s personal lawyer, and warned that “the law is coming.”

“Mr. Trump has spent his career in the company of developers and celebrities, and also of grifters, cons, sharks, goons and crooks,” the editorial board wrote. “He cuts corners, he lies, he cheats, he brags about it, and for the most part, he’s gotten away with it, protected by threats of litigation, hush money and his own bravado.”

“Those methods may be proving to have their limits when they are applied from the Oval Office,” it continued. “Though Republican leaders in Congress still keep a cowardly silence, Mr. Trump now has real reason to be afraid.”

Trump has been fuming since news broke of the FBI raid on Cohen’s office. The search warrant was reportedly executed by the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Southern District of New York following a tip from special counsel Robert Mueller, the head of a federal probe into whether Trump’s 2016 presidential campaign colluded with Russia.

Trump on Monday floated the idea of firing Mueller, despite both Democratic and Republican lawmakers warning him not to do so. Trump appeared to call the raid “a total witch hunt” in a tweet Tuesday.

“One might ask, if this is all a big witch hunt and Mr. Trump has nothing illegal or untoward to hide, why does he care about the privilege in the first place?” the editorial board wrote. “The answer, of course, is that he has a lot to hide.”

In a final blow, the Times editorial board skewered Trump for calling the raid “an attack on our country.”

“No, Mr. Trump — a true attack on America is what happened on, say, Sept. 11, 2001. Remember that one?” it wrote. “Thousands of people lost their lives. Your response was to point out that the fall of the twin towers meant your building was now the tallest in downtown Manhattan. Of course, that also wasn’t true.”

This isn’t the first time the editorial board has unloaded on Trump. In January, it published a piece titled “Why Does President Trump Fear The Truth?” In March, it published another called “Donald Trump Sure Has A Problem With Democracy.”WASHINGTON ― House Speaker Paul Ryan (R-Wis.) told colleagues Wednesday morning that he will not seek re-election this year and will retire from the House in January, capping off months of rumors that he was mulling stepping down from his leadership post.

“This year will be my last year as a member of the House,” Ryan said during a news conference after meeting with House colleagues and staff. “To be clear, I am not resigning.”

Ryan cited his accomplishments, chiefly the recent GOP tax bill, and his desire to spend more time with his teenage children as his reasons for leaving, saying that time is “fleeting.”

“I have given this job everything I had, and I have no regrets,” he said.

After several news outlets reported the news early Wednesday morning, Brendan Buck, one of his top aides, confirmed Ryan’s announcement in a statement before the speaker’s news conference.

Republicans face an uphill battle in November’s midterm elections, with dozens of competitive seats and a record number of resignations and retirements. Democrats are eager to make the election a referendum on both Ryan and President Donald Trump.

Ryan dismissed suggestions that his agenda would hinder GOP chances in the midterms.

“We’re going to have a great record to run on,” Ryan told reporters Wednesday.

House Speaker Paul Ryan announced Wednesday that he will not seek re-election, after months of rumors to that effect. Yuri Gripas/Reuters

Trump responded on Twitter, offering his support and praise.

Speaker Paul Ryan is a truly good man, and while he will not be seeking re-election, he will leave a legacy of achievement that nobody can question. We are with you Paul! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) April 11, 2018

Speculation circulated in December over whether Ryan would leave the top House job in 2018 after GOP efforts to push through a massive tax bill ― one of Ryan’s legislative priorities ― or after the midterm elections.

In late March, Rep. Mark Amodei (R-Nev.) told a reporter that rumors had been swirling around the Capitol that Ryan would soon step down and be replaced by Majority Whip Steve Scalise (R-La.).

“You know, [former Speaker] John Boehner said the thing: ‘Hey, I checked all of the boxes I thought were important and I’m moving on to whatever else,’” Amodei told Nevada Newsmakers, referencing what he thought could be Ryan’s decision to leave office.

In response to those reports, aides to both Scalise and Ryan adamantly denied the rumors, and Scalise’s spokeswoman said the lawmaker “fully” supported his colleague to remain speaker.

Ryan reluctantly took on the job of House speaker following the abrupt departure of his predecessor, John Boehner (R-Ohio), in 2015. The Wisconsin lawmaker had a tumultuous tenure, faced with infighting among various factions of the GOP caucus and the political rise of Trump, for which he received much criticism, particularly for his often tepid responses to Trump’s incendiary comments.

But Ryan secured a major win late last year with the passage of an unpopular tax bill he had long touted.

“When people see their withholding improving, when they see the jobs occurring, when they see a simpler tax code, that’s what’s going to produce the results,” Ryan said of the bill’s critics in December. “And results are going to be what makes this popular.”

Twitter users mocked Ryan in February after he used an anecdote about a school secretary in Pennsylvania who saw her pay go up by $1.50 a week to suggest the tax bill was working.

“She said [that] will more than cover her Costco membership for the year,” he tweeted.

Responding to Ryan’s announcement, Democratic leaders on Wednesday called on Ryan to work with them during his final months in office.

Describing him as “an avid advocate for his point of view and for the people of his district,” House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi (D-Calif.) said in a statement that “Democrats are hopeful that he joins us to work constructively to advance better futures for all Americans.”

Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer (D-N.Y.) suggested Ryan should “break free from the hard-right factions of his caucus that have kept Congress from getting real things done,” citing “his newfound political freedom.”

The Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee called Ryan’s announcement a harbinger of what’s to come in the midterms.

“Unfortunately, for the many vulnerable House Republicans that Paul Ryan is abandoning, his historically unpopular and failed policies will hang over their reelections like a dark cloud,” the DCCC said in a statement. “Stay tuned for more retirements as Republicans increasingly realize that their midterm prospects are doomed.”Federal authorities are reportedly investigating Dominique Berry, left, and Randy Schenck, right. Fulton County Sheriff's Office

NEW ORLEANS ― Federal authorities are looking into a cross-country crime spree that allegedly targeted dozens of men on dating apps and adult websites and left at least one person dead, according to a lawyer close to the case.

The development comes just days after HuffPost detailed the account of Dominique Berry, 27, who claims she and her partner, 36-year-old Randy Schenck, committed the alleged crimes.

The U.S. Attorney’s Office and the FBI have “opened an investigation,” attorney Michael Kennedy told HuffPost on Wednesday.

Kennedy represents the family of Shawn Arthur, a 40-year-old man who was found dead in his Metairie, Louisiana, apartment in February 2017. Arthur’s death was labeled “accidental,” despite compelling evidence suggesting he was the victim of foul play.

HuffPost on Friday published the results of an investigation into Arthur’s death, revealing Berry ― a Louisiana native with a lengthy criminal record ― met Arthur on a dating app and was the last to see him alive.

Shawn Arthur during an undated Mardi Gras celebration. Bob Arthur

In a series of interviews, Berry related what she said really happened to Arthur, claiming she drugged him so that she and Schenck could steal his belongings.

“I didn’t know he was dead,” Berry said of Arthur.

Berry and Schenck are jailed in Georgia pending further proceedings on charges stemming from a different incident. Her account, along with other evidence uncovered by HuffPost, shows how she and Schenck skipped across the country, allegedly targeting men on dating apps in at least six states. Berry estimates they victimized up to 100 men.

Efforts to contact Schenck in jail or meet with him in person were unsuccessful. His attorney in Georgia, Kome Akpolo, said his client denies the charges and called Berry’s claims “allegations ― nothing more.”

The Jefferson Parish Sheriff’s Office last month began taking a fresh look at Arthur’s death after HuffPost raised questions.

Shane Jones, a spokesman for the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Eastern District of Louisiana, said the office could not confirm or deny an investigation into the matter, in accordance with Department of Justice policy.

Craig Betbeze, a spokesman for the FBI’s New Orleans field office, said he had “no comment” on the case.

Dr. Marianna Eserman, the forensic pathologist who performed the autopsy that declared Arthur’s death accidental, is holding a conference this week to determine whether Arthur’s death certificate should be amended.

“I asked if I could sit in on it and they would not allow it, so I asked them to notify me of the results,” said Kennedy, who hopes to hear the results sometime this week.

Bob Arthur inside his Missouri home. Joseph Rushmore for HuffPost

Arthur’s father, Bob Arthur, 69, told HuffPost on Wednesday that he is frustrated with Jefferson Parish authorities.

“It has been [two months] since they were notified there’s been a confession,” Bob Arthur said. “They’ve yet to extend us the courtesy of providing any information whatsoever. We have no idea what, if anything, they are actually doing.”

Kennedy said he’s encouraged by the involvement of federal authorities.

“We want justice for Shawn Arthur and all the victims,” Kennedy said. “This is chipping away at that block and getting us a step closer to that goal.”

More Information About The Shawn Arthur Case See GalleryWASHINGTON ― After initially apologizing and accepting responsibility for failing to protect user data, Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg declared support for some vague form of regulation as 44 senators questioned him during his first congressional testimony.

“My position is not that there should be no regulation,” Zuckerberg said. “I think the real question, as the internet becomes more important in people’s lives, is what is the right regulation?”

Under more direct questioning, the 33-year-old billionaire refused to endorse any specific regulatory proposal. He remained on the defensive, touting his company’s idealistic vision.

Sen. Ed Markey (D-Mass.) asked Zuckerberg if he would back legislation to mandate that digital platforms like Facebook obtain affirmative consent from users to collect their data for targeted advertising. Zuckerberg dodged: “In general, I think that principle is exactly right.”

When Sen. Maria Cantwell (D-Wash.) raised the possibility of the U.S. enacting data protection laws similar to the new rules about to go into effect in the European Union, he dodged again. “It’s certainly worth discussing,” he said.

These kinds of easy dodges were common throughout the hearing. Zuckerberg received numerous questions that revealed simple misunderstandings about what Facebook does and how it works. He answered questions about how the company makes money (“We sell ads”), how much data it collects, whether it sells data, how targeted advertising works and whether it combines data from its many products. It wasn’t clear whether the senators really understood how Facebook worked.

“Facebook’s size and complexity enabled Zuckerberg to elude numerous questions.”

The senators, in some cases, were just like most of Facebook’s more than 2 billion users; not well informed about what they signed up for.

Facebook is a complicated beast. It’s not just a social media site where you make meaningful connections with your friends and family, as Zuckerberg tried to sell it to the committee. It’s two social media sites: Facebook and Instagram. It’s three messaging apps: Messenger, Messenger Kids and WhatsApp. It’s a VPN that spies on competitor apps to steal their functions. It’s a virtual reality headset manufacturer. It’s a platform for other businesses, like games, and also professional researchers. It’s planning to release a digital home assistant device.

And, of course, it’s a digital advertising platform that uses the data collected through all of these products ― and also across the web ― to help advertisers narrowly target their wares to the audience of their choosing.

Facebook’s size and complexity enabled Zuckerberg to elude numerous questions. If a senator slipped up and said that Facebook sold data to advertisers, Zuckerberg pounced to explain that Facebook does not sell data. (It sells space on its website targeted to the users of the advertisers’ choosing, based on that data.) At times, it was not even clear that senators and Zuckerberg were using the same definitions for words.

Sen. John Kennedy (R-La.) asked whether a user could be on Facebook and not have their data shared. Zuckerberg’s said, “People can sign on and choose to not share things and just follow some friends or some pages and read content if that is what they want to do.” Essentially, you can choose not to have your data shared if you don’t ever post anything on Facebook. (This ignores the fact that Facebook tracks users across the web and collects data on them even if they don’t post anything.)

“The repeated confusion over how Facebook operated was not simply due to senators’ ages or lack of tech-savviness. ... It was because Facebook has not been clear about what it does with user data.”

While Zuckerberg hemmed and hawed about what regulations he supported, he was clear on what he opposed. He does not want Facebook labeled a monopoly.

Sen. Lindsey Graham (R-S.C.) asked, “If I buy a Ford and it doesn’t work well and I don’t like it, I can buy a Chevy. If I’m upset with Facebook, what’s the equivalent product that I can sign up for?”

Zuckerberg didn’t have an immediate answer. It seemed like he wouldn’t be able to name Snapchat without snickering.

Graham got more direct: “You don’t feel you have a monopoly?”

“Certainly doesn’t feel that way to me,” Zuckerberg responded.

Zuckerberg also does not want to risk a Federal Trade Commission investigation. Sen. Richard Blumenthal (D-Conn.) asked him whether he thought Facebook violated its 2011 agreement with the FTC to not mislead users about their privacy when it did not inform people whose information was compromised by the researchers connected with Cambridge Analytica.

“No, Senator,” Zuckerberg replied.

In the end, what the hearing may have revealed most is the gulf in understanding between Facebook’ makers and its users. The repeated confusion over how Facebook operated was not simply due to senators’ ages or lack of tech-savviness. At least, not in all cases. It was because Facebook has not been clear about what it does with user data.

“I hope what we do with data is not surprising to people,” Zuckerberg said at one point.Residents in the Dutch village of Jelsum aren’t singing the praises of recent changes to a nearby road.

Rumble strips were recently laid on the main drag in a strategic manner so that the road “sings” out the anthem of the Friesland region, a northwest area of the Netherlands, when a car drives along them at 40 mph, according to Reuters.

Sietske Poepjes, a local minister for infrastructure and cultural affairs, said the road was designed to promote the city of Leeuwarden, this year’s European Capital of Culture, and also test out a new paint for roads.

“It works amazingly well. You can hear the melody,” she told the BBC.

But what may be a novelty for drivers has been sheer torture to people who live near the road, like Sijtze Jansma.

“It’s simple, the Frisian national anthem is fun, but not 24 hours a day,” Jansma told the Dutch-language news station RTL News. “It really makes you deaf, you can not sit outside anymore, you do not sleep at night, and that vuvuzela whimper makes us crazy.”

Resident Ria Jansma said the road inspired some taxis to go across the lines as quickly as possible.

“We had the anthem played all night at high speed,” she said to Reuters.

The Friesland authority has taken note of the complaints and will remove the rumble strips later this week.Make no mistake: John Boehner’s career after serving as speaker of the House has really gone to pot.

Really.

The former Ohio congressman has signed on to the advisory board of Acreage Holdings, a cannabis company that cultivates, processes and dispenses marijuana in 11 U.S. states.

The decision to support weed comes nine years after the Republican claimed to be “unalterably opposed” to legalization, according to Bloomberg.

“Over the last 10 or 15 years, the American people’s attitudes have changed dramatically,” he said the website. “I find myself in that same position.”

Boehner said his position on pot evolved after he saw the positive effects the plant had on a friend dealing with serious back pain.

He said marijuana has great potential for helping veterans with PTSD and reversing the opioid epidemic. He also believes de-scheduling marijuana from the Drug Enforcement Agency’s controlled substances list, saying the move would help ease problems with the criminal justice system.

“When you look at the number of people in our state and federal penitentiaries, who are there for possession of small amounts of cannabis, you begin to really scratch your head,” Boehner said. “We have literally filled up our jails with people who are nonviolent and frankly do not belong there.”

I’m joining the board of #AcreageHoldings because my thinking on cannabis has evolved. I’m convinced de-scheduling the drug is needed so we can do research, help our veterans, and reverse the opioid epidemic ravaging our communities. @AcreageCannabis https://t.co/f5i9KcQD0W — John Boehner (@SpeakerBoehner) April 11, 2018

Former Massachusetts Governor William Weld (R), who has supported medical marijuana since the early 1990s, has also just joined the Acreage advisory board.

Like Boehner, he believes pot is the key to reversing the opioid epidemic.

“Cannabis could be perceived as an exit drug, not a gateway drug,” he told Bloomberg.

However, both politicians insist they’ve never tried marijuana in any of its forms.

Although President Donald Trump and Attorney General Jeff Sessions are no fans of marijuana, Boehner’s decision ― as unexpected as it may seem on the surface ― is actually mainstream.

A Gallup poll from October shows that 64 percent of Americans favor making marijuana legal. The same poll found that 51 percent of Republicans favored legalization, an increase of nine percentage points from the 2016 survey.

Acreage Founder and CEO Kevin Murphy believes having the two former politicians on the board will advance U.S. cannabis policy.

“The addition of [former] Speaker Boehner and [former] Governor Weld to our Board will lead to even greater access for patients by changing the conversation overnight,” Murphy said in a release. “These men have shaped the political course of our country for decades and now they will help shape the course of this nascent but ascendant industry.”

Some people in the cannabis industry believe Boehner’s budding involvement is a good thing.

Eddie Miller, Chief Strategy Officer for GreenRush.com, a business that is like GrubHub or Amazon for weed, thinks Boehner will lend new credibility to the whole cannabis industry.

“It will help [us] by bringing a new wave of support from conservative politicians that have never considered cannabis to be a legitimate industry,” he told HuffPost.

Erik Knutson, CEO of Keef Brands, which manufactures cannabis-infused cola and sparkling water, said Boehner’s pro-pot stance harkens the end of an era.

“With the majority of Republicans favoring legalization and states rights, it is no surprise that mainstream right-leaning politicians are beginning to gravitate towards Cannabis,” he told HuffPost by email. “Luckily for all of us, the Reagan era drug warrior platform is dying.”

However, attorney Perry N. Salzhauer, who specializes in cannabis industry law, worries Boehner’s involvement is a sign that big business could drive out the little guy.The FBI raid on lawyer Michael Cohen was reportedly prompted by a business entanglement that could sink his career ― but investigators are also seeking information about Cohen’s involvement in the New York City taxi business where he got his start, sources told CNN.

Since President Donald Trump’s personal attorney first entered the taxi business in the mid-1990s, his modest fleet has linked him to some of the most notorious owners in the industry. According to one recent estimate that Cohen himself disputes, he owns 34 medallions. Most are operated by Evgeny Freidman ― the “taxi king” of New York City until last spring, when the city stripped Friedman of his ability to hold a license. Freidman was arrested in June for an unpaid state tax bill totaling $5 million.

President Donald Trump's personal lawyer Michael Cohen arrives at the Hart Senate Office Building to be interviewed by the Senate Intelligence Committee on Sept. 19, 2017, in Washington, D.C. Mark Wilson via Getty Images

Cohen’s checkered business partnerships stretch back to the very beginning of his taxi ventures. According to documents HuffPost viewed, Cohen inherited part of his taxi empire from his wife’s parents. His father-in-law, Fima Shusterman, became embroiled in a major industry scandal, pleading guilty in 1993 to structuring money transactions to get around legal reporting requirements. Shusterman’s crime was endorsing a $38,000 check signed by Harold Wapnick, a tax preparer with a widespread reputation for helping taxi drivers avoid taxes. Wapnick was later convicted of tax evasion.

In the years following, Cohen joined or assumed ownership of five companies his in-laws had formed or financed to purchase taxicab medallions. And his alliances with questionable business partners continued as all five companies placed some of their medallions under “taxi king” Friedman’s management.

Cohen has also said he ran his business for many years with Simon Garber until selling Garber his stake in their shared business. That business later incurred a $1.6 million fine for a scheme allowing it to steal drivers’ wages.

Cohen has never been charged with a crime related to his involvement in the rough-and-tumble taxi industry. But in August, the New York Daily News reported that he and his wife, Laura, owe back taxes to the state topping $37,000.

Cohen has said he took out a home equity loan to pay adult film star Stormy Daniels $130,000 ahead of the 2016 presidential election and suggested that it was in exchange for her agreement to remain silent about her alleged sexual relationship with Trump. Cohen made the payment through a limited liability company and used his Trump Organization email account to arrange the payment.

Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein, the Trump-nominated No. 2 official at the Justice Department whom Trump has repeatedly criticized, signed off on the raid.

Cohen told CNN on Tuesday that while he was not happy his home, office and hotel room were raided, that the “members of the FBI that conducted the search and seizure were all extremely professional, courteous and respectful,” and that he thanked them when it concluded.

Cohen did not immediately respond to a request for comment for this story.Office of Management and Budget Director Mick Mulvaney, who is also acting director of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, testifies at a House Financial Services Committee hearing Wednesday. Aaron Bernstein / Reuters

When a poor person steals from the rich, Mick Mulvaney calls it a crime. When the rich steal from the poor, he calls it capitalism.

On Wednesday, the White House budget director appeared before the House Financial Services Committee to deliver the semiannual report of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, of which he is also the acting head, and to dispel rumors that he might run to replace Rep. Paul Ryan (R-Wis.) as speaker of the House. Mick Mulvaney is a busy man.

Or maybe not. A day before the hearing, The Associated Press reported that the CFPB has not taken a single enforcement action against any financial institution during the six months Mulvaney has been at the helm. Under his predecessor, Richard Cordray, the agency issued two to four fines and settlements per month. The CFPB has jurisdiction over payday lenders, banks, credit unions and just about any institution involved in extending credit to American families. The apparent improvement in corporate behavior beginning in November struck Democrats on the committee as an extraordinary coincidence.

“Are you telling me that every single financial institution in America has suddenly snapped into full compliance with every single consumer financial law since you took over?” demanded an incredulous Rep. Carolyn Maloney (D-N.Y.).

Mulvaney explained that the CFPB is still litigating 25 cases Cordray brought to court. “I have not burned the place down.” (That the prior director had been able to walk and chew gum simultaneously was not lost on anyone.)

During other rounds of questioning, Mulvaney emphasized that he is helping the bureau focus on “more quantitative analysis” in its work and hopes for more guidance from Congress on the meaning of the words “abusive,” “deceptive” and “material” for help in writing and enforcing regulations.

When he accepted the job, Mulvaney said that President Donald Trump had told him to “fix” the CFPB and “get it back to the point where it can protect people without trampling on capitalism.” In his written statement Wednesday, he informed Congress he had developed “new strategic priorities,” including an imperative to “recognize free markets” and “take a prudent, consistent and humble approach to enforcing the law.” No one will accuse him of inconsistency.

It was appropriate for Mulvaney to be defending his record on the day Ryan announced he would not run for re-election in November. Both men began their careers in Washington as leading lights of a younger generation of libertarian-leaning Republicans ferociously opposed to government spending and the regulatory state birthed by Franklin Delano Roosevelt’s New Deal. In the name of freedom, capitalism and competition, they hoped to slash programs for the poor and taxes for the rich, singing praises to the rule of law over the rule of men.

And yet both politicians have achieved their greatest purpose as agents of Trump, dutifully pressing ahead with narrow priorities while ignoring concerns about every element of their leader’s program that should have frightened small-government advocates ― epic military spending, violent deportations, Russian election-meddling and a soft spot for white nationalism. Their careers illustrate what the libertarian political project in America has become: an unprincipled protection racket for the rich. Ryan delivered them a smashing tax cut, while Mulvaney ensures that garden-variety predation goes uncorrected.

The CFPB is charged with monitoring markets and writing new regulations where necessary, but its primary purpose is to guard against simple theft. During his tenure as director, Cordray returned $12 billion in ill-gotten gains from financial firms to American households ― much of it from “undisclosed fees,” “unauthorized withdrawals” and similar behavior that people who did not go to law school refer to as “theft.” For this, congressional Republicans did their best to convert him into a national pariah, and the CFPB’s semiannual report to Congress became an exercise in ritualized paranoia.

Last year, Rep. Sean Duffy (R-Wis.) assailed Cordray for “racism,” “sexism,” “intimidation,” and “retaliation,” as Republicans took turns shouting down and denouncing Cordray in a spectacle described by the notoriously radical American Banker trade newspaper as an “onslaught, during which Cordray was often denied the ability to respond.” Rep. Patrick McHenry (R-N.C.) suggested Cordray’s agency had aided insider trading, while Rep. Ann Wagner (R-Mo.) declared that Cordray had somehow fallen down on the job by exposing the fake accounts scandal at Wells Fargo and fining the bank $100 million.

On Wednesday, Republicans could not quite give up the tradition, even with one of their own in the hot seat. Rep. Andy Barr (R-Ky.) denounced Cordray for conspiring against “our men and women in uniform,” while committee Chairman Jeb Hensarling (R-Texas) declared the CFPB “the single most powerful and unaccountable agency in the history of the Republic.”

Few people remember the day the United States Senate confirmed Richard Cordray as the day American liberty died, and so Hensarling had to invoke a few hypothetical outrages to get the thin crowd’s blood moving. The CFPB’s budget is derived from the Federal Reserve rather than through the congressional appropriations process. What would happen if the CFPB approved millions of dollars to outbid AT&T for the naming rights to the Dallas Cowboys stadium? What if the CFPB sent a T-shirt to every man, woman and child in the United States? A solemn Mulvaney said that no one could stop him from engaging in such despotism if he so chose. Hensarling found the situation “borderline insane,” and it was hard to disagree with him.

Even a congressional oversight hearing for the agency did not really count as oversight. Mulvaney repeatedly insisted that the 2010 Dodd-Frank law that created the CFPB did not require him to “answer questions” or “testify” before Congress, only to “appear.” Hensarling agreed that this was a matter of very grave concern, but the GOP dropped the affair after Rep. Stephen Lynch (D-Mass.) pointed out the exact same language is used in the Federal Reserve Act to compel the Fed chairman’s regular reports to Congress.

And yet, despite the habitually apocalyptic rhetoric from Republicans, it will likely be Democrats who deliver the most serious lasting damage to the CFPB under Trump. In March, the Senate passed a bank deregulation package that would, among other things, help banks hide racial discrimination in the mortgage market, undermine consumer protections for mobile home loans and eliminate a host of predatory lending standards for smaller banks. The bill was crafted by Senate Republicans and four Democrats ― Sens. Mark Warner (D-Va.), Heidi Heitkamp (D-N.D.), Jon Tester (D-Mont.) and Joe Donnelly (D-Ind.), who distributed a breathtakingly dishonest “Myth vs. Fact” sheet to drum up support. Ultimately, 17 Democrats voted for the bill, including the party’s 2016 vice presidential candidate, Tim Kaine (D-Va.). Unless the Republican-controlled House completely loses its collective mind, the bill will be signed into law by President Trump.Retired Marine fighter pilot Amy McGrath trailed her Democratic primary opponent by 40 points in December. But her own internal polls say she could win Tuesday's primary in Kentucky's 6th Congressional District. Amy McGrath for Congress

UPDATE: May 22 ― Retired fighter pilot Amy McGrath won Tuesday’s Democratic primary in Kentucky’s 6th Congressional District, defeating Lexington Mayor Jim Gray.

PREVIOUSLY:

LEXINGTON, Ky. ― Amy McGrath’s campaign for Congress hadn’t even officially started, and it was already broke.

Last June, the former Marine fighter pilot retired from the military to move home to Kentucky and launch a political career. McGrath is everything a national Democratic campaign official would want in a new candidate ― she is a woman and a veteran, and while she isn’t a small business owner, her husband is. Still, she struggled to win over Democratic Party insiders in Kentucky and Washington, most of whom were waiting for Jim Gray, the popular mayor of Lexington, to decide whether he would pursue Kentucky’s 6th Congressional District seat instead.

So in July, with a bit of money in the bank and desperation beginning to set in, McGrath’s campaign manager, Mark Nickolas, decided that he had to do something crazy. He told McGrath, who hadn’t yet unpacked from her move, to dig her bomber jacket out of a box. He took his fledgling candidate to Lexington’s Blue Grass Airport, stood her in front of a fighter jet, and told Mark Putnam, the ad man who has made Democratic candidates from Missouri to Wisconsin go viral, to start filming.

The ad that resulted told a simple story: As a child, McGrath begged her congressman to help overturn the military’s ban on women in combat, to no avail. But the Pentagon reversed course when she was in high school. She enrolled in the U.S. Naval Academy, joined the Marines and became the first woman to ever fly an F-18 fighter jet in combat.

McGrath relates this anecdote over b-roll of soaring jets, with a quick departure to point out that Republicans want to take away Kentuckians’ health care. You could discern the message of the commercial all the way from Paducah: McGrath is a woman and a fighter, and she won’t be deterred from achieving her goals.

When Nickolas answered his cell phone on the morning of Aug. 1, 2017, the day he planned to launch the ad, the voice on the other end had bad news: McGrath had raised just $50,000 so far. The ad had cost $57,000. Her campaign was $7,000 in the red, and she’d barely said hello.

“I thought to myself, ‘Did I just destroy her career?’” Nickolas said.

On the contrary: Over the next three days, McGrath became a national political sensation, a symbol of the wave of Democratic women running for office in the age of Trump. Comedian Sarah Silverman called her a “badass” on Twitter. Chelsea Handler invited McGrath to appear on her show. More than 1 million people watched the video, and money ― lots of money ― began rolling in: McGrath raised more than $340,000 in the 72 hours after the commercial first aired.

What the ad didn’t do, however, was win over national Democrats ― namely, the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee, or DCCC, which continued to recruit Gray. Neither did it push Gray out of the race: When he finally declared his candidacy in December, Gray held, according to McGrath’s own internal polling, a 40-point lead.

But handshake by handshake, McGrath quickly narrowed the gap. Going into Tuesday’s primary, she was either fast on Gray’s heels or out in front, depending on whose polling you believe, and the DCCC has quietly taken the position that either Democratic hopeful will have a strong chance to beat Republican incumbent Rep. Andy Barr in November.

“I think people are hungry for new leaders, and a new generation of leaders. They’re tired of the old guard. They want folks who aren’t hand-picked.” - Amy McGrath

Ideologically speaking, there is little daylight between McGrath and Gray. The distinction between them lies mainly in affect and strategy, with McGrath continuing to push an outsider vs. insider narrative of the primary even as she seemed to become at least some of the insiders’ preferred candidate.

While she may well lose her primary, McGrath’s campaign contains some lessons for a party desperate to flip districts like this one. She unabashedly pandered to the sort of discontent that swept President Donald Trump into office, but she took care to hitch it to issues like jobs and health care — particularly to the efforts of her state’s senior senator, Republican Mitch McConnell, to “take health care away from over a quarter-million Kentuckians.”

Grievance plus stuff. Stick that on your lawn sign.

The challenge facing McGrath’s campaign was immediately evident for any visitor to her campaign office near the University of Kentucky’s campus in Lexington. Her opponent had headquartered his 2016 campaign for Rand Paul’s U.S. Senate seat out of the same office; across the drive, a small house still had a “Gray for U.S. Senate” campaign sticker plastered on the front door.

And though McGrath’s initial ad had garnered her national attention, Gray still seemed like an obvious front-runner in the early months of the race: He is the mayor of the district’s biggest base of reliably Democratic votes and oversees a city with a 3 percent unemployment rate. He won the 19-county area by three points in the Senate race against Paul. And in a year when the DCCC is going for broke trying to gain the 24 seats it needs to regain the House majority, Gray is a bit of a luxury: a wealthy businessman in a marginally competitive district who has the ability to relieve financial pressure on the national party by self-financing at least part of his campaign.

Lexington Mayor Jim Gray, Amy McGrath's primary opponent, has promised to “send some adult supervision to Washington.” Bryan Woolston/Reuters

Gray also comes with progressive bona fides: A popular mayor who’s transformed Lexington, he supported removing the city’s Confederate statues; he’s a small-town Kentuckian who helped turn his family business into a construction giant; he’s viewed favorably by 77 percent of primary voters. He supports raising the minimum wage to $15 an hour and expanding Obamacare; he touts a record of targeting utility monopolies that would seem to fit neatly into the new Democratic antitrust agenda. A win in the primary and again in November would make him the first openly gay congressman in Kentucky’s history.

But what would ordinarily be a compelling biography instead became something of a liability in an election year that has thus far favored political outsiders ― especially when they’re women. In Virginia, Pennsylvania, Nebraska and beyond, insurgent female candidates have knocked off more established opponents with stronger-on-paper political resumes, feeding off the sense that Americans (and especially Democrats) want a new generation of political leaders to emerge.

So what Gray and national Democrats saw as strengths, McGrath and her team instantly pegged as weaknesses. Without much room to differentiate herself on the issues, McGrath instead chose to paint Gray as a favorite son of the national Democratic establishment, the hand-picked choice of Washington rather than of central Kentucky.

“I think people are hungry for new leaders, and a new generation of leaders,” she said. “They’re tired of the old guard. They want folks who aren’t hand-picked.”

The characterization isn’t exactly accurate: Aside from the Senate run, Gray’s entire political career has been spent on the Lexington city council or in the mayor’s office, and he’s hardly been a prominent voice in statewide or national Democratic politics. But by playing up her status as an outsider ― a veteran, a mother, a woman, three things she says there aren’t enough of in Congress ― McGrath’s narrative has taken hold nonetheless, and her calls to shake up Congress have resonated strongly against Gray’s safer, duller call to “send some adult supervision to Washington.”

A victory on Tuesday would make Amy McGrath the latest woman from outside the Democratic political mainstream to succeed in the 2018 primaries. Patrick T. Fallon/Bloomberg via Getty Images

Yet as McGrath’s national profile grew after her first ad, she remained relatively unknown and perhaps even a little suspect to Kentucky voters. A native of Edgewood in northern Kentucky, she’d never lived in the central part of the state and had only relocated to the district in June, upon retiring from the U.S. Naval Academy.

(Gray attempted to punch back on this point in the race’s closing days, releasing an ad that hit McGrath for only recently moving to Kentucky. But groups like VoteVets, a nonprofit that promotes veteran candidates and their issues, have slammed the ad as an attempt to “swift-boat” McGrath’s campaign.)

Even before Gray entered the race, Nickolas, who had managed former Rep. Ben Chandler’s (D) successful 6th District campaign in 2004, outlined an aggressive retail politicking strategy to get McGrath in front of voters ― not just on TV, but in their homes, churches, billboards and mailboxes.

Nickolas ― who thought he was out of politics for good until Chandler urged him to meet with McGrath ― said he was instantly swayed by her grasp of the issues and the realities of politics, which she had honed during stints working for Rep. Susan Davis (D-Calif.) in Congress during her time in the military. Most of all, he was impressed by her passion, and he banked on his belief that if they had to chance to meet her, Kentucky voters would feel the same.

McGrath, meanwhile, purchased ad space in every local newspaper in the district and published an editorial detailing why she had chosen to run now, in 2018, and here, in central Kentucky. She piggybacked off the popularity of the initial ad, which gained her thousands of social media followers, to hold Q&A’s with voters in the district that were broadcast on Facebook. She hit all 19 counties in her first few months in the race, stumping across the region and spending hours, even days, in areas that had once been reliable Democratic strongholds but have trended red for more than a decade.

In a district where Democrats still hold a registration advantage, she has pushed the message that the national party has abandoned its voters here. “The Democrats here feel left behind by the national party,” she said. “The national party, to them, is Washington D.C. They don’t have the same values. They’re led by San Francisco and New York. They don’t see leaders from here or the Midwest. And they’re focused on the wrong things.”

“You can be a progressive and still do well in more conservative areas, as long as those rural voters get a sense that you’ll fight for them.” - McGrath campaign manager Mark Nickolas

Led by San Francisco and New York. You don’t need a decoder pin to understand what McGrath is getting at. But she goes no further. She doesn’t counterpose issues of identity — transgender access to bathrooms, women’s rights, race — against the economic concerns of white, working-class voters. McGrath is pro-choice. She’s a vocal critic of Trump’s efforts to ban transgender people from the military. She thinks his effort to ban refugees and immigrants from majority Muslim countries is discriminatory and misguided.

McGrath doesn’t shy away from those issues when voters bring them up, and she believes her military service helps bridge the gap between the two sides when they do disagree. But she’s primarily focused on what she sees as the concerns that the district’s old-school Democrats who’ve been voting Republican still share with the national party: chiefly, health care and the economy.

She has argued for not just protecting the Affordable Care Act but expanding it to include a public option and a lower age of eligibility for Medicare, against the Republican tax cut package for which incumbent Barr voted, and for raising the minimum wage. She describes herself as a “fiscal conservative,” but mostly to score points off of Barr for passing deficit-fattening tax cuts after years of fear-mongering on that very same issue.

And in a direct appeal to the rural parts of the district, she’s advocated for an expansive role for the federal government, arguing that it should invest heavily in broadband, infrastructure, and job and economic development in areas left behind by the decline of manufacturing and the collapse of the coal industry.

“We ought to have the federal government funding high-speed broadband in those areas. And we ought to do it for our country,” McGrath argued during an interview in her Lexington campaign office. “Eisenhower didn’t say, ‘Let’s let private industry build the highways.’ No, the government did that. And it powered our country. FDR brought electricity to Appalachia. The federal government did that.”

McGrath speaks in a folksy, unpolished manner, with the occasional curse word slipping out, her voice rising and falling and sometimes cracking as she talks about the ugly direction the country she fought for has taken, or about Barr’s vote to repeal the health care law that gave thousands of local residents coverage for the first time. “The average household income here in Kentucky is about $50,000. That’s not a lot,” she said. “When you have Andy Barr coming in and saying, ‘I’m going to repeal Obamacare and give you health savings accounts’ ― dude, they don’t have the money for health savings accounts.”

The more Kentuckians have gotten to see of McGrath, the more the message she’s aiming for has set in.

“A lot of people say they want to shake things up. She’s believable in that regard, just because of her demeanor,” said Al Cross, a veteran Kentucky political journalist. “She comes across as somebody who wants to get things done and won’t take no for an answer.”

“The average household income here in Kentucky is about $50,000 ... When you have Andy Barr coming in and saying, ‘I’m going to repeal Obamacare and give you health savings accounts’ ― dude, they don’t have the money for health savings accounts.” - Amy McGrath

That invocation of Franklin Delano Roosevelt, meanwhile, isn’t an accident ― it was the New Deal and the local economic populists who supported it, like former Kentucky Sen. (and Vice President) Alben Barkley, who painted the state blue a century ago. In a state where Democrats have continually lost ground over the last decade, McGrath is arguing that “we have to talk about the things that made these people Democrats in the first place,” Cross said. “FDR is the guy who confirmed people as Democrats. And Alben Barkley did too. And it’s been a long time since either of those guys were around.”

Even before the polls began to shift, there were signs that the strategy was working. Last fall, McGrath traveled to Anderson County ― one of the district’s largest counties ― to meet with Ben Carlson, the conservative editor of the local daily newspaper, the Anderson News. Carlson was impressed, not just by McGrath, but by the enthusiasm people had about her.

“I haven’t sensed, in a congressional race, this kind of enthusiasm for a candidate in the 12 years I’ve been running the paper. For either party,” Carlson said. “She’s brought that kind of excitement to it.”

To Nickolas, that’s evidence that this sort of hyperlocal campaigning in districts where voters increasingly feel detached from both sides of the national debate can help Democrats win back seats.

“I think it’s a reminder that sometimes we get away from the fundamentals,” Nickolas said. “We get seduced by the latest way of communicating. Too many campaigns put their money on TV and digital, and what suffers is the old school face-to-face communication with voters.”

McGrath’s style of campaigning, Nickolas believes, is crucial for Democrats in purplish districts like Kentucky’s 6th. The grievance gets people’s attention; the stuff gets their votes.

“They want to know: ‘Are you going to go to Congress and represent me? Are you going to care about me?’” Nickolas said. “She leads with that: ‘We may not agree on some of the issues. But you should believe that I’m going to have your back.’”WASHINGTON ― You probably think that Facebook is a social media site. Everyone does. And in one sense, they’re right. But in two days of testimony before the House and Senate, Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg revealed what he thinks it really is.

It’s not just a social media site.

Just look at how Zuckerberg responded when Sen. Lindsey Graham (R-S.C.) asked him if Facebook had any competitors. Graham initially had difficulty getting a straight answer. Zuckerberg said Facebook has “a lot of competitors” including “the other tech platforms, Google, Apple, Microsoft.” Graham wanted Zuckerberg to be more specific: Does Facebook have any real competition for its core product, the social media site?

“If I buy a Ford and it doesn’t work well and I don’t like it, I can buy a Chevy. If I’m upset with Facebook, what’s the equivalent product that I can sign up for?” Graham asked.

Zuckerberg replied that the average American uses eight different apps to communicate. He did not mention that Facebook owns four of the eight top communication apps: Facebook, Instagram, WhatsApp and Facebook Messenger.

“You don’t feel you have a monopoly?” Graham finally asked.

Zuckerberg responded, “Certainly doesn’t feel that way to me.”

That’s because Zuckerberg doesn’t view Facebook as a social media company. It’s a platform, and it competes not only with other platforms for user attention to then sell that attention to advertisers, but with anything and everything that can occupy human attention.

Facebook can never be a monopoly in Zuckerberg’s eyes, because its competition is every other form of human activity.

At one point during his Senate testimony, Zuckerberg left his notes open on the witness table, which a journalist photographed. The talking points prepared for him about whether Facebook is a monopoly stated, “Consumers have lots of choices over how they spend their time.”

From this point of view, Facebook’s biggest competitors are work and sleep.

Competition: "Consumer's have lots of choices over how they spend their time." This market definition is so absurd it positions Facebook as competing against sleep. pic.twitter.com/NkwMLxk30y — Matt Stoller (@matthewstoller) April 11, 2018

This could very well explain why it is so hard for lawmakers to pin down Zuckerberg. It’s not that they are so old and out of touch with technology. It’s that Facebook doesn’t view or define itself in the way that its more than 2 billion users do.

It’s not an app for sharing cat pictures and political propaganda, although it’s that for some people. It’s not a messaging app where you can sext or talk to corporate robots, although it’s that, too. It’s a multi-sided platform, the main purpose of which is to get people to remain on it, creating content — data — that can be packaged as a profile for advertisers.

The main customers of Facebook and its many other products are advertisers, and the main products of Facebook are its users. That’s the business model.

And that’s how Zuckerberg described it more than once in his two days of testimony.

Sen. Orrin Hatch (R-Utah) asked Zuckerberg on Tuesday how the company made money, the chief executive replied, “Senator, we sell ads.”

Take the more profound back-and-forth Zuckerberg had with Rep. Doris Matsui (D-Calif.) on Wednesday. He initially attempted to dismiss her concerns about the use of user data with advertisers with a refrain heard over and over during the two days of testimony: “We don’t sell data to advertisers.” This is correct, in a pedantic way, as Matsui affirmed.

“I understand that,” Matsui said, “but Facebook sells ads based at least on part of the data users provide to Facebook, that’s right? And the more data that Facebook collects allows you to better target ads to users or classes of users. So, even if Facebook doesn’t earn money from selling data, doesn’t Facebook earn money from advertising based on that data?”

“Yes, congresswoman, we run ads,” Zuckerberg said. “The business model is running ads, and we use the data that people put into the system in order to make the ads more relevant, which also makes them more valuable, but what we hear from people is that if they’re going to see ads, they want them to be good and relevant.”

That’s the business model. Users create useful advertising profiles by being active on the platform as much as possible, although Facebook also collects data across the web that users do not actively provide. Advertisers pay Facebook to gain access to the attention of those users. The fewer users and the less active they are ― the more they sleep, or text, or do something else ― the worse off Facebook and similar tech platforms are.

Zuckerberg doesn’t always want to talk about that business model. At least, not when he’s challenged to do anything about it.

Rep. Anna Eshoo (D-Calif.), who represents a Bay Area district that includes parts of Silicon Valley, asked, “Are you willing to change you business model in the interest of protecting individual privacy?”

Zuckerberg’s response? “Congresswoman, I’m not sure what that means.”

Rep. Dave Loebsack (D-Iowa) eventually got an answer out of Zuckerberg. Loebsack asked whether it would be possible for Facebook to exist if it did not package user data into profiles for advertisers.

“It would not be possible for our business to, or our other products or services or anything we do, to exist without having the opportunity for people to go to Facebook, put in the content that they want to share and who they want to share it with and go do that,” Zuckerberg said. “That’s the core thing.”Judicial nominee Wendy Vitter remembers how she said a reproductive health clinic murders tens of thousands of people every year by providing abortions. She just doesn't want to talk about it. Bill Clark via Getty Images

WASHINGTON ― One of President Donald Trump’s judicial nominees, Wendy Vitter, repeatedly avoided answering a simple question in her Senate confirmation hearing on Wednesday: Do you believe Planned Parenthood kills more than 150,000 women every year?

Vitter, a New Orleans lawyer and Trump’s choice for a lifetime seat on the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Louisiana, made that claim in a May 2013 speech in protest of a new Planned Parenthood clinic in New Orleans.

“Planned Parenthood says they promote women’s health,” Vitter said at the time, per New Orleans’ Clarion Herald. “It is the saddest of ironies that they kill over 150,000 females a year. The first step in promoting women’s health is to let them live.”

Vitter acknowledged in Wednesday’s hearing that her past comment was a reference to aborted fetuses that were females. But when Sen. Richard Blumenthal (D-Conn.) asked her if she stands by that claim, she avoided answering over and over again.

“Senator, I don’t recall the exact context” of the comment, Vitter said.

“I think it’s been recalled to you,” Blumenthal said, “but I’ll read you the full statement if you like.”

After he read her comments aloud, Vitter said she did indeed remember making them. So Blumenthal, a vocal advocate of abortion rights, asked again if she stands by her claim that Planned Parenthood kills 150,000 women every year.

“I am pro-life. I will set aside my religious or my personal views,” Vitter said. “My personal views in this role, I need to a make a conscious effort and will do so to set this aside….”

Blumenthal cut her off. “I’m really not asking you about setting aside personal views,” he said. “I’m asking you, very simply, you said Planned Parenthood kills 150,000 females a year. 150,000 people. Do you stand by that statement? It’s a yes or no.”

“Senator, I feel, again, my pro-life stance has been very clear,” she replied. “I have been very upfront with this committee about my views and about how serious I take it, and that I would set aside any personal or religious views if I were to be confirmed.”

Sen. Richard Blumenthal (D-Conn.) pressed a Trump court nominee on her past statements about Planned Parenthood. Bloomberg via Getty Images

It is not surprising that a Trump court nominee would be anti-abortion; lots of them have been. And Vitter, who is general counsel of the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of New Orleans and is married to conservative former Sen. David Vitter (R), has been pretty open about her views on reproductive health.

What is odd is that she refused to say if she stands by some pretty strong comments she made at a public event. It is also odd because Vitter didn’t initially disclose that speech to the Senate committee, along with a bunch of other anti-abortion speeches she’d given. She also didn’t disclose that she moderated a panel peddling false information about the dangers of abortion. Vice News uncovered these missing materials last month, which were then turned over to the committee.

That’s a big no-no to senators, who expect a thorough submission of background materials for judicial nominees. It also creates the appearance, at least, of Vitter not wanting the committee to know about some of her controversial comments.

Sen. Mazie Hirono (D-Hawaii) asked Vitter directly if she omitted those materials “because they would cause you to face difficult questions, like the ones I’m asking, about your judgment and temperament at this confirmation hearing.”

Vitter said it was “always my intent” to be forthcoming and that the omissions were inadvertent. She repeated that she would keep her personal views separate from her job as a federal judge if she’s confirmed, just as she did in her role as a former assistant district attorney in Louisiana.

Hirono seemed skeptical.

“Except that you will now be a judge with a lifetime appointment,” said the Democratic senator. “That is a very different role than being a prosecutor.”