WASHINGTON ― His client insists there was “NO COLLUSION” with Russia to win the presidency, but Donald Trump’s lead lawyer, Rudy Giuliani, has a new theory of the case: What’s the big deal if he did?

In a recent interview with HuffPost, Giuliani initially disputed the notion that Trump’s daily citing, in the final month of his campaign, of Russian-aligned WikiLeaks and its release of Russian-stolen emails constituted “colluding” with Russia.

“It is not,” Giuliani said.

Then he switched tacks.

“OK, and if it is, it isn’t illegal... It was sort of like a gift,” he said. “And you’re not involved in the illegality of getting it.”

While much of the recent attention on special counsel Robert Mueller’s investigation into Russia’s efforts to elect Trump has focused on meetings between the Trump campaign and individuals linked to Russian officials, a big piece of “collusion” evidence has been in plain sight all along.

As the GOP nominee, Trump started receiving U.S. intelligence briefings on Aug. 17, 2016 ― at which time, according to sources who spoke on condition of anonymity, Trump would have learned that analysts had concluded that Russia was behind the theft of emails from the Democratic National Committee and was releasing them through WikiLeaks. That group, which bills itself as a “transparency” organization, has for years been considered an arm of Russian spy agencies by the U.S. intelligence community.

On Oct. 7, 2016, U.S. intelligence went public with their analysis about Russia and WikiLeaks. “These thefts and disclosures are intended to interfere with the U.S. election process,” said the statement from the Department of Homeland Security and the Office of the Director of National Intelligence.

“You say stolen. I say, emails that were put out in the public domain. You’d also have to believe that U.S. intelligence was correct. They’ve been right about a lot of things. They’ve been wrong about a lot of things. I certainly wouldn’t trust Clapper or Brennan as far as I could throw them.” - Rudy Giuliani

Trump, though, ignored all of that information. Instead, starting just three days later as WikiLeaks began releasing batches of emails stolen from Clinton campaign chairman John Podesta, Trump began praising WikiLeaks in campaign speeches and interviews and urging Americans to read the emails for themselves.

“WikiLeaks! I love WikiLeaks,” Trump told an audience in Wilkes-Barre, Pennsylvania, on Oct. 10.

“It’s just the latest evidence of the hatred that the Clinton campaign really has for everyday Americans and you see, and you see so much from these WikiLeaks,” Trump said in Panama City, Florida, the following day.

“I’ll tell you, this WikiLeaks stuff is unbelievable,” Trump said on Oct. 12 in Ocala, Florida. “It tells you the inner heart. You’ve got to read it and you’ve got to maybe get it, because they’re not putting it out.”

That was the same day the WikiLeaks Twitter account sent a direct message to Trump’s son Donald Jr., asking his father to highlight the stolen emails and offering a web link for Trump to advertise. Fifteen minutes after that direct message, candidate Trump sent out a tweet praising WikiLeaks. Two days later, Trump Jr. sent out the link WikiLeaks had provided.

Trump continued citing WikiLeaks and their stolen emails right through Election Day, as did others in his campaign. Giuliani, a campaign adviser who frequently appeared with Trump at rallies, himself cited WikiLeaks on Oct. 9 in a CBS News interview ― just two days after the intelligence community’s statement about Russia’s involvement.

HuffPost contacted more than half a dozen Trump campaign officials for this story. Not one was willing to explain why Trump knowingly and repeatedly ― more than 160 times, according to Politifact ― cited documents stolen by Russian intelligence agencies in the final month before the election. The White House did not respond to HuffPost’s queries on the matter.

Giuliani said he is still not convinced the emails were stolen by Russia, and that he is unwilling to accept the word of former CIA Director John Brennan or former Director of National Intelligence James Clapper.

“You say stolen. I say, emails that were put out in the public domain,” Giuliani said. “You’d also have to believe that U.S. intelligence was correct. They’ve been right about a lot of things. They’ve been wrong about a lot of things. I certainly wouldn’t trust Clapper or Brennan as far as I could throw them.”

Clapper on Wednesday defended the assessment he oversaw. “The intelligence community assessment on the Russian interference in the 2016 Presidential election was prepared by about two dozen of the best analytic experts on Russia drawn from CIA, NSA, the FBI, and ODNI,” he told HuffPost. “It is regrettable that the president and his surrogates spend so much time attacking the messengers who were attempting to convey truth to power about the profound threat to our country by Russia, and spend virtually no time or display no sense of urgency about countering that threat.”

Attacking those messengers was something Trump began doing just two days after that Oct. 7, 2016 statement, after he was challenged about his continual praise of Russian President Vladimir Putin during the presidential debates.

On Oct. 9, at the second debate, Trump disputed the U.S. intelligence assessment. “She doesn’t know if it’s the Russians doing the hacking,” Trump said of Democratic nominee Hillary Clinton. “Maybe there is no hacking. But they always blame Russia.”

Eleven days later, at the third and final debate: “She has no idea whether it’s Russia, China or anybody else,” Trump repeated. “And our country has no idea.”

Since the election, the U.S. intelligence community and the Senate intelligence committee have both released reports stating what intelligence analysts concluded in the summer of 2016: Not only was Russia interfering in the election in coordination with WikiLeaks, but it was doing so with the goal of electing Trump.

“Those are simply the facts,” said Sen. Mark Warner (D-Va.), the ranking member of that committee. “So Mr. Giuliani could not be more wrong. Make no mistake, these are dangerous efforts aimed at distracting us from the truth and they have the chilling effect of dismissing the seriousness of the Russian threat.”

Former acting CIA Director John McLaughlin agreed. “Giuliani is just wrong on that point,” he said. “Either Trump simply didn’t care that this material came from the Russians, or was so foolish and naïve to think that it was OK to use it, or, and it’s a big ‘or,’ that he did so knowing full well that he was cooperating with the Russians.”

One former Trump campaign staffer said he believes he understands exactly why Trump and his team used the Russian-provided material: They were desperate and decided they would use it and worry about consequences later.

“I don’t think they were working with them. I think they were willing to take advantage of it. It’s about winning,” said Sam Nunberg, who had been fired by Trump more than a year before the election. “You’re supposed to win. That’s just the reality of it.”A federal lawsuit filed Monday alleges three Michigan State basketball players raped a female student in 2015 and the university failed to offer her the proper resources for help.

The lawsuit, filed in U.S. District Court for the Western District of Michigan Southern Division, does not name the woman, nor the three players, who are no longer at the school. Instead, it is focused “with the way she was treated by the university,” the student’s attorney, Karen Truszkowski, tells ESPN’s “Outside the Lines.”

The lawsuit states that the woman met the three basketball players at a bar in East Lansing on April 12, 2015 ― one week after Michigan State lost to Duke in the Final Four. The woman, a journalism major interested in sports reporting, was offered a drink by one of the players and asked if she wanted to meet the “other guys” from the team. The players invited her to a party at an off-campus apartment, allegedly telling her that her roommate was already on her way there, and she accepted a ride to the party.

According to the lawsuit, the woman “was feeling discombobulated,” which prevented her from sending a text. The woman said one of the players told her, “You know you’re mine for the night?” and she responded that she was just trying to find her friend. The second player then invited her to his room to see basketball memorabilia, which she accepted as a sports fan.

In the room, she was given a glass of water and was “drinking the water when the room went dark,” the lawsuit states. She said in the lawsuit that she was forcefully thrown face-down onto the bed and was held down as the three players took turns raping her. She was crying and could not speak and did not consent to the activity, according to the lawsuit.

The woman maintains she didn’t remember anything until waking up on a couch the next morning. She told “Outside the Lines” she wondered if one of the drinks she was given had been spiked. She took a cab to her residence hall and a later told a friend what happened. On April 20, 2015, the friend took her to the Michigan State University Counseling Center, according to the lawsuit.

When the woman told the counselor the three men who allegedly raped her were Michigan State basketball players, the “counselor’s demeanor completely changed,” the lawsuit states, and the counselor told the student an additional person needed to be in the room with them.

The MSU Counseling Center staff then “made it clear to Plaintiff that if she chose to notify the police, she faced an uphill battle that would create anxiety and unwanted media attention and publicity as had happened with many other female students who were sexually assaulted by well-known athletes,” according to the lawsuit.

The woman told “Outside the Lines” she was scared to report the incident to police at the time for fear of getting in trouble for underage drinking.

″(The counselor) never told me or reassured me that that would not be a factor,” the woman told “Outside the Lines.”

The lawsuit states the woman wasn’t told of her of her right to report the incident to MSU’s Office of Institutional Equity or notified of her Title IX rights, protections and accommodations.

“Plaintiff was expressly told by MSUCC staff that ‘if you pursue this, you are going to be swimming with some really big fish,’” the lawsuit alleges.

As a result of the incident, the woman “had become so traumatized, depressed, and withdrawn to the point that she was admitted to the Sparrow Hospital outpatient psychiatric dayprogram for intensive psychiatric treatment” in October 2015, according to the lawsuit. She withdrew from classes, changed her major, sought psychiatric care and remains on prescription medication, according to the lawsuit.

The university never offered the woman academic assistance, the lawsuit alleges.

“Everyone I was in classes with or working with was just all into sports, like ‘bleed green,’” she told “Outside the Lines.” “I’m thinking to myself, ‘If only you could look at them like I have to. If only you knew what it felt like.’”

The lawsuit is the latest black mark for Michigan State this year. An “Outside the Lines” report in January accused the school of covering up a series of sexual-assault claims involving the athletic department.

In addition, Larry Nassar, who worked as an osteopathic physician for USA Gymnastics and was a faculty member at Michigan State, was sentenced in January to 40 to 175 years in prison after pleading guilty to charges of molestation.

Michigan State is named as a co-defendant in civil lawsuits filed by more than 150 women, many of whom allege that coaches, athletic trainers and others at the school ignored complaints about Nassar for nearly two decades.

Amid growing calls for a change in leadership, university president Lou Anna Simon resigned hours after Nassar was sentenced and Mark Hollis retired as athletic director two days later.Nathan Lee Graham brings his signature snark and sass to the jet-set lifestyle each week as a star of “LA to Vegas,” Fox’s new comedy series that follows the crew of a cut-rate airline.

Graham ― already beloved by audiences for his stints on “The Comeback,” as well as movies like “Sweet Home Alabama” and “Zoolander 2” ― plays the gay, scene-stealing Bernard opposite Kim Matula as fellow flight attendant Ronnie, Dylan McDermott as Captain Dave and Amir Talai as co-pilot Alan. (Get a sneak peek at Tuesday’s episode, which sees the Jackpot Airlines crew attending a training seminar to hilarious results, in the clips above and below.)

The role of Bernard went through various incarnations before he signed on to the show, Graham told HuffPost.

“Bernard started out as a middle-aged Caucasian woman,” the actor said. “At one point, his name was Emilio, [but] when I landed in L.A. from New York to shoot the pilot, his name was Bernard.”

As to why “LA to Vegas” creator Lon Zimmet opted to change the role to suit him, Graham said he had “no idea,” but added, “I think my ability to do difficult one-liners sure does help.”

Having recently wrapped a well-received turn in the off-Broadway musical, “The View UpStairs,” Graham found Bernard to be “a well-rounded character that has some moxie,” as well as “sleek, sassy, slick, sneaky, sexy, suspicious, snarky and supportive.”

“LA to Vegas,” he said, finds much of its comedy in the longstanding fascination many people have with pilots, flight attendants and other airline crew members, like “the rush of traveling to new places and seeing new things,” as “the thought of having a possible rendezvous or tryst with the occasional passenger.”

As pleased as Graham is by his TV gig, he can’t be kept away from the stage for too long. In June, he’ll play the title role in “The Wiz” at the St. Louis Muny. The actor-singer isn’t daunted by tackling a role many still associate with André De Shields, who starred in the original 1975 Broadway production.gmutlu via Getty Images

It’s alarming to see so much of the Republican governing agenda inspired by Fox News hosts, but things have reached a crisis point when lawmakers start taking their cues from the commercials.

In late March, Rep. Alex Mooney (R-W.Va.) introduced a bill to reinstate the gold standard. It would set the value of the U.S. dollar to “a fixed weight of gold” and require the Federal Reserve to exchange paper notes for gold upon request. The idea, which economists widely deride, would severely restrict the central bank’s ability to respond to economic disruption.

No country in the world currently relies on the gold standard. The United States abandoned it in 1933, because the gold standard didn’t work very well.

And yet the integrity of gold is a staple of Fox News, which for years has subjected its viewers to advertisements warning of the imminent collapse of the dollar and celebrating gold as a store of value.

“Gold is the time-tested currency that goes up ― not down!” declared G. Gordon Liddy in an ad for gold dealer Rosland Capital. “What’s a billion dollars look like? What about a trillion? What about our national debt? It’s massive, and it casts a dark shadow over the dollar,” intoned Merit Gold & Silver’s own severe pitchman. “Gold has outperformed the Dow for the past 17 years!” announced Lear Capital, another gold retailer.

Alas, the era of the classical gold standard ― roughly the 50 years straddling the turn of the 20th century ― was characterized by financial turmoil, repeated bouts of heavy unemployment and profound social unrest. The panics of 1873, 1884, 1893 and 1907 led to riots, violent labor strikes and, in 1896, the radical reorganization of an entire American political party. These debacles are often overlooked today, because they were eclipsed by an even greater crisis known as the Great Depression, in which the strictures of the gold standard encouraged grinding deflation and mass joblessness.

“The gold standard transformed minor economic disruptions into major deflationary shocks.”

The chief flaw in the gold standard is also the primary source of its support among gold bugs: It dramatically curtails the government’s ability to print money to alleviate economic trouble. Because every dollar must be exchangeable for a certain amount of gold, the government cannot turn to sustained inflationary policies to finance its activities ― it needs to get its hands on more gold if it wants to print more money. As Mooney states in his legislation: “The gold standard puts control of the money supply with the market instead of the Federal Reserve.”

In practice, however, the gold standard transformed minor economic disruptions into major deflationary shocks. Since the government couldn’t print its way out of trouble, when the supply of money contracted, prices had to fall, and the resulting deflation caused widespread job losses and business failures. This turned out to be much worse than 2 percent annual inflation.

Mooney devotes three pages of his four-page bill to a revisionist history lesson, in which the congressman argues that creating the Fed in 1913 ultimately led to mass manufacturing job losses between 2000 and 2010 as a result of the central bank’s tolerance for 2 to 3 percent annual inflation rates.

The job losses over this period were real, but they are generally associated with “the China shock” ― trade policies surrounding China’s entry into the World Trade Organization. Similar inflation rates existed in the previous decade, and economists generally recognize that relative inflation rates among different countries have nothing to do with international competitiveness under the current system of floating exchange rates.

There are no hearings currently scheduled for Mooney’s legislation, which has no co-sponsors.

“Wow,” said Dean Baker, a liberal economist and co-director of the Center for Economic Policy Research.Joshua Roberts / Reuters

Scott Pruitt, the head of the Environmental Protection Agency, is facing a litany of ethical issues, from his housing arrangement in Washington and expensive travel habits to the unapproved raises he’s given to staff.

None of those controversies, however, have broken through to a majority of the public, a new HuffPost/YouGov survey finds.

Half of the Americans polled say they don’t have an opinion on Pruitt’s job performance, and 54 percent that they’re not sure whether or not he’s done anything wrong. More than 60 percent say they aren’t sure whether or not Trump should fire him.

The public is often less than fully tuned in to issues regarding Trump administration personnel, but those numbers are even higher than usual. By comparison, a relatively modest 42 percent of Americans were undecided about Steve Bannon’s ouster as chief strategist from the White House, and 48 percent weren’t sure whether the president should fire Attorney General Jeff Sessions.

Overall, just under 60 percent of Americans say they’ve heard something in the news recently about Pruitt, and just 20 percent that they’ve heard a lot. And they say, 44 percent to 18 percent, that they’ve heard more about the Trump campaign’s relationship with Russia than about the Pruitt story, with the rest unsure or saying they haven’t heard much about either.

To the extent that the public does have an opinion on Pruitt, it leans negative. Americans are about four times as likely to believe that Pruitt has done something wrong (37 percent) as to believe that he has not (9 percent); 31 percent disapprove of his job performance, while only 18 percent approve. By a considerably smaller margin, 22 percent to 16 percent, they say Trump should fire him from his job at the EPA.

Opinions are largely divided along political lines. Six in 10 voters who supported Hillary Clinton in the last presidential election say that Pruitt did something wrong, with just above half saying his actions also reflect badly on Trump. Just a third of Trump voters, by contrast, say Pruitt has done anything wrong, and just 7 percent that his behavior casts an unflattering reflection on the president. A two-thirds majority of non-voters say they’re unsure about the EPA administrator’s actions.

About 40 percent of the public says they believe the Trump administration has seen more scandals than past presidents, while 16 percent say it’s seen fewer, and 24 percent that it’s faced about the usual number of scandals. More than eight in 10 Clinton voters say that Trump’s White House has been unusually scandal-prone, while just about a third of non-voters and 13 percent of Trump voters say the same.

Use the widget below to further explore the results of the HuffPost/YouGov survey, using the menu at the top to select survey questions and the buttons at the bottom to filter the data by subgroups:

The HuffPost/YouGov poll consisted of 1,000 completed interviews conducted April 5-6 among U.S. adults using a sample selected from YouGov’s opt-in online panel to match the demographics and other characteristics of the adult U.S. population.

HuffPost has teamed up with YouGov to conduct daily opinion polls. You can learn more about this project and take part in YouGov’s nationally representative opinion polling. More details on the polls’ methodology are available here.With Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg scheduled to testify in front of Congress this week, one advocacy group found a really creepy way to bring attention to its cause.

Cutouts of Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg appear on the Capitol grounds on Tuesday. Tom Williams/CQ Roll Call via Getty Images

Global advocacy group Avaaz posed 100 cardboard cutouts of Zuckerberg on the east lawn of the U.S. Capitol on Tuesday. The fake Zucks are dressed in shirts that say “fix fakebook.”

According to a press release, Avaaz is working to call attention to what it claims are “hundreds of millions of fake accounts still spreading disinformation on Facebook.” The company is also calling for Zuckerberg to “ban all bots, alert the public any and every time users see fake or disinformation, fund fact checkers around the world, and submit to an independent audit to review the scale and scope of fake news.”

Zuckerberg is scheduled to testify Tuesday before a joint hearing of the Senate Judiciary and Commerce committees and Wednesday at a House Energy and Commerce Committee hearing. The committees are expected to ask questions about Facebook’s data security, especially in regard to the recent scandal in which the data of 87 million users was harvested and shared by political research firm Cambridge Analytica.

See more photos of the creepy Zuckerberg army below.There were planes to catch and senators just couldn't get their defense of special counsel Robert Mueller together. Joshua Roberts / Reuters

WASHINGTON ― A bipartisan effort in the Senate to send a more unified message in support of special counsel Robert Mueller and his investigation into Russia’s election meddling fell apart last month as lawmakers bolted for the recent two-week congressional recess.

When Sens. Thom Tillis (R-N.C.) and Chris Coons (D-Del.) issued a statement seemingly out of nowhere in late March urging President Donald Trump to allow Mueller to “complete his work without impediment,” it took many by surprise. The timing of the statement ― during a sleepy recess week and in the wake of Trump’s pointed attacks against Mueller earlier in the month ― led some to speculate that the special counsel’s job could be in peril.

“Something is going on...,” tweeted Zac Petkanas, a former staffer for Hillary Clinton’s 2016 presidential campaign, in response to the senators’ statement.

Trump did not act against Mueller that week, but something was going on behind the scenes in the Senate.

Tillis and Coons, who have introduced a bill that would limit the president’s ability to fire Mueller, were each working to get more lawmakers from their own caucuses to sign on to the statement in hopes of sending the White House a stronger message in defense of the Mueller probe. They decided to settle for their own joint statement, however, after they couldn’t reach agreement with a broader group of senators on the final language before Congress adjourned in the last week of March.

“Bluntly, there were a lot of members who were just pretty cranky at that point because it was very late at night,” Coons recalled on Tuesday. “We were about to head out. I had members say, ‘I’m not looking at that now,’ not because of the substance but because it was midnight.”

Coons said that he and Tillis wanted to gather a “broad representative group” to sign the statement and that timing had simply been an impediment to doing so.

“We have not in the last two weeks continued to circulate [the letter],” Coons said, adding that he planned to discuss with Tillis their next steps forward.

Multiple GOP lawmakers on Tuesday said that additional protections aren’t necessary for the Russia probe, even after the president appeared to float the idea of firing Mueller on Monday.

“Why don’t I just fire Mueller?” Trump said in response to a reporter’s question. “Well, I think it’s a disgrace what’s going on. We’ll see what happens, but I think it’s really a sad situation. ... Many people have said you should fire him. Again, they found nothing, and in finding nothing, that’s a big statement.”

Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) said he did not believe additional legislative protections for Mueller were needed because the president was simply “expressing his frustration” with FBI agents who raided the office of his personal lawyer.

“It’s more intense now than it was before and with good reason,” Rounds said. “I think he’s frustrated with the fact ― you can imagine how you would feel if it was your personal attorney having his office raided? So he has a fair reason to be frustrated. But I still think the same approach of not firing Mr. Mueller is still the appropriate approach.”

But at least one other GOP senator disagreed.

“If there’s legislation that’s moving, that’s appropriate, I would sign on to it,” Sen. Bob Corker (R-Tenn.) said. “I don’t see that occurring, but I’m more than glad to sign on to appropriate legislation.”

The Senate Foreign Relations Committee chairman, who is retiring at the end of the year, also hinted that he might have been willing to sign the Coons-Tillis joint statement concerning Mueller in March.Newseum

The labor union representing workers at the Casper Star-Tribune in Wyoming has accused the paper and parent company Lee Enterprises of retaliating against pro-union employees to chill organizing efforts in Lee’s other newsrooms.

The Communications Workers of America filed charges with the National Labor Relations Board on Monday. The union says the company engaged in unfair labor practices when it laid off features editor Elise Schmelzer and suspended politics reporter Arno Rosenfeld.

“I think it was a retaliatory tactic ― toward us and toward Elise specifically,” said a source in the Star-Tribune newsroom who requested anonymity out of fear of retaliation. “It’s fair to say they’re going to war with us.”

The charges claim that Schmelzer ― a manager who was not a member of the union ― was let go “due to her support for the recently certified union,” and that “other pro-union, non-bargaining unit employees were also terminated.”

The charges did not elaborate on the other terminations.

Obtained by HuffPost

Obtained by HuffPost

Iowa-based Lee Enterprises is a publicly traded company that owns more than 40 daily newspapers around the country. The Star-Tribune became the first newsroom to unionize under Lee’s ownership when nonmanagement employees voted to join a CWA local in February.

A month later, another Lee-owned paper, the Missoula Independent in Montana, followed the Star-Tribune’s lead and filed a petition to try and form a union as well.

Schmelzer, whom colleagues said was beloved in the newsroom, had been recently named 2017 Wyoming Young Journalist of the Year. The paper laid her off last Wednesday for what it claimed were financial reasons. But the move came two days before the Missoula Independent was scheduled to hold its union vote.

The next day, the company suspended Rosenfeld with pay after he wrote an email to colleagues informing them that Schmelzer had been let go. It was a “straightforward email to my colleagues,” he told HuffPost, which has reviewed the email. His suspension was lifted on Tuesday.

Lee Enterprises and the publisher of the Casper Star-Tribune declined to comment when reached by email. Schmelzer also declined to comment.

I was suspended with pay from @CSTribune this morning for sending an email to my colleagues letting them know that @EliseSchmelzer was laid-off last night. Apparently an investigation is pending. That’s all I know. — Arno Rosenfeld (@ArnoRosenfeld) April 5, 2018

Multiple staffers took the dismissal and suspension as a threat. On Thursday, the Star-Tribune bargaining unit, which calls itself the Casper News Guild, released a statement calling the decision to dismiss Schmelzer “appalling and short-sighted.”

“While Lee Enterprises officials may believe that taking punitive action against non-union members at the Star-Tribune will discourage employees across the company’s many newspapers from organizing, their apparently capricious actions in Casper serve only to highlight the need for staff to stand up for their rights,” the statement said.

Part of the Star-Tribune staff’s stated reason for unionizing was “to strengthen local control over Wyoming’s largest media organization.”

Lee Enterprises, meanwhile, has consistently reduced the number of full-time employees over the last decade as part of a strategy to reduce its hundreds of millions of dollars in debt. The cost-cutting has helped make it profitable ― earlier this year, the company reported earnings of $35.3 million for the fiscal quarter ending in December.

In the lead-up to the union vote in Casper, management painted an optimistic picture of the Star-Tribune’s finances, according to multiple sources.

“We were told multiple times during union-busting meetings that there were no layoffs coming and, in fact, that we were going to invest in our newsroom,” said one staffer.

So even if Schmelzer’s dismissal were financially motivated, the guild’s statement said, earlier promises from management now appear “to be either calculated lies told to discourage unionization, or they suggest incompetence in the financial management of the newspaper.”

Rosenfeld told HuffPost, “It’s hard to see how company officials could think their actions in Casper won’t have a ‘chilling effect’ on journalists at other Lee papers looking to exercise their legal right to collectively bargain.”

So far, any attempt to chill organizing efforts hasn’t worked. On Friday, the Missoula Independent went ahead and voted unanimously to form a union.

“We’re hopeful that we’re going to be able to negotiate a contract,” said Derek Brouwer of the Missoula Independent.

AdvertisementHomeland Security Adviser Tom Bossert resigned on Tuesday, the White House confirmed.

“The President is grateful for Tom’s commitment to the safety and security of our great country,” Sarah Huckabee Sanders said in a statement. “Tom led the White House’s efforts to protect the homeland from terrorist threats, strengthen our cyber defenses, and respond to an unprecedented series of natural disasters.”

He reportedly left his position at the request of John Bolton, the new national security adviser, Bloomberg’s Jennifer Jacobs said, which would fall in line with the expectation that Bolton would reportedly further purge the National Security Council and bring in his own staff in an effort to root out any possible leakers.

National Security Council spokesman Michael Anton, suspected of leaking information to the press, announced his own departure a day before ― a move also reportedly demanded by Bolton himself.

Bossert had appeared on ABC’s “This Week” on Sunday to defend President Donald Trump’s decision to send National Guard troops to patrol the U.S.-Mexico border.

“We’ve got a leaking boat on our border, and we’re all quibbling with how much water’s in the boat. … What we’re doing is taking action now at the appropriate time instead of waiting as others have in the past,” Bossert said.

Rape, he added, is the “price of entry” for many women seeking to cross the border.By Rebecca Hanson, University of Florida and Leonard Gómez Núñez, Universidad Nacional Experimental de Seguridad (UNES), Venezuela for The Conversation

A fire killed scores of inmates after a riot in a Venezuelan jail in the early morning hours of March 28. Sixty-six detainees died in the flames, as did two female visitors.

The incident was horrifying, but it was not a surprise for those familiar with the state of the country’s prison system.

Prison violence has long been common in Venezuela. In 1992 at least 63 inmates were killed in the Retén de Catia prison, which was later demolished after Pope John Paul II visited and called for more humane living conditions. In 1994, 108 people died in a jailhouse riot in the state of Zulia. And in 1996, 29 inmates were burned alive when the National Guard set fire to La Planta prison in Caracas.

Between 2012 and 2017 alone, 135 people were killed in four different prison riots across Venezuela.

Last month’s deadly fire is yet another tragedy. But it also differs from past incidents in critical ways.

Much of the media coverage of the incident, both inside and outside of Venezuela, portrays the riot and ensuing fire as the outcome of the chaos and lawlessness that rules Venezuelan prisons. But our research on the country’s criminal justice system reveals that the story behind the violence is more complicated.

Families clashed with security forces outside the police station in Valencia, Venezuela, where nearly 70 prisoners died in a March 28 fire. AP Photo/Juan Carlos Hernandez

Mass incarceration, Venezuela style

The main driver behind Venezuela’s rising prison violence is overcrowding.

Incarceration levels in the country rose dramatically during the 1990s. Under President Hugo Chávez, who governed Venezuela from 1999 to 2013, this trend accelerated – despite his progressive rhetoric about eliminating harsh sentencing.

The country’s prison system was designed to hold, at most, 20,000. As a result, short-term detention centers in police stations have swelled with the inmate overflow. Violence has become more frequent systemwide.

According to Una Ventana a la Libertad, a Venezuelan prison watchdog group, about 45,000 people are currently locked up in overcrowded, makeshift jails in 500 police stations nationwide.

That’s where the deadly March 28 fire broke out: not in a prison but in a Carabobo State police station, where 200 men were detained.

Venezuela’s penal code mandates that police may only keep people who’ve been arrested in these “calabozos,” or temporary holding cells, for up to 48 hours. After that, prisoners must be presented before a judge, who will either release them or transfer them to a long-term facility like a jail to await trial.

In practice, though, detainees are frequently sent back to police stations before their court date. Even before the 2015 economic crisis that has plunged Venezuela into disarray, the wait could be years. Today, the judicial system moves even more slowly, in part because of problems transporting prisoners between jail and court.

Fully 50 percent of people incarcerated in Venezuela have been arrested but not convicted of a crime. That population includes the 66 prisoners who perished in the March 28 fire.

Venezuela’s Reten de Catia prison was shut down after Pope John Paul II criticized the inhumane living conditions on a 1996 visit to the facility. AP Photo/Rodolfo Benitez

What happened at Carabobo police station

There are different accounts of how the upheaval at the Carabobo police state began, depending on the source.

According to state police, detainees in the makeshift jail revolted early on March 28, forcing police to enter the detention area and put down the riot. Prisoners then set their mattresses on fire, officials say, hoping to escape from the violence.

But the interviews we recently conducted with officials at the Venezuelan attorney general’s office, national police, the Bello Monte morgue and the Cuerpo de Investigaciones Científicas, Penales y Criminalísticas – Venezuela’s FBI – tell a more complicated story.

These officials, who wish to remain anonymous because this information is not public and they fear political retribution, say the deadly riot occurred because the delicate social order that structures jailhouse life in Venezuela broke down.

Venezuelan jails are often portrayed as lawless places, and it is true that the government long ago ceded control over many prisons to gang leaders inside them.

But these facilities do have a governance structure – it’s just not enforced by the state. Gang leaders within prisons and detention centers – sometimes referred to as a “pran” or “pranato” – informally control what goes on inside.

The official police version of events in the Carabobo police station – which is cited in stories from the BBC, USA Today, Reuters and local media outlets – ignores this symbiotic relationship. So does The New York Times, which reported that the deadly fire was started after gangs, who were holding a party in an overcrowded jail, fought with the guards who tried to break it up.

Orderly chaos breaks down

We asked our official sources, who agreed to speak without attribution, what really happened on March 28. Their accounts differ slightly, citing as causes of the violence both police officers’ anger over unpaid “vacunas” and gang fights over illicit jailhouse economies.

But they all concur that a breakdown in the illicit relationship between gangs and jail officials was the catalyst – either direct or indirect – of the violence, not spontaneous prisoner revolt.

Everyone we spoke with told us that just before 6 a.m., armed officers entered the overcrowded detention center. Within a half hour, concerned mothers, responding to phone calls from detainees who said they were under attack, began arriving at the station.

The Bello Monte morgue – the government forensic center in Caracas where the official autopsies were performed – stated that many of those who died had also been shot or stabbed before they burned in the fire. At around 6 a.m., police allegedly tried to quell the riot with tear gas. Some mattresses caught fire, and the blaze spread across the locked holding cells.

Family members stood outside of the burning police station for hours, listening to explosions and gunfire until firefighters arrived at about 9:30 a.m. Some would wait over 24 hours to learn whether their incarcerated son, grandson, cousin or nephew was a casualty of the conflict.

On March 31, five Carabobo police officers, including the head of the police station, were arrested and accused of unspecified “responsibility for the tragic acts that caused the death of 68 citizens” in the Carabobo detention center.

But those who lost their loved ones may never know the whole truth of what happened behind those bars.Rep. Lois Frankel (D-Fla.) wants men to do more to fight against pay inequality and sexual harassment.

“Abuse in the workplace is not about sex. It’s about power,” said Frankel, who chairs the Democratic Women’s Working Group. “So when one person has more power than the other, it makes the person with the lesser power more vulnerable to all types of abuse.”

Men should take “affirmative, assertive action” to fight gender inequality at work, Frankel told HuffPost ahead of Equal Pay Day, which falls on Tuesday this year. The day represents how far into 2018 a woman would have to work to make what a man made in 2017.

Frankel added that President Donald Trump’s policies are not helping women get ahead.

“His administration has probably some of the worst, misogynist, anti-women policies ever in recent history because he has doubled down on bad policies,” she said. “And not just here at home, but around the world.”

“This is the president who is abusive with his tweets, with his livelihood, with his respect of people. It’s humiliating for the country.” - Rep. Lois Frankel (D-Fla.) on President Donald Trump

“If we want men to respect women and stop all this harassment, we need role models,” Frankel said. “This is the president who is abusive with his tweets, with his livelihood, with his respect of people. It’s humiliating for the country.”

Frankel referenced a recent bipartisan Women’s Caucus hearing she organized where Dr. Jackson Katz, a co-founder of the gender violence prevention program Mentors in Violence Prevention, laid out what men need to do to level the playing field.

“One of the things that Katz stressed was that most men are not the abusers, but many times they know about it or they witness it,” Frankel said.

“He stressed that intervention is very important, that when a man knows about abuse in his workplace, men must intervene to try to stop it,” she added. “The heads of these companies, the supervisors, the management, everybody, it must be part of their culture that they will not tolerate sexual harassment, and it must be made known.”Satirical stalwart The Onion published one of its funniest bits in years, but this time it was the real deal: An actual cease-and-desist email from Michael Cohen concerning a story about Donald Trump.

In 2013, Cohen, a longtime attorney for Trump, was apparently livid about a piece in the outlet that purported to be “written” by his client. It was headlined: “When You’re Feeling Low, Just Remember I’ll Be Dead In About 15 Or 20 Years.”

“Let me begin by stating the obvious … that the commentary was not written by Mr. Trump,” Cohen wrote in the email dated Jan. 24, 2013. “Secondly, the article is an absolutely disgusting piece that lacks any place in journalism; even in your Onion.”

Cohen demanded immediate removal of this “disgraceful piece from your website and issue an apology to Mr. Trump ... This commentary goes way beyond defamation and, if not immediately removed, I will take all actions necessary to ensure your actions do not go without consequence.”

The big finish: “Guide yourself accordingly.”

In the spirit of transparency, here is Mr. Cohen’s letter, printed in full: https://t.co/uPnzZYUtyZ pic.twitter.com/HWAhxudr2d — The Onion (@TheOnion) May 21, 2018

The Onion said it’s ready to talk now.

https://twitter.com/TheOnion/status/998619468430565377

There’s always the possibility that the email is itself an Onion parody. But Cole Bolton, Onion editor in chief at the time, referenced the email in an interview with “Today” in 2016 when discussing how people respond to articles about them. He added: “You should read that thing. It’s the most wonderful thing in the world.”

And a spokesman for The Onion vouched for its authenticity in a tweet Monday:

I can confirm the email itself is the real deal. From Michael Cohen to our press email address in 2013.



The rest of the story is obviously in @TheOnion's signature satirical voice... https://t.co/bix0OLB5nP — David Ford (@ItsDavidFord) May 21, 2018Bob Murray, photographed in 2007, spoke at the annual Bloomberg New Energy Finance summit on Tuesday afternoon. Justin Sullivan via Getty Images

Bob Murray, the chief executive of coal giant Murray Energy Corporation, issued a grave warning to the nation’s leading renewable energy conference on Tuesday.

Subsidize coal-fired power plants, he said, or grandma gets it.

“You have a responsibility in this room to make sure grandma doesn’t die on the operating table,” Murray, 78, told an audience of energy analysts, investors and executives packed into the ballroom of the Grand Hyatt New York in midtown Manhattan.

In an impassioned 15-minute speech at the annual Bloomberg New Energy Finance summit, Murray repeatedly dismissed the threat of climate change and instead cautioned that the electrical grid risked collapse without reliable energy from coal-fired plants. He cited dramatic winter weather such as the “polar vortex” of 2014 or last January’s “bomb cyclone,” both of which brought Arctic temperatures to parts of the United States, as examples of times when alternatives like wind, solar and natural gas failed to compete with coal.

“That’s a crude way of putting it, but we were very close to it during this polar vortex and during this bomb cyclone,” he said. He pointed to a Department of Energy report stating that coal prevented widespread blackouts on the East Coast, though grid operators contested the findings to The Washington Post. One environmentalist accused the report of cherry-picking data and called it an “advocacy piece masquerading as analysis.” The Union of Concerned Scientists dubbed it a “bogus study to prop up coal plants.”

Scientists say storms like the polar vortex and bomb cyclone could become more frequent as global temperatures surge. The heat escaping from the surface water of oceans causes the polar vortex winds that swirl above the Arctic to weaken, allowing cold polar air to slip southward more often. The planet is heating up as a result of emission from burning fossil fuels, particularly coal. But Murray, who rejects the overwhelming scientific evidence that conflicts with his company’s business model, dismissed that problem.

Michael Nelson, a coal miner worker, shakes hands with President Donald Trump as he prepares to sign Resolution 38, which nullifies the "stream protection rule," at the White House. Carlos Barria / Reuters

“We have an energy problem in this country,” he said. “We don’t have a global warming problem.”

Murray has wielded unprecedented influence at the White House, quietly meeting with top cabinet officials to provide his draft of a so-called “action plan” for the administration’s energy and climate policies. The proposal included a federal bailout of coal-fired plants, repeal of the Obama-era Clean Power Plan and reconsidering the 2009 EPA “endangerment finding” that determined carbon dioxide pollution causes climate change and therefore poses a threat to public health.

Energy Secretary Rick Perry met with Murray in March 2017 to discuss the bailout plan and then proposed one in September. But the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, in a break with the White House, rejected the proposal in January.

Last month, the Ohio-based utility FirstEnergy requested that the Energy Department provide financial support for its power plants under an obscure provision of the Federal Energy Act of 1920, which allows regulators to intervene in energy markets to stave off electrical reliability emergencies.

On Monday, Perry cast doubt over the plan in a speech at the same conference. But, the next day, Murray called on Perry to agree to FirstEnergy’s request.



“I’m an American first ― I represent the coal industry, and I’m probably the coal guy in this room ― but I’m an American,” he said. “Our power grids are not as reliable as the grid operators would like you to believe.”

“Will we have to have a system collapse before we really recognize that something has to be done about the security, resilience and reliability of the power grid?” he added.

The Trump administration is acceding to one of Murray’s other key asks. Environmental Protection Agency Administrator Scott Pruitt met with Murray at least twice in March 2017, and in October he announced a repeal of the Clean Power Plan, a suite of rules to reduce emissions from utilities.

But Pruitt’s push to host a televised debate on climate change ― an event many saw as a first step to reconsidering the carbon dioxide endangerment finding ― hit a snare when White House chief of staff John Kelly reportedly kiboshed the idea, deeming it too politically risky. Asked Tuesday what would be the top thing the Trump administration could do to help the coal industry, he said: “Eliminate the endangerment finding.”

Murray said former Rep. John Dingell (D-Mich.) warned him in the 1990s that, “if we ever say that carbon dioxide is a pollutant, we’re going to have a glorious mess in this country.”

“We have an energy problem in this country. We don’t have a global warming problem.” - Bob Murray, Murray Energy CEO

“That’s exactly what we have,” Murray said. “A polarized, glorious mess.”

“It’s political correctness in the United States,” he added. “It’s politics.”

Yet Murray stands to score another victory this week. Andrew Wheeler, who worked as Murray’s lobbyist in Washington from 2009 to 2017, is poised to be confirmed by the Senate as the EPA’s deputy administrator as early as Tuesday, putting him next in line to lead the agency if Pruitt succumbs to mounting pressure to resign.

Wheeler could also lead an effort to reexamine the endangerment finding. In March 2010, he accused the United Nations Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change of blurring “the lines between science and advocacy” and functioning “more as a political body than a scientific body,” according to remarks posted to his lobby’s firm’s website. He suggested the EPA could “reconsider its endangerment finding without almost exclusively relying upon the IPCC.”Murdoch's Fox Networks Group in London was raided by the European Commission on Tuesday. JEWEL SAMAD via Getty Images

LONDON (Reuters) - The European Commission on Tuesday raided the offices of a number of companies involved in sports broadcasting rights, including a unit of Rupert Murdoch’s Fox, as part of an investigation into a possible cartel.

Sports broadcasting is a huge business in Europe, with networks spending billions of pounds to secure exclusive rights to show games in top-flight leagues to attract viewers.

The Commission said it had carried out unannounced inspections in several member states at companies that distribute “media rights and related rights pertaining to various sports events and/or their broadcasting”.

Fox Networks Group (FNG), an operating unit of Murdoch’s 21st Century Fox which distributes TV and cable channels around the world, said it was cooperating with the EC inspection after officials raided its offices in London.

“The Commission has concerns that the companies involved may have violated EU antitrust rules that prohibit cartels and restrictive business practices,” it said in a statement.

“Unannounced inspections are a preliminary step into suspected anticompetitive practices. (It) ... does not mean that the companies are guilty of anti-competitive behavior nor does it prejudge the outcome of the investigation itself.”

The Commission did not name any of the companies affected, but Murdoch’s FNG confirmed its involvement after it was first reported by the Telegraph newspaper.

The news of the raid comes at a difficult time for Fox which is engaged in string of deals that are facing regulatory approval.

It is battling Comcast and British regulators for the right to buy Europe’s biggest pay-TV company Sky for around $15 billion while it has also agreed to sell a string of assets to Walt Disney Co for around $52 billion.

The Commission said there was no legal deadline to complete inquiries into anti-competitive conduct and EC investigations can be lengthy.Cardi B has long had a reputation for being honest, real, and hilarious ― and she lived up to it during a radio interview on Monday.

The rapper opened up about her relationship with Offset, her former job as a stripper, her success as an artist, and preparing to become a mom. There had been rumors for months that Cardi was expecting, but she kept the secret until last weekend’s big reveal on “Saturday Night Live.”

Cardi told New York’s Hot 97 she kept the big news to herself because she “really hated how people harassed me and didn’t let me breathe.”

“I have given y’all so much,” she added.

NBC via Getty Images

The “Bodak Yellow” singer finally announced on “SNL” that she is pregnant with fiance Offset’s baby, just one day after releasing her debut album “Invasion of Privacy.” She later said in an Instagram story ― now deleted ― that a major reason she kept the news to herself was because of haters.

In the radio interview, she elaborated on that comment. Cardi sounded off on people criticizing her pregnancy with questions like, “Why is she doing that in the height of her career?” by saying, “Why can’t I have both?”

Yes, Cardi.

She continued: “Why do I have to be in my mid-30’s to have a baby? What am I doing wrong? I’m a grown woman. ... I’m 25 years old, and I’m going to say this in the most humblest way, I’m a millionaire. I’m established.”

She said she has picked a name for her baby (but didn’t disclose it), and said Offset will be a good father. Even if, “God forbid,” their romantic relationship doesn’t work out, she and her child will be totally OK, she said.

“My man is a great father to his kids. I will never lose. I’m not having a baby with a deadbeat,” she said.

Many people on social media showed undying support for Cardi’s statements:

Cardi B clocked all of y’all that had something to say about her getting pregnant 🗣🗣💯 pic.twitter.com/7s5MrGVgT1 — ɪɴᴠᴀsɪᴏɴ ᴏғ ᴘʀɪᴠᴀᴄʏ (@trapendella) April 10, 2018

“Why can’t I have both?” Yass say that!!! I think people forget that women should be able to have a family while chasing their dreams! https://t.co/tIVjMjW9bd — 😛 (@izuh_) April 10, 2018

@iamcardib is just as human as everyone else, shes gotten so far and is continuing to go farther so what’s wrong with that? https://t.co/LDffP415OQ — anvy 🦈🌈 (@anvydominguez_) April 10, 2018

👏🏽👏🏽👏🏽 Let my girl BE bruh ... Like she got a career so what’s the problem ? Y’all hate to see someone be successful ... https://t.co/knkrenclci — ash.dan.edw💜 (@Briimommie) April 10, 2018

“Why can’t I have both? Why do I have to choose a baby or a career? A family or a career?” This queen be hyping women up and I have nothing but respect for this boss lady 👏🏽👏🏽👏🏽 https://t.co/GZuB916Wsi — Julia Santos (@JsantosJulia) April 10, 2018

I'm with it, nothing is impossible. Strong independent women raise children on their own and do an amazing job, they still persevere. She's got a career, a fiancé, and money, why y'all expect any less from her? https://t.co/lTuWmA0S10 — Sammi Sweetheart ✨ (@_nicolecrystal_) April 10, 2018

Why’d this make me tear up?? Like she’s just a young girl trying to live her life & if she wants a baby, she can have a baby. She’s so realistic about it too. Ugh, so much love to Cardi. https://t.co/m5YOPRKPd1 — Michele Rodriguez (@micheleangela_) April 10, 2018

Keep doing you, Cardi. The people love it.Sen. Chuck Grassley (R-Iowa) warned Tuesday that there would be dire consequences for President Donald Trump if he decided to fire special counsel Robert Mueller.

“I think it would be suicide for the president to fire [Mueller],” Grassley, chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee, said during an interview with CNN.

“I think the less the president says about this whole thing, the better off he will be,” he continued. “I think that Mueller is a person of stature and respected, and I respect him. Just let the thing go forward.”

"I think it would be suicide for the President to fire" special counsel Robert Mueller, Senate Judiciary Chairman Chuck Grassley says. "I think the less the President says about the whole thing, the better off he will be" https://t.co/dzzMXztSJf — CNN Politics (@CNNPolitics) April 10, 2018

Trump hinted Monday that he’s considering axing Mueller as head of a federal probe into Russia’s interference in the 2016 presidential election, hours after the FBI raided the office of Michael Cohen, Trump’s personal lawyer.

Cohen’s lawyer told The New York Times that a search warrant had been issued after a referral from Mueller, but wasn’t directly related to his investigation.

When asked by a reporter Monday why he doesn’t fire Mueller, Trump danced around the question, stating that he would “see what happens.”

“I think it’s a disgrace what’s going on,” Trump told reporters. “We’ll see what happens, but I think it’s really a sad situation ... Many people have said you should fire him.”

Both Democratic and Republican lawmakers, including Grassley, have repeatedly defended Mueller’s integrity and leadership in the Russia probe. At least four bills have been introduced in Congress that would prevent Trump from firing Mueller, but none of them has yet been taken up.

“It’s pretty clear to me everyone in the White House knows it’d be the end of President Trump’s presidency if he tried to fire Mr. Mueller,” Sen. Lindsey Graham (R-S.C.), who introduced one such bill last year, told ABC News in January.

Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.) told reporters Tuesday that he did not feel it was yet necessary to pass legislation protecting Mueller.

“It’s still my view that Mueller should be allowed to finish his job,” McConnell said. “I haven’t seen clear indication yet that we needed to pass something to keep him from being removed. I don’t think that’s going to happen.”

Jennifer Bendery contributed reporting.Sen. John Kennedy (R-La.) says, "You don’t need a siren in your car. You do not.” kali9 via Getty Images

WASHINGTON ― Lawmakers laughed off the idea of using a vehicle’s lights and sirens to speed up some of their trips around the nation’s capital ― a request Environmental Protection Agency chief Scott Pruitt reportedly made to his security detail last year.

“I don’t have any lights and sirens, so that is not an option,” chuckled Sen. Ted Cruz (R-Texas) on Monday after being asked whether he would do so to beat traffic in D.C.

Pruitt wanted to “use flashing lights and sirens in his motorcade ... to expedite local trips in Washington to the airport or to dinner, including at least one trip to Le Diplomate, a trendy French restaurant that he frequented,” according to The New York Times.

When the lead agent in charge of Pruitt’s security detail questioned the use of lights and sirens for such a purpose ― which was against agency policy ― and told the administrator that sirens were to be used only in emergencies, he was later reassigned to a new job within the EPA, according to CBS News.

EPA chief of staff Ryan Jackson told CBS News in a statement, “We have no knowledge of anyone being removed from the detail for not using lights and sirens.” Asked why the agent in charge of security was removed, an EPA spokesman said, “We do not comment on personnel matters within EPA’s protective service detail.”

Admittedly, the use of sirens and lights to bypass traffic in Washington may rank near the bottom of at least 23 ethics issues Pruitt is currently facing, including a sweetheart deal he got to stay in a condo owned by the wife of an energy lobbyist for $50 a night.

But it’s just another example of the strange approach Pruitt has taken to what has traditionally been a relatively low-profile job. Other incidents involving Pruitt include spending $3,000 to sweep his office for surveillance bugs and $42,000 to build a secret phone booth in his office.

Lawmakers of both parties, who are frequently driven around town by aides and do not travel with a security detail, said Monday they wouldn’t use lights and sirens to cut through traffic and do not think a high-ranking government official ought to, either.

“I was just talking to somebody else about how all these security precautions ― we want to protect government officials and stuff, but some of this stuff is kind of over the top,” Sen. Ron Johnson (R-Wis.) told HuffPost.

Sen. John Kennedy (R-La.) said he has “never, ever owned a siren in my entire life.”

“Maybe when I was a kid,” he added, “I had a little fire truck with a siren on it, but my advice to all people in official positions is, No. 1, never take, accept, and use a government credit card, and No. 2, you don’t need a siren in your car. You do not.”

Sen. Richard Shelby (R-Ala.) appeared confused about the idea of a Cabinet official using flashing lights and sirens to get around traffic.

“I didn’t know they stopped traffic for members or senators,” he said. “I thought they stopped traffic for the president, foreign leaders and the vice president.”

The nation’s governors, as executives of their states, may also travel in a motorcade with police whose lights and sirens can stop traffic.

Sen. Joe Manchin (D-W.Va.), a former governor of West Virginia, didn’t fully answer a question about whether he would use lights and sirens to beat traffic in D.C.

“I never...” he trailed off before an aide interjected by saying, “We don’t have sirens.”

Asked whether he would ever use the technique to beat traffic in the capital, Sen. Brian Schatz (D-Hawaii), a former lieutenant governor of his state, put his head back and laughed.

“The only time they used blue lights was in case of emergency or real safety concerns. You never used it for convenience. It was not at your discretion as the protectee; it was the head of the detail that made a determination.”