Chew on this: There are two new flavors of Jelly Belly candies guaranteed to raise a stink.

As part of its BeanBoozled game, which pairs delicious jelly beans with identical-looking but awful-tasting twins, the Jelly Belly company has come with two new designed-to-be-disgusting flavors: stink bug and dirty dishwater.

The candies are paired with sweeter beans ― toasted marshmallow and birthday cake ― the idea being that people might get lucky and eat a flavor that isn’t so gross.

Since consuming bad-tasting jelly beans is one of those ongoing problems facing humanity, HuffPost Weird News decided to put the foul-sounding beans to the test.

As you can see from these two videos, the stink bug and dirty dishwater candies were hard to stomach.

The first video shows us sampling just the stink bug flavor.

A post shared by David Moye (@dmoyeweirdnews) on May 22, 2018 at 2:35pm PDT

We try both flavors in this one.

Although neither flavor is great, we did end up brushing our teeth for about 25 minutes each to get the aftertaste out of our mouths ― so at least our dentist is happy.

The new flavors will be available in a new edition of the BeanBoozled game coming later this summer.Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. and other prominent civil rights and religious leaders walk during the March on Washington for Jobs & Freedom in 1963. Robert W. Kelley via Getty Images

He couldn’t stop thinking about them, their wide eyes and the silent hunger that lay behind them.

Staring up at the ceiling from his motel bed, Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. told his closest confidant, Rev. Ralph Abernathy, that the impoverished children they visited earlier that day were cemented in his mind.

It was June 1966 and the pair had stopped by an early Head Start facility in Marks, Mississippi, which is the seat of Quitman County, a devastatingly poor area in the alluvial plains of the Mississippi Delta that was thought to be the most impoverished in the country at the time.

Quitman had everything King fought against: A lack of job and home security, particularly for the black sharecropping families who often lived in shacks on the plantations where they worked unpredictable harvests. Abysmal schools, where black students were taught in poorly ventilated classrooms with out-of-date textbooks and school lunches they couldn’t afford.

But it was what King saw in that Head Start facility, a program developed to prepare young children for school, that would push him to launch the 1968 Poor People’s Campaign, an effort to demand economic security and an improvement in the quality of life for impoverished Americans. After watching a teacher cut an apple into quarters in order to feed four children, he broke down in tears — an unusual display of public emotion from King. Ultimately, he made the small town of Marks the launching pad for his campaign’s march on Washington, planned for the spring of 1968.

“I can’t get those children out of my mind,” he told Abernathy. “We can’t let that kind of poverty exist in this country. I don’t think people really know that little schoolchildren are slowly starving in the United States of America. I didn’t know it.”

The campaign’s dream was deferred when King was assassinated on April 4, 1968. But Coretta Scott King, an activist and the reverend’s widow, along with Abernathy and others, decided to pick up and move onward with the march, which took place on May 12 with thousands of attendees. A list of five core demands compiled by the Committee of 100 — an intersectional group of faith leaders, activists and poor people from all racial backgrounds — in the days following King’s death asserted the need for a living wage, a secure income for those who cannot find jobs, opportunity to acquire land and capital, and the right of people who will be affected to play a role in designing government programs.

“We come with an appeal to open the doors of America to the almost 50 million Americans who have not been given a fair share of America’s wealth and opportunity, and we will stay until we get it,” Abernathy told the crowd during the march.

Afterward, thousands of people set up a collection of tents, dubbed Resurrection City, in ongoing protest on the National Mall. The occupation lasted several weeks, ending after harsh weather and reports of racial friction led to less-than-ideal living conditions for those on site. Not long after the assassination of Robert F. Kennedy, a gut punch to Resurrection City residents, the group was evicted by D.C. police.

The campaign dream was, again, deferred.

Now, 50 years later, a new push to eradicate poverty has developed. The Poor People’s Campaign: A National Call for Moral Revival, led by Rev. William Barber II and Rev. Liz Theoharis, is working to reignite Martin Luther King’s vision. A preliminary report released by the group in December found that poverty has increased by 60 percent since 1968 ― a dire statistic that speaks to the heart of the campaign’s revival.

HuffPost sat down with the reverends to talk about how the campaign plans to honor King, convince millennials to align themselves with a religious movement and persuade America that racism and poverty hurt everyone.

Civil rights activist Rev. William Barber II speaks during the launch of the Power to the Polls voter registration tour in Las Vegas in January. Ethan Miller via Getty Images

Tell me a little bit about yourselves and the campaign.

Theoharis: I got involved in grassroots anti-poverty organizing about 25 years ago with the National Union of the Homeless and the National Welfare Rights Union. In that work, I was introduced to the 1968 Poor People’s Campaign, because current efforts of poor people organizing ourselves were inspired by that campaign.

I realized that the call to organize and live amongst poor people was a religious call, and so I enrolled at Union Theological Seminary, got a master of divinity and got ordained in the Presbyterian Church USA. I was ordained to help build the Freedom Church of the Poor that Dr. King was talking about in the last years of his life, which harkened back to the Freedom Church of the Poor of the abolitionist movement. I helped found the Kairos Center about 14 years ago at Union Theological Seminary. A lot of the focus there was to build a Poor People’s Campaign for today.

At the launch event for the Kairos Center in November of 2013, Reverend Barber was the keynote speaker and there we were able to connect. Over the past four or five years, we’ve been working alongside each other and thinking about this Poor People’s Campaign.

I’ve been going around to congregations and to people over the last 20 years, and there hasn’t been a week where people don’t quote the Bible passage where Jesus says the poor will be with you always. I’ve heard people say that to justify inaction in the face of poverty; to say that if God wanted to end poverty, God would do so. I’ve found that one of the biggest biblical roadblocks and one of the biggest obstacles in anti-poverty organizing work — especially among poor people — was this notion that the Bible justifies poverty and that God condoned poverty.

What I learned in the process of studying the Bible was that there are other moments in U.S. history when the Bible has been used to justify oppression.

Barber: I was born two days after the March on Washington [in 1963] to a family where my father was an activist and trained clergy. He ended up leading our family back to eastern North Carolina where he was born after he received a call to come help with desegregation ― because the county did not really begin desegregation until about 14 to 15 years after the Brown [v. Board of Education] decision.

My father was one of the first science teachers to integrate a high school. My mother was the first black person to integrate the secretarial pool at the high school. So, in some ways, I was introduced to activism at an early age. My father also chose to be a part of the Christian Church (Disciples of Christ), which is a predominantly white party of Christians in this country with a deep social justice theology — and he chose to work among the poor.

After finishing Duke University Divinity School, I went to Martinsville, Virginia, which is a poor community in the southern part of the state, and helped people there fight against businesses that were putting toxic waste in the black communities. In 2006, I ran for president of the North Carolina NAACP and was elected.

In 2007, we began the Forward Together [Moral Movement]. It was a mass coalition of over 60 organizations that began to challenge the then-Democratic-led [North Carolina] General Assembly and government on issues related to poverty, education, voting rights, fundamental human and civil rights for all regardless of race, their creed, their color or their sexuality. That coalition helped to win a raise in the minimum wage in North Carolina. We were responsible for winning same-day registration and early voting as well as the North Carolina Racial Justice Act that gave people the option to have cases reviewed if race was found to be used in assigning the death penalty. And we pushed one of our U.S. senators to vote for the Affordable Care Act.

I became the architect of the Moral Monday protests in 2013. This is after a tea party-led group — because of voter suppression and racial gerrymandering — took over the North Carolina General Assembly, won the governor’s office and began to roll back the state’s progressive policies.

Many Americans are still dealing with a number of the issues that King fought against ― voter suppression and poverty, especially. With this in mind, how is the campaign relevant today?

Theoharis: Our campaign commissioned the Souls of Poor Folk audit ― which was put together by the Institute for Policy Studies, the Urban Institute and a team of economists, policymakers and impacted people — and a preliminary report came out on Dec. 4. And we do indeed see that there are 60 percent more people living below the poverty line today than 50 years ago. There are fewer voting rights than 50 years ago. Ecological devastation has really sped up with poisoned water, fracking and mountaintop removal. The extreme effects of climate change are impacting so many poor and marginalized communities across the globe. We have 60 cents of each discretionary dollar going to the war economy.

And none of the current political discourse actually revolves around the issues that affect the majority of people. Reverend Barber and I have said many times before that in the 2016 presidential election not one of the debates took up voter suppression or the Voting Rights Act and how we need to re-establish that. None of those debates spent any time on poverty and poor people. When poverty and poor people are mentioned in our political discourse, it’s to blame poor people for everyone else’s problems. Our elected officials talk about the middle class but not how close to half of the population is low-income.

The time is now — more than ever — for us to have a Poor People’s Campaign.

Barber: Dr. King connected three issues: racism, poverty and militarism. He saw those issues as interrelated, bound together, that you couldn’t address one without the other. He was very clear that in order to address these interlocking injustices, you had to have an intersectional response. He said that the only hope for the nation moving forward was for all working-class and poor people to come together and form a powerful movement for moral justice — not just resistance — and that would hold these issues together and not separate them into silos. He was very cognizant of the danger that America was in.

Fifty years later and America has still not fully addressed these issues. Dr. King said in his speech following the Selma to Montgomery March that whenever there was the possibility of the black and white masses — especially the poor and working-class black and white masses — to come together, that they should.

This is why white aristocracy and others always sowed division and racism to prevent that from happening, because of how it could change the nation. If you didn’t have voter suppression and racialized gerrymandering, white and black and brown people could come together and hold the power to flip many states. That would fundamentally change electoral politics in this country and thereby change our policies.

Why does this campaign have to appeal to everyone? Why is it not something that can just focus on black people and other people of color?

Barber: Dr. King never focused on just black people. That’s the misnomer of the corporate and political reinterpretation of him. As early as 1958, he was talking about how the 1 percent was ruling over the 99 percent. The Poor People’s Campaign had great diversity.

If you look down through history, change really only took place in this country when there were fusion movements. The abolitionist movement was black and white. The Reconstruction movement was black and white people. The only real hope for America is to have this kind of fusion coalition.

That’s why we’re visiting different communities from California to the Carolinas. We are going to visit homeless people, who are predominately white millennials, in Grays Harbor [County, Washington]. We will be on the Apache reservation [in Arizona] where multinational companies are trying to drill on sacred lands, which will poison aquifers, but the water won’t stay on that reservation. It’ll actually flow into the adjacent counties and towns, many of which are predominately white. When you look at all the states that denied Medicaid expansion, the majority of those people who got hurt were white — mostly in the South and in the Rust Belt. And yet some politicians used code words like “Obamacare” and fooled people into a racist resistance to the Affordable Care Act.

We have to unmask this stuff. We have to show the intersections between race and poverty. We have to show that voter suppression hurts all people and allows the people who get elected to use their power to pass policies that hurt all people.



[Editor’s note: Rev. Barber had to leave the conversation at this point. We continued on with Rev. Theoharis.]

"We have to conquer racism and economic injustice together because you can’t do it separately," said Rev. Liz Theoharis. Twitter

You were talking about the ways in which the Bible justifies oppression. So how does the campaign plan to reach people who can’t move past that fact?

Theoharis: We’re finding how much talking about our deepest constitutional values, our deepest moral values resonates with people. We’re seeing that it resonates with everybody. You know, when we were in Albuquerque in a church that held 500, there were 4,700 people squeezed into that church.

Some young people came up to Reverend Barber and said they never would have been caught in a church because of how religion has been used — Christianity in particular — to hurt queer people. But being part of that mass meeting and connecting with folks from indigenous spiritual traditions, with Muslims, with Jewish folk, with Sikh and Hindu people, and with Christians of all stripes and talking about the real issues that impact people ― that has been really empowering and really important and necessary.

We’re talking about what’s at the center of our faith traditions, but also what’s at the center for people who don’t have faith. People who also believe that the arc of the universe is long and it bends towards justice.

King’s thought behind the campaign was that while black liberation was vital, black folks and other people of color wouldn’t truly be free until they had economic security. Why is economic security so important for people of color and everybody? Why will this resonate today considering the racial wealth gap and other socioeconomic disadvantages we’re dealing with?

Theoharis: One of the King quotes that I find really helpful is: “What good is having the right to sit at a lunch counter if you can’t afford to buy a hamburger?”

I live in New York City, and when you walk around, you see menus posted outside of restaurants. And if you can’t afford the prices, you might as well not go in. This is the kind of economic insecurity that so many people face, according to our audit: 140 million people are poor or low-income; 80 percent of people at some point in our lives will experience poverty and hardship; 50 percent of kids are in food-insecure homes. Among people of color, it is way worse and those numbers are not getting better and, in fact, they’re getting worse.

We were in Lowndes County, Alabama, a couple of weeks ago for the 53rd anniversary of the Selma to Montgomery March and Bloody Sunday. This is where the SNCC house [Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee’s Freedom House] was and it’s where the Black Panther Party was born. Today, many families — both white and black — are living with raw sewage in their yard. There is no sanitation service. There is a failing septic system. Thirty-five percent of the population has parasites or hookworm mostly because of poverty and failing infrastructure.

We connected with leaders there. And they said that when you talk about civil rights or racial justice, you also have to talk about raw sewage, dilapidated housing and how we can make it possible for everybody to have a thriving, abundant life. We live in this rich country. We live in a world that produces more than we need. And yet there is such poverty, such want, such deprivation.

We have to conquer racism and economic injustice together because you can’t do it separately.

The campaign tried to live after King was assassinated but Ralph Abernathy later said that he felt as though what it did achieve — marches, establishing Resurrection City, getting federal agencies to promise to hire poor people, etc. — wasn’t enough. Under you and Reverend Barber, how will the campaign be enough?

That’s the reason we’re launching this campaign with a two-month national tour, to learn what it would look like for the campaign to be successful. We want to see if state-based movements can be pulled into something bigger. We want strong, on-the-ground campaigns with deep community roots, with impacted people leading the way and involving clergy, other moral leaders, activists, advocates — everybody.Actor T.J. Miller was arrested on Monday for allegedly calling in a fake bomb threat on a train last month.

The Blast first reported that authorities have charged Miller with intentionally conveying false information about an explosive device on a train to law enforcement.

On March 18, Miller was aboard an Amtrak train traveling from Washington D.C. to New York. Authorities say the former “Silicon Valley” star called a 911 dispatcher in New Jersey to report that a female passenger with brown hair and a scarf had a bomb in her bag.

After Miller told authorities he was on Train 2256, Amtrak officials stopped the train in Westport, Connecticut, and made passengers get off so bomb squad members could conduct a search.

The team didn’t detect any evidence of an explosive device or materials on the train, according to a Department of Justice press release.

Then it turned out that Miller was actually on Train 2258.

Actor T.J. Miller attends the premiere of "The Emoji Movie" on July 23, 2017, in Westwood, California. Jason LaVeris via Getty Images

An investigator said that when he contacted Miller by phone, he noticed the comedian was slurring his speech and asked him if he had consumed alcohol that day.

Miller reportedly replied he had consumed “one glass of red wine.”

The investigator said he asked Miller if he suffered from mental illness, and Miller allegedly replied, “No, absolutely not. This is the first time I’ve ever made a call like this before. I am worried for everyone on that train. Someone has to check that lady out.”

Investigators inspected Train 2258 when it showed up at Westport, but found no explosive devices on board, according to the release.

Amtrak officers then reportedly interviewed an attendant from the first class car, where Miller had been sitting. The attendant said the actor had appeared intoxicated upon boarding in Washington and consumed multiple drinks on the train.

The attendant also told investigators that Miller had a few “hostile exchanges” with a woman sitting in the same first-class car.

After interviewing the woman Miller had accused of carrying a bomb, investigators determined she was not carrying explosives or doing any of the things that Miller had claimed.

Officials allege that Miller made up the bomb threat because of a grudge against the woman, causing 926 hours worth of delays and disrupting several law enforcement agencies and bomb squads in Connecticut and New York, according to TMZ.

Authorities arrested Miller when he flew into LaGuardia Airport. He was released from custody on Tuesday morning after posting $100,000 bond.

If convicted, Miller could spend up to five years in prison.UPDATE April 11: All four suspects turned themselves into Miami Beach police late Tuesday, according to NBC.

Officers identified the men as Luis M. Alonso, 20, and 21-year-olds Juan C. Lopez, Adonis Diaz and Pablo Reinaldo Romo.

They have reportedly been charged with aggravated battery.

Previously:

A brutal attack on a same-sex couple recorded on camera cut short the celebratory vibe of Miami Beach Gay Pride this weekend.

Surveillance footage shows Rene Chalarca and his boyfriend, Dmitry Logunov, being attacked by four unidentified men outside of a public restroom Sunday evening, The Miami Herald reports. Chalarca and Logunov were on their way home from the city’s pride parade and holding hands at the time of the attack.

A third man, Helmut Muller, was standing near the restrooms and tried to break up the assault. He was hit by one of the attackers and knocked unconscious when he struck his head on the pavement.

New: @MiamiBeachPD releases photo of 4 people they say are on video attacking two gay men and a Good Samaritan after the pride parade. If you know them contact detectives. @nbc6 pic.twitter.com/jwl8XxZ9GV — Jamie Guirola (@jamieNBC6) April 10, 2018

One of the suspects, Chalarca told NBC 6, used anti-LGBTQ slurs in Spanish as he attacked the men. He and Lugonov had cuts and bruises on their faces and were treated by paramedics at the scene.

Muller was taken to a local hospital, where he received four stitches for his head injury.

It’s unclear whether the case will be deemed a hate crime. Speaking to CBS Miami, Ernesto Rodriguez of the Miami Beach Police called the attack “completely uncalled for and unnecessary.”

Police are seeking help from the public in identifying the assailants. “We really need to hold those responsible, accountable,” Rodriguez said.

Chalarca and Logunov believe they were targeted by the group because of their sexuality.

Gay couple says they were just holding hands when they were attacked on Miami Beach during Pride. @MiamiBeachPD looking for 4 suspects. @nbc6 pic.twitter.com/lCSMXP7GRf — Jamie Guirola (@jamieNBC6) April 10, 2018

“We were together,” Chalarca told WPLG, a local ABC affiliate. “So for me, it’s like, yes, it was a hate crime.”First daughter Ivanka Trump’s tweet about the poor state of American children’s fitness had a tiny moment in the sun ― before a retired Army general reminded her that her dad has eviscerated the President’s Council on Sports, Fitness & Nutrition.

The council’s key mission: to improve the health and fitness of Americans ... including kids.

We need to promote healthy lifestyles for America’s youth. In a recent survey, 9.5 million U.S. children reported that they did NOT once participate in any of over 100 sports or activities listed. #YouthSports @AspenInstitute — Ivanka Trump (@IvankaTrump) April 8, 2018

Lt. Gen. Mark Hertling, a CNN analyst and physical fitness advocate, was appointed a member of the council in 2013 and served through the rest of the Obama administration.

He points out that no one is on the council anymore:

Ummm...there’s this thing called the President’s Council on Fitness, Sport, and Nutrition. Been around 60 years. Used to have 25 appointees...I was one of them. @MichelleObama helped & generated momentum in this area. No one is on the Council now. @FitnessGov. Check it out. https://t.co/R6xh1n0Qi7 — Mark Hertling (@MarkHertling) April 8, 2018

Early in his presidency, Donald Trump increased the number of members of the 60-year-old council from 25 to 30. (He also modified its name.) How many members has he actually appointed to the council? None. The federal government’s “Meet the Council” website tells visitors that members are still “to be announced.”

Holli Richmond was appointed as executive director last month, but she has no one to meet with.

Screenshot from the website of the President's Council on Fitness. Screenshot/President's Council on Fitness

Hertling wasn’t the only person to respond to Ivanka Trump’s tweet by mentioning former first lady Michelle Obama.

While in the White House, Obama promoted children’s health through nutrition and physical activity with her “Let’s Move” campaign, launched in 2010. The Obama administration also instituted requirements for healthier school lunches, which Trump has postponed.

Other Twitter users mentioned that children would probably be healthier if their health insurance wasn’t being whittled away and if they could have clean air and water.

Kids also need clean air & water. If u wonder what this is about, ask ur father. Is this an appropriate question for a daughter to ask her father? — jayne mead (@jaynemead17) April 8, 2018

And healthcare, good schools. — Unionmom (@catalina22mom) April 9, 2018

What business of it is yours? When Michelle Obama made this her passion, your people did nothing bur criticize her. — BN (@NixBryan) April 8, 2018

Hertling later shared a photo of some of the council’s members posing with former President Barack Obama in 2015. They never got to celebrate the group’s 60th anniversary, he noted.

Wow. Thanks is for sending this. Our council had Drew Brees and Dominique Dawes as our co-leads, and it was a terrific group of athletes, chefs, scientist and fitness professionals. Here’s part of that Presidents Council in 2015. pic.twitter.com/OxS0cFJirK — Mark Hertling (@MarkHertling) April 9, 2018Each social media platform has a different focus, be it Facebook, Snapchat or Twitter. Each platform also has something uniquely annoying about it, and that’s the focus of a digital artist in southeast Michigan.

Mike Campau has created a series called “Antisocial” that depicts the top social media platforms as Vegas-style neon signs.

Each sign is in an empty parking lot, which is supposed to symbolize how each person’s post is both isolated but also in an area that can be seen by many.

The signs, which Campau created digitally, showcase the most irritating aspects of each platform. For instance, the sign for Facebook points out that it’s “the place to go & make everyone think your life is great!”

He’s also harsh on LinkedIn, which he describes as “People I don’t really know endorse me for the things I don’t really do.”

Although Campau makes fun of social media, he insists he’s not a hater.

“I don’t think all social media is terrible. In fact, I gain quite a bit of inspiration from fellow artists,” he told LinkedIn contributor Stephen Blakeman. “I’m exposed to different points of view, I can keep in touch with old friends, make new friends and I can stay current with what is happening around the world. All of which are great things and something that couldn’t have happened 10 years ago.”Scholastic

Start saving your money now, Harry Potter fans, because something special this way comes.

To celebrate the 20th anniversary of the fantasy series, which was first published in 1997 in the U.K. and a year later in the U.S., Scholastic has blessed us with seven mesmerizing black-and-white covers for new editions of the Harry Potter books.

Artist Brian Selznick, who has illustrated children’s books like The Invention of Hugo Cabret and Wonderstruck, has designed jackets for new Harry Potter paperback editions that will hit shelves in July. A special box set with all seven installments will drop in September.

The covers depict major moments and characters from each of the books ― even Dolores Umbridge made it. Arranged together, they comprise a stunning mural of sorts.

Scholastic

“I’m a big Harry Potter fan and it is an incredible honour to illustrate J.K. Rowling’s iconic series,” Selznick, who’s also a writer, said in a statement. “I am thrilled to play a part in this exciting 20th anniversary celebration and look forward to meeting Harry Potter fans and readers across the country.”

The release is part of the Harry Potter publisher’s yearlong campaign to pay tribute to the series, with events planned at bookstores, libraries and festivals around the U.S., according to Pottermore.

If that’s not enough, the Broadway play “Harry Potter and the Cursed Child” premieres in April, and a new exhibit, “Harry Potter: A History of Magic,” will debut at the New York Historical Society a month before the movie “Fantastic Beasts: The Crimes of Grindelwald” opens in theaters in November.

Check out more of the new covers below.

Scholastic

Scholastic

Scholastic

Scholastic

ScholasticNext month, the European Union will enact strict new data protection laws limiting what companies like Facebook can do with their users’ data. Would Facebook be open to something similar in the United States?

Depends when you ask.

A week ago, Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg told a gaggle of reporters on a conference call that the answer was yes.

But on Tuesday, while testifying before the Senate judiciary and commerce committees, Zuckerberg’s answer was a bit more ambiguous. He said people in the U.S. and the EU have “different sensibilities” in response to questions on the matter from Sen. Maria Cantwell (D-Wash.).

Assuming Zuckerberg didn’t simply misspeak, his remarks suggest a quick reversal for the company ― and indeed, a reversal of Facebook’s own reversal.

Last Tuesday, a Reuters reporter concluded the company would “stop short” of supporting the EU laws globally after an interview with Zuckerberg. In his call with reporters the next day, however, Zuckerberg called the report inaccurate, stating the company had every intention of doing so, albeit with minor changes to conform to local laws.

And now, it seems, Facebook may be less certain about enacting those EU-like data protection laws after all ― because of “different sensibilities.”Fox Business Network host Lou Dobbs, an unabashed supporter of President Donald Trump, launched a fiery, verbal attack against special counsel Robert Mueller on Monday.

“This is now a man that has to be brought under control, it would seem to me,” Dobbs said. “Frankly, I can’t imagine ― because each of us has to come to terms with our own heart and conscience ― I would fire the SOB in three seconds if it were me.”

“I know you would and he certainly deserves it,” Fox News legal analyst Gregg Jarrett replied.

Watch the clip below (key portion starts around 5:40):

Dobbs spent a considerable portion of his show “Lou Dobbs Tonight” lambasting Mueller and complaining about the FBI raid on the offices of Michael Cohen, the president’s personal attorney.

Cohen has admitted to paying porn star Stormy Daniels $130,000 right before the 2016 election to keep her from discussing an alleged affair she had with Trump in 2006. An attorney for Cohen said the FBI was acting in part on a referral from Mueller.

Earlier on Monday, Trump floated the idea of firing the special counsel.

“Why don’t I just fire Mueller?” he asked in response to a reporter’s question. “Well, I think it’s a disgrace what’s going on. We’ll see what happens.”

Trump also said “many people have said” he should sack Mueller. Dobbs is certainly one of them.

Dobbs used his show to slam the entire Justice Department as well.

“If there’s anyone in this country who thinks that this Department of Justice leadership is competent, is impartial and fair and committed to justice instead of a partisan result in the interests of the deep state and not the United States of America, then they haven’t been paying attention to anything ― anything ― that’s been going on in the nation’s capital,” he said.

Dobbs has long advocated for Trump on the air. Last year, he described Trump as “pretty close to perfect.” He’s also boasted about his support for the president.Jeff Bottari/Zuffa LLC via Getty Images

Arjan Singh Bhullar, the first Sikh fighter signed by the American mixed martial arts organization Ultimate Fighting Championship, will have another historic milestone to celebrate this week.

The 31-year-old will square off against Adam Wieczorek on Saturday in Glendale, Arizona, and wear a turban ― a Sikh article of faith ― as he makes his way to the ring. He’ll be the first UFC fighter to do so.

Gurwin Singh Ahuja, executive director of the National Sikh Campaign, told HuffPost he hopes Bhullar and his turban, also known as a dastaar, will raise awareness about the Sikh community.

“A majority of Americans do not even know who Sikhs are!” Ahuja told HuffPost. ”I think Bhullar’s appearance will help introduce the broader public to the Sikh community, and I think his career will inform people that Sikhs are fighters and that we fight for equality.”

Arjan Singh Bhullar lands a punch against Luis Henrique in a September 2017 match. Jeff Bottari/Zuffa LLC via Getty Images

Bhullar’s upcoming fight is particularly significant as it lands on Vaisahki, a festival that observes the founding of the body of fully initiated Sikhs known as the Khalsa.

Bhullar, who in his UFC debut last September also became the group’s first fighter of Indian descent, hasn’t always been able to showcase his pride in his heritage. He had planned to wear his turban to his initial match, but UFC policies barred that.

A UFC spokesman told HuffPost that Bhullar did not follow the group’s “approval process for a change in apparel. Once UFC was given more time to vet the request, approval was granted. Going forward, he will be allowed to walk to the octagon [ring] with a turban.”

Bhullar told ESPN UK that the September incident “was disappointing and upsetting and frustrating.” He said that UFC officials needed “some educating and getting them on the same page, but I think we’ve done that.”

Bhullar, who has a 7-0 record in his bouts, has said that his identity as an Indian-Canadian Sikh is central to who he is.

His grandfather arrived in Canada from India in 1959 and faced racism because of his beard and turban, the fighter told the video show MMA Hour. Bhullar’s father took up wrestling as a way to protect himself at a time when the turban was not accepted, Vice Sports reported, and also used the sport as a way to connect with his peers.

Bhullar himself represented Canada in wrestling at the 2012 Summer Games in London, before turning to the sport of mixed martial arts.

Considering his family’s past and legacy, he said he has a duty to honor those before him.

“I always try to represent, to be more than just an athlete, more than just your sport, I consider it selfish to be going in there and just fighting… So many people in my community have sacrificed for me to be in the position I’m at,” Bhullar told Global News.

More than 60 percent of Americans knew nothing about Sikh Americans, a 2015 study revealed. The survey also found that when seeing someone wearing a turban, Americans were more likely to assume the individual was Muslim or Middle Eastern rather than Sikh. And according to the poll, more than half of Sikh children faced bullying in schools, with rates even more drastic for those wearing turbans.

“It is frankly commonly associated with terrorism and religious extremism,” Ahuja said of the turban.

Sikhs, though, wear it as a show of commitment to values that include service, compassion, and honesty. Ahuja said that with more visibility and representation, perhaps people will “correctly associate that the person who wears a turban will fight for equality and the rights of all people.”

“We want UFC fans to know that ... for hundreds of years, Sikhs have fought, and many have given their lives, to protect the rights of others—including Hindus, Christians, and Muslims—to practice their own religions,” he said. “Ultimately, our turban represents our commitment to fight for those values.”The latest optical illusion to sweep the internet isn’t about a dress, a wall or a street. It’s just a mess of colors ― or so it seems.

But stare at the center of the image below long enough, and you might not be so sure there are any colors there at all:

The vanishing colors are an illusion known as Troxler’s fading, or the Troxler effect, named for Ignaz Paul Vital Troxler. In 1804, the Swiss doctor/philosopher realized that “rigidly fixating one’s gaze on some element in the visual field can cause surrounding stationary images to seem to slowly disappear or fade,” the Illusions Index noted.

In this case, your mind essentially clears out the colors and replaces them with white space.

You can read a fuller explanation, and see a demonstration using a Cheshire Cat, here.Residents of Lake Worth, Florida, received an alarming message during a power outage over the weekend: Watch out for zombies.

A bulletin sent to city residents at 1:41 a.m. on Sunday warned of “power outage and zombie alert” and “extreme zombie activity.”

City officials were soon scrambling to issue a strange assurance.

“We are looking into the reports that the system mentioned zombies,” city public information officer Ben Kerr told Lake Worth Live. “I want to reiterate that Lake Worth does not have any zombie activity currently and apologize for the system message.”

In addition to Lake Worth, the message also referenced Terminus, a location in “The Walking Dead.”Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein personally gave the green light for the FBI to raid the hotel room and office of President Donald Trump’s longtime lawyer Michael Cohen on Monday, The New York Times first reported.

Rosenstein oversees special counsel Robert Mueller’s investigation into Russia’s role in the 2016 election. The Cohen raid came, in part, from a referral from Mueller’s team.

The raid was executed by the office of the U.S. attorney for the Southern District of New York. The man running that office, interim U.S. attorney Geoffrey Berman, is a Trump appointee whom the president personally met with when he was up for the job. Berman also donated $5,400 to Trump’s presidential campaign.

ABC News reported Tuesday that Berman, however, has been recused from the Cohen matter.

SCOOP: ABC News has learned Geoffrey Berman, the U.S. Attorney for the Southern District of New York, is recused from the Michael Cohen investigation. He had no role in raid of Cohen's office. Another recusal that will make @realDonaldTrump unhappy. — Jonathan Karl (@jonkarl) April 10, 2018

A spokesman for the U.S. attorney’s office would not comment on Berman’s role or whether there was an investigation into Cohen at all.

Trump was clearly furious about the news that the FBI had raided Cohen’s office and hotel room.

“I just heard that they broke into the office of one of my personal attorneys ― a good man. And it’s a disgraceful situation. It’s a total witch hunt. I’ve been saying it for a long time,” Trump told reporters at the White House on Monday evening.

Although Trump has repeatedly declared that he subject to a partisan “witch hunt,” Rosenstein is a Republican. (Trump, inaccurately, has claimed he is a “Democrat from Baltimore” and has considered firing him.) Mueller and Christopher Wray, the head of the FBI, are also Republicans.

The root of Trump’s frustration lies with Attorney General Jeff Sessions. Trump expected Sessions to protect him, and he has never forgiven him for recusing himself from all matters related to Russia’s meddling in the 2016 election. That decision left Rosenstein ― a man who is harder for Trump to control ― in charge of the investigation.

It’s not easy to search a practicing lawyer’s office. As The Washington Post reported, “To serve a search warrant on a practicing attorney, federal prosecutors are required to obtain approval from top Justice Department officials.”

The Washington Post reported Monday that Cohen is under federal investigation for possible bank fraud, wire fraud and campaign finance violations. The FBI was looking for documents about payments to two women who say they had affairs with Trump, according to The New York Times.

Karen McDougal, a former Playboy model, said she was paid $150,000 in 2016 by the parent company of the National Enquirer not to discuss the situation. That company is run by a longtime Trump friend.

Cohen has acknowledged paying adult film star Stormy Daniels $130,000 shortly before the election. Daniels has said the money was to keep her from talking about the sexual relationship she claims she had with Trump in 2006. The president has said he knew nothing about the payment.

Berman has served as interim U.S. attorney since January. Trump fired the previous U.S. attorney in Manhattan, Preet Bharara, just three months into his presidency. Bharara rejected Trump’s overtures to establish a direct line of communication, and he told the White House he did not find the contact appropriate. Less than a day later, Trump fired him.

Bharara said that he has confidence that if his old office is handling the investigation into Cohen, it won’t be the partisan hit job the president is trying to claim it is.

“If the reporting is true, particularly the part about this being approved by the Southern District of New York Attorney’s Office, which I used to lead, are all people who are Republican, and all people who have basically been handpicked by Donald Trump,” Bharara said.President Donald Trump has scrapped plans to travel to Peru and Colombia on Friday, choosing to remain in the U.S. to oversee the American response to a suspected chemical attack in Syria.

White House press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders announced the news in a statement on Tuesday morning.

“President Trump will not attend the 8th Summit of the Americas in Lima, Peru or travel to Bogota, Colombia as originally scheduled,” Sanders said. “At the President’s request, the Vice President will travel in his stead.”

Jarrod Agen, Vice President Mike Pence’s deputy chief of staff, described Pence as “honored to represent the United States” at the summit.

President Donald Trump, seen during a Cabinet meeting at the White House on Monday, has scrapped plans to travel to Peru and Colombia on Friday. Carlos Barria/Reuters

“He looks forward to promoting policy that will lead to an even stronger U.S. economy and working with our close allies in Latin America to collectively hold undemocratic actors in the region accountable for their actions,” Agen said in a statement that touted Pence’s past travel to the region in August.

During that trip, Pence met with the presidents of Argentina, Chile, Colombia and Panama to negotiate trade deals and discuss concerns about Venezuelan President Nicolas Maduro’s regime, which has been described as increasingly dictatorial by the U.S. and Colombia.

Pence, who the White House said will also travel to Brazil next month, was last summer said to have been far more conciliatory in his response to Maduro than Trump, who had threatened military intervention in Venezuela.

Few details of Trump’s planned response to the recent attack near Damascus, which left at least 49 people dead, had been released when the Summit announcement was made Tuesday, though the president has said a military response is not off the table.

Syrian children receive medical treatment after a suspected poisonous gas attack in Damascus on April 7. Anadolu Agency via Getty Images

“Everybody’s going to pay a price,” he told reporters ahead of a Cabinet meeting on Monday.

Trump’s trip this week was expected to be especially tense for the president, due to his past disparagement of Latin American countries over immigration, narcotics and trade.

Mexican President Peña Nieto on Monday ordered his cabinet to review his country’s relationship with the U.S., including border security, migration, trade and drug gangs.

The White House’s decision to send Pence in Trump’s place also comes as the president deals with the FBI’s raid of his personal lawyer, Michael Cohen, on Monday.

Trump on Tuesday claimed the search is part of a “total witch hunt” and that “attorney-client privilege is dead.”As critics continue to accuse Sinclair Broadcast Group of bias toward President Donald Trump, the media giant is defending itself by taking aim at one of the president’s favorite targets: CNN.

In a four-minute YouTube video linked at the top of the websites of several of its local television stations, Sinclair accuses CNN of “dishonesty and hypocrisy.” (Watch it below.) The cable network was one of the first to report on a script blasting media bias that Sinclair pressured its local news anchors to read on air.

Sinclair’s video, however, is fraught with misleading statements about the shifting concept of “fake news,” sending a disingenuous message to its viewers ― of which there are many. The broadcaster currently reaches around 40 percent of U.S. homes and is gearing up to acquire more stations, which would increase its reach to around 70 percent.

Much of the video focuses its attack on Brian Stelter, CNN’s senior media correspondent. It begins with a March 7 clip in which Stelter said Sinclair had taken “a page out of Trump’s playbook” by forcing its journalists to read the controversial script, which criticized “false news” stories and reporters who “use their platforms to push their own personal bias and agenda.”

Patching together CNN segments, the video attempts to show that Sinclair’s message to viewers about “false news” and Stelter’s warnings about “fake news” amount to the same thing ― and that CNN’s criticisms of Sinclair are thus dishonest.

“Does CNN really think a warning about ‘Fake News’ is Trump’s rhetoric?” Sinclair asks.

But the broadcaster’s video clearly ignores a whole lot of recent history and context.

A Sinclair station in Baltimore linked prominently to the company's CNN attack video on Tuesday. Sinclair Broadcast Group

Sinclair begins by pointing out that Stelter and CNN warned viewers about fake news repeatedly in 2016 and 2017. As anyone with internet access can easily confirm, this is accurate. Many major media outlets began talking about made-up “news” stories as the 2016 election was heating up ― and particularly after BuzzFeed discovered a cabal of Macedonian teens who were churning out fake pro-Trump stories for the advertising revenue. (Pope Francis did not, for example, endorse Trump for president.)

Sinclair suggests that this coverage was “a lot like what Sinclair anchors talked about in 2018” ― or what Sinclair made its anchors talk about in 2018 ― and, on the surface, it all does sound similar.

But the larger picture is that the term “fake news” has been politicized since it was first used by journalists to describe objectively false stories made up by writers foreign and domestic. Today it is repeatedly applied to reporting on well-documented real events, such as the FBI’s investigation into Russian interference in the 2016 election, that some readers don’t want to believe ― often for partisan reasons ― and to news analysis that readers don’t agree with.

To Stelter, Sinclair’s on-air warning about “false news” is particularly troubling because the anchors were ordered to read it or risk their jobs ― a threat to press freedom.

“Here’s the thing: These promos became a story because Sinclair staffers spoke up and said they were uncomfortable,” Stelter tweeted on Tuesday. “They said they’d never seen anything like this before.”

Other journalists were quick to push back against Sinclair’s latest defense on Twitter, too.

“Trump appropriated ‘fake news’ after the election to dismiss critical or unflattering coverage from legit news orgs,” Politico media reporter Michael Calderone wrote. “And he’s used the term throughout his presidency to suggest the public should trust him and not the press.”

Trump appropriated "fake news" after the election to dismiss critical or unflattering coverage from legit news orgs. And he's used the term throughout his presidency to suggest the public should trust him and not the press. — Michael Calderone (@mlcalderone) April 10, 2018

Sinclair's promos do mention "false news" on social media, but also charge "some media outlets" with publishing "fake stories" and "some members of the media" with pushing "personal bias and agenda." That's why Sinclair's promos, in 2018, have been seen as echoing Trump. — Michael Calderone (@mlcalderone) April 10, 2018

“It’s disingenuous to act like the ‘fake news’ [Stelter] was warning viewers about in 2016 and early 2017 is the same ‘fake news’ Sinclair is railing against today,” wrote Mediaite’s Justin Baragona.

It is disingenuous to act like the "fake news" @brianstelter was warning viewers about in 2016 and early 2017 is the same "fake news" Sinclair is railing against today. Stelter was highlighting intentionally false stories made to agitate and mislead specific audiences. — Justin Baragona (@justinbaragona) April 10, 2018Seth Meyers unexpectedly hosted a different kind of event Sunday ― the birth of his second son, who was born in the lobby of his apartment building.

What seemed like a routine weekend turned frantic when Meyers’ mother-in-law told him they had to get to the hospital immediately, the comedian said Monday on “Late Night.” Meyers said he called an Uber, but his wife, Alexi, declared at the steps of their building that she couldn’t get in the car because the baby was coming.

So she lay down in the lobby and nature took its course.

Meyers said he called 911 for a very quick conversation: “Over the course of a minute conversation, I basically said, ‘We’re about to have a baby, we’re having a baby, we had a baby.’ I went from someone calling in about an emergency to sharing good news with a stranger.”

The fire department and EMTs arrived to cut the umbilical cord, and neighbors helped out by bringing the family blankets and warm towels.

“So glad we are already co-op-approved,” Meyers jokes in the video above.

Meyers got choked up while praising his wife for staying calm and showing him everything would be “fine forever.” But he also deftly mined the moment for a laugh.

“I’m getting choked up just thinking about how brave I was,” he said.

This photo says it all.Hero Images via Getty Images We chatted with two flight attendants about the highs and lows of their hectic job.

Traveling and seeing the world as a flight attendant might seem glamorous, but most passengers don’t know what they really have to deal with regularly.

We chatted with two flight attendants to get the scoop on their job, from the perks and inspiring passenger stories to the lows and downright frustrating moments. Here’s what they wish their passengers would keep in mind.

Common courtesy should actually be common

Being up in the air doesn’t mean you should say goodbye to your manners. Kelly Kincaid, a flight attendant for a major U.S. carrier with 10 years of experience (and also the creator of Jetlagged Comic) told HuffPost that her biggest pet peeves while at work include passengers who don’t respond when she greets them at the door of the aircraft and those who don’t remove their headphones when she’s chatting with them about their drink or food orders. She also notices what passengers do when she’s collecting trash.

“What really gets my blood boiling is when I’m collecting trash and someone is holding up garbage in one hand and tapping away on their laptop with the other, eyes cast down,” she said. “It’s so degrading when someone doesn’t acknowledge your presence, especially when you’re taking their crap.”

She added later: “Look up and smile at the person taking your trash, who also doubles as your CPR first responder and evacuation expert. Teach this to your kids, too. This will make it awesome for your flight attendants, and we will spread that love to everyone else on the flight.”

Jay Robert, the flight attendant behind the popular blog Fly Guy, echoed Kincaid’s thoughts on the importance of being respectful to both the flight crew and other passengers.

“If one person has a bad day on the aircraft, it can ruin it for all,” he said.

For everyone’s sake, don’t forget about hygiene

Robert also suggested some tips about personal hygiene based on experience that we really don’t want to know more about.

“Make sure to shower and apply deodorant before joining our gang of vagabonds,” he said. “If you have stinky feet, do not remove your shoes! One set of stinky feet can violate an entire cabin.”

He also asks that passengers be mindful of keeping their space tidy and try to remain seated when flight attendants are serving food and drinks. And if you do need to use the bathroom while in the air, remember it’s not your personal space.

“No loitering in the lavatory!” he said. “We don’t call it a restroom on a plane because we want you to avoid thinking you are meant to rest in there. There is normally one toilet for 30 to 50+ passengers so do your business and get out.”

They’re not giving safety instructions just for fun

When the flight attendants do their regular safety demo, resist that urge to shove your earbuds in your ears. Robert said passengers who ignore the guidelines that are there for their own safety frustrate him the most.

“You wouldn’t ignore or give lip to a firefighter if they told you not to go in a burning building, so why do you dismiss us or roll eyes and get huffy when we’re giving you instructions that are meant to keep you safe and save your life in an emergency?” he said.

It can take a little to do a lot

You’ve probably seen those occasional heartwarming stories about passengers helping out parents with small children. Kincaid and Robert get to witness these inspiring moments in person and see passengers go above and beyond with little acts of kindness.

“There are times where we’re trying to get a parent and child seated together and a kind person offers their seat, or when an elderly person is trying to lift their bag and someone steps in to offer a helping hand,” Robert said. “We notice these things and often give those good citizens extra attention and goodies for their kind deeds.”

Kincaid said she gets joy out of seeing people help each other ― and do a bit extra for the flight attendants, too.

“The other day, a young man was cleaning up some trash he noticed on the floor before we could,” she said. “It’s a small thing, but it goes beyond my expectations when someone does something kind and selfless when they think no one is looking.”

Stock up ahead of time

If you’re gluten-intolerant, vegan or have another restriction that you can manage on your own, it’s a good idea to come prepared. Robert said you shouldn’t expect the crew to have an endless supply of options.

“Bring your own (not smelly) snacks and water because those little cups of H20 we pass out don’t cut it!” he said.

There’s more to their job than bright smiles and bubbly attitudes

The flight attendant aesthetic includes a pristinely clean uniform, a dazzling smile and a cheerful attitude, which might lead some people to forget that the job takes a lot of work.

“I wish passengers knew how much hairspray, makeup and doctors’ visits go into making us appear runway ready,” Robert said. “When the reality is, we’re often shattered and exhausted.”

He noted that flight attendants play the role of safety professional while also always smiling, being well-groomed and catering to hospitality duties.

All grievances aside, Kincaid wants passengers to know how rewarding her job can be.kieferpix via Getty Images

We’ve all experienced a feeling of timidness when meeting new people or preparing for a big speech. For the nearly 15 million Americans who live with social anxiety disorder, those feelings can become all-consuming and immobilizing.

Social anxiety is an “intense anxiety or fear of being judged, negatively evaluated, or rejected in a social or performance situation,” according to the Anxiety and Depression Association of America. Over a third of people with social anxiety disorder delay reporting their symptoms for a decade or more, the group says. Often, they assume the anxiety will just go away in time.

Because the symptoms can look like just a bad case of nerves, it’s all too easy to misunderstand social anxiety. We asked two experts to dispel some common misconceptions about the disorder. Here are a few things about social anxiety that many people get wrong:

1. Social anxiety is different from shyness.

Shyness is more of a character trait, whereas social anxiety is an interruption in the flow of your daily routines, said Victor Schwartz, clinical associate professor of psychiatry at New York University’s School of Medicine.

“When extreme shyness interferes with functioning or impedes someone from making progress in their life, then it’s a problem,” noted Schwartz, who also serves as chief medical officer at The Jed Foundation, a nonprofit suicide-prevention organization. “If it’s not interfering with your functioning then it’s likely not social anxiety.”

All humans are bound to experience feelings of discomfort, uncertainty, or shyness when stepping into a new social situation for the first time, explained Kevin Caridad, a therapist and CEO of the Cognitive Behavior Institute in Cranberry Township, Pennsylvania. He noted that social anxiety can have a particularly strong impact on a person’s social life.

“People with social anxiety will stop going to social events, avoid hanging out in larger groups or won’t go to the store,” Caridad said. “They don’t leave the house or can’t get a job because they have these thoughts and beliefs that are very distorted.”

SIphotography via Getty Images

2. Social anxiety is a mental illness.

Social anxiety is a form of anxiety and is thus considered a mental health condition. In fact, social anxiety can cause some of the same symptoms that accompany generalized anxiety disorder, Schwartz said.

“Physical manifestations of social anxiety can include feelings of a heart racing, feeling sweaty, short of breath, and feeling faint,” he added. “Some people actually have a hard time identifying anxiety and recognizing what it is.”

The symptoms can vary from person to person ― as can the severity of symptoms, said Caridad. Some people with social anxiety can continue to live life as normal, but others experience symptoms that impact their quality of life.

fizkes via Getty Images

3. Social anxiety can be treated.

There are more options than ever when it comes to improving mental health, and that includes possible treatments for social anxiety.

“The only real way to improve is by getting the help you need,” Caridad said. “There’s cognitive therapy, therapists, and national resources available. And now, we’re also using technology and video therapy so we can start by helping people at home and then help them to begin to leave their homes.”

Treatment options will vary depending on the individual. Schwartz noted that in some cases, people will succeed at treating social anxiety on their own. But it’s a good idea for people who suspect they may be experiencing social anxiety to consult a professional.

“Ideally find someone who is knowledgeable in anxiety problems and has experience in addressing those,” Schwartz said. “The single best indicator that you found the right therapist is feeling comfortable personally with them.”