LittleBee80 via Getty Images

Instagram users will begin to notice a new feature in the coming weeks to help them navigate the delicate terrain of social media etiquette with greater ease.

It’s a mute button. Or, more bluntly, a way to shut up your friends, relatives and acquaintances whose posts you find boring or bothersome, but whom you cannot unfollow without risking a tiff.

Instagram won’t notify anyone that you’ve muted them, and you can still see their profile page if you want to. You’ll also still receive notifications on any posts and comments you’re tagged in on a muted account.

Instagram

To mute someone, tap the three dots next to their account handle, then select “Mute.” If you’re on their profile page, you’ll be given three options ― to mute either their posts, their story or both. If you’re muting an account from a specific post, you’ll only be given the option to mute their posts or both their posts and story. (See screenshots above and below.)

Unmuting is as simple as tapping the three dots and selecting “Unmute.”

Instagram

Twitter and Facebook have both offered similar features for some time, helping us passively ignore people online to avoid real-life confrontation.

AdvertisementOver 100,000 16- and 17-year-olds in California are now preregistered to vote, the state’s Secretary of State Alex Padilla announced on Friday.

Roughly 38 percent of those teenagers registered as Democrat, and 10 percent registered as Republican, with a smattering of other party affiliations represented, according to data released by Padilla’s office. The greatest percentage ― just over 43 percent ― registered with no party preference.

The achievement comes amid a nationwide tide of youth activism over gun control and marks the outcome of recent efforts in the state to increase civic engagement among youth.

“We are seeing the impact that young people can have when they stand up and engage,” Padilla said in a statement. “Since California launched pre-registration, 100,000 soon-to-be voters have answered the call to participate in their democracy. As Secretary of State, I want to do all we can to encourage civic engagement among our youth.”

The state also plans to launch a new web portal that further encourages youth participation, Padilla added. This includes guiding users where to find the nearest mock elections, poll volunteer sign-ups and high school voter education events. He also unveiled a new voter registration card, which his office said was “cleaner, better organized and uses plain language.”

Introducing California’s new voter registration card. It’s cleaner, better organized and uses plain language. The new voter registration cards are now available at the Secretary of State’s office and have been shipped to county elections officials throughout the state. pic.twitter.com/ohaBrVoeJ6 — CA SOS Vote (@CASOSvote) April 5, 2018

Young voters across the country consistently have some of the lowest election turnouts of any age bracket, and some studies have shown preregistration can help boost their numbers. One 2014 Duke University study found that states that have introduced preregistration laws typically see an increase of youth voter turnout by an average of 2 to 13 percentage points.

California is one of 13 U.S. states, along with the District of Columbia, that allow citizens as young as 16 years old to preregister to vote, according to the National Conference of State Legislatures. This preregistration process allows youth to become automatically eligible to vote when they turn 18.

The state passed legislation in 2015 to which establish procedures that can submit voter registration simultaneously with the application for or renewal of a driver’s license. In February, Gov. Jerry Brown signed into law a bill that expands that measure by automatically preregistering all eligible 16- and 17-year-olds in California when they receive a driver’s license or state ID that law will go into effect in January 2019.

For those preregistered today, anyone who will turn 18 in the next few months will likely be able to vote in a swath of upcoming state and midterm elections.

On the ballot in 2018 are the California governorship, U.S. Senate and House seats, as well as state Senate, Assembly and Supreme Court positions.

AdvertisementDozens of Cambodians living in the U.S., many of them former refugees, were deported back to Cambodia this week despite legal battles to keep them in the United States. Anadolu Agency via Getty Images

U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement sent more than 40 Cambodians, many of whom were refugees, back to Cambodia this week.

They arrived in the Southeast Asian country on Thursday, and are the largest group ever to be deported from the U.S. to Cambodia. Asian-American civil rights groups fought several legal battles to keep the deportees in the U.S.

The U.S. government is expected to send a total of 200 people back to Cambodia this year, and activists are worried about what’s to come.

“It’s clear that this Administration will be ― and has been ― escalating its attacks on these communities,” said Katrina Dizon Mariategue, immigration policy manager of the nonprofit Southeast Asia Resource Action Center (SEARAC), in an email to HuffPost.

Fifty Cambodians who had received orders of removal were originally scheduled to be deported in December. But Cormac J. Carney, a district judge in California, blocked the move with a temporary restraining order. A month later, he granted an injunction, extending the stay of deportation until Feb. 5.

Meanwhile, families were able to file motions to reopen their deportation cases, and some found success. Mariategue pointed out that Sokha Chhan and Phann Pheach, refugees who had fled the Khmer Rouge regime, were among those who were pardoned by California Gov. Jerry Brown (D).

Still, 43 people ended up getting “ripped from their families,” said Mariategue, who’s worked with a number of the deportees’ families.



An ICE spokesperson told HuffPost in an email that most of the deportees are “criminals” who committed serious crimes. However, Mariategue noted that many were “productive citizens supporting U.S. citizen families” and have long stayed away from the criminal justice system. The refugees who were deported entered the U.S. legally following the Vietnam War and had green cards. But, after being convicted of crimes, many of which occurred decades ago, the refugees received orders of removal due to their criminal records. Punishing these individuals with both incarceration and deportation, she said, is “an incredibly unjust form of double jeopardy.”

“We must move beyond this notion of punishing those that go against what is ‘legal’ and challenge ourselves to reexamine the laws that have been put in place by those in power,” Mariategue said. “True equity lies in understanding not what is legal, but what is just. One size fits all policies that promote a black or white mentality [fail] to take into consideration the unique challenges and histories of these refugee communities who have faced historical forms of oppression, intergenerational trauma, and lack of support in their schools and communities.”

Repatriation has been a source of friction between the U.S. and Cambodia under the Trump administration. In a 2002 agreement, Cambodia consented to take in a limited number of deportees. However, as protests and backlash from the Cambodian-American community grew and humanitarian concerns came to light, the Cambodian government stopped issuing travel documents for deportation last summer.

The Trump administration retaliated in September by imposing visa sanctions on the country, blocking high-ranking Cambodian officials and their families from traveling to the U.S. Under pressure, the Cambodian government looked into accepting about 26 people for deportation. By the end of the year, the number of travel documents Cambodia issued for deportation rose to around 50.

Going forward, advocates want answers. SEARAC, Asian Americans Advancing Justice | AAJC and VietLead filed a Freedom of Information Act request to ICE for records related to the enforcement, detention and deportation of immigrants from Cambodia, Laos, and Vietnam. The groups say that with this information, they’ll be better equipped to help communities disproportionately affected by these immigration enforcement activities. What’s more, over 60 civil society and community services organizations have signed on in support of the FOIA request.

Mariategue encourages families who are currently dealing with similar situations to seek legal counsel immediately. While many of these immigrants and refugees have lived in the U.S. for years or decades, those who receive deportation orders often fail to speak with a lawyer until they are actually detained or threatened with removal, she said. And though some people may not have access to legal help, Mariategue advises them to reach out to local community-based organizations for support.

“At the end of the day, we want to push for long-term legislative solutions and we want to continue to build a movement led by those directly impacted,” she said.adamkaz via Getty Images

Heading into the midterm elections, American voters are more likely to say they’re focused about health care than any other issue.

Asked to select their top two issues from a list in a new HuffPost/YouGov poll, 30 percent of registered voters picked health care. An unusual trio of issues is tied for second place, with each named by about a quarter of voters as a top priority ― the economy, which perpetually ranks as a top campaign topic, but also gun policies, which rarely garner that level of attention, and immigration, a mainstay of Donald Trump’s presidential campaign.

This far from the election, of course, there’s still plenty of time for campaign narratives to develop and change. Voters’ midterm preferences are often driven more by partisanship than by policy, and this time around, Trump’s presence is likely to cast a heavy shadow over the results. But if health care plays a prominent role in this year’s election, as multiple polls have suggested it may, it’s another way the 2018 playing field could advantage Democrats.

Health care, which likely contributed to Democrats’ midterm shellacking in 2010, is now an issue they feel free to embrace. For the first election cycle since its passage, a majority of the public now approves of President Obama’s signature health care law, and Democrats enjoy a sizable advantage over the GOP on handling related issues. For the party, “it’s an issue that you don’t have to hide from anymore,” the Kaiser Family Foundation’s Mollyann Brodie told HuffPost last fall.

The poll also suggests that gun issues, which have long ranked low on Americans’ priority lists, are continuing to draw heightened attention in the wake of the Parkland shooting, especially among proponents of gun control.

In contrast, the economy ― one of the relatively few bright spots for the GOP ― remains a top issue, but isn’t overwhelmingly at the front of public opinion the way it was in past elections. And tax reform, which Republicans had hoped would serve as a midterm asset, has stalled out in popularity and doesn’t appear to be at the top of voters’ minds.

There are gaps on which issues each party views as important. Health care ranks highly on both sides of the aisle. But Democrats and Democratic-leaning independent voters are notably more likely than Republicans and Republican-leaning voters to say they’re motivated most strongly by President Trump’s record, while Republicans are far more likely to mention immigration and the economy.

HuffPost chart created with Datawrapper

About half of all voters say they’ve seen gun policy and immigration mentioned in political advertisements or campaign mailers this year. Close to 40 percent say that they’ve seen President Trump’s record, health care, and the economy raised, while a third have seen tax reform come up.

The survey also looks at which issues each party is perceived as focusing mostly on. In the case of the Democratic Party, that’s guns, followed by Trump’s record. In the case of the GOP, it’s taxes, immigration, and the economy.

HuffPost chart created with Datawrapper

At times, a perceived mismatch between those issues and the topics on Americans’ minds has served as a warning sign ― in a poll taken just before a GOP wave swept the 2014 midterms, for instance, Republicans were seen as sharing voters’ worries about the economy, while more said Democrats were instead focused on social issues. This year, although neither party is overwhelmingly seen as concentrating on health care, twice as many voters say Democrats are focusing most on the topic as say that Republicans are.

That gap could continue to grow, if races to date are any trend. In last year’s Virginia gubernatorial race, health care was “central” to Democrat Ralph Northam’s winning campaign, according to his pollster. A number of Democratic candidates, especially female ones, are following that example.

Nearly 70 percent of voters say they’re following news about the midterms at least somewhat closely, and 30 percent that they’re paying very close attention. Forty percent of Democratic and Democratic-leaning voters, but just 23 percent of Republican and Republican-leaning voters, say they’re already paying very close attention.

Use the widget below to further explore the results of the HuffPost/YouGov survey, using the menu at the top to select survey questions and the buttons at the bottom to filter the data by subgroups:

The HuffPost/YouGov poll consisted of 1,000 completed interviews conducted March 23-26 among U.S. adults, including 872 registered voters, using a sample selected from YouGov’s opt-in online panel to match the demographics and other characteristics of the adult U.S. population.

HuffPost has teamed up with YouGov to conduct daily opinion polls. You can learn more about this project and take part in YouGov’s nationally representative opinion polling. More details on the polls’ methodology are available here.Ikigai is the Japanese idea for finding what fulfils you. It could be anything that brings someone joy and happiness, including hobbies, work and family. Pacific Press via Getty Images

In a world where financial or material success often stands as the baseline for success, someone like Ken Idehara may seem an anomaly. His small, independent shoe shop, König der Meister, sits in the busy, colorful Tokyo district of Shibuya. In big cities like Tokyo, shoe repair shops can be found at many major railway stations, but for jobs requiring more skill and time, customers turn to experts at shops like König der Meister.

Idehara founded the shop 10 years ago after realizing that he wanted to work with shoes, specifically on bringing them back to life. Customers bring in shoes that they often have a special attachment to. Just talking them through the mending process and the cost can take Idehara up to an hour.

While shoe repairing may not be the most lucrative business, he has chosen his path and has stayed committed to it. For Idehara, using his hands and dealing with people directly is what makes his work fulfilling. “When a customer with a poker face can’t stop themselves from smiling after seeing the finished shoes in front of them, it brings me so much joy and satisfaction,” he says.

There is a name in Japanese for this idea of finding what fulfills you: Ikigai. Notoriously slippery to define, it is made up of two words – iki, meaning life, and gai, meaning worth.

This venn diagram is one way of trying to pin down the definition of ikigai. marekuliasz via Getty Images

Ikigai can be described as the reason you get up in the morning. A person’s ikigai ― and they can have more than one ― can be their work, hobby, family, or anything that brings joy and happiness to their life. Related to the idea of ikigai is yarigai, which means the value of doing, and hatarakigai, which means the value of working. All three concepts remind us to ask ourselves why we do what we do, beyond meeting responsibilities such as paying bills.

Ikigai and happiness might sound the same, but a key difference is ikigai’s strong emphasis on the future. Michiko Kumano, a professor at Osaka Ohtani University, studied Japanese happiness in 2011, comparing the results with a U.S. life satisfaction study. She found that unlike the U.S., where “positive feelings” are considered an indicator of happiness, Japanese people consider happiness to also include the ability to face hard times with a hopeful attitude.

In another study in 2017, Kumano surveyed Japanese people in their 30s and found that ikigai is associated with feelings of accomplishment and fulfillment, and also includes having a sense of purpose in life, in a way that is future-oriented and goal-seeking.

As an example, psychiatrist and author Mieko Kamiya worked closely with people who have diseases such as leprosy. She discovered that ikigai can give hope and something to look forward to, even in the most difficult of times. In her seminal book Ikigai-ni-tsuite, published in 1966, she writes about a 30-year-old patient whose ikigai was making a full recovery. Despite many obstacles, the patient was able to see each day as a step toward that goal.

This approach to life can also bring health benefits. Studies have found a correlation between longevity and having a life’s purpose, or ikigai, and Japan has the world’s longest life expectancy, 83.7 years ― five years longer than the U.S. (78.7 years).

“One way to discover your ikigai is to recall moments, whether in the past or at present, when you felt any kind of strong positive emotions.”

But ikigai is not just about the quest for longer life. It’s more about an attempt to lead a better, more fulfilled life. Through researching and writing a book about the concept, it became clear to me that ikigai can be relevant to anyone. I interviewed a variety of Japanese people, including an entrepreneur and former athlete, to find out what ikigai provides them, how it has helped them in times of difficulty, and how they discovered their ikigai.

No matter what their ikigai was, one thing they all had in common was that their ikigai was based on emotions rather than logic. When talking about how they discovered their ikigai, many interviewees listed incidents in which they felt invigorated or excited, which served as a clue to identify their ikigai. No matter how different or unique, they know what fulfills them and are taking actions to pursue it. For an editor of a major news website I spoke to, it was to connect two different worlds: Traditional and digital media, or the younger and older generation.

In this sense, one way to discover your ikigai is to recall moments, whether in the past or present, when you felt any kind of strong positive emotions. In her book, Kamiya said that one’s emotions are most true to what their ikigai is. You may be able to manipulate your logic, but your emotions do not lie.

The concept of ikigai is valuable because it provides us meaning in life, but perhaps more importantly, it gives us a personal way to measure our happiness. “Whether someone is happy or not is a subjective matter,” says Midori Kotani, an executive researcher at the Dai-ichi Life Research Institute who has studied happiness. Her study of 800 men and women between ages 30 and 89 found that people tend to be unhappy when they measure their happiness in comparison with others. Instead of relying on objective indicators of success, such as economic strength or social status, she found, focusing on the subjective value of yarigai or ikigai was the key to contentedness.

The other important aspect of ikigai is that it often is something external rather than internal ― it is about feeling alive, which requires reactions and responses from the outside world. If hobbies such as photography or hiking bring you ikigai, you are likely to want to share the output or the experience with others. A mother of three children who I spoke to listed her family as her ikigai, and said doing anything for them and seeing smiles on their faces brings her tremendous joy.

If work is your ikigai, you would need to be valued by those you are working with to find it truly meaningful. A 2015 study conducted by employment agency En-Japan on what motivated Japanese people in the workplace found being thanked as the top motivator.

Ikigai can be a feedback loop between the inner mind and the outside world, says Akihiro Hasegawa, a clinical psychologist and associate professor at Toyo Eiwa University. “Someone who feels ikigai by being useful to others would take in positive responses such as being thanked, which motivates them to improve and feel an even stronger sense of ikigai,” he says.

Starting with Bhutan in the 1970s with its Gross National Happiness index, countries have looked for an alternative to economic metrics to measure the collective happiness and well-being of their people. In the case of Bhutan, setting a unified measurement of happiness has helped the country reach high levels of happiness.

Can ikigai serve as a national measurement of happiness? Kotani thinks so. Values such as ikigai and yarigai are subjective measures, she says, and cannot be compared side by side. “But by seeking how much one feel these things in their daily lives, [they] can function as a measurement of happiness,” she says.

Yukari Mitsuhashi’s book, Ikigai: giving everyday meaning and joy, is available for preorder in the U.K. (and will be available for preorder in the U.S. in early summer).A large crowd of people gathered again in Sacramento, California, on Wednesday, still enraged over the death of Stephon Clark, the unarmed black man who was fatally shot by police in his backyard.

Just like several other protests held consistently since Clark was killed less than three weeks ago, Black Lives Matter activists marched through downtown Sacramento demanding justice for the 22-year-old father of two.

But Wednesday’s demonstration, which drew a crowd of about 200 people, had another kind of significance: It was held on the 50th anniversary of the assassination of Martin Luther King Jr.

“It’s been 50 years, and we’re still fighting for the same things, so we’re still angry,” Tanya Faison, founder of Black Lives Matter Sacramento, told The Sacramento Bee.

“Everything Martin Luther King fought for, we’re still fighting for.”

Wednesday’s protest was also a part of the National Day of Action, a nationwide protest of police brutality and racial inequality planned by Black Lives Matter Sacramento.

It also fell on the same day when police in Brooklyn, New York, fatally shot an unarmed black man whom 911 callers said was pointing a gun at residents. Officers later said the man was actually holding “a pipe with some sort of knob on the end of it.”

Black Lives Matter activists have held at least two demonstrations in Sacramento, California, in protest of Clark's death. Justin Sullivan via Getty Images

Stephon Clark was killed on March 18 when two police officers opened fire on him in his backyard while responding to reports of car break-ins in his neighborhood. The officers said they thought Clark was holding a gun, but they later found he was holding a cellphone.

The Sacramento Police Department also claimed that Clark was facing the officers and moving toward them at the time of the shooting. However, an independent autopsy of Clark’s body initiated by the Clark family’s lawyer revealed that he was shot at least seven times in the back.

Police have not yet publicly identified the two officers who fatally shot Clark.

Protestors on Wednesday made a stop at Sacramento County District Attorney Anne Marie Schubert’s office, calling for the two police officers who killed Clark to be criminally charged in his death. They also protested in front of the Sacramento County Sheriff’s Department and Sacramento City Hall.

On Tuesday before the protest, Martin Luther King III, the eldest son of the iconic activist, celebrated the Black Lives Matter movement and joined its call for justice for Clark.

“I can’t say enough about my brothers and sisters of Black Lives Matter,” King said, according to NBC’s Sacramento affiliate KCRA.

“Just a couple of days ago in Sacramento, we saw a young man gunned down holding a cellphone,” King added. “Justice must be done somehow, someway, someday, and really right now.”

See photos of Wednesday’s demonstration below.Actress Jaime King’s 4-year-old son James was showered with glass as he sat inside a parked car Wednesday when a man jumped onto the vehicle and smashed the window, authorities said.

The child was in the back seat of a car on a Beverly Hills, California, street with King’s friend at the wheel when the man leaped onto the vehicle and slammed the rear window until glass shattered onto the boy, “Entertainment Tonight” reported.

“The suspect jumped on the rear windshield causing glass to shatter and strike the child,” police said, per “ET.” “In an effort to protect the child, the female driver exited the vehicle and confronted the suspect, at which time he threw a can at her, striking her arm.”

Cops, responding to reports that the man had been vandalizing cars, arrested Paul Francis Floyd, 47, of Los Angeles, on charges of felony child endangerment, misdemeanor battery and felony vandalism, People reported. TMZ reported that Floyd had been riding a skateboard before the attack.

King, a model and “Hart of Dixie” actress who will appear in the upcoming “Ocean’s 8,” was seen after the incident looking “distraught,” “ET” noted.

A King rep didn’t immediately respond to HuffPost’s inquiry about how her son and friend are doing.Julian Edelman and his assistant, Shannen Moen, were quick to act when they became aware of a threatening message posted to Edelman's Instagram account. Boston Globe via Getty Images

With the devastating school shooting in Parkland, Florida, fresh on their minds, New England Patriots wide receiver Julian Edelman and his assistant Shannen Moen acted quickly and may have helped prevent a potential school shooter.

One of Edelman’s Instagram followers sent him a direct message on March 25, according to the team, alerting the football player to a threatening message in the comments section of one of his posts.

“Dude there is a kid in your comment section saying he s [sic] going to shoot up a school, i [sic] think you should alert the authority,” a screenshot of the comment read.

Edelman contacted Moen, who found the comment posted beneath a photo Edelman had shared of himself and former teammate Danny Amendola.

“I’m going to shoot my school up watch the news,” the comment read, according to The New York Times.

Moen contacted authorities, who responded quickly and traced the comment back to a house in Port Huron, Michigan. An article on the Patriots’ website said a 14-year-old boy had confessed to police that he wrote the threat. He was taken to a juvenile detention center and charged with making a false report of a threat of terrorism. Two rifles belonging to the boy’s mother were found in the home.

In an interview with the Times, Edelman thanked the fan who alerted him to the threatening message. He also spoke of how the Parkland school shooting has continued to occupy his thoughts.Australia and USA compete in the Visa Water Polo International Women's competition in London, England, on Mary 4, 2012. Paul Cunningham - Corbis via Getty Images

A coach affiliated with USA Water Polo has been arrested and charged in relation to accusations that he molested underage female athletes.

Bahram Hojreh, 42, has been accused of sexually abusing seven of the athletes he coached at the International Water Polo Club in Los Alamitos, California, between September 2014 and January 2018, according to The Associated Press. Four of the seven girls were 15 or younger during the time the abuse allegedly took place.

The alleged abuse happened during one-on-one coaching sessions, according to court documents.

Officials told the AP that Hojreh is accused of digitally penetrating the girls, touching their breasts and genitals, and pressuring them to touch his genitals. Hojreh, who has been involved in the water polo world for over two decades, is facing more than 20 felony and misdemeanor charges including sexual battery, sexual penetration by foreign object of a minor, child annoyance and lewd acts upon a child.

Hojreh’s attorney, Ricardo Nico, said Wednesday during an arraignment in the Orange County Superior Court that Hojreh “adamantly denies” the allegations, the Orange County Register reported.

A screenshot of Hojreh's Twitter profile picture. Bahram Hojreh

Christopher Ramsey, the CEO of USA Water Polo, told HuffPost that Hojreh was immediately suspended from his coaching position when the organization learned of the allegations in January. Hojreh’s membership to the organization was also revoked, and he was suspended from the board of directors for the South California chapter of USA Water Polo.

“USA Water Polo has zero tolerance for sexual misconduct,” Ramsey said.

The allegations were initially reported to the U.S. Center for SafeSport in January. Ramsey said USA Water Polo will support the organization in its investigation efforts.

Hojreh was released on a $250,000 bond and is set to appear in court for a pretrial hearing on June 14.

Neither Hojreh nor the International Water Polo Club immediately responded to HuffPost’s request for comment.

Sexual abuse in Olympic and amateur sports has dominated headlines over the last few months. Former USA Gymnastics doctor and Michigan State University trainer Larry Nassar was accused of sexually abusing over 260 athletes under the guise of medical treatment. He received three concurrent sentences of 60 years, 40 to 125 years and 40 to 175 years in prison on child sexual abuse and child pornography charges.Polls show that President Donald Trump, seen here in West Virginia on Thursday, and his fellow Republicans are having a tough time selling the benefits of their signature tax-cut legislation. Kevin Lamarque / Reuters

WASHINGTON – President Donald Trump hit the road Thursday to once again tout benefits of the tax cuts he signed into law late last year ― even as most Americans continue to believe there aren’t any.

“Your taxes went down. They went down a lot,” Trump told a handpicked crowd of supporters in White Sulphur Springs, West Virginia. “It’s a lot of money for a lot of people.”

Unfortunately for congressional Republicans facing re-election this November, the majority of workers are still not buying that story, a full two months after they were supposed to see increases in their paychecks.

A recent HuffPost/YouGov poll found that only 25 percent of respondents have seen increases in their after-tax paychecks. More than twice that many ― 60 percent ― said they had not.

Those results mirror numbers from a CNBC poll released a week earlier in March, which found that 32 percent of employees noticed an increase in their take-home pay, compared to 52 percent who had not. And of that 32 percent, just over one-third said the extra pay helped them “a great deal” or a “fair amount.”

Trump, nevertheless, has worked with House and Senate Republican leaders to pitch the tax cuts ― the only significant piece of legislation to pass in his presidency’s first year ― as the foundation of their midterm campaign strategy. Trump has already this year traveled to Pennsylvania, Missouri and Ohio to highlight the tax cuts.

On stage with him Thursday were local company leaders who have given employees pay raises or bonuses, as well as some families who have benefited from the tax cuts.

“I can tell you our people know that your tax cuts have made a difference,” said Terry Dotson, CEO of the truck dealership Worldwide Equipment. “I can tell you that it’s not crumbs to them when they can pay their car payments and invest in their children’s future.”

“Crumbs” referred to the criticism by House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi (D-Calif.) that the tax plan would disproportionately benefit the wealthiest and that middle- and lower-income taxpayers would receive little.

“This was much more than just crumbs,” echoed Hugh Hitchcock, president of the Davis Trust community bank in nearby Elkins.

But an analysis by the nonpartisan Tax Policy Center of the tax cuts’ effects on actual families shows that middle- and lower-income taxpayers are, in fact, getting a smaller benefit than high-income taxpayers ― both in terms of a percentage reduction as well as in total dollars.

The poorest fifth of taxpayers, those making about $25,000 a year and less, are getting on average a $40 tax cut for the year, according to the analysis, or 0.3 percent of after-tax income. The middle fifth are receiving $780 per year ― about $16 per week – or 1.4 percent of their income. That group’s income ranges from $49,000 a year to $86,000.

But those with incomes ranging from $308,000 to $733,000 a year will benefit the most, with an average tax cut of $11,200, or 3.4 percent of their after-tax income, the analysis found.

Neil Newhouse of Public Opinion Strategies, the Republican-leaning firm that co-conducted CNBC’s poll, acknowledged that his party is having a tough time making the tax-cut message resonate with voters.

“I’m not sure wage-earners knew when to look for the increase in their paychecks or had an idea how much the increase was going to be,” Newhouse said “Keep in mind, $1,000 in additional pay per year would break down to just $38.46 per paycheck ― assuming people get paid every two weeks.”

Peter Hart, the Democratic pollster who worked with Newhouse on that survey, said one factor might be that Republicans have been hobbled by the inability of their party leader to stick to a consistent message.

“Donald Trump is a ‘whack-a-mole’ president. He is constantly taking his bully pulpit and smashing some new target,” Hart said, contrasting him with former President Ronald Reagan, whose 1981 tax cuts have served as model legislation for Republicans ever since. “Unlike Reagan, (when) themes were reinforced week-in-and-week out, there is no theme. Only chaos.”Sexual violence protesters on the streets of New Delhi in 2015. CHANDAN KHANNA/Getty Images

In India, it is not illegal for a man to rape his wife — but a high court judge said in a ruling this week that it should be.

Justice J.B. Pardiwala of the Gujarat High Court was presiding over a case involving a woman who’d accused her husband of sexually assaulting her. He repeatedly forced sex on her, she said, according to the Hindustan Times. He also subjected her to “mental and physical torture,” the woman claimed.

Pardiwala ruled on Monday that the husband could not be charged with rape in this case since the Indian Penal Code explicitly states that “sexual acts by a man with his own wife … is not rape.” The judge said the man could be charged with sexual harassment and spousal cruelty (which carry lesser punishments than rape).

As he delivered his decision, however, Paridwala expressed dismay at the limitations of the law. He advocated for the criminalization of marital rape, saying that outlawing nonconsensual sex in a marriage is the “first necessary step in teaching societies that dehumanized treatment of women will not be tolerated.”

“Marital rape is not a husband’s privilege, but rather a violent act and an injustice that must be criminalized,” he added.

Marital rape is a widespread problem in India. According to a 2018 National Family Health Survey, more than 80 percent of married women who have experienced sexual violence named their current spouse as the perpetrator.

In a 2014 survey of more than 9,200 men across seven Indian states, one-third admitted to having forced a sexual act on their wives.

“Marital rape is an extremely widespread problem,” Mihira Sood, a New Delhi-based attorney, told HuffPost in 2015. “[It’s] compounded by the fact that it is not recognized as an offense, either by the law as well as by much of society that is conditioned to see it as an inevitable part of marriage.”

Observers said this week that the Gujarat High Court’s ruling is a positive step toward the criminalization of marital rape in India. Though public pressure has been mounting to change the law, there’s no indication a revision is forthcoming.Cara Koscinski

A cake celebrating a South Carolina teen’s high school graduation turned into a not-so-sweet surprise when a Publix supermarket censored the inscription “summa cum laude.”

The grad’s mom, Cara Koscinski, said she ordered a cake online from her local Publix for a graduation party for her 18-year-old son, Jacob. The store allows customers to customize cake orders with a personalized inscription.

Koscinski said she ordered a cake the the words: “Congrats Jacob! Summa Cum Laude Class of 2018.”

Instead, supermarket bakers wrote: “Congrats Jacob! Summa - - - Laude Class of 2018.”

Incredulous, Koscinski shared pictures of the censored cake on Facebook. “I seriously couldn’t make this crap up!!!!” she wrote. “Funny ― not funny.”

The Washington Post, which did a deeper dive on the Publix website, reported that the online box where customers enter cake inscriptions is extremely temperamental, and filters “profane/special characters.” “Cum,” despite its use as a preposition meaning “with” in the Latin phrase summa cum laude ― “with the highest distinction” ― was rendered profane.

Koscinski told the newspaper that she “explained that Summa Cum Laude was a Latin term for high academic honor and was not profane” in the “special instructions” box on the Publix website, and included a link that defined the phrase.

She said she was busy with party preparations and didn’t notice the cake’s messed up message until it was time for dessert. The dashed-out message, she said, was humiliating for her teenage son.

“It was unbelievable. I ordered the special graduation edition cake. I can’t believe I’m the first one to ever write ‘Summa Cum Laude’ on a cake,” Koscinski told the Post.

Publix offered to make another cake, but Koscinski said she declined because Jacob would “only graduate once.” She said the store refunded $70 for the cake and gave her a store gift card.

Koscinski told HuffPost that she and her son “think it’s overwhelming and crazy.”

“But we are laughing about it,” she said, adding that she’ll “probably avoid” Publix “for now.”

Publix told HuffPost in a statement that satisfying customers is the “top priority” of the chain, which has locations in the Southeast.

“You can feel confident that this situation has been addressed, and the appropriate business areas and leaders are involved,” the statement said.

HuffPost spoke to Jeanne Neumann, a professor in the classics department at Davidson College, who shared this saucy tidbit about cakes and Latin over email: “A cake celebrating the end of a war of a simpler time might have proclaimed Gladii Omnes in vaginas recondantur! (May all swords be sheathed! (or) All swords should be put in their sheaths).” Neumann noted that “vagina” in Latin means “sheath for a sword.”

That might have passed the Publix censors, but what about words that might not have?

“The commands ‘tell me’ (dic) and ‘do it’ (fac) sound a bit like ‘dick’ and ‘fuck’ when pronounced. Just a bit, but enough to get students laughing,” said Neumann.Voters line up to cast their ballots in Fort Worth, Texas. State felon voting laws vary widely, which can create confusion. Ron Jenkins/Getty Images

By Rebecca Beitsch

Her sentencing made headlines across the country this week: A woman, recently released from prison in Texas and still on felony probation, is set to head back to prison for another five years after she unknowingly broke the law by voting in the 2016 election.

Texas law prohibits people such as Crystal Mason from voting until they are no longer under supervision by corrections officers. Mason told the court she had no idea she was prohibited from voting. At her polling station, officials let her cast a provisional ballot.

The confusion over felons’ voting rights is not limited to Mason’s situation or to Texas. Across the country, state felon voting laws vary widely. Some states bar people from voting only while they are in prison, while others deny voting rights to people who are still under the supervision of a probation or parole officer. And some prohibit convicted felons from voting for the rest of their lives, unless they receive a pardon from the governor.

Only two states, Maine and Vermont, have no restrictions.

Nicole Porter with the Sentencing Project, which advocates ending felony disenfranchisement laws, said people with a criminal past are often unsure of their rights. In Texas, she said, former Republican Gov. Rick Perry, now the U.S. Secretary of Energy, is partially to blame. In 2007, Perry vetoed a bill that would have required the state to notify felons in writing when they were eligible to vote and include a voter registration form.

“It’s the confusion that many states create over whether people have the right to vote, not just in Texas, but all over, that created the opportunity for this woman’s incarceration,” Porter said. “The reality is there are politicians who want to limit voting for everyone, and they target people with a criminal history, mostly black and brown people, and work to take away the franchise.”

In 2016, Mason had just been released from prison after serving time for tax fraud. Her probation officer and poll workers did not tell her that she was no longer eligible to vote, she said.

“They tell you certain things like you can’t be around a felon, you can’t have a gun. No one actually said, ‘Hey, you can’t vote this year,’” Mason told the Fort Worth Star-Telegram. “You honestly think I would ever want to leave my babies again? That was the hardest thing in my life to deal with. Who would — as a mother, as a provider — leave their kids over voting?”

Mason, who is African-American, was sentenced last week by State District Judge Ruben Gonzalez, who asked her during the trial why she did not read the provisional ballot forms more carefully.

Blair Bowie, a lawyer with the Campaign Legal Center, a Washington, D.C.-based group that works on election-related issues (the center was founded with a grant from The Pew Charitable Trusts, which also funds Stateline) said restrictions on felons’ voting rights likely keep away eligible voters. While an estimated 6 million felons are ineligible to vote, there are many more people with past convictions who may be scared away by forms that threaten jail time for those who vote illegally but don’t explain who is disqualified.

“I think for a lot of people if there is any ambiguity they are going to err on the side of not voting at all because they don’t want to get sucked back into the criminal justice system,” Bowie said. “They should make it easy for people to understand what their rights are if they’ve lost their voting rights and, if they can get it back, how they should do that.”

Efforts in Congress to eliminate felony disenfranchisement laws have gotten little traction, and at the state level activists have run into strong opposition from elected officials who consider disenfranchisement to be part of the punishment for committing a crime. So some activists have turned to the courts and ballot measures to spark change.

The Southern Poverty Law Center filed a lawsuit last week challenging a Mississippi law that strips voting rights for life for felons. Similar challenges are underway in Alabama, Louisiana and Florida.

The Campaign Legal Center has sent letters to Arizona, Delaware, Maryland, Nebraska, Nevada and Tennessee asking them to clarify voter registration forms that may dissuade eligible felons from registering. (So far Arizona, Delaware, and Nevada have said they will make changes to the forms.)

‘No One Hears My Voice’

Disenfranchised felons are about 2.5 percent of the general voting-age population, but that number triples among African-Americans, according to estimates from the Sentencing Project. The disparity is starkest in the Southeast, where more than 20 percent of black voters are disenfranchised in some states.

In Louisiana, where an estimated 108,000 people are disenfranchised because of past criminal convictions, people aren’t allowed to vote until they have finished their parole. For many, that means decades.

At 72, Checo Yancy has been out of prison for over 14 years. But he’ll be on parole until 2056 and unlikely to cast a ballot before he dies. He is a plaintiff in a Louisiana case that seeks to restore voting rights to people as soon as they leave prison. The case may be decided as soon as this week.

“I can bring my family to the poll, my wife, and son and daughter, and I have to sit in the car,” Yancy said. “No one speaks for me right now or speaks for my situation. No one hears my voice because I don’t matter.”

Activists in Florida collected more than 840,000 signatures to put a measure on the November ballot that would allow people with a felony conviction to vote once they complete probation or parole. The state has imposed a lifetime voting ban on 1.7 million Florida residents with felony convictions. Only a pardon from the governor can restore their voting rights.

And in a separate suit challenging the state’s system, a federal judge called it “crushingly restrictive” and later ordered the clemency board to adopt strict criteria and timelines for reviewing applications.

Rooted in Racism?

Many who seek to change the laws say the restrictions are rooted in racism, noting that many states enacted them shortly after blacks gained the right to vote.

Robert McDuff, an attorney with the Mississippi Center for Justice, is also challenging the list of crimes in the state constitution that disenfranchises an estimated 218,000 people, “chosen because of the framers’ belief that they were disproportionately committed by African-Americans, and it was part of the larger effort by the framers of the 1890 constitution to eliminate the African-American vote.”

Among the crimes on the list: theft, arson, perjury, or writing a bad check for as little as $100.

Those who want to ease the restrictions argue that voting helps former inmates feel included and engaged in the community, reducing the likelihood of recidivism.

That’s not the way many governors see it. Nebraska Gov. Pete Ricketts, a Republican, vetoed a bill last year that would have allowed felons to vote once they left prison.

“Requiring convicted felons to wait before allowing them to vote provides an incentive to maintain a clean record and avoid subsequent convictions,” Ricketts said in his veto letter. Although the bill was reintroduced this year, a spokesman for the governor said his position has not changed.

In recent years, some conservative states have lifted other restrictions on felons, like those that bar them from receiving professional licenses or food stamps, hoping to reduce recidivism and save money on criminal justice costs such as incarceration, probation and parole.

Louisiana state Rep. Walt Leger, a Democrat who has sponsored criminal justice legislation, said the prospect of saving money can get both parties on board. Restoring voting rights, though, is still seen as politically risky.Seth Meyers took aim at the GOP for staying silent over President Donald Trump’s recent attacks on online retailer Amazon.

On Wednesday’s broadcast of “Late Night,” the host reminded viewers about how Republicans had “relentlessly bashed” former President Barack Obama for intervening in the economy and allegedly picking “winners and losers” in the marketplace.

“For years, Republicans spun a wild fantasy about an imperial president interfering in the free marketplace by picking winners and losers, and now they’ve got a president who’s actually doing that, and their silence is deafening,” said Meyers.

“Trump is a wannabe autocrat who thinks he can rule unilaterally, whether it’s on the border, economically or militarily,” he added.After officers arrived, “the suspect then took a two-handed shooting stance and pointed an object at the approaching officers,” Police Chief Terence A. Monahan said in a news briefing Wednesday.

Ten rounds were fired from the four officers, striking Vassell, who died on his way to Kings County Hospital Center.With its black superhero, black director, and predominantly black cast, Marvel Studios’ “Black Panther” made history before it ever hit movie theaters. But the wildly popular film is about to notch another notable achievement ― this time by being the first film in decades to be shown in a commercial movie theater in Saudi Arabia.

Saudi Arabia plans to lift a 35-year ban on cinemas in the country this month, as part of ambitious reforms pushed by Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman. On Wednesday, the U.S.-based AMC Theatres announced that it had snagged a deal to open and operate the first movie theaters in the country.

According to multiple media reports, “Black Panther” will be the first movie to break the ban when it premieres at the Gulf state’s first AMC theater in Riyadh on April 18.

AMC plans to open up to 40 theaters in about 15 Saudi Arabian cities over the next five years, with the goal of opening as many as 100 by 2030, according to The Washington Post.

Men and women in the audience will not be required to sit separately, unlike in other public places in the kingdom, Reuters reports.

HuffPost reached out to AMC and Walt Disney Studios for comment, but did not hear back at publication time.

“The Saudi market is very large, with the majority of the population under the age of 30 and eager to watch their favourite films here at home,” Dr. Awwad Alawwad, the country’s minister of culture and information, said in a statement.

“The restoration of cinemas will also help boost the local economy by increasing household spending on entertainment while supporting job creation in the Kingdom,” he added.

Saudi Arabia's Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman Al Saud is seen during a meeting at the United Nations headquarters in the Manhattan borough of New York City, New York, U.S. March 27 2018. Amir Levy / Reuters

Saudi Arabians are already keen consumers of Western television and film, according to the BBC, but most people access these shows on their computers, phones or through satellite television at home. Many also visit movie theaters in nearby countries, such as the United Arab Emirates and Bahrain.

Saudi Arabia had a few movie theaters in the 1970s, but they closed soon after the country adopted ultraconservative Islamic standards in 1979, The New York Times reports.

The country’s powerful religious establishment has long held close ties to the country’s ruling family. Clerics in the country still claim that Western movies are not permissible according to their hardline interpretations of Islam.

This January, Saudi Arabia’s highest-ranking cleric, Grand Mufti Abdulaziz Al Sheikh, warned against the country’s plan to open cinemas, saying in an interview that theaters were a “depravity.”

Saudi Arabians attend a film festival at King Fahad Culture Center in Riyadh. AFP Contributor via Getty Images

But the 32-year-old Crown Prince Mohammed is pushing a series of economic and social reforms he’s calling “Vision 2030.” One of its goals is to increase citizens’ spending on cultural and entertainment activities from 2.9 percent to 6 percent by 2030.

In September, Saudi Arabia announced that it plans to lift its ban on women driving. Women can begin applying for licenses in June this year.

Another goal of the crown prince’s reform package is to increase the number of women in the workforce from 22 percent to 30 percent by 2030.

Women in the country are still restricted by guardianship laws that requires them to ask male relatives for permission to do things like travel abroad or get married.Harrison Ford as Indiana Jones in 1989. Terry O'Neill via Getty Images

The next Indiana Jones could be Indiana Joan, according to director Steven Spielberg.

Spielberg recently chatted with The Sun about actor Harrison Ford, “Indiana Jones” and what comes next for the long-running film franchise about the swashbuckling archaeologist. The Oscar-winning director said he’s interested in seeing “a different form” of Indiana Jones.

When The Sun’s Grant Rollings asked if “a different form” means Jones could be played by a woman, Spielberg responded: “We’d have to change the name from Jones to Joan. And there would be nothing wrong with that.”

Ford, 75, has starred as Indiana Jones since the first film, “Raiders Of The Lost Ark,” hit theaters in 1981. Since then, Ford has starred in three sequels, including the most recent, featuring actor Shia LaBeouf (although the young actor will not be returning). Ford will play Indiana Jones one more time in the next installment, which comes out in 2020.

“This will be Harrison Ford’s last Indiana Jones movie, I am pretty sure, but [the franchise] will certainly continue after that,” Spielberg said.

While we’d much prefer a new movie starring a badass woman (instead of a remake of old movies with a female cast or lead) ― we’d totally watch India Jones kicking ass and taking names.

Head over to The Sun to read the full interview with Spielberg.During Wednesday’s broadcast of “Jimmy Kimmel Live!” the late-night host used the spoof segment to help explain President Donald Trump’s decision to send the National Guard to the U.S.-Mexico border.President Donald Trump’s announcement Wednesday that he would be sending National Guard troops to the U.S.-Mexico border has met with resistance in at least one governor’s office.

If Trump asks Oregon Gov. Kate Brown to send troops, she tweeted Wednesday, she will “say no.”

“As Commander of Oregon’s Guard, I’m deeply troubled by Trump’s plan to militarize our border,” she said.

If @realDonaldTrump asks me to deploy Oregon Guard troops to the Mexico border, I’ll say no. As Commander of Oregon’s Guard, I’m deeply troubled by Trump’s plan to militarize our border. — Governor Kate Brown (@OregonGovBrown) April 4, 2018

Trump signed a proclamation on Wednesday that uses a provision in the U.S. Code called Title 32 to send National Guard troops to the Mexican border.

Under this provision, which does not “federalize” the Guard, Trump can only request that state governors provide troops to help bolster border security. That means governors like Brown can refuse to comply.

Brown said on Twitter that the president has not reached out to her with a deployment request, but added she has “no intention of allowing Oregon’s guard troops to be used to distract from his troubles in Washington” even if he does.

There’s been no outreach by the President or federal officials, and I have no intention of allowing Oregon’s guard troops to be used to distract from his troubles in Washington. — Governor Kate Brown (@OregonGovBrown) April 4, 2018

The White House has given few details about what the Guard deployment might involve.

On Thursday, Homeland Security Secretary Kirstjen Nielsen said the total number of troops had yet to be determined. “We’re going to be sending as many troops as we need,” she said, according to The Associated Press.

It remains unclear whether the deployed guardsmen will be armed.

Nielsen said she was working with governors of the southern-border states to determine where and how troops will be deployed. Texas, Arizona and New Mexico appear to support the plan, the AP reported. Nielsen said she would be speaking with California Gov. Jerry Brown (D) on Thursday in hopes of getting his support.

The administration has not indicated whether it will ask other states to provide troops for the deployment effort.

Rep. Ted Lieu (D-Calif.) said Thursday that the California governor, who has previously accused the Trump administration of “basically going to war” with his state over immigration policy, could say no to the deployment request.

Proclamation by @realDonaldTrump doesn't actually send National Guard troops to the border. Because @POTUS is using Title 32 authority--instead of federalizing the Guard under Title 10--this is a REQUEST for state Governors to send troops.



That means @JerryBrownGov can say no. https://t.co/zyNJjFixJj — Ted Lieu (@tedlieu) April 5, 2018Adam Rippon’s skating skills and brash personality turned him into one of the breakout stars of the Winter Olympics ― but he also received unwanted attention.

In an interview on iHeartRadio’s “Domenick Nati Show” posted Wednesday, Rippon, the first openly gay U.S. man to medal at the winter games, was asked by Nati how bad the backlash was for being an out Olympian, and whether he had gotten death threats.

“I mean yeah, I did,” Rippon answered in the audio clip, below. “I received all sorts of threats. I received all sorts of negative comments and emails.”

Rippon said his haters “don’t matter,” and he questioned the effort they made to write him. “I’m gonna tell you, I wish I had that much time to waste, but I don’t,” he said.

The host and bronze medalist (in the team event) quickly moved on to another subject, without getting into details of the threats.As a teen, Lena Hall admired Cranberries frontwoman Dolores O’Riordan for her ability to “go from an ethereal pixie to a badass punk rocker with the flip of a switch.”

These days, the same could be said for Hall, who won a Tony Award for her performance in Broadway’s “Hedwig and the Angry Inch,” but whose rock-based cabaret shows cater to a downtown fan base. So it’s fitting that the New York singer-actress tips her hat to O’Riordan, who died in January, with an acoustic take on the Cranberries’ 1994 classic, “Zombie,” viewed above.

“It’s not only a strong political cry, but [Dolores’] power as a vocalist is on full display here ― the hushed warnings, the pleading cries and the intense growling choruses,” Hall said of the song, which O’Riordan wrote as a tribute to the victims of the 1993 IRA bombing in Warrington, England. “There are only four chords, but the lyrics, the melody and the performances are what really make this song a hit. We simply put our hearts into it.”

“Zombie” is one of four Cranberries songs that Hall has recorded for the fourth installment of an ambitious yearlong music project. The “Obsessed” series is composed of 12 new EPs dedicated to Hall’s favorite bands and musicians, each released on the first Friday of every month.

Lena Hall nabbed a Tony for her role as Yitzhak in "Hedwig and the Angry Inch," opposite Neil Patrick Harris. Walter McBride via Getty Images

Initially, Hall felt apprehensive about releasing an EP of Cranberries tunes so soon after O’Riordan’s death. Eventually, she came to see the collection as a “loving tribute” to the Irish singer-songwriter and the band at large.

“She represented a new way to be feminine as well as strong and empowered. All these things inspire me as an artist,” Hall, who starred opposite Mena Suvari and Hayley Kiyoko in the indie feature “Becks” and will next appear on the TNT series “Snowpiercer,” said. “I love being able to show all sides of myself from the sweet to the powerful.”

Thus far, Hall has released versions of “Hedwig and the Angry Inch” songs, as well as tunes by Peter Gabriel and Elton John. After the Cranberries EP hits online retailers and streaming platforms Friday, she’s slated to honor Beck, Pink and David Bowie in the months ahead.UPDATE: April 10 ― Sinclair Broadcast Group has bookended Allied Progress’ ads critical of the company with brief statements defending itself as “a source for truthful news.”

“This station, which is owned by Sinclair Broadcast Group, is proud to present both sides of issues,” the company says in a voiceover before the Allied Progress spot that has aired on four stations. “For that reason, we have agreed to air the commercial you are about to see opposing Sinclair’s acquisition of additional television stations. We think the ad is misleading but wanted to let you decide.”

“The ad was purchased by a group known for its liberal bias,” the voiceover continues after the spot. “We hope you won’t buy into the hysteria and hype.”

Allied’s executive director, Karl Frisch, said Sinclair did not contact Allied before inserting the disclaimers. Although the group expected the ads to begin airing last Friday, they did not begin until the weekend.

“That we are a progressive consumer watchdog dedicated to holding special interests accountable is something we wear proudly on our sleeves. We’re clear about who we are. Sinclair is not,” Frisch said in a statement. “By claiming ‘both sides’ and attacking a critic’s liberal politics, they are acknowledging they actively disseminate partisan conservative propaganda, something clearly at odds with their repeated claims to the contrary.”

PREVIOUSLY:

The viral video showing a dizzying array of local news anchors reciting the same script authored by their stations’ conservative owner, the Sinclair Broadcasting Group, is coming soon to the homes of Sinclair customers across the country.

That is, if the broadcaster doesn’t reject it first.

Allied Progress, a left-leaning consumer watchdog group based in Washington, D.C., borrows the alarming mashup for a new 30-second spot that takes aim at Sinclair, which is under fire for requiring journalists to read a statement last month parroting some of the anti-media language used by President Donald Trump.

Allied said Thursday it has sunk six figures into an ad buy on four stations in the Sinclair network: ABC affiliates WJLA in Washington and KOMO in Seattle, and Fox affiliates KDSM in Des Moines and WBFF in Baltimore, which also happens to be Sinclair’s flagship station.

The spot was slated to run a total of about 175 times over the course of one week, beginning Friday, Allied Progress Executive Director Karl Frisch told HuffPost Thursday.

Frisch noted Friday that Allied is still working with Sinclair to schedule the ad space and hopes to have the ads begin over the weekend. He confirmed that ads in Des Moines are set to begin running Saturday afternoon. However, the Seattle station has yet to grant final approval on the spot.

Sinclair did not return a request for comment about the ad.

Frisch said Thursday that an uptick in contributions to Allied may allow it to purchase even more airtime ― if it’s allowed.

“It is certainly a test for the company,” Frisch said. While it’s been silent on the ad buy so far, Sinclair could still refuse to air it.

Reaching 40 percent of U.S. households, Sinclair is the nation’s largest owner of local TV stations and is poised to greatly expand its influence. If the company is successful in its bid to overtake Tribune Media, it will reach an estimated 72 percent of U.S. households. The deal is currently under review by the Federal Communications Commission and the Department of Justice.

Allied’s spot urges viewers to contact the FCC and demand it shut down the merger.

The commission’s inspector general, David Hunt, is already investigating whether its chairman, Ajit Pai, has acted improperly to benefit Sinclair regarding the deal.

Sinclair faced sharp criticism in the past week after a video showed dozens of its local news anchors warning viewers about “the troubling trend of irresponsible, one-sided news stories plaguing our country” including the “sharing of biased and false news.”

“The problem with what Sinclair does is they co-opt the credibility that local anchors have built up in their communities over years and decades,” Aaron Weiss, a former Sinclair news director, told CNN Wednesday.

Advertisement