It’s been well-established that no one can bend it like David Beckham, but who knew no one could hug quite like him either?

The former footballer rang in his 43rd birthday on Wednesday with a surprise appearance from his oldest son, Brooklyn. The family was out celebrating at a London restaurant when the 19-year-old snuck up behind his father in a video shared on both David and wife Victoria Beckham’s Instagram accounts.

David became instantly emotional, tearing up as his son pulled him in for a sweet embrace.

“What are you doing here?” a clearly overwhelmed David said in the video after giving him a kiss on the cheek. “I missed you so much.”

A post shared by David Beckham (@davidbeckham) on May 2, 2018 at 2:25pm PDT

“Best birthday surprise, my big boy coming home,” the father of four captioned the post.

The family’s other members, daughter Harper Seven and younger sons Romeo and Cruz, who all reside in London, were also in attendance. Brooklyn, meanwhile, lives in New York where he studies photography at The Parsons School of Design.

In the video, Harper can be heard reacting to her big brother’s birthday surprise, exclaiming, “I didn’t know Brooklyn was coming.”

The Spice Girl singer also shared a family photo from the big day of her husband and the three younger children posing sweetly together.

“Happy birthday to the best daddy!! X we all love u so much!!! So many kisses from us all xxxx we miss u @brooklynbeckham X,” she wrote, signaling that perhaps she didn’t even know the 19-year-old would soon crash the festivities.

A post shared by Victoria Beckham (@victoriabeckham) on May 1, 2018 at 11:51pm PDT

She also posted an adorable video of Harper, 6, reading from a handwritten birthday card for her father.

A post shared by Victoria Beckham (@victoriabeckham) on May 1, 2018 at 11:49pm PDT

Victoria often gives updates about the Beckham brood on her social media, recently hinting that one of her sons might be following in her musical footsteps sometime soon.

In a video shared earlier this week, 13-year-old Cruz channels his inner Justin Bieber by belts out an unknown track for his mom.

“And I miss you, girl, like sunlight misses the moon,” Cruz sang. “And I pray that I’ll be back inside your arms one day soon.”

A post shared by Victoria Beckham (@victoriabeckham) on Apr 30, 2018 at 12:36am PDT