Two unidentified men set off a bomb late Thursday night at the Bombay Bhel restaurant in Mississauga, Ontario, Canada. More than a dozen people were injured. Mark Blinch / Reuters

TORONTO (Reuters) - Two unidentified men walked into a restaurant on Thursday in the Canadian city of Mississauga and set off a bomb, wounding more than a dozen people, local police said.

The blast went off in the Bombay Bhel restaurant at about 10:30 p.m local time. Fifteen people were taken to the hospital, three of them with critical injuries, the Peel Regional Paramedic Service said in a Tweet.

Pics from the restaurant explosion at Hurontario St & Eglinton Av in #Mississauga. Plaza is sealed off, approx 15 people transported to hospital, 3 critical. Sources saying incendiary devices were found inside the restaurant. pic.twitter.com/b5ZX6NVeSx — Jeremy Cohn (@JeremyGlobalTV) May 25, 2018

The two male suspects fled after detonating their improvised explosive device, Peel Regional Police said in a Tweet. No one has claimed responsibility, and the motive for the attack was not known.

The men entered the restaurant and set down what appeared to be a paint can or pail, which exploded after they fled, Sergeant Matt Bertram told the New York Times. The bomb was filled with “projectable objects,” he said.

Police posted a photograph on Twitter showing two people with dark zip-up hoodies walking into an establishment. One appeared to be carrying an object.

Peel Police said one suspect was in his mid-20s, stocky, and wore dark blue jeans and a dark zip-up hoody pulled over his head, with black cloth covering his face. The second was thin, and wore faded blue jeans, a gray t-shirt and a dark zip-up hoody over his head, also with his face covered.

2 suspects attended the scene, detonated an Improvised Explosive Device within the restaurant. Several injured were taken to local hospital and 3 in critical condition were taken to a Toronto Trauma Centre. pic.twitter.com/yzCT59UVN6 — Peel Regional Police (@PeelPoliceMedia) May 25, 2018

Two parties fled the scene immediately after the incident. 1st described as male, 5’10-6feet, stocky build, mid-20s, light skin, wearing dark blue jeans, dark zip up hoodie pulled over head, baseball cap with light grey peak, face covered with black cloth material. — Peel Regional Police (@PeelPoliceMedia) May 25, 2018

2nd male described as 5’9”-5’10”, fair skin, thin build, faded blue jeans, dark zip-up hoodie hood pulled over head, grey t-shirt, dark coloured skate shoes, face covered. Looking for public’s assistance in identifying the parties that fled following the explosion. — Peel Regional Police (@PeelPoliceMedia) May 25, 2018

Please contact (905) 453-2121 or 12CIB at ext. 1233 — Peel Regional Police (@PeelPoliceMedia) May 25, 2018

Roads in the area were closed and a large police presence was at the scene, with heavily armed tactical officers arriving as part of the large emergency response, local media reported.

The attack in Mississauga comes a month after a driver plowed his white Ryder rental van into a lunch-hour crowd in Toronto, killing 10 people and injuring 15.

Mississauga is Canada’s sixth-largest city, with a population of 700,000 people, situated on Lake Ontario about 20 miles west of Toronto. Bombay Bhel is an Indian restaurant chain in the metro area of Mississauga.