April 9 (Reuters) - The goofy voice behind the “I’m cuckoo for Cocoa Puffs” call for breakfast cereal fell silent Sunday, as comedian and voice actor Chuck McCann died, his publicist said.

“His work was legendary,” said his publicist Edward Lozzi. “What baby boomer doesn’t know cuckoo for Cocoa Puffs?”

Comedian Chuck McCann starred in scores of children's television programs, such as "Lunch with Soupy Sales" and "The Captain Kangaroo Show" and "Rootie Kazootie." Oliver Walker via Getty Images

The Brooklyn, New York, native died of congestive heart failure at a Los Angeles hospital at age 83, Lozzi said.

Showbusiness was in his blood, Lozzi said. He practically grew up in an orchestra pit where his father was a big band leader at New York’s Roxy Theatre. His grandfather also performed in Buffalo Bill’s Wild West Show.

Through his family, McCann was exposed to some of the best comedians of the 1930s and 1940s and he would have his classmates in stitches imitating them at school, Lozzi said.

He got his professional start in local radio and television doing voices, puppetry work and standup comedy. McCann later starred in scores of children’s television programs such as “Lunch with Soupy Sales” and “The Captain Kangaroo Show” and “Rootie Kazootie,” Lozzi said.

McCann later moved to Los Angeles and worked as a character actor on shows including; “Little House on the Prairie,” “Bonanza,” and “Columbo.”

But he is best known for voicing the hungry bird Sonny for General Mills cereal.

“We all grew up with him,” Lozzi said. “He was a pioneer.”

He is survived by his wife, Elizabeth Fanning, and two daughters.

Fans, friends and colleagues took to Twitter to share tributes to McCann:

So sad to hear of the passing of Chuck McCann. We were friends for over 60 years. Chuck was a walking encyclopedia of comedy. A self-appointed historian of Laurel and Hardy. He taught me how to do Stanley and we performed as that sweet duo... https://t.co/fN0A4hrVz6 — JerryVanDykesbrother (@iammrvandy) April 9, 2018

I’m very sad to report that Chuck McCann has passed away at the age of 83.



I had the pleasure of having him on our podcast 5 years ago. It was such a delight to speak with him. He was truly a legend. We will miss him...



Here’s my interview: https://t.co/LUaMQBShpG#DuckTales pic.twitter.com/8rwvNAYwNy — Tim Nydell (@SaturdayRewind) April 9, 2018

Sad news has just reached us that Chuck McCann passed away today. Chuck was a great man and was loved by many fans around the world. May he RIP. pic.twitter.com/p1D8SjKETq — Laurel and Hardy (@Stan_And_Ollie) April 8, 2018

I never met Chuck McCann but every time I open my medicine cabinet I say, "Hi guy!" RIP — Trace Beaulieu (@TraceBeaulieu) April 9, 2018

A sad farewell to Chuck McCann, a funny man who had his own kids show in the NY area. He helped to keep Laurel and Hardy's legacy in the mainstream, acted in films, most notably The Heart is a Lonely Hunter and was a nice man whom many of us had the honor of calling a friend. RIP pic.twitter.com/D4r4mOtmUl — James L Neibaur (@JimLNeibaur) April 8, 2018

RIP Chuck McCann – legendary TV, film, puppeteer and voice actor. You may know Chuck as Sonny the Cocoa Puffs Bird, Dreamfinder In EPCOT Center’s Imagination pavilion, Scrooge’s butler Duckworth In DuckTales, and “The Thing” Ben Grimm in the animated Fantastic Four pic.twitter.com/rrDpxaeGMh — Dan Cunningham (@HonuDan) April 9, 2018

Chuck McCann, 83

(Sept 2, 1934-Apr 8, 2018)

Chuck’s career on TV began as a much-beloved children’s show host on local NYC channels @wpix and WNEW. These comedy variety shows allowed him to showcase his talents along with a cast of puppets and screenings of Laurel & Hardy shorts. pic.twitter.com/aRrVn9OW0r — RealGilbertACP (@RealGilbertACP) April 9, 2018

Sorry to hear about the passing of Chuck McCann. Like so many talented performers, he did about a million things over a long career. But I personally remember him best as (the really excellent) voice of The Thing from the 90s Fantastic Four cartoon. pic.twitter.com/HKXAQLPzE0 — Jon Huff (@jonwesleyhuff) April 9, 2018