Former presidential candidate Hillary Clinton is expected to endorse New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo's re-election campaign. Lucas Jackson / Reuters

Hillary Clinton is expected to hit the campaign trail this week to endorse New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo (D) in his re-election campaign.

Clinton, the 2016 Democratic presidential nominee and former New York senator, is planning on speaking for Cuomo at the state Democratic convention in Long Island on Wednesday, a Cuomo spokeswoman confirmed to HuffPost on Monday.

The endorsement was first reported by The New York Times.

Cuomo faces former “Sex and the City” star Cynthia Nixon in the Sept. 13 Democratic primary. He is expected to receive the Democratic Party’s endorsement later this week, The Associated Press reported.

Cynthia Nixon is seen at a campaign stop in Brooklyn in March after announcing her run for governor of New York. Shannon Stapleton / Reuters

A Quinnipiac University survey published earlier this month gave Cuomo a 22-point lead over Nixon.

Clinton’s endorsement would mark her return to campaigning for a political candidate after her crushing defeat in the 2016 election against President Donald Trump.

Then-Housing and Urban Development Secretary Andrew Cuomo is seen with then-New York Senate candidate Hillary Clinton during a Columbus Day Parade in New York in 2000. New York Daily News Archive via Getty Images

Clinton and her husband, former President Bill Clinton, have a long history with Cuomo and his family. Cuomo served as housing secretary in Bill Clinton’s administration. He endorsed Hillary Clinton’s presidential run shortly after it was announced in 2015.

Nixon also expressed support of Clinton’s presidential campaign that year, telling Bloomberg News: “I am definitely a Hillary person.”

Clinton also recently recorded an automated phone call that endorses Stacey Abrams for Georgia governor, the Times reported. Abrams is the former Democratic leader in the Georgia House.

This story has been updated with additional details about the relationship between Cuomo and the Clintons.