Laddie Boy greets harding at the White House. New York Daily News Archive via Getty Images

United States presidents and their families have almost always had pets while serving in office. Going all the way back to George Washington, many presidents have cared for dogs and horses, while others have brought slightly more exotic animals to the White House.

In fact, every president except James Polk and Andrew Johnson had a pet for at least part of his time in office.

President Donald Trump bucks this tradition, as the first POTUS in about 150 years to have no known pets at the White House. (Vice President Mike Pence’s family has a few pets, however, including the now rather well-known Marlon Bundo.)

Many presidential pets have also become famous in their own right, like Warren G. Harding’s Laddie Boy and Franklin D. Roosevelt’s Fala. As March is the month of National Puppy Day and Respect Your Cat Day, we’ve rounded up photos of presidential pets for animal lovers and history buffs alike.

Grover Cleveland (1885–1889, 1893–1897)

President Grover Cleveland and his family had a number of pets at the White House, including dogs and exotic birds. First Lady Frances Cleveland was apparently a real animal lover, and the family continued to care for pets after leaving the White House.

Cleveland with his pet dog. Bettmann via Getty Images

Cleveland with his son, Francis, and dog. Library of Congress via Getty Images

Benjamin Harrison (1889-1893)

President Benjamin Harrison’s pets included dogs and opossums. Some of his grandchildren, who also lived at the White House, had a billy goat called Old Whiskers.

President Harrison's son, Russell, outside the White House with his children and family pets. Photo 12 via Getty Images

Theodore Roosevelt (1901-1909)

President Theodore Roosevelt also had a large number of pets. In 1908, the Washington Evening Star reportedly wrote, “There is no home in Washington so full of pets of high and low degree as is the White House, and those pets not only occupy the attention of the children, but the President is himself their good friend, and has a personal interest in every one of them.”

President Roosevelt's son, Quentin, and his pony, Algonquin in 1902. Library of Congress via Getty Images

Roosevelt with his family at Oyster Bay in New York. Historical via Getty Images

Woodrow Wilson (1913-1921)

President Woodrow Wilson’s pets included dogs, cats and birds. He also had a flock of sheep that grazed on the White House lawn.

Sheep grazing on the White House Lawn in 1918. Bettmann via Getty Images

Warren G. Harding (1921-1923)

President Warren G. Harding had a Airedale terrier named Laddie Boy, who became a bit of a celebrity during his time at the White House. Harding also reportedly had an English bulldog and a squirrel named Pete.

Laddie Boy greets harding at the White House. New York Daily News Archive via Getty Images

Harding and his wife, Florence, watching an annual White House Easter event with Laddie Boy, circa 1922. FPG via Getty Images

Calvin Coolidge (1923-1929)

President Calvin Coolidge had menagerie that could rival a zoo’s collection. His most famous animal was Billy the pygmy hippopotamus, though he also had a bobcat, donkey, wallaby, antelope, lion cubs, raccoons, dogs, cats, birds ... and more!

Coolidge with his dog, Rob Roy, in 1924. Universal History Archive via Getty Images

First Lady Grace Coolidge with her pet raccoon at the White House Easter Egg Roll in 1927. PhotoQuest via Getty Images

Herbert Hoover (1929-1933)

President Herbert Hoover had many dogs, including a Belgian shepherd named King Tut.

Hoover with King Tut in the 1930s. PhotoQuest via Getty Images

White House kennel master Robert R. Robinson stands with three of Hoover's dogs: (from left to right) Buckeye, King Tut and Gillette. Library of Congress via Getty Images

Franklin D. Roosevelt (1933-1945)

President Franklin D. Roosevelt had a famous Scottish terrier named Fala. His family had other dogs as well, including another Scottish terrier named Meggie, a German shepherd named Major and an English setter named Winks.

Roosevelt with Fala in 1941. Universal History Archive via Getty Images

Fala on his birthday in 1942. Bettmann via Getty Images

Harry S. Truman (1945-1953)

In 1947, President Harry S. Truman received a cocker spaniel puppy named Feller from a woman in his home state of Missouri. The Trumans weren’t very interested in having a presidential pet, so they gave him to their personal physician, Dr. Graham. Truman’s daughter Margaret also had an Irish setter named Mike for a brief time.

Feller poses for the first time at the White House in 1947. Bettmann via Getty Images

Margaret at the White House with Mike. Bettmann via Getty Images

Dwight D. Eisenhower (1953-1961)

President Dwight D. Eisenhower and his wife, Mamie, had a Weimaraner named Heidi and a pet parakeet.

First Lady Mamie Eisenhower with Heidi and her granddaughter Barbara Anne in 1958. Ed Clark via Getty Images

First Lady Mamie Eisenhower poses with pet Weimaraner Heidi, who had just been awarded a lifetime membership to the Tailwaggers Club in 1958. Ed Clark via Getty Images

John F. Kennedy (1961-1963)

The Kennedy family had a number of dogs and horses, as well as other pets like hamsters and parakeets.

Kennedy family dogs Charlie (a Welsh terrier) and Pushinka (a mixed-breed dog given as a gift from Soviet leader Nikita Khrushchev). Historical via Getty Images

Kennedy with Charlie in 1962. Bettmann via Getty Images

Kennedy with his children and their pony, Macaroni. PhotoQuest via Getty Images

Lyndon B. Johnson (1963-1969)

President Lyndon B. Johnson had beagles, a collie and a terrier mix. The family also reportedly had hamsters and lovebirds during his White House tenure.

The Johnson family posing with their beagles in 1964. Bettmann via Getty Images

Johnson's beagles wear campaign buttons in 1964. Bettmann via Getty Images

Johnson plays with terrier mix Yuki in 1968. Bettmann via Getty Images

Richard Nixon (1969-1974)

President Richard Nixon had a poodle named Vicky, a terrier named Pasha and an Irish settler named King Timahoe. Before he was president, Nixon had a cocker spaniel named Checkers, who became the namesake for a famous speech he gave during his vice presidential campaign in 1952.

King Timahoe, Pasha and Vicky on the White House lawn in 1969. Bettmann via Getty Images

Nixon greets his dogs outside the White House in 1970. Pictorial Parade via Getty Images

Gerald Ford (1974-1977)

President Gerald Ford had a golden retriever named Liberty, who had a litter of puppies while in the White House. The Fords kept one of the puppies and named her Misty. Ford’s daughter, Susan, also had a Siamese cat named Shan.

Ford playing with Liberty at the White House Executive Residence in 1975. David Hume Kennerly via Getty Images

The Ford family celebrating Christmas in 1976 with Liberty and Misty. Historical via Getty Images

Jimmy Carter (1977-1981)

In 1977, President Jimmy Carter’s daughter Amy received a border collie mix named Grits as a gift from her teacher. The family later returned the dog to her teacher. The Carters also reportedly had an Afghan hound named Lewis Brown and Siamese cat named Misty Malarky Ying Yang.

Amy Carter holds Grits in 1977. Bettmann via Getty Images

Ronald Reagan (1981-1989)

President Ronald Reagan had a Cavalier King Charles Spaniel named Rex and a Bouvier des Flandres named Lucky. They also had a few other dogs, who mostly lived at their California ranch, along with their horses.

The Reagans return from Camp David with Lucky in 1985. Diana Walker via Getty Images

Reagan holds Rex in the Diplomatic Reception Room of the White House in 1986. Pete Souza via Getty Images

The Reagans play with dogs at their ranch in 1982. Time Life Pictures via Getty Images

George H.W. Bush (1989-1993)

President George H.W. Bush had an English springer spaniel named Millie ― the subject and “author” of the bestselling Millie’s Book: As Dictated to Barbara Bush. Millie had six puppies while in the White House ― including Bush’s beloved Ranger.

Bush on the White House lawn with Millie and her puppies. Historical via Getty Images

Bush with Ranger and his granddaughter Marshall in 1989. Time Life Pictures via Getty Images

Bill Clinton (1993-2001)

President Bill Clinton’s White House pets included Socks the cat and Buddy the chocolate Labrador retriever.

Socks at the White House in 1994 Larry Downing via Getty Images

Clinton with Buddy in 1997. STR New / Reuters

Then-First Lady Hillary Rodham Clinton poses with Socks and Buddy in 1999. Smith Collection/Gado via Getty Images

George W. Bush (2001-2009)

President George W. Bush had an English springer spaniel named Spot (Millie’s puppy), two Scottish terriers named Barney and Miss Beazley and a cat named India aka “Willie.” A longhorn cow also lived at the family’s ranch in Texas.

Bush with Spot and Barney at the White House in 2001. William Philpott / Reuters

The Bushes carrying Barney and Miss Beazley. Reuters Photographer / Reuters

Barack Obama (2009-2017)

President Barack Obama had two Portuguese water dogs named Sunny and Bo at the White House.

The Obamas with Sunny and Bo on Easter Sunday 2015. Handout via Getty Images