Like many infamous prisoners before him, accused Florida gunman Nikolas Cruz is receiving torrents of fan mail from people across the country.

Piles of letters, including greeting cards and even provocative photos, have been mailed to the jail cell of the 19-year-old gunman, who is currently facing the death penalty after being accused of murdering 17 students and staff members at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School on Feb. 14.

“I reserve the right to care about you, Nikolas!” one Texas woman wrote in a letter to Cruz just six days after the mass shooting, according to the Sun-Sentinel.

An 18-year-old girl, who identified herself as a high school senior, also wrote to the accused killer, saying, “When I saw your picture on the television, something attracted me to you.”

“Your eyes are beautiful and the freckles on your face make you so handsome,” she continued. “I’m really skinny and have 34C sized breasts.”

A third, older Chicago woman mailed Cruz suggestive photos, including a shot of her cleavage and another of herself in a skimpy bikini eating a popsicle.

Someone even deposited $800 into Cruz’s commissary account, which he can use to purchase snacks, personal hygiene products and other goods while in prison.

Cruz’s lawyer, Public Defender Howard Finkelstein, confirmed to the Sun-Sentinel that the accused killer has indeed been receiving massive amounts of fan mail.

“There’s piles of letters,” said Finkelstein. “In my 40 years as public defender, I’ve never seen this many letters to a defendant. Everyone now and then gets a few, but nothing like this.”

“The letters shake me up because they are written by regular, everyday teenage girls from across the nation,” he continued. “That scares me. It’s perverted.”

However, Finklestein said that since Cruz is on suicide watch, he hasn’t seen most of the letters.

“We read a few religious ones to him that extended wishes for his soul and to come to God,” he said. “But we have not and will not read him the fan letters or share the photos of scantily-clad teenage girls.”