Vice President Mike Pence has sparked anger with his tribute to civil rights icon Linda Brown.

Brown, who as a young child was at the center of the Brown v. Board of Education case which played a key role in ending segregation in U.S. public schools, died Monday at the age of 76.

On Tuesday, Pence tweeted she would “be remembered as a towering figure in the fight for equality & equal treatment under the law.”

Linda Brown will be remembered as a towering figure in the fight for equality & equal treatment under the law. Her role in challenging school segregation helped make our Nation a better place & her legacy will live on for decades. May she rest in peace. https://t.co/nkWEoJZrvG — Vice President Mike Pence (@VP) March 27, 2018

“Her role in challenging school segregation helped make our Nation a better place & her legacy will live on for decades,” Pence added.

However, many tweeters accused Pence of hypocrisy — and reminded him of how he walked out of an October 2017 NFL game between the Indianapolis Colts and the San Francisco 49ers after several 49ers players took a knee during the national anthem in protest against police brutality and racial injustice.

Here’s a sampling of the responses so far:

You’re the Vice President for someone who called white supremacists very fine people. Don’t even pretend to support civil rights. — Miranda Yaver (@mirandayaver) March 28, 2018

You forfeited the right to pretend you care about racial justice when you walked out of that football game. — Sharon Hoger (@ms_holstein) March 27, 2018

And you will be remembered as the VP who LITERALLY sold his soul to the devil. — Simon Goodman (@simong0808) March 27, 2018

You walked out of a football game because of football players peacefully protesting inequality. 🙄 Also your track record of creating laws for equal treatment for marginalized groups (in particular for the LGBTQ Community and Women) really isn't good. — Amy Grimm (@AGRIMMONE) March 27, 2018

Mike Pence will be remember as a towering bigot in the fight against equality & equal treatment under the law. His role in perpetuating hate and exclusion has brought great disappointment to our nation & his notoriety will live on for decades. May he GTFO of office asap. https://t.co/Dac0cwVCIW — Josh Schwartz (@Schwartzish) March 27, 2018

Quiet, hypocrite, no one believes a word you have to say. — WM Swadley 🌊 (@Wm_Swadley) March 27, 2018

As a veteran I don't feel disrespected by those who kneel to protest injustice.

I do feel disrespected by Trump pissing on the Constitution.

I know which side of history you're on. — She persisted (@CaseyHinds) March 27, 2018

She certainly will be. And you may be remembered as the vice president who all but defended confederate monuments and walked out of a football stadium because you were so offended by young black men peacefully protesting continued racial injustice. Please do better. — AJ Jeck (@AJeck3) March 27, 2018

Remember when you spent government money just to walk out of a football game? — this is fine (@hencough) March 27, 2018

This from the guy who attended a football game so he could walk out when players peacefully protested police brutality by kneeling during the national anthem. And I know I'm not the first person to say it, but I want to keep reminding you of your hypocrisy. — DanielleinDC (@VeggieTart) March 27, 2018