Does President Trump’s Twitter activity undermine the first lady’s cause? Photo: MANDEL NGAN/AFP/Getty Images

On the same day President Trump announced by tweet that he was replacing Rex Tillerson as secretary of state, the Washington Post reported that Melania Trump is scheduled to meet with tech giants to discuss strategies to curb cyberbullying.

Sources told the paper that the first lady, who has spoken in the past about her desire to see more “positive” online interactions, will address leaders from Amazon, Facebook, Google, Twitter and Snap.

Trump is reportedly hesitant to use the term “cyberbullying,” however, and her spokeswoman confirmed only that she had “simply asked for a meeting to discuss one of the many things that impacts children.”

Though the consensus is that more can be done to promote civility and crack down on trolls online — particularly when children are involved — Trump’s project has been met with some derision.

Many called it “ironic,” given President Trump’s reputation for online attacks — most recently, a New York Times reporter whom he blasted as a “Hillary flunky” — and Donald Trump Jr.’s liking tweets that promote conspiracy theories involving 17-year-old Parkland shooting survivor David Hogg. Hogg’s 14-year-old sister, Lauren, personally called on the first lady to stop the cyberbullying.

Not surprisingly, the Twittersphere had some strong reactions.

Local woman won’t acknowledge the call is coming from inside the house https://t.co/8xz2MtJCBc — shauna (@goldengateblond) March 14, 2018

It's coming from INSIDE THE HOUSE pic.twitter.com/FIuRqfPDuY — Stef Sealy (@stefsealy) March 13, 2018

Could she has chosen a more ironic cause than cyberbullying? — Etienne Fortin (@ebfortin) March 13, 2018

Hey @FLOTUS, you might want to start at home if you really want to gain any respect whatsoever. — kerrihp (@kerrihp) March 13, 2018

“can you block my husband for me?” — Randy Marsh (@twinsgotwins) March 13, 2018

Melania Trump Meeting with Twitter to discuss “rise of online trolls and the spread of malicious content”?



That’s trolling on the highest level... — knutster (@knut2jensen) March 14, 2018

Melania Trump - whose husband's tweets include "low class slob," "short and fat" and "perv sleazebag" - will meet with Facebook and Twitter executives next week to talk about the "need for kindness online" https://t.co/aGCyQnbqzC — Drew Harwell (@drewharwell) March 13, 2018

First she should deal with the bully she is married to. — Sharon Lee Mandel (@MommaMandel) March 14, 2018

Does @FLOTUS know that her husband is a bully? How can she be a champion of cyber bulling with a husband who behaves in this way! Sorry but she needs to lead by example! — Amma Opoku (@OpokuAmma) March 14, 2018

The first lady’s meeting is scheduled to take place March 20.