Photo: Amrik Singh via Facebook

A law student was told to remove his turban at a bar by staff claiming the establishment has a “no headwear policy.”

Amrik Singh, 22, said he was enjoying a night out with friends in Mansfield, Nottinghamshire, a town in the United Kingdom, when a bouncer approached him telling him to remove his turban if he wanted to stay, BBC reports.

In an audio recording, Singh is heard calmly explaining to Rush Bar’s bouncer that he is a Sikh and that the turban is not headwear but part of his religion’s requirements.

Shocking audio from student who was devastated to be told he has to remove turban to go into a club in Mansfield. @BBC EMT @BBCNottingham @bbradleymp pic.twitter.com/mAF52StuV6 — Tony Roe (@tonyroe) March 10, 2018

The Nottingham Trent University student said that he was initially allowed into the establishment but was asked to leave about half an hour later because of his turban.

“I explained that a turban isn’t just headgear, but part of my religion and that I was allowed to wear a turban in public. The bouncer ignored this and said I needed to take it off,” said Singh. “I refused and was subsequently dragged away from my friends.”

He asked to speak to a manager, and that’s when he began the voice recording. He explained the meaning of his turban, and he was allowed to come back in for the night but was told that evening that he was barred from future visits.

“This experience ruined my night. It broke my heart,” he said. “I’m very fortunate that I’m well-spoken and I am able to stand up for myself. What if it was someone who wasn’t confident was told to leave? I am disgusted.”

The bar’s management apologized, calling it “absolutely unacceptable.” The staff member has also been suspended.

Singh did not report the incident to police, but he is looking into legal options. However, he said he wants to share this experience as a teachable moment to spread awareness in his community about religious rights.

Read more from Yahoo Lifestyle