Sam Smith fulfilled a lifelong dream Monday, performing before none other than the original Mary Poppins herself, Dame Julie Andrews.

Smith joined a bevy of stars, including Keith Urban and the Who’s Roger Daltrey, in honoring Andrews at the Raise Your Voice Gala in New York.

He gushed about the experience on Twitter and Instagram a day later, joking that he used to dress up as Andrews’ iconic character Mary Poppins when he was 3 years old.

“Gay from birth,” he quipped.

Words cannot describe last night. Such an honour to sing in support of The Voice Health Institute. Steven Zeitels & his incredible team saved my voice. Forever grateful & so passionate about the work you do. I'll also never ever forget the night I met Dame @JulieAndrews... pic.twitter.com/EAYhjJc43W — Sam Smith (@samsmithworld) March 6, 2018

When I was three years old I used to dress up as Mary Poppins and my dad would fly me around the house (gay from birth) - Last night was a dream come true ❤ — Sam Smith (@samsmithworld) March 6, 2018

The idea of Andrews, Smith, Daltrey and Urban sharing a stage may seem surprising. The four stars, however, have one thing in common: All have sought treatment from Dr. Steven Zeitels of the Voice Health Institute at some point in their careers, as did many of the other celebrities and notables in attendance.

Andrews, who was the evening’s honoree, first sought the Boston-based Zeitels’ care in 2000, shortly after undergoing a botched vocal cord surgery that damaged her singing voice.

True to form, the “Sound of Music” icon was gracious as ever while praising the Voice Health Institute’s staff as “superstars and heroes” and speaking out about the “unbelievable” importance of vocal health during Monday’s gala.

Andrews and Smith have both sought the vocal care of Dr. Steven Zeitels. Gary Gershoff via Getty Images

“I started singing at about age 7 and I had one of those four-octave ranges. I could hit high notes and dogs would howl for miles around,” she told the crowd. “I used to think, foolishly, that one is supposed to just forge on. I was a little ashamed to have to go to a throat specialist. ... I hope that all the young performers today will do just that. It’s essential.”