Little gold men, red envelopes and Hollywood’s biggest night.

Stars packed into the Dolby Theater in Los Angeles on Sunday for the 90th Academy Awards. Hosted for a second time by late-night favorite Jimmy Kimmel, this year’s ceremony was the first Oscars to air in the wake of Hollywood’s recent reckoning with sexual harassment and assault.

Guillermo del Toro’s ravishing romantic fantasy “The Shape of Water” led the pack with 13 nominations, and ended the night with four wins, including Best Director and Best Picture. It was the first sci-fi movie ever to win the award.

The genre-defying “Get Out,” certainly the most timely of the films up for Best Picture, also scored four nominations. Director Jordan Peele became the first black director to win for Best Original Screenplay.

Not every award was groundbreaking, though. Timothée Chalamet failed to upset the expected winner, actor Gary Oldman, for his star turn in the sumptuous “Call Me By Your Name.” The 22-year-old would have been the youngest Best Actor honoree in almost 80 years.

Movie fans also had their eyes out for the typically male-dominated Best Director category ― shoutout to Natalie Portman ― which included relative newcomers Peele and Greta Gerwig competing against industry stalwarts like Steven Spielberg and Paul Thomas Anderson. The award ultimately went to del Toro.

Check out the complete list of winners below.

Sam Rockwell and Frances McDormand in "Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri." 20th Century Fox

Best Supporting Actor

Willem Dafoe, “The Florida Project”

Woody Harrelson, “Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri”

Richard Jenkins, “The Shape of Water”

Christopher Plummer, “All the Money in the World”

Winner: Sam Rockwell, “Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri”

Gary Oldman in "Darkest Hour." Focus Features

Best Makeup and Hairstyling Winner: “Darkest Hour” “Victoria & Abdul” “Wonder”

Daniel Day-Lewis in "Phantom Thread." Focus Features

Best Costume Design “Beauty and the Beast” “Darkest Hour” Winner: “Phantom Thread” “The Shape of Water” “Victoria and Abdul”

"Icarus" directors Dan Cogan and Bryan Fogel arrive at a pre-Oscars reception. Getty

Best Documentary Feature “Abacus: Small Enough to Jail” “Faces Places” Winner: “Icarus” “Last Men in Aleppo” “Strong Island”

Harry Styles in "Dunkirk." Warner Bros

Best Sound Editing “Baby Driver” “Blade Runner 2049” Winner: “Dunkirk” “The Shape of Water” “Star Wars: The Last Jedi” Best Sound Mixing “Baby Driver” “Blade Runner 2049” Winner: “Dunkirk” “The Shape of Water” “Star Wars: The Last Jedi”

Sally Hawkins and Doug Jones in "The Shape of Water." Fox Searchlight Pictures

Best Production Design “Beauty and the Beast” “Blade Runner 2049” “Darkest Hour” Winner: “The Shape of Water” “Dunkirk”

Daniela Vega in "A Fantastic Woman." Sony Pictures Classics

Best Foreign Language Film Winner: “A Fantastic Woman” (Chile) “The Insult” (Lebanon) “Loveless” (Russia) “On Body and Soul (Hungary) “The Square” (Sweden)

Allison Janney arrives at the 90th Annual Academy Awards. Steve Granitz via Getty Images

Best Supporting Actress Mary J. Blige, “Mudbound” Winner: Allison Janney, “I, Tonya” Lesley Manville, “Phantom Thread” Laurie Metcalf, “Lady Bird” Octavia Spencer, “Shape of Water”

Kobe Bryant and Vanessa Laine Bryant arrive at the 90th Academy Awards. Carlo Allegri / Reuters

Best Animated Short Film Winner: “Dear Basketball” “Garden Party” “Lou” “Negative Space” “Revolting Rhymes”

The cast of "Coco." Pixar

Best Animated Feature

“The Boss Baby” “The Breadwinner” Winner: “Coco” “Ferdinand” “Loving Vincent” Best Film Editing “Baby Driver” Winner: “Dunkirk” “I, Tonya” “The Shape of Water” “Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri”

Warner Bros

Best Visual Effects Winner: “Blade Runner 2049” “Guardians of the Galaxy Vol. 2” “Kong: Skull Island” “Star Wars: The Last Jedi” “War for the Planet of the Apes” Best Documentary Short Subject “Edith+Eddie” Winner: “Heaven is a Traffic Jam on the 405” “Heroin(e)” “Kayayo: The Living Shopping Baskets” “Knife Skills” “Traffic Stop” Best Live Action Short Film “DeKalb Elementary” “The Eleven O’Clock” “My Nephew Emmett” Winner: “The Silent Child”

Armie Hammer and Timothée Chalamet in "Call Me By Your Name." Sony Pictures Classics

Best Adapted Screenplay Winner: “Call Me by Your Name,” James Ivory “The Disaster Artist,” Scott Neustadter and Michael H. Weber “Logan,” Scott Frank, James Mangold and Michael Green “Molly’s Game,” Aaron Sorkin “Mudbound,” Virgil Williams and Dee Rees

Universal Pictures

Best Original Screenplay “The Big Sick,” Emily V. Gordon and Kumail Nanjiani Winner: “Get Out,” Jordan Peele “Lady Bird,” Greta Gerwig “Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri,” Martin McDonagh “The Shape of Water,” Guillermo del Toro and Vanessa Taylor Best Cinematography Winner: “Blade Runner 2049” “Darkest Hour” “Dunkirk” “Mudbound” “The Shape of Water” Best Original Score “Dunkirk,” Hans Zimmer “Phantom Thread,” Jonny Greenwood Winner: “The Shape of Water,” Alexandre Desplat “Star Wars: The Last Jedi,” John Williams “Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri,” Carter Burwell Best Original Song “Mighty River” from “Mudbound” “Mystery of Love” from “Call Me by Your Name” Winner: “Remember Me” from “Coco” “Stand Up for Something” from “Marshall” “This Is Me” from “The Greatest Showman”

Guillermo del Toro arrives at the 90th Oscars Nominees Luncheon. Mario Anzuoni / Reuters

Best Director Christopher Nolan, “Dunkirk” Jordan Peele, “Get Out” Greta Gerwig, “Lady Bird” Paul Thomas Anderson, “Phantom Thread” Winner: Guillermo del Toro, “The Shape of Water” Best Actor Timothée Chalamet, “Call Me by Your Name” Daniel Day-Lewis, “Phantom Thread” Daniel Kaluuya, “Get Out” Winner: Gary Oldman, “Darkest Hour” Denzel Washington, “Roman J. Israel, Esq.”

Fox Searchlight Pictures