President Donald Trump phoned in a rambling, virtually non-stop talk with Jeanine Pirro on her Fox News program Saturday night, calling the newly released Democratic intelligence memo a “nothing,” and blasting Rep. Adam Schiff (D-Calif.) as a “total phony” and a “bad guy” who has done something “probably illegal.”

Nearly each time Pirro tried to speak, Trump bulldozed right over her.

Trump patted himself on the back as a “champion” of the Second Amendment’s right to bear arms on “Justice with Judge Jeanine.” But he also pledged in the wake of the shooting this month at a Parkland, Florida, high school that killed 17 people to stiffen background checks (he rolled back checks for the mentally ill just last year). He predicted a bill would emerge in Congress addressing guns that would be “getting rid of certain things and keeping other things.”

“Somebody’s who’s mentally ill should not have a gun,” he said.

He said what happened at the Florida school “would have been a whole different story” if “brave” football coach Aaron Feis, killed protecting children, had been packing a gun. “He’d be alive today,” Trump said.

Had 15 percent or 20 percent of the teachers been armed at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School, Trump also said, the gunman “would never have run into the building if he thought that bullets were going to come flying back into him.”

He said “gun-free zones are very dangerous because the bad guys love gun-free zones.”

Trump slammed the memo released Saturday by the Democrats on the House Intelligence Committee, led by Schiff, to debunk claims by a GOP memo that the FBI abused its power during an investigation into former Trump campaign official Carter Page.

“Certainly the memo was a nothing,” Trump said of the Democratic document, adding that it was a “confirmation” of the GOP memo.

“That’s a very bad document for their side,” he added. As for Rep. Devin Nunes (R-Calif.), who was responsible for the Republican memo, “I really think someday he’s going to be greatly honored for his service ... he’s been very, very brave,” Trump added.

The president leveled multiple insults at Schiff, calling him a liar, a likely law breaker and a “bad guy.”

Wait a minute, Mr. President. Am I a phony, or sleazy, a monster or little? Surely you know the key to a good playground nickname is consistency. I thought you were supposed to be good at this. https://t.co/v44q2CTFxX — Adam Schiff (@RepAdamSchiff) February 25, 2018

As for his hoped-for military parade, Trump said: “I’d like to have a parade. A lot of the generals would like to have a parade to celebrate what we’re doing.”

As to when the parade might occur, he mentioned July 4th or Veteran’s Day as possible dates.

He added that “our military was very depleted; it was going in the wrong direction” before he took office.

Democrats, he said, “don’t care so much about the military, sadly.”