President Donald Trump has criticized the FBI for missing “all of the many signals” about the suspected gunman behind Wednesday’s deadly high school shooting in Parkland, Florida.

In a tweet late Saturday, Trump said the agency’s failure was “very sad” and “not acceptable.” He also suggested the agency was “spending too much time trying to prove Russian collusion with the Trump campaign.”

Very sad that the FBI missed all of the many signals sent out by the Florida school shooter. This is not acceptable. They are spending too much time trying to prove Russian collusion with the Trump campaign - there is no collusion. Get back to the basics and make us all proud! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) February 18, 2018

“There is no collusion,” Trump claimed. “Get back to the basics and make us all proud!” he added.

The FBI acknowledged Friday that it had failed to act on a tip about 19-year-old Nikolas Cruz, who has since been charged with 17 counts of premeditated murder following the mass shooting at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School.

Trump’s post followed Friday’s indictment of 13 Russians and three Russian entities by a federal grand jury empaneled by special counsel Robert Mueller. The Russians are accused of meddling with the 2016 presidential election and looking to boost Trump’s campaign.

In a series of tweets on Sunday morning, Trump sought to shift blame regarding Russia’s meddling in the 2016 presidential election on Democrats.

Now that Adam Schiff is starting to blame President Obama for Russian meddling in the election, he is probably doing so as yet another excuse that the Democrats, lead by their fearless leader, Crooked Hillary Clinton, lost the 2016 election. But wasn’t I a great candidate? — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) February 18, 2018

I never said Russia did not meddle in the election, I said “it may be Russia, or China or another country or group, or it may be a 400 pound genius sitting in bed and playing with his computer.” The Russian “hoax” was that the Trump campaign colluded with Russia - it never did! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) February 18, 2018