The earthquake struck Oaxaca, Mexico, as seen in the U.S. Geological Survey map above. USGS

A powerful earthquake with a magnitude of 7.2 hit Oaxaca, Mexico, on Friday evening, according to the U.S. Geological Survey.

The origin of the quake was reportedly 43 kilometers, or 26.7 miles, deep. The U.S. Tsunami Warning System said there was no tsunami threat to the West Coast of the U.S. and British Columbia or Alaska.

While the epicenter of the earthquake center was in the town of Santiago Ixtayutla, tremors were apparently felt more than 350 miles away in Mexico City.

An earlier USGS report measured the earthquake at a preliminary magnitude of 7.5.

Gerardo Ruiz Esparaza, Mexico’s secretary of communications and transportation, said communication and transport infrastructure was operating normally across the country following the earthquake.

During a preliminary assessment, Oaxaca’s civil protection office reported that there was damage in the city, but no reports of deaths so far.

Videos of the earthquake show buildings swaying as people take cover in hallways and on the street. Some residents held onto parked cars to keep themselves steady as the ground moved.

Everyone in Zocano standing still while we wait for the earthquake to end. Calming down now. pic.twitter.com/JRv3ZKeJSz — Dave Weigel (@daveweigel) February 16, 2018

We just had an earthquake in Mexico- epicenter in Pinotepa, Oaxaca 7.0 (last I heard) Here in Mexico City people grab on to whatever they can to feel safer. Still unknown what damage has been caused. pic.twitter.com/fYAu8M1Z8p — Andalalucha (@Andalalucha) February 17, 2018

The earthquake comes just months after a pair of deadly earthquakes struck the country.

On Sept. 7, a massive 8.1-magnitude earthquake hit southern Mexico, killing at least 98 people. Less than two weeks later, a 7.1-magnitude earthquake struck central Mexico, devastating parts of Mexico City and leaving more than 350 people dead.

Shortly after Friday’s earthquake stopped, officials said there was no damage reported in Mexico City.

However, initial photos and footage from Pinotepa de Don Luis and surrounding areas in Oaxaca showed damage to buildings and stores.

Después del sismo se reportan algunos daños en Oaxaca. pic.twitter.com/5dwENIAfMl — REFORMACOM (@Reforma) February 17, 2018

#Sismo en #Oaxaca deja daños en casas y negocios de San José del Progreso Tututepec y Jamiltepec pic.twitter.com/zg6Iv2JlY6 — Controversia Oaxaca (@controversiaoax) February 17, 2018

#NotiAhora Se informa que el epicentro del sismo de esta tarde fue en la población de Santa María Huazolotitlán, en la región #Costa de #Oaxaca La magnitud fue fijada en 7.2 grados en la escala Richter pic.twitter.com/mjSYrCpYkc — Noticias Oaxaca NVI (@nvinoticiasoax) February 17, 2018

#Sismo en #Oaxaca deja daños en casas y negocios de San José del Progreso Tututepec y Jamiltepec pic.twitter.com/zg6Iv2JlY6 — Controversia Oaxaca (@controversiaoax) February 17, 2018