Eric Trump has set the internet alight with what appears to be a new business.

On Friday, President Donald Trump’s second son shared a snap of what looked to be the front cover of a new “Trump” magazine to Twitter:

He captioned the photograph, which features an image of Trump International Hotel in Washington, with the hashtag #HotOffThePress.

Trump offered no more information on the publication, which promotes Trump properties on the cover. It’s not clear when it will be available, how often it will be published, how many pages it contains or whether it will be sold on newsstands.

But Time noted it could be the latest attempt by the Trump family to enter the magazine industry. Its last title, “Trump Magazine,” was reportedly closed in 2009 following the global financial crisis, per the New York Post.

Unsurprisingly, people on Twitter had plenty to say about Eric Trump’s new endeavor:

The cover of the latest issue of Trump magazine is the president's DC hotel where diplomats stay to curry favor with the Trump regime. God bless America. https://t.co/0R1Z58KcXZ — Matt Novak (@paleofuture) February 9, 2018

Is this how you advertise for White House job vacancies? I think you need a thicker magazine. — Jim besenfelder (@Jimbesenfelder1) February 9, 2018

I prefer Charmin but in a pinch Trump magazine would work! pic.twitter.com/Yb4bom8cdV — Joe Weathers (@not2deepNu) February 9, 2018

Does the cover of each issue always feature a phallic symbol? Seems an appropriate analogy for the Trump name. — John Weir (@TheRealWeir) February 9, 2018

Since it’s still hot off the press, can we remold it into something different? Please??? — stevie (@steviespapa) February 9, 2018

This isn't an actual magazine, right? Like, it's an annual ad for your family's truly ridiculous towers and resorts, not a monthly magazine with any non-Trump content?



I am asking only because your family has already tried and failed at, what? Two Trump magazines? Three? — Nobody (@N__Who) February 9, 2018

Is it a comic book? — Surly (@Pulpiteer) February 9, 2018

No one reads this vanity publication. — Tom Egly (@TEgly) February 9, 2018

Still hocking Trump goods on Twitter? Tacky — Grams67 (@melissabloww55) February 9, 2018

Looks like the building is giving everyone the finger. Who thought this design was a good idea? — Wayne Lee Harrison (@WayneHarrison) February 9, 2018