It all started with a hypothetical question for commentator Jessica Tarlov, who was also a guest on the show.

“Let’s say Donald Trump produces a memo that says Hillary Clinton had hookers in her room in a Ritz hotel in Moscow urinating on her bed,” Hannity said. “Now, if that was in there and it was not true ―and then it ends up being the basis in part for a FISA warrant against her used by Trump ― you’d be pretty pissed off and the media would be apoplectic tonight, true or false?”

“Absolutely true,” said Tarlov. “By the way, this is the only show that I’ve ever been able to talk about the pee tape on so that makes me really happy.”

Then, it got weird.

“And you know it’s not true because if someone pees in the bed, where are you going to sleep?” interjected Watters. “Where are you going to sleep?”

There was a brief moment of stunned silence. Check out Tarlov’s reaction:

“I don’t think he’s having a sleepover with them,” Tarlov said.

“It’s obviously not true, that doesn’t make any sense,” Watters persisted.

“I think it’s transactional,” said Tarlov. “I don’t think it’s a cuddlefest.”

People on Twitter wasted no time in reacting to the exchange:

“There’s no way that’s where babies come from” - Jesse Watters, next week, probably — Dave Itzkoff (@ditzkoff) February 2, 2018

Who's going to tell @JesseBWatters about the birds and the pees? — Sanho Tree (@SanhoTree) February 2, 2018

tomorrow night on Hannity, Jesse Watters explains the impracticality of a Cleveland Steamer — Adrenochrome Harvester (@ClenchedFisk) February 2, 2018

I am still dying it never ever ever ever occurred to me anyone would attempt to examine the pee tape prospects from a perspective of getting a good night’s sleep — Kilgore Trout (@KT_So_It_Goes) February 2, 2018

"Mom and dad were just doing yoga" --- Jesse the Adorable — PaulaHomer (@PaulJHomer) February 2, 2018

Don't forget to watch this weekend, as @JudgeJeanine will try to find her way out of the woods. Still looking for Hillary. — Linda Ennen (@imtan2) February 2, 2018

Jesus Christ, nobody tell him. — )))Not smart, but genius((( (@Torgo3K) February 2, 2018

i want to see a Fox News segment with jesse watters laying in a pee soaked bed and saying see i can’t fall asleep now — raandy (@randygdub) February 2, 2018

“Why would anyone pay a prostitute to do this? I wouldn’t pay a prostitute to do this. The bed is ruined” — Patrick Monahan (@pattymo) February 2, 2018