JALALABAD, Afghanistan (Reuters) - Four gunmen stormed an office of the Save the Children aid agency in the Afghan city of Jalalabad on Wednesday and battled security forces who surrounded the building, killing at least one person and wounding 11, officials said.

The attack began with a suicide car bomb outside the office, followed by gunmen entering the compound and fighting Afghan special forces, a spokesman for the government in the eastern province said.

“There was a blast and the target was Save the Children,” said spokesman Attaullah Khogyani. “Attackers entered the compound and the fight is going on.”

Some witnesses said the attackers appeared to have been wearing a police uniform, a commonly used tactic, but there was no immediate official confirmation.

The director of the provincial health department said 11 wounded people had been taken to the hospital.

Smoke rises from a blast near the office of the Save the Children aid agency in Jalalabad, Afghanistan, on Wednesday. Reuters TV / Reuters

As security forces fought their way in, they recovered one body inside the compound but the person’s identity was not clear. At least one gunmen was still fighting, Khogyani said.

“An explosion rocked the area and right after that children and people started running away,” said Ghulam Nabi, who was nearby when the bomb exploded. “I saw a vehicle catch fire and then a gunfight started.”

Islamic State claimed responsibility for the attack, according to the militant group’s news agency Amaq, though it did not provide immediate evidence for the claim.

Vehicles are seen on fire after a blast in Jalalabad. Parwiz Parwiz / Reuters

There are several other aid groups and government offices in the immediate area, and security forces evacuated people from surrounding buildings while they exchanged fire with the militants.

Jalalabad is the capital of Nangarhar province, on the porous border with Pakistan.

The province has become a stronghold for Islamic State, which has grown to become one of Afghanistan’s most dangerous militant groups since it appeared around the beginning of 2015.

Backed by intensive U.S. air strikes, Afghan forces have claimed growing success against the Taliban and other militant groups, including Islamic State, but militant attacks on civilian targets have continued, causing heavy casualties.

The attack in Jalalabad came just days after Taliban militants attacked the Hotel Intercontinental in the capital, Kabul, killing at least 20 people, including 13 foreigners.

The attack underlined how difficult operating in Afghanistan has become for humanitarian aid organizations which have faced heavy pressure from armed groups and kidnappers.