Amazon has removed a series of products from its website that bore a slogan praising slavery.

The online retailer faced a backlash this week after a third-party seller named Styleart listed a number of items emblazoned with the phrase “Slavery Gets Shit Done” on Amazon’s Marketplace platform. The products included laptop cases, mugs, bags, children’s T-shirts and bibs, according to reports.

Human rights organization Anti-Slavery International described the items as “absolutely shocking” and urged Amazon to “do better to control what you sell.” Some customers also called for a boycott of the website.

.@amazon how lovely is this? A little white boy with a highly insensitive and ignorant ‘Slavery Gets Shit Done’ bib on. Hmm.. did they pick the cotton right amazon? Or no? Gotta love 2018, what a great start. #Amazon #BOYCOTTAMAZON pic.twitter.com/DKKLFH4JKJ — Grace Croft (@Queen___Grace) January 19, 2018

If one thing is going to banjax @amazon it's their lack of curation; it's a huge free-for-all. At best the Fire stick has one bazillion pony punter apps, and at worst they sell t-shirts like this. Eugh. https://t.co/g8gbpUwM4l — Edie Mullen (@ediemullen) January 17, 2018

What in the hell is this? Slavery gets sh*t done?? Guess I'm cancelling my Amazon Prime subscription now. Damn it all to hell! https://t.co/M4Rf2QFDK2 pic.twitter.com/V1lovMXCn9 — Elisheba Yochanan (@elleyochanan) January 22, 2018

“One in four of the estimated 40 million people in slavery today are children,” said David Westlake, the CEO of British anti-slavery organization International Justice Mission UK.

“Today, children the same age as those modeling these T-shirts will be forced to work long, back-breaking hours for no pay,” he told Global Citizen. “They will be living in desperate conditions where starvation, beatings and sleep deprivation are common.”

Amazon has pulled the items from sale from all of its sites, a spokesman for the retailer told Reuters. “All Marketplace sellers must follow our selling guidelines and those who don’t will be subject to action including potential removal of their account,” he added.