This is Anna Kendrick, “Pitch Perfect 3” actress and Twitter guru.

Lloyd Bishop/NBC via Getty Images

This is Anna Kournikova, former professional tennis player and longtime partner of “Hero” singer Enrique Iglesias.

Gary Miller/FilmMagic via Getty Images

They’re not usually mistaken for one another, but on Tuesday they were.

Kendrick didn’t hate it.

“Dear Yahoo,” Kendrick wrote on Twitter. “How do I get to this timeline where I’ve slept with Enrique Iglesias please and thank you.”

Dear Yahoo: how do I get to this timeline where I've slept with Enrique Iqlesias please and thank you. pic.twitter.com/4mmA2i7dse — Anna Kendrick (@AnnaKendrick47) January 17, 2018

In fact, Kendrick was quite understanding about the mix-up.

I realize the confusion probably came from the two Anna K names, but she's a tall blonde athlete and I'm - oh, oh - do they think I'm the baby? — Anna Kendrick (@AnnaKendrick47) January 17, 2018

A worthy theory, but at least one of Kendrick’s fans saw a deeper connection between Kendrick and Kournikova.

maybe they got confused because they saw how much vodka you can drink and assumed you were Russian — liz (@sparksflyliz) January 17, 2018

SHUT UP LIZ NOBODY ASKED YOU OMG — Anna Kendrick (@AnnaKendrick47) January 17, 2018

Another user warned Kendrick to steer clear of yet another possible parallel universe.

Wait until you fall into the Anna Karenina timeline — Scott Smith (@SmithSsmith03) January 17, 2018

I would love that! So romantic. So lush. (I only read half that book; I hope nothing bad happens.) — Anna Kendrick (@AnnaKendrick47) January 17, 2018

Overall, the mix-up proved ripe for Twitter hilarity.

Sorry the old Anna Kendrick isn’t here. Why? Oh because she’s actually Anna Kournikova — megs (@badassbeca) January 17, 2018

Glamour said the article had the correct Anna K. on the magazine’s site, so this mishap appears to be on Yahoo (which is owned by HuffPost’s parent company, Oath).

“Yahoo produces its own original content and it curates content from partners,” said Lori Bongiorno, head of Yahoo Lifestyle and Entertainment. The Anna Kournikova story “came in via a partner feed and the wrong image was pulled in when it was ingested. This was a technical glitch, not human error.”